jeffrey decker arrested again in his latest run-in with uw system by patrick marley of the journal sentinel madison the son of a former state senator was thrown in jail over the weekend for violating a harassment injunction that the court of appeals overturned nearly a year ago the saturday arrest of jeffrey decker is the latest twist in his long battle with the university of wisconsin system his two-night stint in jail comes as the state supreme court considers the validity of the restraining order at the heart of his legal fight decker the son of former democratic senate majority leader russ decker has long protested the use of student fees often wearing a homemade dragon costume or in other colorful ways he graduated from uw-stevens point in 2005 and re-enrolled there in 2010 so he had a better means of raising concerns about student fees after a tense meeting that fall with the school 's chancellor he was suspended which included an automatic ban from all uw system campuses the uw system argues decker is a threat which he calls ridiculous despite the ban decker continued to visit campuses the uw system took him to court and a dane county judge issued a harassment injunction against decker in october 2011 that barred him from uw property for four years and prohibited him from possessing firearms this january the court of appeals ruled decker 's appearances on campus were legitimate protests and thus did not qualify as harassment the supreme court agreed to take the case and is expected to rule by next summer the uw system and the state department of justice maintain the injunction remains in effect even though it was overturned because the state had quickly asked the supreme court to review the matter and the court of appeals decision was never sent back to the circuit judge who issued the injunction police continue to enforce the injunction most recently on saturday. it 's clearly designed to suppress free speech decker said of the state 's interpretation of the state of the injunction decker said he attended a uw-stevens point function to raise concerns about how the united council of uw students is spending fees police were called and arrested decker he spent two nights in jail and was released monday after a hearing online court records show portage county district attorney louis molepske jr. said he planned to charge decker with disorderly conduct and bail jumping and likely would charge him with violating the injunction as well even if the injunction is no longer valid decker will still be charged because his bond in cases from other counties required him not to visit uw property molepske said those cases stem from other incidents in which decker visited campuses decker disputed he had acted disorderly saturday but he acknowledged he let those nearby know about his concerns when police showed up. being surrounded by police does not silence an american he said twitter twitter.com/patrickdmarley patrick marley covers state government and state politics he is the author with journal sentinel reporter jason stein of more than they bargained for scott walker unions and the fight for wisconsin video deer storms into oconomowoc piggly wiggly but does little damage updated:2:00 p.m. as attendance sags brewers see signs of summer boost 1:21 p.m. nashotah man to golf 125-hole marathon for charity 1:15 p.m. court upholds reach of us gun ban for domestic violence updated:1:04 p.m accident blocks 2 lanes of eastbound i-894 at mitchell interchange 12:54 p.m. snake on the loose after attacking dog in manitowoc county 12:42 p.m drugs suspected in cedarburg crash that hurt 2 near strawberry festival updated:12:13 p.m. 2016 fourth of july events in lake country 12:05 p.m. indianapolis developer proposes 274 apartments at former pabst complex updated:12:00 p.m. summerfest 2016 which emerging country acts you should catch at summerfest 11:49 a.m. q get to know brewers pitcher zach davies 11:43 a.m. fight stabbing leaves man dead in milwaukee updated:11:39 a.m. u.s. supreme court strikes down texas abortion restrictions updated:11:15 a.m. peptimed raises 200,000 to aid development of cancer-fighting drugs 11:00 a.m. preps alcove handing out hardware for the 2015-16 athletics season in lake country 10:10 a.m. lynn sprangers to become wilson center president and ceo 9:40 a.m. director rafaeli finds the haunting music of love in apt s eurydice 9:01 a.m. 81-year-old man reported dead in hales corners pool drowning 7:25 a.m ballpark commons could get 26 million in city funds study suggests 7:00 a.m teen released on signature in carjacking faces nine felonies 6:12 a.m. politifact are there more people employed than ever before 5:00 a.m. report sheds new light on problem of poverty in wisconsin 12:02 a.m. pga tour champions kirk tripplett uses back-nine surge to win inaugural event yesterday 10:09 p.m. nationals 3 brewers 2 nationals win series finale without ace 9:39 p.m. kohler grand prix will power keeps pack in rearview at road america 9:38 p.m. small wisconsin dairy hopes to milk new trend a1-free 7:03 p.m. man chokes to death at greek fest in racine 6:55 p.m. horrible curriculum dooms program putting cops in classes 6:26 p.m. wisconsin gab in final days as state 's elections authority 4:24 p.m. storm brings several inches of rain to southern wisconsin 4:17 p.m. racine to pay 100,000 to settle lawsuit over man 's arrest 2:37 p.m. 4 motorcyclists hurt in separate crashes across wisconsin 2:29 p.m. summerfest 2016 meet the three finalists for summerfest s land the big gig competition 1:31 p.m. lincoln hills officials failed to oversee rape investigations 1:24 p.m. racine man charged with selling fake chicago bears tickets 1:22 p.m. several hurt in milwaukee crash involving 4 cars county bus 10:49 a.m lightning strike catches waukesha home on fire 10:45 a.m. driver accused of 6th owi after dane county crash 10:43 a.m. boaters rescued after boat capsizes on lake monona 10:40 a.m behind the headlines how one 'professional plaintiff threatened companies 9:51 a.m