dr. patrick b. reyes appointed new director for doctoral initiatives forum for theological exploration fte leaders february 01 2016 the forum for theological exploration fte has appointed dr. patrick reyes as the director of strategic partnerships for doctoral initiatives he is responsible for managing the fellowship program for doctoral students relationship building and providing support to leaders of theological institutions developing future leaders for the church and academy dr. reyes joins fte from trinity lutheran college in everett washington where he served as the assistant dean for academic affairs and the director of the center of community engagement there he worked closely with faculty students and community partners to develop academic procedures and policies build relationships and institutional community capacity and provide mentoring and support to students prior to working in the academy dr. reyes was the director of communications at tools for decision tfd group in this role he developed and implemented strategies to advance the company through effective communication to a global audience with great confidence we welcome dr. reyes to the team as he carries forward fte s legacy of advocacy mentoring and communal support for students and scholars of color said fte vice president of strategic initiatives matthew wesley williams his leadership will advance our historic work tending to the future of the field in an increasingly complex moment for the church and academy. for over 15 years dr. reyes has worked with gang-affiliated farmworker and religious communities on compassion and spiritual practices for healing he founded two groups that foster community and decolonize religious and spiritual traditions he holds a doctorate and master of arts from claremont school of theology a master of divinity from boston university school of theology and a bachelor of arts from california state university sacramento as an academic and organizational leader dr. reyes brings unique experience to fte which positions him to work with doctoral students faculty and theological institutions to create the necessary conditions for students and scholars of color to flourish as they prepare for the vocation of teaching said fte president stephen lewis the forum for theological exploration is committed to cultivating diverse young adults to be faithful wise and courageous leaders for the church and the academy fte provides resources and a forum for young adults and students to explore their purpose and call to pastoral ministry and teaching for more information visit fteleaders.org for more information please contact kimberly r. daniel kdaniel fteleaders.org p 678-369-6243 160 clairemont avenue suite 300 decatur ga 30030 p 678.369.6755 f 678.369.6757 press center 2019 forum for theological exploration