on the physiological modulation and potential mechanisms underlying parieto-occipital alpha europe pmc article europe pmc europe pmc requires javascript to function effectively either your web browser does n't support javascript or it is currently turned off in the latter case pleaseturn on javascript support in your web browser and reload this page e.g breast cancer her2 smith j the parieto-occipital alpha 8 x02013 13 hz rhythm is by far the strongest spectral fingerprint in the human brain almost 90 years later its physiological origin is still far from clear in this research topic i review human pharmacological studies using electroencephalography eeg and magnetoencephalography meg that investigated the physiological mechanisms behind posterior alpha based on results from classical and recent experimental studies i find a wide spectrum of drugs that modulate parieto-occipital alpha power alpha frequency is rarely affected but this might be due to the range of drug dosages employed animal and human pharmacological findings suggest that both gaba enhancers and nmda blockers systematically decrease posterior alpha power surprisingly most of the theoretical frameworks do not seem to embrace these empirical findings and the debate on the functional role of alpha oscillations has been polarized between the inhibition vs. active poles hypotheses here i speculate that the functional role of alpha might depend on physiological excitation as much as on physiological inhibition this is supported by animal and human pharmacological work showing that gabaergic glutamatergic cholinergic and serotonergic receptors in the thalamus and the cortex play a key role in the regulation of alpha power and frequency this myriad of physiological modulations fit with the view that the alpha rhythm is a complex rhythm with multiple sources supported by both thalamo-cortical and cortico-cortical loops finally i briefly discuss how future research combining experimental measurements derived from theoretical predictions based of biophysically realistic computational models will be crucial to the reconciliation of these disparate findings the alpha rhythm is by far the most prominent spectral fingerprint of the human brain almost 90 years later its mechanism and sources still remain elusive as mysterious as its physiology the discovery of the alpha rhythm was driven by hans berger 's belief that electromagnetic brain activity could be the biological substrate behind telepathy millett 2001 to investigate his hypotheses he set in motion an ambitions human electrophysiology research program which led to the invention of the most employed non-invasive electrophysiological method x02014 the electroencephalogram eeg it was the possibility to record brain activity through eeg that paved the way for the subsequent discovery of human brain rhythms he reported x0201c waves of first order x0201d the fascinating waxing and waning 10 hz periodicity produced in relaxed but awake participants berger 1929 adrian and mathews replicated and extended berger 's original findings they showed amongst other things how water-beetles suppress their alpha amplitude in response to light or how flicker stimulation can entrain the intrinsic alpha rhythm x02014 thus making a case for its cortical origins adrian and matthews 1934 years later human invasive eeg studies confirmed the existence of alpha oscillations in subcortical brain regions such as the thalamus g x000fc cer et al. 1978 and the pulvinar nuclei albe-fessard et al. 1966 albe-fessard 1973 in trying to disentangle the thalamo-cortical interactions lopes da silva found the coherence between pulvinar and visual cortex to be much stronger than the coherence between the lateral geniculate nucleus lgn and the cortex lopes da silva et al. 1973b interestingly cortico-cortical coherence remained high after partializing the thalamic contribution lopes da silva et al. 1973b suggesting at least two independent sources the cognitive relevance of the pulvinar-to-cortex circuitry was convincingly demonstrated 39 years later saalmann et al 2012 revealed that the pulvinar plays a key role in setting the frequency of neuronal communication between v4 and the temporo-occipital area teo to around 10 hz when monkeys allocated their attention to a visual target taking together the neural circuitry behind posterior alpha rhythm seems rather complex with thalamic and cortical sources contributing independently and presumably influencing each other lopes da silva 1991 indirectly the complexity underlying the alpha rhythm can be grasped from the limited amount of in-vitro and in-vivo models silva et al. 1991 hughes et al. 2004 2011 l x000f6 rincz et al. 2008 2009 relative to other rhythms whose neural circuitry essentially relies on local connectivity such as beta and gamma traub and miles 1991 traub et al. 1999 traub and whittington 2010 in this invited review i will first discuss some methodological challenges common in pharmacological studies employing eeg and magnetoencephalography meg and i will propose useful ways to approach them second i will cover recent animal electrophysiology studies and eeg and meg pharmacological challenges pharmaco-meeg to illustrate how diverse neuromodulators can influence the posterior alpha rhythm regarding the pharmaco-meeg evidence i will focus on studies that employed drugs affecting gaba glutamate acetylcholine and serotonin in healthy control participants during resting and task conditions third i will discuss these empirical findings in relation to current theoretical frameworks to discuss how well the functional role of the alpha rhythm fits with its physiological modulations lastly i will discuss the need to develop biophysically realistic computational models which can generate realistic predictions to guide the next generation of pharmaco-meeg studies the link between the alpha rhythm and physiological inhibition is long-established during the 60 's andersen and andersson performed a series of pharmacological experiments in anesthetized cats to elucidate the physiological basis of the alpha rhythm employing barbiturates potent gabaergic agonists they were able to create an animal model that produced robust spindling activity with very similar frequency as the resting alpha they claimed that the occipital resting alpha was mainly contributed by a thalamic pacemaker constituted by inhibitory neurons that project into the cortex andersen and andersson 1968 years later ground-breaking work by fernando lopes da silva convincingly demonstrated that the proposed barbiturate-induced spindle activity and the classical alpha rhythm were two different physiological phenomena lopes da silva et al. 1973a 1980 notably the barbiturate-induced spindle activity was topographically more widespread than the posterior alpha the wave duration was shorter and the thalamo-cortical coherence stronger lopes da silva et al. 1973a mircea steriade a world leading authority on the cellular basis of brain rhythms summarized the issue as follows x0201c the temptation to understand the mechanisms of this rhythm at the cellular level by recording spindle oscillations under barbiturate anesthesia andersen and andersson 1968 is understandable but alpha and spindle waves are quite different oscillations indeed while the frequencies of these two rhythms may overlap their origins and especially their behavioral context are dissimilar x0201d steriade 1999 these findings relaxed the alpha pacemaker hypothesis establishing the thalamus as a prominent alpha source lopes da silva et al. 1973a b 1980 in addition to occipital sources lopes da silva and storm van leeuwen 1977 pharmaco-meeg has employed a variety of anesthetics and barbiturates known to potentiate the effect of gaba to study its effect on alpha oscillations propofol for example is a popular anesthetic that binds to gaba a receptors producing a strong hyperpolarization as a consequence of the opening of chloride channel in pyramidal neurons bai et al. 1999 this hyperpolarization led to a loss of consciousness which is characterized by a prominent alpha power increase in frontal sensors with a concurrent posterior alpha power decrease ching et al. 2010 cimenser et al. 2011 supp et al. 2011 purdon et al. 2013 a process coined as x0201c anteriorization x0201d feshchenko et al. 2004 other drugs such the benzodiazepines are not agonists but allosteric modulators they need the presence of gaba neurotransmitter in the synaptic cleft to produce the hyperpolarization relative to anesthetics and barbiturates benzodiazepines produce milder sedative effects and have lower risk of over dosage they bind to gaba a receptors and enhance chloride conductance by increasing its channel-opening frequency riss et al. 2008 as opposed to maintaining the channels open as anesthetics and barbiturates do interestingly a large variety of benzodiazepine type drugs using a wide range of dosages have been shown to produce a consistent decrease in parieto-occipital alpha power during resting state fink et al. 1976 bond and lader 1982 golombok and lader 1984 koopmans et al. 1988 van steveninck et al. 1993 feshchenko et al. 1997 liley et al. 2003 boeijinga et al. 2004 fingelkurts et al. 2004 schreckenberger et al. 2004 connemann et al. 2005 ahveninen et al. 2007 yoto et al. 2012 alonso et al. 2015 nutt et al. 2015 lozano-soldevilla et al. 2016 and task conditions van leeuwen et al. 1995 gevins et al. 2002 mu x000f1 oz-torres et al. 2011 saxena et al. 2013 lozano-soldevilla et al. 2014 reports of benzodiazepine studies finding posterior alpha power increases tran et al. 2004 nikulin et al. 2005 hall et al. 2010 nutt et al. 2015 frequency modulations liley et al. 2003 or just null results urata et al. 1996 jensen et al. 2005 muthukumaraswamy et al. 2013b campbell et al. 2014 are less common within the literature in conclusion pharmacologically increasing gaba efficacy leads to a decrease in power of the classical alpha x02014 but what is the underlying mechanism current theoretical frameworks assign alpha oscillations a functional inhibitory role in this case alpha power should exert functional inhibition on those brain regions time periods or cognitive representations that need to be suppressed to optimally perform the task at hand klimesch et al. 2007 jensen and mazaheri 2010 mazaheri and jensen 2010 foxe and snyder 2011 mathewson et al. 2011 weisz et al. 2011 jensen et al. 2012 2014 klimesch 2012 womelsdorf et al. 2014 at the other extreme of the continuum numerous studies have found that alpha performs an active role in numerous cognitive operations palva and palva 2007 2011 womelsdorf et al. 2014 these frameworks demonstrate a remarkable and parsimonious link between oscillatory activity and behavior through them one can explain a myriad of electrophysiological cognitive and behavioral findings obtained in a large variety of tasks and sensory modalities key to the present discussion some frameworks assume that the functional inhibition reflected in the alpha band is implemented through physiological inhibition klimesch et al. 2007 jensen and mazaheri 2010 mazaheri and jensen 2010 jensen et al. 2012 2014 more specifically alpha oscillations could represent physiological inhibition generated by gabaergic interneurons and they could tax neuronal processing indexed by neuronal firing this inhibition reflected in the alpha band has been modeled as a thalamic drive whose gaba conductance changes sinusoidally at 10 hz gips et al. 2016 alpha phase could play a fundamental role in segmenting visual information as a function of neuronal excitability with more excitable cells firing earlier within the alpha cycle as this would allow them to code more salient stimuli jensen et al. 2012 2014 see gips et al. 2016 for a computation implementation of the idea thereby functional inhibition could be a consequence of physiological x0201c pulsed x0201d inhibition produced by gabaergic feedback carried by interneurons within the cortex or the thalamus jensen and mazaheri 2010 mazaheri and jensen 2010 other recent frameworks although highlighting the inhibitory role of alpha widen the physiological hypothesis stressing the importance of the excitatory and inhibitory balance to control alpha amplitude and frequency klimesch 2012 himmelstoss et al. 2015 other accounts stress that the crucial characteristic of alpha function is that it blocks the communication of local circuits due to its relatively slow period which precludes the action of fast inhibition fries 2015 finally womelsdorf et al 2014 recent framework proposes the existence of two dynamical motifs that could account for the inhibitory and the active views of alpha a motif is defined as a neural network composed of different cell types that produce different rhythms which perform specific neuronal computations they propose a thalamic motif that amplifies that transmission of attended sensory information active role and a cortical motif in l6 that processes irrelevant information and is manifested due to the lack of thalamic excitatory input inhibitory role there are indeed in-vivo animal models showing the importance of inhibitory interneurons in the modulation of ~10 hz rhythm in the somatosensory cortex and lgn fanselow and nicolelis 1999 l x000f6 rincz et al. 2009 in conclusion if one follows the x0201c alpha power reflects functional inhibition x0201d principle increasing the level of inhibition should lead to an increase of alpha power the studies reviewed here indicate that pharmacological gabaergic enhancement decreases rather than increases the energy of the posterior alpha oscillations this observation is not new and has indeed been acknowledged in the past x0201c finally we should also emphasize that one of the most straight forward tests of our hypothesis apparently leads to inconsistent results the application of benzodiazepines a gaba agonist does not lead to increased alpha activity as one would expect if alpha is related to inhibitory activity but instead to a decrease in alpha x0201d klimesch et al. 2007 most of the studies that used benzodiazepines and anesthetics recorded electrophysiological activity under resting state conditions one may argue that the gabaergic modulations producing functional inhibition reflected within the alpha band could only be relevant or measured when the task at hand requires a strong top-down drive under these conditions alpha power modulations have been shown to impact behavior in a variety of task and sensory modalities klimesch et al. 2007 jensen and mazaheri 2010 mazaheri and jensen 2010 foxe and snyder 2011 mathewson et al. 2011 jensen et al. 2012 2014 klimesch 2012 lozano-soldevilla et al 2014 designed a pharmaco-meg study in humans to test this possibility we combined meg recordings testing two different dosages of lorazepam 0.5 1.5 mg a benzodiazepine that increases gaba efficacy participants performed a visuo-spatial working memory task where they had to allocate their locus of attention to a cued visual hemifield 1.5 s after a brief presentation 0.1 s of a sample stimulus of colored squares participants had to memorize the color of the cued items while trying to ignore the non-cued items after a 1.5 s delay a second array appeared and participants decided whether the color of the items between the sample and the probe matched or not this task is ideal to test the functional inhibition role of alpha during the allocation of attentional cue period memory maintenance and distractor suppression delay period previous studies have repeatedly demonstrated that alpha power can be used as an electrophysiological proxy for the allocation of attention foxe et al. 1998 worden et al. 2000 thut et al. 2006 h x000e4 ndel et al. 2010 foxe and snyder 2011 the increase of gaba efficacy leads two main predictions first if alpha is exerting its functional inhibition role through physiological inhibition gabaergic enhancement should increase tonic alpha power second this alpha power attentional modulations should increase parametrically with drug dosage we found robust evidence in the opposite direction for both predictions first lorazepam strongly decreased both tonic alpha power and attentional power modulations lozano-soldevilla et al. 2014 furthermore we obtained an interaction between hemisphere and drug dosage specific to the delay interval the interaction revealed that lorazepam caused an increased reduction in alpha power measured by the ipsilateral sensors relative to the contralateral sensors figure x200b figure1a 1a what is the mechanism explaining the alpha power decrease with gabaergic enhancement one possibility could be that the physiological bases of classical alpha oscillations rely on physiological excitation to a similar or stronger degree as physiological inhibition several lines of evidence support this speculation in-vivo animal models have shown that pyramidal cells in the cortex have sufficient biophysical properties to produce alpha rhythm on their own steriade et al. 1990 lopes da silva 1991 silva et al. 1991 castro-alamancos and connors 1996 flint and connors 1996 it is known that benzodiazepines decrease the number of spikes per burst leaving the burst rate unaffected antkowiak 1999 this finding could explain why benzodiazepines decrease alpha power without affecting its peak frequency physiological modulations of parieto-occipital alpha oscillations a lorazepam gabaergic enhancer parametrically reduces both tonic and attentional alpha power modulations during the delay interval of a visuo-spatial working memory task the figure shows the topographic distribution of alpha power and the time and frequency dynamics of ipsilateral and contralateral sensors of interest under placebo a 0.5 mg b and c 1.5 mg of lorazepam d e show the delay-specific interaction between drug dosage and sensors meaning that lorazepam caused a strong reduction in the ipsilateral relative to the contralateral sensors reproduced from lozano-soldevilla et al 2014 with the permission from elsevier b relationship between posterior alpha frequency and eeg amplitude the x-axis represents the alpha cycles preceding the single trial p1 evoked potential produced in a semantic-judgement task the left y-axis represents the period of the alpha band red and the right y-axis represents the amplitude of the eeg measured at the time point of the positive alpha peak blue the eeg raw amplitude correlates positively with alpha frequency reproduced from himmelstoss et al 2015 with the permission from frontiers s.a. c physostigmine cholinergic enhancer increases the attentional alpha power modulations in parieto-occipital cortices relative to placebo during the cue interval of a visuo-spatial attention task a time and frequency representation of the left minus right attention contrast during the placebo session of significant parieto-occipital voxels b physostigmine attention contrast and interaction are represented in c d and e f respectively reproduced from bauer et al 2012 with the permission from elsevier d lsd serotonergic enhancer reduces posterior alpha power during resting state conditions a the lsd-induced alpha power reduction correlates with increase of simple hallucination and ego-dissolution ratings b lsd produced a robust increase of posterior alpha peak frequency c reproduced from carhart-harris et al 2016 with the permission from proceedings of the national academy of sciences of the united states of america it is interesting to note that very often the power dynamics underlying alpha and gamma oscillations tend to show opposite behavior regarding power modulations while pharmacological gabaergic enhancement decreases alpha power gamma power shows an increase oke et al. 2010 xing et al. 2012a saxena et al. 2013 campbell et al. 2014 lozano-soldevilla et al. 2014 magazzini et al. 2016 but see muthukumaraswamy et al. 2013b c stimulus-induced gamma power increase is often accompanied by alpha power decrease and this power asymmetry reverses in spontaneous conditions fries et al. 2001 hoogenboom et al. 2006 a computational work proposes that this negative power relationship between high and low frequencies might be due to the ratio of the ampa and nmda conductances buehlmann and deco 2008 deco and thiele 2009 gamma oscillations seem to be located in more superficial layers while alpha is found to be stronger in infragranular layers bollimunta et al. 2008 buffalo et al. 2011 spaak et al. 2012 xing et al. 2012b van kerkoerle et al. 2014 bastos et al. 2015 michalareas et al. 2016 but see haegens et al. 2015 in conclusion alpha and gamma rhythms seem to rely on complementary physiological mechanisms another possibility would be that the alpha rhythm relies on the fine-grained excitation and inhibition e/i balance klimesch 2012 the e/i balance has been intensively studied for faster rhythms during both spontaneous and stimulus-evoked conditions anderson et al. 2000 okun and lampl 2008 for example there is compelling evidence showing that the instantaneous e/i balance determines peak gamma frequency atallah and scanziani 2009 similarly recording eeg in a semantic judgement task himmelstoss et al. 2015 showed that alpha frequency and amplitude covary alpha period lengthened during high amplitude time windows figure x200b figure1b 1b if alpha amplitude is interpreted as instantaneous inhibition the period of alpha must be slow these results resemble the pyramidal-interneuron network gamma ping model in this model the minimum frequency is governed by the inhibitory time constant that prevents principal cells from firing tiesinga and sejnowski 2009 unfortunately these type of experimental models do not produce oscillations below 20 hz traub et al. 1996 overall these experimental and modeling results indicate that higher and lower frequencies are generated in different paths of the brain hierarchy while gamma oscillations could be functionally associated with feedforward communication alpha oscillations could be involved in feedback communication combining these findings if it is true that alpha and gamma rhythms show different and often opposite neurophysiological behavior it would not be naive to assume that physiological excitation is a key mechanism by which alpha oscillations exert their functional inhibition in line with this hypothesis blocking excitation by nmda antagonists reduces alpha power in humans muthukumaraswamy et al. 2015 and monkeys van kerkoerle et al. 2014 the hypothetical mechanism by which this physiological excitation inhibits a brain area is to the best of the author 's knowledge unknown glutamate is the principal excitatory neurotransmitter in the nervous system and it produces epsps when binding to nmda or ampa receptors in-vitro and in-vivo animal models speak in favor of the potential role of glutamate in alpha generation silva et al 1991 found that the intrinsic membrane properties of pyramidal neurons in somatosensory cortex layer v were both necessary and sufficient to fire periodically between 5 and 12 hz they showed that na and nmda were essential ingredients to produced synchronized oscillations more recently hughes et al 2004 convincingly demonstrated that metabotropic glutamate receptor mglur1a activation in lgn increased the frequency and reduced the amplitude of neuronal oscillations between 2 and 13 hz l x000f6 rincz et al 2009 demonstrated x0201c unequivocally that the temporal framing of relay-mode tc neuron activity results from phasic inhibition from lgn interneurons however a crucial component in ultimately bringing about this temporal framing is the rhythmic synaptic excitation of interneurons because without this excitation these cells do not generate action potentials and the phasic inhibition of relay-mode tc neurons does not occur x0201d finally a recent ground-breaking monkey study has found that both ampa and nmda blockers consistently suppressed alpha power in v1 interestingly nmda blockers but not ampa increased stimulus-induced gamma power within the same brain region and time-period van kerkoerle et al. 2014 this pharmacological dissociation was in line with the laminar findings strengthening the argument that the physiological mechanisms behind alpha and gamma are complementary under resting state conditions recent pharmaco-meeg studies found a decrease in parieto-occipital alpha power muthukumaraswamy et al. 2015 rivolta et al. 2015 de la salle et al. 2016 and frequency knott et al. 2006 using sub-anesthetic doses of ketamine surprisingly the same ketamine and perampanel ampa blocker produced no apparent effect x02014 either in the posterior alpha power or the frequency in visual stimulation tasks shaw et al. 2015 muthukumaraswamy et al. 2016 recent studies using ketamine in dosages that induce general anesthesia loss of consciousness show similar but stronger alpha modulations akeju et al. 2016 vlisides et al. 2017 all in all both animal and human experiments agree on the important role of glutamate neurotransmission modulating alpha power and frequency acetylcholine is an organic chemical that can function as both a neurotransmitter and as neuromodulator it is generated in the pedunculopontine nucleus and in the basal nucleus of meynert projecting to various locations in the cortex hippocampus and amygdala due to its anatomical projections acetylcholine is a key player during attentive learning and memory processes thiele 2013 it has been reported that while muscarinic blockers like scopolamine diminish the resting parieto-occipital alpha oscillations sannita et al. 1987 sloan et al. 1992 ebert et al. 1998 2001 kikuchi et al. 1999 osipova et al. 2003 ramos reis et al. 2013 nicotinic administration produces the reverse effect gilbert et al. 2000 knott et al. 2000 2012 walker et al. 2001 bowers et al. 2015 smith et al. 2016 but see knott and fisher 2007 balsters et al. 2011 fisher et al. 2012b acetylcholine enhancers tend to increase posterior alpha power during visuospatial attentional modulations bauer et al. 2012 figure x200b figure1c 1c and frontal alpha during working memory tasks fisher et al. 2012a 2013 but see eckart et al. 2016 other studies using visual stimulation paradigms reported posterior alpha power increase using mild nicotine dosages thompson et al. 2000 while higher dosages caused a decrease beaver et al. 2011 beer et al. 2013 interestingly some studies have also found that enhancing cholinergic efficacy leads to a widespread scalp alpha period acceleration foulds et al. 1994 knott et al. 1998 2006 domino et al. 2009 bowers et al. 2015 how can acetylcholine modulate alpha power and frequency a series of animal models revealed that cholinergic muscarinic receptors machr play a critical role in inducing intrinsic ht burst-firing in a subset of tc cells l x000f6 rincz et al. 2008 strikingly some tc cells with ht bursting activity exhibited a phase-shifting in their spiking output the phase-shifting varied from a predominantly in-phase relationship with the negative peak of the lfp to an anti-phase relationship these phase-shifts occurred spontaneously and were determined by a combination of factors such as network input and its intrinsic properties or the polarization of cell-membranes l x000f6 rincz et al. 2008 the raphe nuclei is the main serotonin generator responsible for releasing the neurotransmitter to the vast majority of the brain regarding its cognitive functions the prominent innervations between raphe nuclei and prefrontal cortex suggest a major role in learning working memory and cognitive control puig and gulledge 2011 a variety of serotonergic enhancers venlafaxine tianeptine ecstasy ayahuasca psylocibin lsd seem to decrease posterior alpha power during both resting saletu et al. 1986 1992 riba et al. 2002 2004 muthukumaraswamy et al. 2013a kometer et al. 2015 schenberg et al. 2015 carhart-harris et al. 2016 valle et al. 2016 but see link et al. 1991 saletu et al. 1996 knott et al. 2012 and task conditions kometer et al. 2013 muthukumaraswamy et al. 2013a the serotonergic system has been proposed to play a major role in the generation of visual hallucinations substances such as lsd psilocybin or pcp act on serotonin receptors producing psychotic symptoms lieberman et al. 1998 given the importance of alpha in visual processing it is not surprising that most of the serotonin-induced alpha power modulations are described within the parieto-occipital regions for example kometer et al 2013 demonstrated a direct link between cortical excitability regulated by parieto-occipital alpha oscillations and visual hallucinations to unveil the mechanistic role of 5-ht2 a receptors on the ongoing eeg activity they designed a double-blind cross-over trial where a pre-treatment and a treatment were administered in the same experimental session participants were pre-treated with the antagonist ketanserin 50 mg or placebo and 1 h later they could receive either the agonist psilocybin 215 x003bc g/kg or a placebo visual stimulation consisted of three x0201c pacman x0201d figures 300 ms duration and the participants task was to press a button as soon as they perceive the classical kaniza illusion perceptually psilocybin produced robust subjective alterations that were prevented by ketanserin pre-treatment at the electrophysiological level they found that psilocybin drastically reduced pre-stimulus alpha power kometer et al. 2013 these results support the notion that alpha oscillations regulate cortical excitability by pulsed inhibition and the levels of alpha power could index visual gain klimesch et al. 2007 mazaheri and jensen 2010 nonetheless the authors did not find a significant relationship between the drug-induced alpha suppression and the participant 's reported intensity of visual hallucinations one of the most idiosyncratic alpha dynamics is its amplitude suppression after stimulus onset pfurtscheller and lopes da silva 1999 kometer et al also investigated how serotonin upregulation impacted post-stimulus alpha power suppression and the results were very surprising psilocybin reduced the alpha power in such a way that there was no further power suppression after the stimulus kometer et al. 2013 control analysis showed that the x0201c absence x0201d of alpha suppression was due to the strong psilocybin effects during pre-stimulus power periods importantly the classical alpha dynamics were recovered using ketanserin as pre-treatment this is a very important finding that establishes a causal link between alpha stimulus-induced power modulations and serotonin during visual processing on the same note the selective 5-ht2 a receptor activation reduced pre-stimulus alpha power to levels very close to x0201c zero x0201d spectral power is positively-biased so spectral power can never be exactly x0201c zero x0201d however in line with muthukumaraswamy et al. 2013a the psilocybin-induced alpha power suppression did not correlate with participants visual hallucination rates the lack of significant correlations between subjective scales and psilocybin-induced alpha power modulations could be due to floor/ceiling effects on subjective rating measures and/or alpha power levels in a very recent multimodal study participants were scanned with functional magnetic resonance imaging fmri and meg during resting state conditions under the influence of lsd carhart-harris et al. 2016 the psychedelic drug produced a noteworthy increase of cerebral blood flow over the primary visual cortex as measured by fmri during meg recordings a robust suppression of parieto-occipital alpha power was found importantly these lsd-induced brain activity changes the predicted quality and intensity of the visual hallucinations carhart-harris et al. 2016 this study also found that lsd produced a remarkable increase in alpha frequency figure x200b figure1d 1d what might be the functional relevance of this peak frequency change lsd users often report dramatic visual disturbances or x0201c visual trails x0201d where they perceive a series of discrete stationary images trailing in the wake of otherwise normally moving objects dubois and vanrullen 2011 to estimate the sampling rate of visual trails dubois and vanrullen created 10 short movies of 4 frames each varying the inter-frame interval from 25 to 250 ms they released the movies on a website and asked self-declared past lsd users to decide which movie best matched their recollection of psychedelic experiences interestingly lsd users reported visual trail periodicities around 15 x02013 20 hz dubois and vanrullen 2011 although highly speculative the alpha power suppression and the frequency increase with lsd consumption might produce the segmentation of visual experiences into visual trails a pharmacologically-induced form of perceptual cycles vanrullen 2016 new experiments are needed to test this possibility finally we still need to understand how serotonin interacts with posterior alpha and the consequences of this interaction for perception and cognition first the relationship between perception and alpha is well-documented vanrullen et al. 2011 lange et al. 2014 second there is growing evidence supporting the firing rate modulation as a function of alpha phase bollimunta et al. 2008 l x000f6 rincz et al. 2008 2009 haegens et al. 2011 dougherty et al. 2017 third animal research has shown that serotonin regulates the power and frequency of neuronal oscillations celada et al. 2008 puig et al. 2010 see puig and gener 2015 for a review however serotonin normalizes cortical excitability in a complex way it is capable of producing either excitation or inhibition in interneurons and pyramidal cells and even biphasic responses in the latter puig and gulledge 2011 how different cell types contribute to alpha oscillations through excitation inhibition or its balance and how this modulates behavior remains unknown new studies are needed to address these issues x0201c the art of modeling is about shaping a model to the questions that motivate it and then making highly educated guesses x0201d kopell 2005 currently we live in a research era where neurotechnological innovation is growing exponentially new invasive recording techniques allow the simultaneous measurement of multiple brain regions which in turn allow the inquiring of research questions that were impossible to address just a decade ago however this unprecedented amount of data acquisition raises serious challenges regarding data management analysis and interpretation and this is where computational models could be crucial x0201c the overarching goal of theory modeling and statistics in neuroscience is to create an understanding of how the brain works x02014 how information is encoded and processed by the dynamic activity of specific neural circuits and how neural coding and processing lead to perception emotion cognition and behavior x0201d x02026 x0201c coherent lessons must be drawn not only from the analysis of single experiments but also by integrating insights across experiments scales and systems theoretical studies will allow us to check the rigor and robustness of new conceptualizations and to identify distinctive predictions of competing ideas to help direct further experiments x0201d jorgenson et al. 2015 in line with kopell 's logic i argue that pharmaco-meeg needs modeling work in order to improve our mechanistic understanding of how different drugs affect brain activity and to make highly educated guesses about how drug modulations drive or hamper cognition and behavior in the paragraphs to follow i briefly present examples of recent modeling work that has provided insights into how different neurotransmitters influence parieto-occipital alpha oscillations recent computational models account for the parieto-occipital alpha power decrease produced by gabaergic enhancers a thalamo-cortical model has suggested two putative neural mechanisms that could explain this remarkable dipole position shift the model proposes a hodgkin-huxley formalism where the frontal alpha power increase and frequency decrease can be explained by the effect of gaba imposing a temporal scale that entrains thalamo-cortical circuits vijayan et al. 2013 simultaneously the classical alpha power reduction may be caused by the effect of propofol hyperpolarizing the h -current channel on high-threshold ht thalamo-cortical cells which are known to play a key role in the generation of posterior alpha rhythm l x000f6 rincz et al. 2008 2009 the h -current has been shown to be strongly involved in spindle generation destexhe and babloyantz 1993 but as discussed earlier any equivalence between alpha and spindles has to be taken with caution this model is in line with the findings of an empirical fmri-eeg study that shows that the pharmacological increase of gaba decreases both thalamic and posterior alpha activity schreckenberger et al. 2004 other models have highlighted that the interplay between inhibition and excitation might be a key feature of the alpha rhythm jones et al 2000 developed a computational model generating alpha waves by the rebound excitation caused by gabaergic inhibition they showed that if inhibition is increased pharmacologically pyramidal cells fire less and alpha power and frequency decreases years later jones et al 2009 further developed a cortical column model to reproduce the thalamo-cortical sensorimotor mu rhythm they showed that the somatosensory mu rhythm appeared prominently when the feedforward thalamic input and the cortical feedback were in anti-phase jones et al. 2009 in this model though increasing gaba conductance in the feedforward 10 hz component could lead to an increase of the cortical alpha power which may explain the inverse relationship between firing rate and power found in some studies haegens et al. 2011 van kerkoerle et al. 2014 another approach to modeling brain activity is the one proposed by neural mass models instead of modeling the properties of membrane potentials of hundreds of neurons mass models describe the average activity of an underlying neuronal population robinson et al. 2001 the sum of different neuronal populations that can incorporate realistic biophysical parameters can describe macroscopic neural dynamics capable of reproducing and quantifying multiple eeg and meg phenomena bojak and liley 2005 for example robinson et al. 2001 modeled a thalamo-cortical loop where populations of excitatory and inhibitory neurons sent their activity to a thalamic population which was connected to the cortex through feedback loops hindriks and van putten 2013 used this model to investigate how gaba modulates the resonance properties of the alpha rhythm they suggest that the benzodiazepines decrease alpha power because their affinity for gaba a receptors situated in pyramidal cells is higher when compared to inhibitory interneurons the stronger action of gaba on principal cells decreases the firing rate to around 10 hz thereby slowing-down the posterior alpha frequency taking recent empirical findings into account the model is in line with the decrease of posterior alpha power with benzodiazepines although the frequency modulation is less often reported this might be due to the low dosages employed across studies a recent thalamic conductance-based model reproduced these experimental findings vijayan and kopell 2012 the model is a network constituted by re cells tc cells ht cells and interneurons ht cells provide excitation to interneurons that inhibit tc cells at the same time ht and tc cells are connected to re by ampa receptors furthermore re cells inhibits ht cells tc cells and their own local re populations by gabaergic inhibition the model postulates that the phase-shifting depends on machr not on mglur and on the burst-firing mode of thalamic inhibitory interneurons interneuron single-spike firing favors the in-phase spike-alpha peak relationship and the bursting mode shifts the phase preference by x003c0 vijayan and kopell 2012 moreover the model makes several testable predictions cholinergic activity is very important to control the phasic modulation of the thalamo-cortical alpha rhythm that could lead to perceptual cycles vanrullen 2016 low activation of excitatory mglur still preserves the machr-induced alpha spike-field coherence whereas strong mglur activation disrupts it x02014 silencing tc cells by re and interneurons consequently cortico-thalamic glutamatergic activation could induce an alpha component that prevents a sizable part of thalamic outputs from reaching the cortex in summary if the model reflects the machinery behind physiological alpha machr should produce ~10 hz oscillations important for stimulus processing while mglur should generate a different alpha rhythm with a functionally inhibitory role vijayan and kopell 2012 this model is in line with the speculations i outlined above where alpha oscillations exerting functional inhibition could be implemented by physiological excitation studies like kometer et al and carhart-harris et al are amongst the first ones to unveil the neurophysiological mechanisms of visual hallucinations still computational models using plausible biophysical parameters are urgently needed to explain how serotonin modulation produces alpha modulations among the exceptions muthukumaraswamy et al 2013a combined pharmaco-meg data with dynamic causal modeling dcm moran et al. 2007 to study the mechanism by which psilocybin desynchronizes posterior cortices dcm employs neural mass models as generative models to relate specific neural architectures to the eeg an important advantage of this approach is that one can use bayesian inversion using the real data to fit a series of mass models with their respective physiological parameters muthukumaraswamy et al 2013a found that psilocybin produced a robust decrease in alpha power around the parietal cortex during resting state conditions to describe a potential neural circuit that explains this decrease in energy of the alpha signal they built a canonical cortical microcircuit represented by neuronal subpopulations of four cell types spiny stellate superficial pyramidal inhibitory interneuron and deep pyramidal the neural mass model could reproduce the psilocybin-induced alpha power suppression by the increase in the excitability of deep-layer pyramidal cells muthukumaraswamy et al. 2013a the authors interpreted this finding within the predictive coding framework where the effect of feedback connections is believed to be inhibitory bastos et al. 2012 however a seminal paper showed that feedback connections are not always inhibitory and stimulation within the classical or extra-classical receptive field can either excite or inhibit downstream regions hup x000e9 et al. 1998 it is hoped that future studies will test whether increasing the deep-layer pyramidal activity through serotonin 5-ht2 a activation yields a suppression of alpha power in posterior cortices traditionally pharmacological studies have been carried out using eeg fink 1969 niedermeyer and da silva 2005 and more recently also meg hall et al. 2010 muthukumaraswamy 2014 eeg and meg measure electric and magnetic fields respectively associated to postsynaptic potentials generated by large pools of pyramidal neurons whose activity is coherent in time and space niedermeyer and da silva 2005 when presynaptic cells release excitatory neurotransmitters such as glutamate they bind to ionotropic x003b1 -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid ampa and n-methyl-d-aspartate nmda receptors producing excitatory postsynaptic potentials epsp conversely inhibitory postsynaptic potentials ipsp are generated by gamma-aminobutyric acid gaba inhibitory receptors that hyperpolarize postsynaptic cells these neurotransmitters mediate excitatory and inhibitory intracellular primary currents meg sensitive which are compensated by balanced extracellular return currents eeg sensitive while single neuron action potentials neural output produce large currents that are too brief and asynchronous to be temporally integrated postsynaptic potentials neural input in contrast have a half-life an order of magnitude longer timofeev et al. 2012 thereby widening the critical window of temporal integration in the same vein spatial integration is archived due to pyramidal cells whose axons are aligned in parallel producing the so called x0201c open field x0201d configuration lorente de n x000f3 1947 if a sufficient number of excitatory cells fire in synchrony temporal integration the open field configuration spatial integration can produce a measurable net potential that extends throughout the conducting medium in clear contrast the morphology of inhibitory interneurons is shaped radially yielding sinks and sources that cancel each other contributing in principle little to eeg and meg signals murakami and okada 2006 in sum the alpha waves recorded with eeg and meg are mainly driven by spatio-temporally coordinated post-synaptic currents generated by pyramidal cells meg and eeg pharmacological trials involve higher complexity during data acquisition and analysis than standard experiments in this section i will highlight two of these challenges and i will suggest possible ways to approach them for an excellent methodological review about pharmaco-meg the reader is referred to muthukumaraswamy 2014 the binding of pharmacological agents to pyramidal cells and interneurons can produce dramatic changes in eeg and meg activity it is thus important to investigate the brain region/s where specific electrophysiological changes seem to be caused by the pharmacological intervention discarding non-specific changes that covary with the treatment effect but are not related to it absolute spectral power estimates are very popular dependent measures routinely reported in pharmacological trials however this index can suffer from large variations across experimental sessions participants or drug treatments to facilitate comparisons across studies or across trials participants sessions etc it is highly recommended to employ frequency specific power normalization often this normalization is performed by comparing a specific time window i.e. post-stimulus with a baseline period or by comparing various task-relevant time windows i.e. left vs. right allocation of attention sometimes drug power or amplitude modulations can be frequency and time specific that is only a specific band or time segment can be affected by a drug for example kometer et al 2013 demonstrated that the impact of psilocybin on alpha power was stronger during the pre-stimulus period with non-significant post-stimulus drug modulations in these situations the computation of a relative power change between post- and pre-stimulus periods can x0201c move x0201d the significant differences toward the post-stimulus period along the same lines the use of normalized oscillatory power difference in a pharmaco-meeg study needs special attention alpha modulation index ami and alpha lateralization index ali are very popular metrics to quantify how oscillatory power or amplitude changes as a function of allocation of attention thut et al. 2006 h x000e4 ndel et al. 2010 within the context of a standard spatial attention task ami is defined as the alpha power or amplitude difference between the experimental trials where participant 's attention is cued to the left and the right experimental conditions ami attention left x02013 attention right ./ attention left attention right in principle a drug can either increase or decrease the tonic power of the alpha rhythm consequently and under some specific conditions the denominator of the ami index can significantly differ between the two treatment conditions placebo vs. drug to understand the specific or general effects of a drug it is advisable to compare absolute and relative power or amplitude differences it may be the case that the numerator of ami has very similar amplitude or power values for placebo and treatment although power is the squared amplitude the rationale of the following example will remain qualitatively the same for both measures this is indeed the case displayed in figure x200b figure2a 2a the phasic alpha amplitude modulation the one associated to the allocation of attention is almost identical for placebo and drug sessions if the drug strongly modulates tonic alpha amplitude increasing or decreasing it ami might statistically differ due to tonic amplitude differences figure x200b figure2b 2b but not due to an interaction between the treatment and the amplitude modulations caused by participants allocation of attention more specifically figure x200b figure2c 2c clearly shows how the increase in ami during the drug session figure x200b figure2b 2b is explained by the differences in the denominators across treatments and not due to differences in the numerators the same can happen to ali which is defined as the alpha power or amplitude contrast between the two hemispheres for a given spatial attention condition thut et al. 2006 to avoid this issue it is recommended to use a common denominator by either taking the mean of alpha power or amplitude estimates over treatment conditions or by using the estimates of the placebo session as a common reference figure x200b figure2b 2b black line vs. green line in this case it is possible to dissociate the influence of the drug on alpha amplitude modulations due to the allocation of attention indexed by ami and the influence of the drug on tonic alpha amplitude figures 2b c in the simulated example depicted in figure x200b figure2a 2a magnitude of the attentional alpha amplitude modulation was almost identical for placebo and drug sessions the drug nonetheless exclusively affected the level of tonic alpha amplitude figure x200b figure2c 2c denominator importantly the same rationale can apply to any other type of intervention such as brain stimulation transcranial and electric stimulation techniques or when comparing normalized amplitude or power differences extracted from multiple experimental conditions effect of common denominator when comparing normalized power differences a simulated alpha power dynamics of a hypothetical meg sensor from left hemisphere in a visuo-spatial attention task red blue lines represent the alpha oscillations during attention to the right left conditions the left column illustrated the alpha attentional power modulations during placebo and the right column during an experimental session where a hypothetical drug exclusively produces a tonic power reduction x000e0 nd leaves the attentional power modulation intact the power differences between attention to the left blue vs. attention to the right conditions red is the same for placebo and drug b time-resolved alpha modulation index ami for placebo and drug sessions ami is defined as the normalized power difference between attentional conditions attention to the left x02013 attention to the right ./ attention to the left attention to the right ami is compared between treatments using different denominator green vs. purple or using the same in this case placebo green vs. black c time-resolved power differences due to attentional phasic alpha power modulations numerator vs. total tonic alpha power denominator for each treatment separately in this simulated example it is clear that the drug decreased the total or tonic alpha power denominator without interacting with attention numerator as the tonic power during drug is lower relative to placebo having the same attentional modulation the ami is clearly enhanced using different denominator relative to common denominator see b head movements during meg recordings are a common source of noise that the experimenter needs to control as much as possible in eeg set-ups the electrodes are attached to the scalp of the participant and small head movements can easily be reduced using chin-rests in a meg set-up the problem is the other way around the participant fits his/her head to the helmet trying to stay and still as possible in supine position it is relatively easy for the participants to remain still but when sitting down on the meg chair head position can drift during the experiment especially during long sessions x0003e 30 min taking this into account choosing the supine position is in principle a natural choice but the physiological results may drastically differ relative to sitting position rice et al. 2013 within the context of pharmaco-meg participants may move their heads differently during the treatment session due to the side effects of the drugs therefore signal differences between placebo and drug sessions could partially be explained by the difference in head position in the two conditions thereby limiting the interpretability of the results it is well-known that dipolar electromagnetic fields decrease at a rate of 1/r 2 with the distance of the coil h x000e4 m x000e4 l x000e4 inen et al. 1993 so drifting down on the meg chair can reduce the amplitude of the meg signal considerably in addition multiple head movements along different directions will contribute to a decrease in the signal-to-noise ratio of the meg signal this in turn may eventually diminish the statistical sensitivity of the experimental manipulation at hand source reconstruction methods can take into account the distance from participants head relative to the meg coils on a trial-by-trial basis or averaging the head position during the whole experiment stolk et al. 2013 unfortunately this approach can not solve all possible caveats for example if the head position of a participant lies at the back of the dewar during the first half of the experiment and then moves a few centimeters to the right left or to the front of the dewar source reconstructions can yield very different results when comparing the first and the second half of the experiment in general there are two ways to minimize head movement during the online acquisition of the data and during the post-processing of the meg data the latter procedure employs for example an interpolation of the magnetic field distribution produced by the inversion of a forward model generated by taking into account the actual head movements kn x000f6 sche 2002 a different sensor interpolation approach is employed during the signal space separation where a set of spherical harmonic functions are able to separate the influence of signals originating outside of the meg coils and simultaneously separate artifacts close to the coils i.e. head movements taulu et al. 2005 medvedovsky et al. 2007 unfortunately the meg signal may be drastically affected when correcting for large head movements gross et al. 2013 taking all these factors into account it is highly desirable to record head position and to minimize position changes as much as possible during the online acquisition of the experimental data a simple and cheap solution is the use of orthopedic neck-collars combined with chair measurements lozano-soldevilla et al. 2014 especially for meg experiments involving multiple experimental sessions separated by days it is very important and difficult to seat the participants in the same position a simple solution consists of taking the height and inclination measurements from the meg chair for each participant and to reproduce the chair position during subsequent experimental sessions figures 3a x02013 d in addition soft sponge type neck-collars can easily adapt to most participants while keeping them relatively comfortable when attached to the neck one can instruct the volunteers to rest his/her chin on the top of the collar figure x200b figure3 3 this action releases the neck muscles from holding the weight of the whole head and reduces fatigue this approach was especially beneficial because the nature of the drug manipulation in our study we used benzodiazepine lorazepam in two different dosages to increase gaba efficacy lozano-soldevilla et al. 2014 lorazepam produces loss of muscle tone so muscles relax and suffer fatigue faster relative to placebo the use of the collar reduced the fatigue of neck muscle while keeping participants relatively comfortable that said besides evidence from their own work the author is not aware of any empirical measurement demonstrating the superiority of this approach relative to other procedures however many researchers carrying out meg experiments at the donders institute have employed them the in the past grent-'t-jong et al. 2013 2014 marshall et al. 2016 van de nieuwenhuijzen et al. 2016 and still continue to employ them drijvers et al. 2018 due to good feedback from participants minimizing head movements during meg experiments measurement of the meg chair inclination of the ctf275 system in two specific positions a b the height of the chair in two different positions c d example of a sponge neck-collar e a more advanced procedure to monitor and correct head movements was provided by stolk et al 2013 they created a real-time head-localizer tool which is a part of the fieldtrip matlab toolbox oostenveld et al. 2011 for example in the ctf275 meg system head coil positions can be placed at anatomical landmarks nasion left and right ear canals to record head movements at the beginning of an meg experiment head position can be tracked and stored in case of excessive head movement i.e. x0003e 5 mm the experimenter can stop the task and instruct the participant to correct his/her head position to recover the original coordinates very often pharmaco-meg studies employ cross-over designs the same participant receives placebo and treatment/s in different sessions separated by days the real-time head-localizer tool allows the experimenter to recover the tracked positions acquired in the very first session so that they can guide the participant to sit as close as possible to the original position lozano-soldevilla et al. 2014 finally it is likely that the future of the meg and pharmaco-meg research will involve 3d printed head-casts which will drastically improve the online acquisition of data upon the present situation initial measurements have revealed impressive results with within- and between-session head movements below 0.25 and 1 mm respectively meyer et al. 2017 psychopharmacological research is essential to monitoring electrophysiological effects of new drugs and to compare them with well-established treatments the employment of drugs with well-characterized mechanisms of action can help to develop translational research programs thanks to the priceless knowledge gained in animal models at the same time the progress in animal and human psychopharmacological research is very important to constrain computational models with biophysically realistic parameters these models once contrasted with empirical data can help to guide future research proposing mechanistic hypothesis about how specific synaptic receptors generate and/or modulate neuronal oscillations at various frequencies however as with any other approach pharmaco-meeg is not exempt from limitations one of the most important limitations is that pharmacological interventions are system-wide moreover drug agents rarely target one receptor type and will bind to any brain region that contains those specific receptors it is also challenging to select an optimal drug dosage to produce a measurable behavioral effect not explained by global side effects despite the difficulties there are well-designed studies showing drug-specific effects for example hall et al 2010 were able to untangle the diazepam-induced resting state neuronal networks into different frequency bands in a visuospatial attention task physostigmine strongly enhanced frontal gamma power leaving the stimulus-induced visual gamma x0201c virtually intact x0201d bauer et al. 2012 these results point toward a promising future for pharmaco-meg studies hall et al. 2010 muthukumaraswamy 2014 and the future development of pharmacological models which test the mechanistic role of neuronal oscillations another important limitation consists of the uncertainty in the ecological validity of the pharmacological model for example it has been recently suggested that neuronal oscillations generated with sedative drugs and anesthetics are neurophysiologically different from natural sleep akeju and brown 2017 despite the striking similarity of some brain states like the slow waves other main limitation of the pharmacological study of alpha oscillations is that we still do not know the main sources and circuitry of this brain rhythm without this knowledge it is difficult to build in-vitro and computational models see hughes and crunelli 2005 for an exception the alpha rhythm seems to be a network-based oscillation with multiple local sources interacting each other in contrast faster rhythms seem to strongly depend on local circuitry which has facilitated its study in both animal and computational models traub et al. 1999 the alpha rhythm can be found over multiple brain regions even during resting state conditions hindriks et al. in review in addition using new decomposition techniques it has recently been found that both attention and performance can be positively and negatively correlated with multiple overlapping alpha and beta sources located over task-relevant and task irrelevant brain regions van der meij et al. 2016 this is in line with the disparate pharmacological modulations reviewed here these two findings reveal that there are multiple alpha components performing complementary roles how each alpha component is affected by different pharmacological compounds modulating behavior remains to be elucidated to conclude these observations are not new and were eloquently described by w. gray walter a long time ago x0201c we 've managed to check the alpha band rhythm with intracerebral electrodes in the occipital-parietal cortex in regions which are practically adjacent and almost congruent one finds a variety of alpha rhythms some of which are blocked by opening and closing the eyes some are not some are driven by flicker some are not some respond in some way to mental activity some do not what one sees on the scalp is a spatial average of a large number of components and whether you see an alpha rhythm of a particular type or not depends upon which component happens to be the most highly synchronized process over the largest superficial area there are complex rhythms in everybody x0201d pfurtscheller et al. 1994 in the future it will become important to combine computational modeling with pharmacological work to improve the mechanistic understanding of how different receptors contribute to the modulation of posterior alpha oscillations this knowledge will help the community to develop translational research programs to investigate the pathophysiology of brain rhythms in diseases with well-characterized electrophysiological abnormalities such us epilepsy parkinson disease schizophrenia or cerebellar ataxia traub and whittington 2010 the models and experimental findings i have reviewed above provided invaluable insights nonetheless posterior alpha oscillations still contain many secrets that future research hopefully will unveil it is necessary to continue investigating the sources of parieto-occipital alpha oscillations while the thalamic mechanisms have been relatively well-studied both empirically hughes and crunelli 2005 l x000f6 rincz et al. 2008 2009 and computationally vijayan and kopell 2012 the cortical alpha mechanisms are less clear to improve the mechanistic understanding of the posterior alpha in-vitro preparations will be fundamental florez et al. 2015 to generating realistic computational models what is the specific contribution of inhibitory interneurons and pyramidal cells to the modulation of alpha frequency and power like other inhibitory rhythms such as gamma can alpha oscillations be exclusively generated by interneurons whittington et al. 1995 on a short time scale alpha frequency is known to fluctuate and this modulation has been related to the latency of visual p1 himmelstoss et al. 2015 in rat hippocampus it has been shown that instantaneous gamma frequency and power are determined by the tight balance between excitation and inhibition atallah and scanziani 2009 is there a similar physiological mechanism to control alpha power and frequency a new impressive study has characterized the beta waves as non-periodic events with a non-sinusoidal waveform caused by the synchrony of excitatory input currents to cortical pyramidal neurons sherman et al. 2016 it is well-documented that there is an asymmetry between the magnitude of the peaks and troughs of posterior alpha oscillations stam et al. 1999 nikulin et al. 2007 mazaheri and jensen 2008 can we extract wave morphology metrics to make inferences underlying the physiology of parieto-occipital alpha oscillations cole and voytek 2017 what are the key neurotransmitter s and cell types that control alpha waveform and what is its functional relevance if any some studies have shown a relationship between the phase of visual alpha oscillations and neuronal firing bollimunta et al. 2008 2011 moreover some studies report the relationship between alpha power and spiking activity as being inverse nir et al. 2007 haegens et al. 2011 van kerkoerle et al. 2014 some report a positive correlation mo et al. 2011 lakatos et al. 2016 and some studies report no apparent relationship at all dougherty et al. 2017 what is the reason for these diverse findings is it related to the action of neuromodulators such serotonin or acetylcholine there are only few studies that have found an association between dopamine and posterior alpha oscillations chapotot et al. 2003 eckart et al. 2014 but see bodenmann et al. 2009 albrecht et al. 2016 for negative results given the well-established role of dopamine in cognitive control and working memory cools and d'esposito 2011 and the modulation of posterior alpha power during top-down operations van kerkoerle et al. 2014 bastos et al. 2015 michalareas et al. 2016 it would be interesting to study how dopamine levels interact with posterior alpha during capacity-limited working memory conditions specifically it has been shown that the relationship between dopamine levels and working memory performance is described by an inverted-u shaped curve for instance one could predict that participants with low baseline working memory capacity may increase their performance using dopamine enhancers cools and d'esposito 2011 it remains to be tested whether posterior alpha desynchronization during the delay interval fukuda et al. 2015 interacts with dopamine levels it is still unclear why posterior alpha power dynamics are modulated as a function of working memory contents using a sternberg task employing letters as memoranda jensen et al. 2002 convincingly showed that alpha power during delay interval parametrically increased with memory load strikingly the opposite result is consistently reported using visuospatial working memory tasks fukuda et al. 2015 a previous working memory fmri study demonstrated that physostigmine induced stronger activity in ventral stream relative to dorsal handjaras et al. 2013 could it be that the increase in alpha power in working memory tasks using letters as memoranda is a consequence of the cholinergic neuromodulation of the ventral stream in conclusion recent human pharmacological studies have investigated how the main neurotransmitters and neuromodulators in the central nervous system impact the posterior alpha rhythm in general the alpha power was found to decrease with gabaergic enhancers glutamate blockers and serotonin enhancers whereas an increase was often reported with acetylcholine currently there is no theoretical framework that can explain these pharmacological findings based on these studies i speculate that the physiological basis of the classical alpha oscillations could depend on physiological excitation to a similar or stronger extent as physiological inhibition considering the complexity underlying the alpha rhythm future studies are needed to address how physiological excitation and inhibition contribute to generate the parieto-occipital alpha oscillations i speculate that a new generation of computational models will be crucial to a mechanistic understanding of alpha oscillations and to reproduce the variety of empirical findings x0201c how does one draw a conclusion from such a model it is almost universally believed that with enough parameters in a model one can reproduce anything but it is actually the inability to reproduce some details while trying as hard as possible to be x0201c faithful x0201d that produces the key clues the successful use of this methodology requires intense and on-going self-criticism x0201d kopell 2005 dl-s analyzed data interpreted results of experiments prepared figures drafted manuscript edited and revised manuscript approved final version of manuscript the author declares that the research was conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of interest the reviewer xl and handling editor declared their shared affiliation i would like to thank to frontiers in computational neuroscience editors-in-chief profs misha tsodyks si wu and idan segev for their kind invitation to participate in this 10th anniversary research topic i am thankful to prof. wolfgang klimesch and dra stephanie r. jones for their insightful discussions regarding the relationship between gaba and alpha i am indebted to dr. tushar chauhan for his helpful comments and proofreading europe pmc is a service of the europe pmc funders group in partnership with the european bioinformatics institute and in cooperation with the national center for biotechnology information at the u.s. national library of medicine ncbi/nlm it includes content provided to the pmc international archive by participating publishers contact the helpdesk visit the blog follow europepmc_news on twitter leave feedback contact us privacy terms of use copyright accessibility