glorious saint joseph servidoras ssvm final vows in brazil saint joseph is a model of virtue a man who was just obedient magnanimous faithful humble poor a holy spouse an exemplary father lover of silence hard worker generous with a great spirit of sacrifice and much more but that which stands out the most is his purity and chastity god didn´t only choose a virgin as mother of his only begotten son but also it was most convenient that his father was also pure and chaste 1 as each march 19 th this year on march 20 th for being a sunday in lent we have celebrated our beloved st. joseph model and guardian of consecrated souls beginning thirty days beforehand with the prayer in his honor asking for the spiritual and material needs of our communities for an increase in vocations to the priesthood and religious life for the whole church and that through the intercessions of st. joseph many souls having received the call of god may embrace the consecrated life with generosity formation house in italy st. bernadine of siene says if the holy church is indebted to the virgen mother because through her has the church been made worthy to receive christ certainly the church is also indebted to st. joseph after mary with a particular thankfulness and reverence. 2 the liturgy itself puts st. joseph immediately after the virgen mary it was st. joseph the dignified and noble man faithful guardian of the holy family who lived completely abandoned to the divine designs and totally entrusted to divine providence final vows in mexico our directory of spirituality says a particular way of giving glory to god is to trust limitlessly in his providence based in his design of salvation…we must learn to see all as coming from him who doesn´t forget even a little bird… one must see everything in the light of the loving designs of the providence of god. 67 the most holy virgen and saint joseph are the most complete examples of such trust why do we have a special devotion to saint joseph because st. joseph is an eminent member of the church of christ he is a model of virtue the patron of the universal church and a good death he is spouse of mary the father of the incarnate word the redemptor himself was subject to st. joseph but above all we have a special devotion because of his most efficacious intercession which we have experienced many times every religious chosen by and with singular love to be the spouse of the incarnate word in imitation of st. joseph must dedicate herself completely to his care that is to say to seek to please him by doing his most holy will and being spiritual mothers of his children 3 contemplatives sisters in luxembourg today and always we entrust our necessities to st. joseph to whom god entrusted the guardianship of his most precious treasures 4 to the care of such a solicitous father and we give thanks to god for giving him to us as our model and example of virtue celebration in the netherlands and investure of habit from sr. mary our lady of walsingham huge_it_slider id= 5 1 fr carlos miguel buela san josé y las servidoras prologue 2 st. bernadine of siene sermon 2 opera 7 16 27-30 3 fr carlos miguel buela san josé y las servidoras prologue 4 john paul ii apostolic exhortation redemptoris custos comments are closed ssvm oficial site ssvm luxembourg french ssvm missions ssvm usa ssvm blog homilies of fr carlos m. buela religious family institute of the incarnate word ive chronicles of the institute of the incarnate word ive philippines ive siria ive usa ive minor seminary usa facebook ive usa ive press