the oxford handbook of organizational well-being susan cartwright cary l. cooper oxford university press 200.00 hardcover published 15 january 2009 656 pages figures tables isbn 9780199211913 ebook this title is available as an ebook to purchase visit your preferred ebook provider oxford handbooks online available in oxford handbooks online access may be available through your institution or you can buy or rent chapters bookseller code 06 in today 's changing business environment the financial health of an organization is increasingly dependent on the extent to which it and its members are able to transform and adapt to these changing internal and external circumstances more effectively than their competitors health has been identified as a key driver of socio-economic progress internationally emphasizing the link between the health of individual workers and the overall performance of an organization equally decades of research has highlighted the major role that work plays in determining physical health and psychological well being this handbook focuses on organizational well being in its widest sense and is concerned with reviewing the factors which are associated with ill health as well as those which promote positive health and well being in it leading international scholars focus on the key issues absenteeism and presenteeism health and safety models measures and methodologies for measuring well being individual factors associated with well being such as leadership emotion stress and risk and rewards organizational factors associated with well being such as working hours emotional labour technology and job insecurity organizational strategies for improving individual well being the handbook ends with two chapters setting out new perspectives the link between well being and geography and climate and the importance of corporate social responsibility in creating a sustainable and healthy work environment about the series oxford handbooks in business management bring together the world 's leading scholars on the subject to discuss current research and the latest thinking in a range of interrelated topics including strategy organizational behavior public management international business and many others containing completely new essays with extensive referencing to further reading and key ideas the volumes in hardback or paperback serve as both a thorough introduction to a topic and a useful desk reference for scholars and advanced students alike 1 introduction perspectives on organizational health susan cartwright and cary l. cooper section i the costs and indicators of well being in the work place 2 absenteeism or presenteeism attendance dynamics and employee well-being gary johns 3 accidents and safety in the workplace sharon clarke section ii models measures and methodologies for assessing well being 4 environmental 'vitamins personal judgments work values and happiness peter warr 5 measuring burnout christina maslach michael p. leiter and wilmar schaufeli 6 job control and reward effects on well being johannes siegrist 7 organizational screening the asset model sheena johnson section iii individual factors and well being 8 leadership psychological well-being and organizational outcomes ivan t. robertson and jill flint-taylor 9 work-life balance individual and organizational strategies and practices steven poelmans heather odle-dusseau and barbara beham 10 positive emotions attitudes and health motivated engaged focused james campbell quick laura m. little and debra l. nelson 11 stress and coping michael p. o'driscoll paula a. brough and thomas j. kalliath 12 work hours work intensity and work addiction risks and rewards ronald j. burke and lisa fiksenbaum section iv job/organizational factors and well being 13 the impact of working hours and working patterns on physical and psychological health bruce kirkcaldy adrian furnham and roy shephard 14 emotional labour well-being and performance david holman david martinez-iñigo and peter totterdell 15 technology and health michael d. coovert ashley a gray frederick r. b. stilson and matthew s. prewett 16 job insecurity unemployment and organizational well-being oxymoron or possibility tahira m. probst 17 building employee engagement job satisfaction health and retention victor callan and sandra a. lawrence section v organizational interventions to promote health and well being 18 mediators and moderators of organizational interventions to prevent occupational stress caroline biron cary l. cooper and frank w. bond 19 the challenges of developing implementing and evaluating interventions andrew j. noblet and anthony d. lamontagne 20 organizational coaching and mentoring jonathan passmore and jodie anagnos section vi new perspectives 21 climato-economic niches of employee well being evert van de vliert 22 creating a healthy work environment through sustainable practices future challenges erik bichard susan cartwright is a chartered psychologist and fellow of the british psychological society she is professor of organizational psychology in the manchester business school at the university of manchester uk susan is currently the president of the british academy of management and a fellow of the british academy of management she is a past editor of the leadership and organization development journal and a current associate editor of the british journal of management susan has authored 13 books over 40 scholarly articles and 30 book chapters her main research interests lie in the area of occupational stress and well being human aspects of mergers and acquisitions and emotional intelligence she was editor of the volume v of the blackwell encyclopedia of management on human resource management blackwell 2005 and co-editor with cary l. cooper and christopher early of the international handbook of organizational culture and climate wiley 2001 cary l. cooper is professor of organizational psychology and health in lancaster university management school and pro vice chancellor external relations at lancaster university he is a fellow of the british psychological society the royal society of medicine and the royal society of health cary was the founding editor of the journal of organizational behaviour and is co-editor of stress and health in 1998 he was the recipient of the distinguished service award for his contribution to management science from the us academy of management cary is the author of over 100 books on occupational stress women at work and industrial and organizational psychology and has written over 400 scholarly articles jodie anagnos psychology department university of east london barbara beham university of hamburg germany erik bichard school of the built environment university of salford caroline biron lancaster university management school university of lancaster frank w. bond department of psychology goldsmith college university of london paula brough school of psychology griffith university ronald j. burke school of business york university victor j. callan uq business school university of queensland susan cartwright manchester business school university of manchester sharon clarke manchester business school university of manchester cary l. cooper vice chancellor 's office university house lancaster university michael d. coovert department of psychology university of south florida lisa fiksenbaum school of business york university jill flint-taylor robertson cooper ltd. adrian f. furnham department of psychology university college london ashley a.g. walvoord psychology department university of south florida david holman institute of work psychology university of sheffield gary johns department of management john molson school of business concordia university sheena johnson manchester business school university of manchester thomas kalliath school of business and information management bruce d. kirkcaldy international centre for the study of occupational and mental health anthony d. lamontagne school of population health university of melbourne sandra lawrence griffith business school griffith university michael leiter centre for organizational research and development acadia university laura little college of business administration oklahoma state university david martinez-iñigo department of social science university rey juan carlos madrid spain christina maslach university of california berkeley debra nelson college of business administration oklahoma state university andrew noblet deakin business school deakin university heather odle-dusseau clemson university usa michael o'driscoll department of psychology university of waikato jonathan passmore psychology department university of east london steven poelmans iese business school university of navara spain matthew prewett department of psychology university of south florida tahira m. probst department of psychology washington state university vancouver canada james campbell quick goolsby leadership academy the university of texas at arlington usa ivan t. robertson robertson cooper ltd. uk wilmar schaufeli utrecht university the netherlands roy j. shephard institute of sport and health sciences university of toronto canada johannes siegrist department of medical sociology university of dusseldorf germany fredrick r.b stilson department of psychology university of south florida usa peter totterdell institute of work psychology university of sheffield uk evert van de vliert school of organizational psychology university of groningen the netherlands peter warr institute of work psychology university of sheffield uk facebook twitter email app pinterest whatsapp addthis susan cartwright and cary l. cooper anne orford and florian hoffmann majken schultz steve maguire ann langley denise m. rousseau alan d. castel susan cartwright and cary l. cooper cinnamon p. carlarne kevin r. gray and richard tarasofsky davide nicolini jerry w. hedge and gary w. carter second edition shane j. lopez and c. r. snyder amrita narlikar martin daunton and robert m. stern davide nicolini matthias ziegler carolyn maccann and richard roberts veronica benet-martinez and ying-yi hong jacob katz cogan ian hurd and ian johnstone arkebe oqubay and kenichi ohno social sciences business management industry studies social sciences business management human resource management science mathematics psychology social psychology oxford university press is a department of the university of oxford it furthers the university 's objective of excellence in research scholarship and education by publishing worldwide