alexandra r. martin family law attorney redwood city aaron riechert carpol riffle apc attorneys staff alexandra r. martin redwood city office 333 twin dolphin drive suite 350 redwood city ca 94065 google maps driving directions phone 650 368-4662 ext 137 fax 650 367-8531 email amartin arcr.com ms. martin is a san francisco california native and joined aaron riechert carpol riffle apc in 2014 ms. martin s practice focuses on family law estate planning and trust and probate administration and litigation ms. martin is experienced in preparing revocable trusts wills financial powers of attorney and advanced healthcare directives and works with both individuals and corporate fiduciaries through all aspects of trust and probate administration ms. martin represents a variety of family law clients in san mateo and santa clara counties she regularly counsels clients through the drafting and negotiation of pre and post-marital agreements she is experienced in handling dissolution matters involving complex financial issues such as equity compensation property characterization and division family trusts real estate and business interests and valuations ms. martin works with her clients to understand their specific goals and incorporates financial experts and other professionals to develop an effective path towards a negotiated resolution or litigated outcome given ms. martin s experience in both trust and estate and family law she is knowledgeable in handling matters where family law issues cross over into conservatorship and probate cases ms. martin graduated cum laude from the university of san francisco school of law in may of 2015 where she received academic honors all three years and was a member of the mcauliffe honor society while at the university of san francisco school of law ms. martin served as the executive director of the moot court program ms. martin was the recipient of the cali award for excellence in estate planning and due to her interest in estate planning and taxation ms. martin graduated with a certificate in taxation with honors and served on the executive board of the u.s.f estate planning and tax society for two years ms. martin was also selected as a recipient of the san mateo county women lawyers section education foundation scholarship for 2015 prior to law school ms. martin graduated cum laude from loyola marymount university los angeles where she received a b.a in political science 333 twin dolphin drive suite 350 redwood city ca 94065 phone 650 368-4662 fax 650 367-8531 mon-fri 8:30am-5pm 2019 aaron riechert carpol riffle apc all rights reserved attorney advertising prior results do not guarantee a similar outcome web design by webvolutions