dr. david salar dmd west boca dentistry for children boca raton fl dr. david salar is a board certified pediatric dentist who believes in providing dental care to children and adolescents in a gentle and …read more male 1447370382 west boca dentistry for children 8903 glades road suite d-4 boca raton fl 33434 it was my daughters first time she is 3yrs old she and i had a wonderful experience …read more i appreciate the fact that dr. salar wants to monitor my daughter x27 s molars for what may turn out to be cavities her previous dentist in atlanta stated they were in fact cavaties and should be treated right away it is always a pleasure to find a true professional who isn x27 t there just to take your money my daughter had no complaints about her exam the staff were super friendly we were seen promptly and there was plenty of parking i x27 m pleased with today x27 s visit …read more very good seen promptly thorough report fr dentist …read more highly recommend …read more dr. salar and staff were very friendly professional and caring my daughter had a pleasant experience and left with a smile …read more excellent …read more staff is warm very attentive to the children whole family the doctor is so thoughtful kind his words are warm and encouraging i know we are in great hands here at …read more it was very pleasant …read more terrific …read more dr. david salar is affiliated with west boca medical center dr. david salar works with west boca dentistry for children dr. david salar 's office is located at 8903 glades road boca raton fl 33434 dr. david salar is certified by american board of pediatric dentistry dr. david salar frequently sees patients for crown filling pediatric dentist consultation root canal and wisdom tooth problem you can see other visit reasons for dr. david salar on their profile dr. david salar speaks english and romanian 11 patients have reviewed dr. david salar the overall rating for this doctor is 4.91/5 they have a 4.91/5 rating for bedside manner and a 4.82/5 rating for wait time you can read individual reviews and ratings on their profile dr. david salar is affiliated with west boca medical center dr. david salar works with west boca dentistry for children dr. david salar 's office is located at 8903 glades road boca raton fl 33434 dr. david salar is certified by american board of pediatric dentistry dr. david salar frequently sees patients for crown filling pediatric dentist consultation root canal and wisdom tooth problem you can see other visit reasons for dr. david salar on their profile dr. david salar speaks english and romanian 11 patients have reviewed dr. david salar the overall rating for this doctor is 4.91/5 they have a 4.91/5 rating for bedside manner and a 4.82/5 rating for wait time you can read individual reviews and ratings on their profile dr. david salar is affiliated with west boca medical center dr. david salar works with west boca dentistry for children dr. david salar 's office is located at 8903 glades road boca raton fl 33434 dr. david salar is certified by american board of pediatric dentistry dr. david salar frequently sees patients for crown filling pediatric dentist consultation root canal and wisdom tooth problem you can see other visit reasons for dr. david salar on their profile dr. david salar speaks english and romanian 11 patients have reviewed dr. david salar the overall rating for this doctor is 4.91/5 they have a 4.91/5 rating for bedside manner and a 4.82/5 rating for wait time you can read individual reviews and ratings on their profile