loyola north webster rule district 1-3a team usa today network presents vrtually there a weekly virtual reality series that delivers amazing adventures extreme nature sports fantasies and the world 's most fascinating people we do n't just tell incredible stories we let you live the experience in fully immersive environments use your vr headset laptop or smart phone to experience in 360\u00b0 video and virtual reality download the usa today app now with virtual reality and subscribe to our youtube page three new thrilling vr experiences each week immerse yourself have an existing account already have a subscription do n't have an account get the news let friends in your social network know what you are reading about flyers storment named league mvp a link has been sent to your friend 's email address a link has been posted to your facebook feed to find out more about facebook commenting please read the conversation guidelines and faqs welcome to our new and improved comments which are for subscribers only this is a test to see whether we can improve the experience for you you do not need a facebook profile to participate you will need to register before adding a comment typed comments will be lost if you are not logged in please be polite it 's ok to disagree with someone 's ideas but personal attacks insults threats hate speech advocating violence and other violations can result in a ban if you see comments in violation of our community guidelines please report them loyola 's matthew storment is leading the flyers on the mound this season photo missie soignier/contributed photo loyola s only senior matthew storment was selected the baseball mvp and north webster s tiffani winkler took the softball mvp honors on the recently released district 1-3a all-district teams storment posted an 8-1 record with a 1.11 era and 44 strikeouts for coach dustin griffis this spring he also had a save winkler led her team to the district title and a 12-11 overall record loyola s storment talks school bus memories among the first team selections for loyola were luke hamiter .373 average jett king .327 chance lyon .402 riggs easterling .302 matt ramsey .348 cole collins .344 bryson worley .327 and hayden strealy .306 north webster s laney o neal was the top pitcher selected on the softball team loyola rsquo s only first-team selection was kassidy moore while caroline alexander was named to the second team kennedy carter and payton falls were flyers posted in honorable mention. nbsp p district 1-3a baseball team mvp matthew storment loyola strong first team strong catcher luke hamiter loyola .373 avg. br 1b jett king loyola .327 avg 2b nbsp chance lyon loyola .402 avg. br 3b cam tyson nw .328 avg ss riggs easterling loyola .302 avg. br of sam modisette nw .384 avg of- matt ramsey loyola .348 avg. br of cole collins loyola .344 avg of kyler harbour nw .494 avg. br utl- sawyer howard nw .308 avg utl kade garmany nw .359 avg. br utl bryson worley loyola .327 avg dh hayden strealy loyola .306 avg. br p matthew storment loyola 8-1 p nbsp tyler lee nw 4.02 era nbsp p loyola s kassidy moore drives the ball during a past playoff game for the flyers photo henrietta wildsmith the shreveport times district 1-3a softball team mvp tiffani winkler north webster pitcher laney o neal north webster strong infield strong aubryn rasberry north webster kassidy moore loyola tiffani winkler north webster strong outfield strong kylee ferguson north webster and sadie wesson north webster second team jaliah hampton north webster and caroline alexander loyola honorable mention kennedy carter loyola payton falls loyola audrey plants north webster nbsp p connect tweet linkedin comment email more share your feedback to help improve our site experience more stories 12 nw la athletes on 15th times athlete of the week ballot dec. 16 2019 11:11 a.m arrest made in fatal accident involving visiting hockey team 's bus in shreveport dec. 16 2019 11:28 a.m. we played for her brahmas fueled to win by a woman they did n't know dec. 16 2019 10:49 a.m. how coach 's talk helped cowboys end losing skid dec. 16 2019 9:52 a.m. move over billy joe burrow joins cannon as lsu 's only heisman winners dec. 14 2019 7:53 p.m. captain shreve tops parkway in bfcu finale dec. 14 2019 6:01 p.m. window.simpleexclusion window.simpleexclusion || window.simpletarget window.simpletarget || array.prototype.push.apply window.simpleexclusion array.prototype.push.apply window.simpletarget subscribe about us connect with us contact us staff directory rss support chat support home news elections 2018 business crime education national politics louisiana careers sports lsu high school saints cowboys colleges mudbugs more usa today sports golf life luxury living community celebrations things to do food and dining arts opinion columnists letters to the editor obituaries archives usa today business directory corrections and clarifications public notices 2019 www.shreveporttimes.com all rights reserved