amazon.com nintendo super smash bros ultimate edition pro controller switch video games trade in get paid go shopping ship it to us for free learn more fulfillment by amazon fba is a service we offer sellers that lets them store their products in amazon 's fulfillment centers and we directly pack ship and provide customer service for these products something we hope you 'll especially enjoy fba items qualify for free shipping and amazon prime if you 're a seller fulfillment by amazon can help you grow your business learn more about the program find answers in product info q reviews your question may be answered by sellers manufacturers or customers who purchased this item who are all part of the amazon community please make sure that you are posting in the form of a question please enter a question gaming icons clash in the ultimate brawl you can play anytime anywhere smash rivals off the stage as new characters isabelle simon belmont and king k. rool join inkling ridley and every fighter in super smash bros. history enjoy enhanced speed and combat at new stages based on the castlevania series super mario odyssey and more having trouble choosing a stage then select the stage morph option to transform one stage into another while battling—a series first plus new echo fighters dark samus richter belmont and chrom join the battle whether you play locally or online savor the faster combat new attacks and new defensive options like a perfect shield jam out to 900 different music compositions and go 1-on-1 with a friend hold a 4-player free-for-all kick it up to 8-player battles and more feel free to bust out your gamecube controllers—legendary couch competitions await—or play together anytime anywhere new stages and fighters are joined by the combined rosters of every past super smash bros. game face off in 2-4 player battles or play against the computer play any way you want—locally online in tv mode tabletop mode handheld mode or even with gamecube controllers* *s ome accessories sold separately fight faster and smarter with new and returning techniques like the perfect shield and directional air dodge challenge others anytime anywhere whether you re on the couch or on the go amiibo figures based on the new fighters will be released sold separately all previous super smash bros. series amiibo are supported sold separately copyright 2018 nintendo original game copyright nintendo hal laboratory inc characters copyright nintendo hal laboratory inc. pokémon creatures inc. game freak inc. shigesato itoi ape inc. intelligent systems konami digital entertainment sega capcom co. ltd. bandai namco entertainment inc. monolithsoft capcom u.s.a. inc. square enix co. ltd kick your game sessions up a notch with the nintendo switch trade pro controller adorned with a special super smash bros ultimate logo includes motion controls hd rumble feature built-in amiibo functionality* and more also includes charging cable usb-c to usb-a *amigo sold separately visit amiibo.com for details on amigo functionality 0:16 click to play video there 's a problem loading this menu right now learn more about amazon prime your shopping cart is empty give it purpose fill it with books dvds clothes electronics and more if you already have an account sign in there 's a problem previewing your cart right now check your internet connection and go to your cart or try again biatitle