portland tx roll off dumpster dawson is a locally owned and operated company located in gregory texas we offer prompt and dependable service we will deliver and dispose of your roll off dumpster for you family owned and operated for nearly 20 years dawson has become one of the most trusted names in the ferrous and non-ferrous materials recycling industry and trash disposal in the coastal bend area our friendly staff and fair prices have kept people coming back to us for years we buy from the public as well as businesses and dealers so come on out and bring your scrap we 'll take care of you dawson recycling is the right place to find your roll off dumpster we are fully insured and bonded and provide professional dependable service deliveries pickups are made within 24 hours dawson recycling offers multiple dumpster sizes to meet your needs roll off dumpster sizes are measured in cubic yards typical roll off dumpster sizes are measured in cubic yards typical roll off sizes offered are 10 20 30 and 40 yard dumpsters we 've included dumpster dimensions for each of these roll off dumpster sizes below 10 yard dumpster a 10 yard dumpster can hold 10 cubic yards of waste common dumpster dimensions for a 10 yard dumpster are 12 ft. long by 8 ft. wide by 4 ft. high dumpster sizes and dimensions may vary for your local dumpster service there 's no perfect way to choose dumpster sizes but a 10 yard dumpster may be appropriate for a small basement or garage cleanout removing a 250 sq ft deck removing 1500 sq ft. of single layer roof shingles yard debris cleanup or a small kitchen bath remodeling job rent now 20 yard dumpster a 20 yard dumpster holds 20 cubic yards of waste common dumpster dimensions for a 20 yard dumpster are 22 ft. long by 8 ft. wide by 4.5 ft. high a 20 yard dumpster may be the right dumpster size for a large basement attic or garage cleanup flooring and carpet removal for a large house 300 to 400 square feet of deck removal or 2500 to 3000 sq ft. of single layer roof shingle removal rent now 30 yard dumpster a 30 yard dumpster holds 30 cubic yards of waste common dumpster dimensions for a 30 yard dumpster are 22 ft. long by 8 ft. wide by 6 ft. high remember dumpster sizes can vary so ask your local roll off dumpster service a 30 yard dumpster may be the right dumpster size for a major home addition construction of a new home demolition of a garage or entire house window or siding replacement for a small to medium size home rent now 40 yard dumpster a 40 yard dumpster holds 40 cubic yards of waste again dumpster sizes and dumpster dimensions are not standardized but common dumpster dimensions for a 40 yard dumpster are 22 ft. long by 8 ft. wide by 8 ft. high a 40 yard dumpster may be appropriate for window or siding replacement for a large home commercial roof tear off commercial cleanout new construction or major addition large amount of trash paper or cardboard rent now dawson recycling offers multiple dumpster sizes to meet your needs roll off dumpster sizes are measured in cubic yards typical dumpster sizes offered are 20 30 40 yards we can handle any size project that you can dawson recycling and disposal inc. provides integrated non-hazardous solid waste collection recycling disposal services to residential commercial industrial and construction customers across south texas dawson recycling has successfully performed numerous facility structure demolition projects across the state of texas for a diverse client base we complete projects on time and within budget while remaining complient thank you for choosing dawson 's recycling disposal inc. service areas