monsters inc literary terms by caitlin hagedorn on prezi trending searches up next hello tomorrow prezi team updated 15 december 2014 boo runs around in a resturaunt and gets discovered sully and mike bring boo home sully and mike bring boo to work in a costume randall captures mike mr. waternoose finds boo mike and sully get banished randall and mr. waternoose team up to kidnap children sully saves boo conflicts sully vs randall mike vs sully sully vs sully mike vs randall boo vs randall meet mike and sully as they travel to work and do their jobs at monsters inc. meet other employers like celia randall mr. waternoose roz etc sully has to say goodbye to boo and her door gets shredded vs mike initial incident randall= antagonist jealous evil mean to others tries to hurt boo climax external conflict resolution celia personification~pretty much every monster in this film because they walk and talk like humans roz randall tries to steal boo and has a plan to kidnap kids and get their screams easier randall puts out a door and tries to cheat but then sully finds out that the kid got out boo sully= protagonist selfless nice to others good sport tries to help boo verbal irony~ sully says he doesn t think boo s harmful and mike says sarcastically well in that case let s keep it i ve always wanted a pet that could kill me situational irony~ we didn t except mr. waternoose to be a part of an evil plan with randall randall comic relief~right after sully s sad goodbye to boo they have a scene where mike is doing comedy in a kid s bedroom boo sully allusion~ when sully and randall are fighting on a door sully s hanging of the door and randall s talking to him evil like and is about to kill him kind of like when scar is holding onto simba s hands when he s hanging off pride rock in the lion king sully falling action charactonym~ boo because everyone is scared of her and she always says boo randall gets trapped in a door and mr. waternoose gets arrested for saying he d kidnap 1000 children before he d let the company die mr. waternoose randall the company is turned into a laughing company instead of a scaring company and mike puts boo s door back together and sully sees her again character vs character exposition sully thinks boo is not scary and wants to save her rising action mind mapping mind mapping w mind mapping did you know that prezi presentation templates… did you know that prezi presentation templates can also be used as mind-map templates this prezi template s ability to zoom in on details pull back to reveal the big picture and show how ideas relate make it perfect for mind-mapping exercises as well as presentations w w did you know that prezi presentation templates c… sales kickoff -… sales kickoff energy w sales kickoff ene… get your team fired up with an engaging and… get your team fired up with an engaging and compelling sko presentation this prezi sales kickoff template features a cool rings-of-saturn motif and like all prezi sko templates it s easy to customize with your own information w w get your team fired up with an engaging and co… resume green resume green w resume green stand far above the stacks and stacks of flat … stand far above the stacks and stacks of flat boring resumes on any hiring manager s desk with a prezi resume template just customize this prezi presentation template to create your very own prezume and impress them with your dynamism coolness and originality w w stand far above the stacks and stacks of flat boring… l l l l w w l l classe 313 classe 313 w classe 313 after the fire a still small voice after the fire a still small voice w w after the fire a still small voice gilbert bradshaw gilbert bradshaw w gilbert bradshaw lesson 73 john 13 lesson 73 john 13 w w lesson 73 john 13 gilbert bradshaw gilbert bradshaw w gilbert bradshaw prezi company languages support blog 13 december 2019 3 december 2019 18 november 2019 © 2019 prezi inc terms privacy policy prezi infogram company support languages © 2019 prezi inc terms privacy policy