good samaritan discover mass rev john f. donahue is pleased to welcome you to the parish of good samaritan in ambridge pa. mass times for good samaritan are below also if you need directions to good samaritan please click here there are currently no bulletins available for good samaritan if you are a parish representative and would like to learn more about making your weekly bulletins available on discovermass.com complete the form below and we will followup with you shortly fill out the following form to request more information on becoming a sponsor of this listing one of our sales represenatives will follow up with you shortly i have been crucified with christ it is no longer i who live but christ who lives in me and the life i now live in the flesh i live by faith in the son of god who loved me and gave himself for me. galatians 2:20 the lord is my shepherd i lack nothing he makes me lie down in green pastures he leads me beside quiet waters he refreshes my soul he guides me along the right paths for his name s sake even though i walk through the darkest valley i will fear no evil for you are with me your rod and your staff they comfort me. psalm 23:1-4 the lord is my strength and my shield my heart trusts in him and he helps me my heart leaps for joy and with my song i praise him the lord is the strength of his people a fortress of salvation for his anointed one. psalm 28:7-8 i have been crucified with christ it is no longer i who live but christ who lives in me and the life i now live in the flesh i live by faith in the son of god who loved me and gave himself for me. galatians 2:20 the lord is my shepherd i lack nothing he makes me lie down in green pastures he leads me beside quiet waters he refreshes my soul he guides me along the right paths for his name s sake even though i walk through the darkest valley i will fear no evil for you are with me your rod and your staff they comfort me. psalm 23:1-4 i have been crucified with christ it is no longer i who live but christ who lives in me and the life i now live in the flesh i live by faith in the son of god who loved me and gave himself for me. galatians 2:20 the lord is my shepherd i lack nothing he makes me lie down in green pastures he leads me beside quiet waters he refreshes my soul he guides me along the right paths for his name s sake even though i walk through the darkest valley i will fear no evil for you are with me your rod and your staff they comfort me. psalm 23:1-4 the lord is my strength and my shield my heart trusts in him and he helps me my heart leaps for joy and with my song i praise him the lord is the strength of his people a fortress of salvation for his anointed one. psalm 28:7-8 i have been crucified with christ it is no longer i who live but christ who lives in me and the life i now live in the flesh i live by faith in the son of god who loved me and gave himself for me. galatians 2:20 the lord is my shepherd i lack nothing he makes me lie down in green pastures he leads me beside quiet waters he refreshes my soul he guides me along the right paths for his name s sake even though i walk through the darkest valley i will fear no evil for you are with me your rod and your staff they comfort me. psalm 23:1-4 discover mass discovermass and masstimes.org have partnered together to help make a single place to manage parish info for the public updates are currently being routed through masstimes.org this is helpful for the church and helps ensure greater accuracy for catholics looking for mass times on the internet