the terminal sharon s son montrosepress.com copyright © var today new date var year today.getfullyear document.write year 2019 • wick communications terms of use privacy policy it was tuesday morning and the plane had just touched down at denver international airport right on time my trek from chicago back to montrose had a stop in denver to switch planes before getting back home everything was perfect until i switched my phone off of airplane mode and immediately was bombarded by a series of texts from united airlines one your flight to montrose is canceled due to weather we ve rebooked you on an alternate flight. ok not the end of the world i thought while waiting to get off the plane second text 10 seconds later we ve rebooked you for today on our 7:55 p.m. nonstop flight to montrose arriving at 9 p.m. end wait what i questioned the text out loud what am i going to do all day suddenly the 2004 tom hanks movie the terminal popped into my mind — you know the one where he s trapped in the airport terminal for months being trapped at dia is becoming tradition for me as i experienced the exact same thing last spring well i told myself let s make a day of it. recognizing the humor of the situation i decided it would be funny to document my day in the life of being stranded at the airport in real time so i transcribed it all through my phone the following is my story 10:06 a.m. i m still in a bit of disbelief this can t be happening again i tell myself it s the third time in two years i ve had a connecting flight in denver from montrose and have had it postponed by eight-plus hours 10:14 a.m. this needs to be processed with coffee i proceed upstairs to caribou coffee and order a large vanilla latte 10:17 a.m. this coffee is amazing 10:20 -11 a.m. my phone is going nuts my wife and work colleagues are calling or texting me my wife informs me of the crazy winds in montrose 11:02 a.m. bathroom break it was a large coffee after all 11:03 a.m. there s a line in the restroom and part of it is closed off so everyone is forced to wait in line for a stall urinals unavailable my turn arrives quickly and i go to the third stall from the left and when i turn around to to close the door the guy behind me in line has departed the line and has come with me the 15 feet to stall no 3 11:04 a.m. what are you doing i ask with the door closed he replies by saying i only use that stall in this airport it s mine i make sure people don t mess it up. confused and weirded out i said three others are now open and he tells me angrily i love that one i watch people who are in there. 11:05 a.m. not worth it to me i decide to exit the stall and bathroom for that matter to get away from the creeper i ll find another bathroom without a resident weirdo inside 11:07 a.m. more calls from the office 11:11 a.m. i engage in a game of celebrity sightings a game i made up where you people watch for folks who resemble celebrities 11:12 a.m. already i ve spotted the doppelgängers of tom hanks lisa kudrow von miller and kid rock the person resembling the latter is sporting a white tank dirty blonde hair goatee blue jeans tattoos and more ok there s part of me that thinks it s the actual kid rock 11:42 a.m. my former news editor from north carolina tia calls me we have a good conversation noon my father-in-law calls me we talk about my flight delay and other things 12:21 p.m. my dad calls and asks if i m back in montrose i tell him i m trapped at dia until 9 o clock that night he responds by saying he hates the stupid weather and airlines and i tell him i m looking at it like the glass is half full he reminds me it s only 12:22 i cry not really i tell him thanks for being so positive in a sarcastic tone 1 p.m. i decide it s time for lunch chick-fil-a is open 1:50 p.m. i decide to rent a movie off of itunes my choice star wars the last jedi. 2:25 p.m. you still have a long way to go my wife says via text i m just hoping you make it back today and they don t cancel it altogether … it is supposed to die down but hasn t yet. me straight-faced emoji 2:55 p.m. does your flight leave denver at 9 or does it get to montrose at 9 my wife asks via text i soon find out my flight is scheduled for 7:55 p.m. and get excited success an email has been sent to with a link to confirm list signup error there was an error processing your request the big news of the day delivered to your inbox every weekday morning expect monday 2:57 p.m. the movie has downloaded only 8 percent because of a poor wi-fi connection but i start it anyway 3:02 p.m. a caucasian male teen walks by where i m sitting in the terminal yo dog girls got to have a piece of this he says to another me i didn t hear anything before or after this kid s comments but i roll my eyes 3:58 p.m. the movie download is at 25 percent and abruptly stops and gives me no prompt to redownload so i call itunes support and a nice guy named rob gives me a hand 4:48 p.m. a bird or a bat i can t tell flies by where i m sitting in the terminal upstairs near the hudson news i continue watching the movie which has downloaded 50 percent the movie download stops again 4:49 p.m. wait brookstone is in the airport 4:52 p.m. i hear a woman s voice over the sound of my headphones she appears to be older sitting next to me i told him i don t give a f*** honestly they can t make me give a sh*t. i m the boss. i carry on with my movie 4:54 p.m. seriously though think i give a da** i told them i didn t i hear the woman yell into her phone nobody f***s with me and gets away with it i ll roll on them. 4:55 p.m. note to self don t do anything to bother the woman right next to me 4:56 p.m. the movie starts downloading again and finally completes now i can watch it in peace for the next hour-and-a-half or so before i finally get home i m happy i m relieved i m enjoying my movie for the next five minutes and telling myself how i made it through the day at the airport when 5:02 p.m. your flight to montrose is canceled due to weather a text suddenly appears on my phone please see a united representative for assistance. 5:03 p.m. then comes a text from a friend well you ve been there all day but at least you ll be home soon. 5:04 p.m. soon is a relative term i tell myself matt lindberg is the managing editor for the montrose daily press and an award-winning journalist follow him on twitter mattlindberg log in keep it clean please avoid obscene vulgar lewd racist or sexually-oriented language please turn off your caps lock don t threaten threats of harming anotherperson will not be tolerated be truthful don t knowingly lie about anyoneor anything be nice no racism sexism or any sort of -ismthat is degrading to another person be proactive use the report link oneach comment to let us know of abusive posts share with us we d love to hear eyewitnessaccounts the history behind an article copyright © 1998- var today new date var year today.getfullyear document.write year 2019 • montrose daily press • 3684 n townsend ave montrose co 81401 terms of use privacy policy contact us get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device