dereistic thinking medical dictionary 2011 dereistic — living in imagination or fantasy with thoughts that are incongruent with logic or experience de·re·is·tic de re isґtik directed away from reality not using normal logic see dereistic thinking under thinking … medical dictionary wishful thinking — synonyms and related words alienation autism autistic thinking avoidance mechanism bamboozlement befooling blame shifting blind faith bluffing calculated deception circumvention compensation conning credulity credulousness … moby thesaurus autistic thinking — self absorption preoccupation with inner thoughts drives and idiosyncratic logic egocentric subjective thinking lacking objectivity and preferring a narcissistic inner private reality to that which is externally validated used … medical dictionary glossary of psychiatry — in this glossary of psychiatric terms mostly greek secondly french and german and some english terms as used in psychiatric literature were defined we have included many other terms with the passage of time and aim to broaden this article to … wikipedia list of thought processes — this is a list of thinking styles methods of thinking thinking skills and types of thought see also the list of thinking related topic lists the list of philosophies and the abductive reasoning abstract thinking adaptation analogy … wikipedia dereism — mental activity in fantasy in contrast to reality l. de away res thing de·re·ism dē rē .iz əm dā rā dē rē iz əm dā rā n thinking directed away from reality and not following ordinary rules of logic de·re·is·tic .dē rē is tik … medical dictionary alienation — synonyms and related words abalienation aberration abnormality abstraction abulia agreement to disagree aloneness aloofness amortization amortizement anxiety anxiety equivalent anxiety state apathy apostasy assignation assignment … moby thesaurus autism — synonyms and related words acquisitiveness airy nothing alienation anesthesia autistic thinking avoidance mechanism bashfulness blame shifting bubble careerism catatonia chill chilliness chimera cold blood cold heart … moby thesaurus compensation — synonyms and related words alienation amends atonement autism autistic thinking avoidance mechanism base pay blame shifting blood money comeuppance composition compromise consideration correction damages decompensation defense … moby thesaurus defense mechanism — synonyms and related words alienation autism autistic thinking avoidance avoidance mechanism avoidance reaction avoiding reaction blame shifting block blocking circumvention compensation conversion decompensation defence defense … moby thesaurus we are using cookies for the best presentation of our site continuing to use this site you agree with this ok