the evolution and dynamics of methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus — the university of bath s research portal m.m.h abdelbary patrick basset d. s. blanc e. j. feil research output chapter in book/report/conference proceeding › chapter methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus mrsa were first isolated in 1961 soon after the introduction of methicillin for therapeutic treatments since then the rate of mrsa isolates among s. aureus has continuously increased to reach 60 in some healthcare institutions the resistance to methicillin is conferred by the acquisition of the meca gene which is located on a large mobile genetic element called the staphylococcal chromosome cassette mec scc mec and so far 11 types of scc mec elements have been described types i-xi the population structure of s. aureus has been shown to be highly clonal and previous genomic comparisons showed that about 75 of the s. aureus genome is highly conserved core genome while the remaining 25 varies significantly among strains accessory genome the accessory genome consists mostly of mobile genetic elements mges such as bacteriophages pathogenicity islands genomic islands plasmids transposons and the scc mec element the importance of understanding the patterns of evolution of mges is illustrated by the scc mec element which has been acquired and/or transferred on multiple occasions during the evolution of the species.the study of the population genetics of s. aureus has been addressed using multilocus sequence typing based on these data the population structure of s. aureus was classified into related groups of strains defined as clonal complexes and their isolated sequence types extensive typing showed that the s. aureus population associated with humans consists of 10 major lineages and most mrsa belong to 6 of them the presence of the same clones in different geographical regions suggested their rapid dissemination moreover the epidemiology of mrsa is highly dynamic and clonal replacement of predominant clones within a given locale has been widely documented although the reasons why some clones replace others are unclear the emergence and replacement of clones might have significant consequences for public health as different clones possess differing resistance and virulence attributes the evolution and dynamics of methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus abdelbary m.m.h basset patrick blanc d. s. feil e. j research output chapter in book/report/conference proceeding › chapter ty chap t1 the evolution and dynamics of methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus au abdelbary m.m.h au basset patrick au blanc d. s. au feil e. j. py 2017/2/8 y1 2017/2/8 n2 methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus mrsa were first isolated in 1961 soon after the introduction of methicillin for therapeutic treatments since then the rate of mrsa isolates among s. aureus has continuously increased to reach 60 in some healthcare institutions the resistance to methicillin is conferred by the acquisition of the meca gene which is located on a large mobile genetic element called the staphylococcal chromosome cassette mec scc mec and so far 11 types of scc mec elements have been described types i-xi the population structure of s. aureus has been shown to be highly clonal and previous genomic comparisons showed that about 75 of the s. aureus genome is highly conserved core genome while the remaining 25 varies significantly among strains accessory genome the accessory genome consists mostly of mobile genetic elements mges such as bacteriophages pathogenicity islands genomic islands plasmids transposons and the scc mec element the importance of understanding the patterns of evolution of mges is illustrated by the scc mec element which has been acquired and/or transferred on multiple occasions during the evolution of the species.the study of the population genetics of s. aureus has been addressed using multilocus sequence typing based on these data the population structure of s. aureus was classified into related groups of strains defined as clonal complexes and their isolated sequence types extensive typing showed that the s. aureus population associated with humans consists of 10 major lineages and most mrsa belong to 6 of them the presence of the same clones in different geographical regions suggested their rapid dissemination moreover the epidemiology of mrsa is highly dynamic and clonal replacement of predominant clones within a given locale has been widely documented although the reasons why some clones replace others are unclear the emergence and replacement of clones might have significant consequences for public health as different clones possess differing resistance and virulence attributes ab methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus mrsa were first isolated in 1961 soon after the introduction of methicillin for therapeutic treatments since then the rate of mrsa isolates among s. aureus has continuously increased to reach 60 in some healthcare institutions the resistance to methicillin is conferred by the acquisition of the meca gene which is located on a large mobile genetic element called the staphylococcal chromosome cassette mec scc mec and so far 11 types of scc mec elements have been described types i-xi the population structure of s. aureus has been shown to be highly clonal and previous genomic comparisons showed that about 75 of the s. aureus genome is highly conserved core genome while the remaining 25 varies significantly among strains accessory genome the accessory genome consists mostly of mobile genetic elements mges such as bacteriophages pathogenicity islands genomic islands plasmids transposons and the scc mec element the importance of understanding the patterns of evolution of mges is illustrated by the scc mec element which has been acquired and/or transferred on multiple occasions during the evolution of the species.the study of the population genetics of s. aureus has been addressed using multilocus sequence typing based on these data the population structure of s. aureus was classified into related groups of strains defined as clonal complexes and their isolated sequence types extensive typing showed that the s. aureus population associated with humans consists of 10 major lineages and most mrsa belong to 6 of them the presence of the same clones in different geographical regions suggested their rapid dissemination moreover the epidemiology of mrsa is highly dynamic and clonal replacement of predominant clones within a given locale has been widely documented although the reasons why some clones replace others are unclear the emergence and replacement of clones might have significant consequences for public health as different clones possess differing resistance and virulence attributes kw antibiotic resistance kw epidemiology kw mobile genetic elements kw sccmec kw staphylococcus aureus ur http //www.scopus.com/inward/record.url scp=85027127381 partnerid=8yflogxk ur http //dx.doi.org/10.1016/b978-0-12-799942-5.00024-x u2 10.1016/b978-0-12-799942-5.00024-x do 10.1016/b978-0-12-799942-5.00024-x m3 chapter sn 9780127999425 sp 553 ep 572 bt genetics and evolution of infectious diseases 2nd ed a2 tibayrenc m. pb elsevier er powered by pure scopus elsevier fingerprint engine 2019 elsevier b.v. we use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content by continuing you agree to the use of cookies log in to pure about web accessibility