the day shia labeouf cried in brad pitt x27 s arms x27 i was so scared i had lost him as a friend x27 shia labeouf has made plenty of headlines lately – from being punched in the face in a bar in february to being arrested after he refused to leave a performance of cabaret fury i had just come out of a situation where i had gotten into some contentiousness with the lead actor of the last job that i got fired from and i thought it was all going to go bad again the 28-year-old admits referring to his attempted broadway debut in 2013 where he clashed with his orphans co-star alec baldwin over creative differences replay after the first three days in boot camp i had a fight with him because he didn x27 t stick up for me we were doing push-ups and i told the officer i was done and brad looked over at me like x27 get your f -ing ass up x27 and i just thought x27 no way man x27 i was so scared that i had lost him as my friend and i went off to the latrines and was just crying by myself when he came over and put his arm around me it sounds super-cheesy but we just held each other and he was my brother from that moment on. brothers in arms brad pitt left and shia labeouf take the hard road to germany in wwii drama fury in person labeouf seems like a walking contradiction and it x27 s hard to know whether this is the well-behaved shia on the publicity trail or a genuinely new post-rehab shia. i x27 ve been reconnecting with people that i had problems with he offers as evidence of the latter. alec baldwin and i just got good so that x27 s been a real blessing because he was a dude i have always looked up to and i felt so bad about our dismount. and what about his announcement in january that he was retiring from public life i love acting and can x27 t imagine ever doing anything else labeouf says. meeting somebody like brad allowed me to have an easier time with fame and objectification because he has a peace with what has to take place in order for him to do his job so that x27 s been helping me sleep better at night too. in fury labeouf plays the bible-quoting gunner boyd swan he is part of a five-man sherman tank crew who have been together across north africa france and belgium led by pitt x27 s battle-hardened army sergeant don wardaddy collier they are now being sent on an impossible mission in germany the film x27 s director david ayer end of watch questionable reputation. when i met shia he was at a place where he wanted to reinvent himself he wanted immersion and he wanted truth ayer says. this is a guy who was a child actor and there x27 s a perception about him but i x27 m going on record as saying he x27 s one of the absolute best actors i x27 ve ever worked with and i would take a lot of what x27 s happened recently as his attempt to sort of destroy his previous incarnation and to be recognised as that true honest real capable actor that he actually is. despite high-profile films such as indiana jones and the kingdom of the crystal skull 2008 and wall street 2 money never sleeps 2010 labeouf has always been better known for his off-screen antics multiple arrests and a recent apology tour after he was caught plagiarising another writer x27 s work in his short film howard cantour.com as well as flooding twitter with apologies he hired a skywriter to write the apology over the los angeles sky and staged a six-day performance in a gallery titled iamsorrry in which he sat with a paper bag over his head silently crying in front of visitors is he crazy or just misunderstood i think an artist x27 s job is to open yourself up to interpretation by the world so you just can x27 t take it to heart labeouf says of his stunts which also included removing a tooth for fury. i try my hardest and that can be kind of crazy because there is not anything i wouldn x27 t do to get closer to the truth. i am not trying to be a wild man – i am actually pretty tame he adds. but when it comes to work doing some of the stuff i do just makes my job easier. copyright © 2019