depot field team braves alaska weather to perform radome maintenance hill air force base article display by alex r. lloyd ogden air logistics complex published october 11 2017 sun wind and clouds surround the long range radar radome at the top of towak mountain cape romanzof alaska on sep. 26 2017 the weather is the biggest factor that affects team members ability to accomplish their maintenance mission u.s. air force photo by alex r. lloyd a marker outside the residential dome building reads welcome to paradise. built by the u.s. army corps of engineers in 1984 and located near the center of cape romanzof alaska the two-story dome along with a maintenance dome have sixteen bedrooms kitchen library lounge and recreation room fitness room two laundry rooms dining/common area and several offices and storage rooms u.s. air force photo by alex r. lloyd depot field team members hold a production strategy meeting with hal olmstead and bobby gamsby in the residential dome common area at cape romanzof alaska on sep. 28 2017 inclement weather conditions during the day prevented the team from reaching the radome u.s. air force photo by alex r. lloyd jim egbert vacuums up water thatcollected around the base ring bolts at cape romanzof alaska on sep. 26 2017 base ring bolt are checked during each maintenance visit u.s. air force photo by alex r. lloyd justin cevering 526th electronics maintenance squadron plastic fabricator inspector uses a man lift to reach the top of the 50-foot-high radome structure on sep. 26 2017 at cape romanzof alaska bolts holding the structure together have to be checkedand often requires the use of ladders and lifts to reach them u.s. air force photo by alex r. lloyd justin cevering 526th electronics maintenance squadron plastic fabricator inspector uses a newly installed rope to repel down the side of a satellite communications radome at cape romanzof alaska on sep. 27 2017 ropes are secured to the tops of the radomes and allow inspectors to climb onto radome exteriors to perform maintenance u.s. air force photo by alex r. lloyd upon landing and roll out the chartered aircraft arrives at the northeast end of cape romanzof s runway on sep. 25 2017 where everyone is greeted by the long range radar sites cold windy and overcast conditions u.s. air force photo by alex r. lloyd rime ice forms as cold moist air is blown across the radome perimeter catwalk at cape romanzof on sep. 26 2017 this is one example of weather related conditions that make maintenance so difficult in alaska u.s. air force photo by alex r. lloyd a chartered cessna conquest ii aircraft flies over the tordrillo mountain range on sep. 25 2017 on its way to cape romanzof alaska below the aircraft is triumvirate glacier and in the distance top right are the mountains foraker and north america s highest mountain denali u.s. air force photo by alex r. lloyd at cape romanzof alaska depot field tream members start their day early inside the lrrs radome on sep. 26 2017 the weather breaks long enough to view a beautiful sunrise over the alaska interior u.s. air force photo by alex r. lloyd jim egbert 526th electronics maintenance squadron plastic fabricator inspector loads a large container of supplies on sep. 25 2017 in anchorage alaska into the bed of a pickup truck this container and other equipment are prepositioned in a local storage unit to ensure they are available when needed and can be transported to any site in alaska u.s. air force photo by alex r. lloyd 526th electronics maintenance squadron depot field team members jim egbert justin cevering and wayne howard depart anchorage alaska on sep. 25 2017 in a chartered cessna conquest ii aircraft u.s. air force photo by alex r. lloyd sean fenderson arctec services technician chops asparagus in preparation for the evening meal on sep. 27 2017 the north pole alaska resident has worked at most radar sites operated by arctec during his five year employment and is on his second assignment to cape romanzof u.s. air force photo by alex r. lloyd wayne howard 526th electronics maintenance squadron plastic fabricator inspector and team lead uses a torque wrench to tighten bolts that hold the radomes fiberglass panels together at cape romanzof alaska on sep. 26 2017 u.s. air force photo by alex r. lloyd _this.alt facebook twitter email app addthis facebook twitter email app addthis