uab ear nose and throat ranked 50 in u.s. news best hospitals school of medicine otolaryngology uab gregory w. randolph m.d. facs face the 2019 george w. barber jr. lectureship communication and complications in thyroid surgery 2019 was presented by a world-renowned expert in the field of otolaryngology gregory w. randolph m.d. facs face the claire and john bertucci endowed chair in thyroid surgical oncology at harvard medical school is a professor in otolaryngology and surgeon at massachusetts eye and ear infirmary dr. randolph shared the history of thyroid surgery to help frame current practice he also discussed future advances in thyroid surgery including the de-escalation of treatment for thyroid cancer intraoperative nerve monitoring and molecular testing for thyroid do-yeon cho m.d. m.s.do-yeon cho m.d. m.s has been promoted to associate professor dr. cho graduated from chungbuk national university school of medicine m.d and sung kyun kwan university school of medicine m.s he completed his otorhinolaryngology residency at samsung medical center rhinology research fellowship and otolaryngology residency at sanford university school of medicine dr. cho specializes in acute and chronic rhinosinusitis nasal obstruction hyposmia and anosmia cystic fibrosis allergic rhinitis airway epithelial regeneration and repair and endoscopic skull base surgery jason warram ph.d.jason warram ph.d. has been promoted from assistant professor to associate professor dr. warram graduated from uab uab will launch the pat and jean sullivan comprehensive head and neck cancer survivor care program in 2020 — the first effort of its kind in the country as the fall months approach the potential for seasonal allergies runny noses and sinus infections increases snoring affects nearly 40 percent of adult men and 24 percent of adult women the atv hit a barbwire fence and virtually cut her head off her story of survival is amazing the uab department of otolaryngology is excited to introduce four new members to the faculty team drs erika walsh jessica grayson carissa thomas and hari jeyarajan dr. walsh joins our faculty following a two year fellowship in otology/neurotology at the michigan ear institute she earned her medical degree from harvard medical school and completed her residency with us here at uab dr. mcgrew had the pleasure of training erika throughout her residency and advocated for her recruitment recognizing her skill in managing both common and complex conditions of the ear temporal bone and lateral skull base dr. walsh is currently accepting to celebrate our three 2019 graduates drs david alexander sean evans and matthew fort the uab department of otolaryngology hosted a golf tournament the morning of saturday june 15 the group broke up into teams for a little friendly competition before heading to the wine loft that evening for the big celebration.alumni uab otolaryngology faculty and staff residents and their families all joined in celebrating and roasting the departing pgy-5s check out where our talented residents are headed dr. david alexander will be moving to lexington kentucky to join a private practice called kentucky ear nose and throat dr. alexander 's favorite dr. glenn peters julius n. hicks professor of otolaryngology and associate chief medical officer for uab health system is a seasoned veteran of the department of otolaryngology his love of science and desire to help others led him to become a physician and keeps him going each day take 5 with dr. peters what made you want to become a physician my love of science and the desire to help others.what is the best part of your job interacting with patients and their families and being able to physically treat a patient 's illness through surgery.who is a mentor who has had a profound the department of otolaryngology held its 14th annual ann b. and julius n. hicks lectureship in otolaryngology and residents research day on may 11 2019 the lectureship was established in 2006 to help support resident education in otolaryngology and continues to provide distinguished guest speaking from throughout the country.guest speaker dr. tom d. wang professor and director of otolaryngology – division of facial plastics and reconstructive surgery department of otolaryngology head and neck surgery at oregon health sciences university kicked off the lecture series with a talk titled facelift surgery evolution. throughout the day pgy-3 's through pgy-5 's presented the results of dr. do-yeon cho assistant professor and director of otolaryngology research was awarded a triological society career development award in support of his research the role of mucin degrading anaerobes in the pathogenesis of chronic rhinosinusitis with pseudomonas i am so honored to receive the triological society s career development award said cho this is a stepping stone to become an active fellow of the society and a leader in our field. to be funded in the amount of 40,000 beginning august 1 2019 cho s research on the microbiome and chronic sinusitis addresses an extremely prevalent clinical problem for which well-controlled experimentation is lacking when did you graduate from uab june 2005what city are you located in augusta gawhat are your clinical/research interests salivary gland swelling and stone removal sleep medicine business of medicinehow did you choose to practice this area of otolaryngology i first became interested in sialoendocopy as a resident when i did a case report on intraparotid stones in a pediatric patient with dr audie woolley in 2004 it was just becoming available in the united states in 2007 i pursued hands-on training in erlangen germany and geneva switzerland from the surgeons who designed the sialoendoscopes i received sleep medicine certification in 2011 and what made you want to become a physician honestly the reasons i choose to be a surgeon today are slightly different to when i decided to become a physician 20 years ago both of my parents are physicians and i remember seeing the influence that my mother a family practitioner had on her patients lives ultimately that is why i chose to become a physician to have the opportunity to make a profound difference in peoples lives.what is the best part of your job there are a number of aspects to my job that i am grateful for firstly the privilege of the uab department of otolaryngology admin office will be moving offices effective monday may 13th below you will find our updated contact information.physical address1155 faculty office tower510 20th street southbirmingham al 35233p 205-801-7801 f 205-801-7802mailing addressfot 11551720 2nd avenue southbirmingham al 35294-3412 the department of otolaryngology is excited to welcome four residents to uab this summer meet our new pgy-1 team jessica lee bishop attended the medical college of georgia at augusta university for medical school she received her bachelor of science from the georgia institute of technology jessica was born in birmingham alabama.sudhir manickavel was born in gobichettipalayam india and attended the university of california for his undergraduate degree he completed medical school of the university of south florida morsani college of medicine in tampa florida jake patrick morgan completed medical school at the university of oklahoma school of medicine in oklahoma city born in tulsa the free screening will take place at the kirklin clinic on the fifth floor from 1-4 p.m patients at uab now have access to state-of-the-art robotic surgery technology we sat down dr. benjamin mcgrew a neurotologist with the department of otolaryngology at uab to discuss the how earbuds can cause hearing loss and how to use them safely.is noise from headphones more dangerous because it 's closer to our eardrums it s really all about volume and duration of noise exposure no headphones or earbuds are inherently good or bad for your hearing however sound intensity is likely increased because of the close proximity of earbuds to your ear drums.are people experiencing hearing loss at younger ages because of the prevalence for wandering around with our headphones and earbuds in the department of otolaryngology s endocrine volumes have been on the rise in recent years in 2018 the department had more than 618 thyroid and parathyroid cases our endocrine volumes are some of the highest in the nation said dr. glenn peters julius n. hicks professor of otolaryngology our numbers have been on the rise the last four years and i believe they will continue to trend upward. the department sees everything from parathyroid and thyroid cases.in case you missed it dr. erin buczek dr. benjamin greene and dr. brian hughley were featured twice on uab medcast a continued medical education podcast that dr. bradford woodworth recently traveled to joão pessoa paraíba brazil for the 48th brazilian congress of otorhinolaryngology and head and neck surgery and was one of nine international guests during his time there dr. woodworth was involved in multiple roundtable discussions and gave several presentations including acquired cftr dysfunction in chronic rhinosinusitisrevision endoscopic sinus surgery how to improve outcomesevolving treatment paradigms for csf leaks and frontal sinus traumaduring his free time dr. woodworth was able to visit ponta do seixas a cape on the atlantic coast that forms the easternmost point of the american continents the landmark defines the place where