is 3370 1 2009 concrete civil engineering learn more about scribd membership discover everything scribd has to offer including books and audiobooks from major publishers indian standard first revision bis 2009 price group 7 foreword this indian standard first revision was adopted by the bureau of indian standards after the draft finalized by the cement and concrete sectional committee had been approved by the civil engineering division council this standard was first published in 1965 the-present revision has been taken up with a view to keeping abreast with the rapid development in the field of construction technology and concrete design and also to bring further modifications in the light of experience gained while applying the earlier version of this standard and the amendment issued the design and construction methods in reinforced concrete and prestressed concrete structures for the storage of liquids are influenced by the prevailing construction practices the physical properties of the materials and the climatic condition to lay down uniform requirements of structures for the storage of liquids giving due consideration to the above mentioned factors this standard has been published in four parts the other parts in the series are part 2 2009 reinforced concrete structures part 3 1967 prestressed concrete structures part 4 1967 design table while the common methods of design and construction have been covered in this standard for design of structures of special forms or in unusual circumstances special literature may be referred to or in such cases special systems of design and construction may be permitted on production of satisfactory evidence regarding their adequacy and safety by analysis or test or by both in this standard it has been assumed that the design of liquid retaining structures whether of plain reinforced or prestressed concrete is entrusted to a qualified engineer and that the execution of the work is carried out under the direction of a qualified and experienced supervisor the concrete csed in liquid retaining structures should have low permeability this is important not only for its direct effect on leakage but also hecause it is one of the main factors influencing durability resistance to leaching chemical attack erosion abrasion and frost damage and the protection from corrosion of emhedded steel the standard therefore incorporates provisions in design and construction to take care of this aspect the requirements of is 456 2000 code of practice for plain and reinforced concrete fourth revision and is 1343 1980 code of practice for prestressed concrete first revision in so far as they apply shall be deemed to form part of this standard except where otherwise laid down in this standard for a good design and construction of structure use of dense concrete adequate concrete cover good detailing practices control of cracking good quality assurance measures in line with is 456 and good construction practices particularly in relation to construction joints should be ensured this revision incorporates a number of important modifications and changes the most important of them being a scope has been clarified further by mentioning exclusion of dams pipes pipelines lined structures and damp-proofing of basements b c provisions for concrete have been modified in .iine with is 456 2000 with minimum grade o concrete as m20 for plain cement concrete m30 for reinforced concrete and m40 for prestressed concrete see also note 2 under table i d the maximum cement content has been modified from the earlier requirement of 530 kg/rn to 400 kg/m e a dau~e on d.urability it.as been added giving due reference to is 456 in place of earlier clause on protection against corrosion f indian standard first revision 1 scope 2 references the standards listed in annex a contain provisions which through reference in this text constitute provisions of this standard at the time of publication the editions indicated were valid all standards are subject to revision and parties to agreements based on this standard are encouraged to investigate the possibility of applying the most recent editions of the standards as given in annex a 3 materiai.s 3.1 the requirements for materials shall be governed by is 456 and is 1343 for reinforced concrete and prestressed concrete members respectively with the following additional requirements 4 exposure condmon for the purpose of this standard parts of the structure retaining the liquid or enclosing the space above the liquid shall be considered as subject to severe condition as per is 456 in case of members exposed to very severe or extreme conditions the relevant provisions of is 456 shall apply 5 concrete provisions given in is 456 and is 1343 for concrete shall apply for reinforced concrete and prestressed members respectively subject to the following further requirements a the concrete shall conform to table 1. b the cement content not including f1yash and ground granulated blast furnace slag in excess of400 kglm should not beused unless special consideration has been given in design to the increased risk of cracking due to drying shrinkage in thin sections or to early thermal cracking and to increased risk ofdamage due to alkali silica reactions 6 durabiuty 6.1 the provisions for durability shall generally be si minimum cement content kglmj no 2 i i plainconcrete reinforced concrete iii prestressed concrete ii mulmum frecw.ter m1dimwn gndeol concrete 3 cemmt ratio 4 250 320 0.50 0.45 m20 m30 360 0.40 m40 5 nares 1 cementcement pn scribed in this table is irrespective of the padcs of amellt and it is inclusive of addilions menlionedin 5.2 of is456 the 8dditionssuch as ftyashor groundgranulated blast fwnacc slag may be taken into iic oudi in he concrete composition with rlsjlcct to the cement codlent and waler c emcnt ratio if the suitability is established andas long as the lli8llimum 8idowils iaken into aa ount do not exceed the limit ofpozzojanaand sill specified in is 1489 part i andis 455 respedively 1 forslllll1 c8p1cily tanks up to 50 m at icx ations wber there is difficulty in providing m30 padc eoeerere the minimum grade of eoilc~te ld8y be taken as m25 however this excepcioa sb8i1 dol 8ppiy in coalaj areas 7 site condmons 7.1 the following conditions of the site in relation to the functional and structuralrequirementsof the liquid retaining storage structure material1y influence the methodsof design and the cost of the structure physical characteristics of soil in which the liquid retaining structure may be partly or wholly enclosed and also the physical and geological features of the supporting foundations b chemical properties of the soil and of the ground water and c extent of floatation at the site a e weak 10joints 10.1 joints shall be categorized as follows a movement joints a movement joint is intendedto accommodate relative movement betweenadjoining pans of a structure special provisionsbeing madeto maintainthe water-2 tightness of the joint in elevated structures whererestraint issmall movementjoints may not be required there are three categories of movementjoints i contraction joint a movementjoint with a deliberate discontinuity but no initialgap between the concreteon either side of the joint thejoint being intended to accommodate contraction of the concrete see fig i a distinction should be made between a complete contraction joint see fig ia and a partial contraction joint see fig ib while the complete contraction joints are not restrainedto movementand are intended to accommodate only contraction of the concrete the partial contractionjoints provide some restraint but are intended to accommodate some contraction of concrete in complete contraction joints both concrete and joint sealing compound discontinuity in concrete but no initial iap joint sealing compound strip painting water bar .. .. .~ 4. .. .. .. .-.~ e. e discontinuity in concrete butno discontinuity of steel initial gap e .. joint sealing compound strip painting ~ointsealing .. .. .. 2 typical joint sealing compound c .. prepared sliding surface or rubber pad 3 typical \j~ller strip painting .. .. expansion jolffts 28 fig fig ii/compound joint filler 2a .. .e .. discontinu ty in both concrete and steel initial gap suding joints .. initial gap later filled i .. i t-~ .. i prepared joint joint sealing compound surface 48 4a fig 10.3 ty~ of coastncdon 0pti0a i 4 2 semi-continuous for partial restraint stell lift nett 2 iuid mdltocl of codtrol miai_ of p- ria mrs. dole 10 avoid bip .-l rmioi wdi ill u. iim1i lea ie 0pu0n i if*=iiic ror 4.8 ttain die bal ill fcm* optioes 3 b .-i3 c so.5 2.4 c plrtial jcilu 5 u u eaocaofa mini_ of p- a complete joints in move_ ii noles ~x b of is 3370 pirt 2 for the deicripliclil01 die ipitjo1iliidd ilill1ij1ibk.-l for calcu1alinc pa. and e lin options 1 and 2. the i1eel ralio mil ceneral1y exceed to restrict the cbdt widths 10 acxeptabic v .. iii0pu0n 3. the sled niio of 213 pr.. will be adequace 2 polyvinyl chloride water bar metallic water bar .. t .. .. 58 two coat strip painting 4 .. e e .. .. ~~ 5c fig moulded water8ar joint sealing compound 50 5 typical duails showing use of jo inting mateitials in moveioient joints contraction type 8 joint fillers b c joint sealing compound joint sealing compound metallic water bar .. metallic water bar .. a jqintfiuer joint filler 6a 6b joint sealing compound two coat strip painting water bar .. .. .. c joint filler 6c two coat strip painting joint sealing compound precast cover c 6e fig 6 typi ~l dr~ils 10 11 construction 11.1 unless otherwise specified in thi~ standard the provisions or is 456 and is 134~ shall apply to the construction of reinforced concrete and prestressed concrete liquid retaining structures respectively 11.2 joints joints shall be constructed in accordance with requirements of 10 nat ii aivantageous 12 test or struc11jjle 13lightning protection the liquid retaining structures shall be protected against lightning in accordance with is 2309 14 ventilation annexa clause 2 list of referred indian standards is no us 1989 tille is no 2309 1989 4~:2000 1343 1980 1489 part i 1991 3370 part 2 2009 11682 1985 ltvisiofl 12 till/ code of practice for the protection of buildings and allied structures against lightning code of practice for concrete structures for storage of liquids pan 2 reinforced concrete structures first revisiam criteria for design of rcc staging for overhead water tanks is 3310 part l annexb fo~word commfitee composmon cement and concrete sectional committee ceo 2 r p ulllati~1 j organizution kljilian smaj s_ navlijln chauha shaj p. slumv~ awt1lllll 0 c. basu shaj l. r. 8isilnoi shat j. k. pa.ww shat c. n. jm allrfllglt s_ r. r. ilt smr.uc e s- m. k. aoaiiwal allriwal s e. n. mull11iy 0 s. p. 0h0sh a .. j05i a1ie.- m soolttall y owjto ovll w-t1iliil 0 b. k. rao 0 s.1t allr_ e- ene 1ltisioil 0 ram k .. s- sat_ itllm w-_ s- mu .. ilatiwii diuctoa cmoo n w 0epvrv dltarr- cmoo nw 0 a. k. chatthljei ~~ s s a star n av. construction industry delhi ~iopment ~iopment ~fiigit a s alit~ s- pro 5.. s- ray j_ aiipfiigit shat a. p. 51_ s- b 8 airr alklwgk s p. k. l.waj s- a. k. m. ituhvap alif lwgk icuma s- muiibh mantua alif fiigit s- s. a. relu s v. n. hso iani w-t1iliil srala.k j_ shaj m. c. aaltawal w-_ snat c. m. dilcji srai 8 it jaglma wimiaft s. 5.s 0 w ,_ vimal s.. 0 m~ haw w.rr- s- ln am s..d.~ a~ pln v.k.oima 0 8hupiiu a saont all j3 stllletary gnulai dwrroa allema lnililule for rcscan b. dnelopmcnt ii trainina of constniction tnde banplorc lnililule for solid wate rcscan h ii fa oioaical bajlilcc madras cements lid chemai oil n. rnihavehura oil n. bhanum madl\s shrj n. kaudiis ai male s_ v. j gahal1ian shrl baiaji k moorthy allemale j b. shill shri a. n. dhooapkar siiili s. k. purl allemale shri r. c. w son oil m. m. au alle17lij1t siirj sharma b. r. meena u. s. p. verma s- aimnd siiiljvatava da s. c. ahl.uwaija siirj altemalt repusilhtat1ve bil~s siirj r. m. siirj shailma shr d. b. n. rao oil h. k. patnaik alternale chief ent~neejl supuintf.nijlng eno nfr shri a allemale chf.u .pp n shill j. praamakar aiiuliale smri s. gortnath h.c. visvesvaraya sii1li bauiir slnoll alle17lij1e new ddhi bis directonl/l general interat of e-mcr edacatioo shm jag s.. 14 p. banuol aijlfyay altemale sh.i j k. p1l.uao de 8 k. rau 0 s. k. ac a//una 0 r~.hl maj1 l.. sh.. sat_ kliwaji sh.. n. chani .._ ah ir ..an ai skill 0 shill s. a ruii~ 0 n k. nayu 141 shill a. k. jain shill m. c. a .wal ab .tlllr shill c. m illillljl -ii m s. slerl ty stau l. n. ant ai1.._ 0 8 0 da sill 0 b s yailama saiima shai kliout j. d. emm aii ,_ bilw r. k. stau t. b 8an1_j sitiu 1v.m1.r.stl kl mall allrfjiq smai l. p. soul sltlil 0 c. b. kamawaila rat 0 d. rama sesml aii no shil u. s. p. vi_a stau ail\iinll shliiva1aya ai .-ft shillp l patill skill a/lm. ailvinl kumaii a1k_1 bhanaulalllu misjl a suuttlll kumaii jilin oij a era v. k bai a ab.. mnl r. c. w v1io s..i h. k. jl~ .j a aii f1tljit l.uc tnow vuayitumail r. klua_ shill t. s. k .-my shaj k. b~ stal shill j. p haran sna1 s. m. paull allrnta ai ,~.. mii1ish tiucljon shill v y gupta allrmn 15 otgljl\izqrit/ll dr p. c chowilfiujly dr c. s. in personal capacity 35 parl av~iiu~ annumma naidu c. dr vishwana11ia ai/~mar~ rajkuiocar sn~h nagpur dlt ani 18 october 2006 nakpu r cenlral road research institute csir new delhi direcmr shri shri s a dr dr ashok k. jain shri j b. silakma shri dr shri jlisl kuluan s. n. shri rrollt sinha yogr sii k. sin jhai aii~male h. k jui.ka shrl r. c. wason altemal~ v. thiruvengailam t. s. krishnamoorthy shri s m pai.l xar shrj s krishna dr a. k. mrnai altemale h the pro vision for joints including spa cing ofjoints and making of j oints hils been modi fied j prov isions on con struction of liqu id retainin g structures have been modified in line with the latest practices an d k a new clause on test ing o f roof of liquid retai ning structure has been added apart from mod ificat ions in oth er ex isting provision s in testing the composition of the ccornm iuce responsibl e for formulati on of this standard is g iven in annex b for the purpos e o f deciding whether a particular requirement of his standard is co mpl ied with the final value obse rved or ca lculated express ing the results of a test or analys is shall be rounded off in accordance with is 2 1960 rules for round ing off num erical values revised 111e number of s ig nificant place s retained in the rounded off value should be the sa me as that o f the spec ified value in this standard ill s has the copy ng bt of all i l~ publications 1 0 part of ihc c puhlicatin n may he reproduced in a ny iorm uh o ut the pr ior permission in writin g of bis thi s docs not pr ec lu de the tre e lis c. in the co u rse of uuplemennng the standar d. of neces sar y de ra ils suc h as sym bo lv and sil.cs ty pe or grade dc sign ario us enqu iries relating to copyrrght he add ressed to the director pu blicatio ns bis 10 standards as the need arises un the basis of comments standards arc also re viewed along with amendments 1 reaffirmed when suc h review indicate s that no changes arc needed if the review indica tes that changes arc needed it is taken up for revision users o f indian standards should asccr uun that they are iii possession of the latest amendments or ed ition by referr ing 10 the latest issue of ris catalogue and standards monthl y additions i ~r h li c a ll a s la n j ~n j this indian standard has been developed from doc no ced 2 7329 dale of issue text affected offices central teleph ones 2323 76 17 2323 3841 2337 8499 233 7 8561 23378626 23379 120 northern sou thern western branch 60 3843 60 92 85