methodology of studying an artistic text at english lessons in the implementation of the federal state educational standards for secondary general education by zinnatullina zulfia rafisovna vafina alsu hadiyevna journal of organizational culture communications and conflict vol 20 issue si january 2016 online research library questia academic journal article journal of organizational culture communications and conflict academic journal article journal of organizational culture communications and conflict introduction the education system in russia has endured a series of reforms these changes are reflected as on the external formal as the internal meaningful level the main requirement of the government to the current pedagogical process is to ensure purposeful process of education and training in the interests of the individual and society thus one of the basic principles on a par with the patriotic education is to create favorable conditions for the integration of the education system of the russian federation with the educational systems of other countries on an equal and mutually beneficial basis fl 2012 no 273 the successful implementation of this requirement of an integrative education and the fact that the russian federation is an integral part of the world culture and the economy are directly dependent on the elimination of cultural linguistic and economic barriers to such cooperation in this case pedagogy as one of the main mechanisms for the implementation of the state program is changing the attitude to the foreign culture in the russian society it 's important not to love but to understand the others and to accept them in originality such change will be the key to attracting the attention of the younger generation in the process of globalization in the world this aspect of the modernization of the system of modern education leads to the increased requirements for mastering a foreign language as a result there are more chances for the unhindered communication with non-native speakers the aim to create barrier-free environment has determined the content of the federal state educational standards fses for secondary full general education fses 2012 no 413 thus in accordance with the paragraph 9.1.2. the substantive result of a foreign language acquisition is the formation of communicative competence in it the determining factor in such understanding the importance of mastering a non-native foreign language is not in favor of the learning the language itself but the mastery of a foreign language culture this change forces to reassess the system of goal-setting work of the foreign language teacher his task should not be reduced to learning the language but to the formation of foreign language culture representation by the students methods the concepts of cultural dialogue and understanding m. bakhtin 1976 the language person karaulov 2009 the competence eck 1990 savignon 1991 hutorskoy 2013 communicative and cognitive approaches schepilova 2005 i.bim 2007 the concept of integration in education archipenko 2007 formed the methodological basis of the study the theoretical bases of the research are works of literary theory tyupa 2002 and methods of teaching literature svirina 2010 golikova 2014 there are also used a complex of complementary research methods theoretical methods the study and analysis of the scientific literature on the history of literature linguistics pedagogy and methods of teaching foreign languages empirical methods analysis of written work monitoring the process of learning results the priority areas defined by fses based on achieving not only the subject but also metasubject results for the foreign language as a school subject it gives more chances to involve the student to the process of enlarging their erudition by teaching them how to search for the information it 's possible because of the foreign language teacher helps pupils to drop into the social problem in his case there is the very effective possibility to demonstrate the world in its variety that 's why it 's important to teach the young learners to accept the existing contrasting views on life to aim the following the methods used by the teacher should be oriented to the modern principles based on the inter-subject relationship for the forming culture-centered competence practice the teaching of english literature in the modern school in this part of the study the experience of literature teaching in english at municipal budgetary general education institute school no 49 of novo-savinovsky district of kazan is presented the foreign language teachers of the school are not limited to the studying materials in fiction given in modern textbooks in this educational institute the foreign language culture formation is carried out in the study groups thus students have the right to attend additional english classes on english literature and culture methodical efficiency of studying literature in its original first of all is provided by the creation of an enabling environment for an independent construction of meaning and the creation of reader discourse during the interaction of the author and the reader in this case there is a relationship between the participants in the communicative act is a special kind of dialogue the meeting between the two texts the finished and create responsive texts therefore the meeting of two entities the two authors bakhtin 1976 127 the peculiarity of the teacher in these classes is that students are engaged not in translation but in the philological analysis of the text during the lesson theme idea of the text are discussed the main attention is given to the author 's artistic method very often in the course of the discussion students are faced with the mismatching of reader expectations with the author 's intention one of the main reasons for this discrepancy is in the meeting of two cultures the bearer of which is participants in the artistic dialogue but in the course of resolving this misunderstanding the acceptance of cultural identity rooted in the work is achieved the philological analyze in english the works of art by the 20th century american author ernest hemingway 1899-1961 usually cause a keen interest in the teenage audience such students interest in issues raised in his works the originality of the author 's literary manner low-key style allows the teacher to choose the material for the philological analysis of samples of his works students are given the task to read in advance the work of art by the author to a particular lesson in this case the old man and the sea was chosen for discussing in the lesson the technological map of the lesson table 1 represents one of the practical examples of using fiction in english for the forming culture-oriented competence this material is approbated with the 9-th form students of municipal budgetary general education institute school no 49 of novo-savinovsky district of kazan summary nowadays in pedagogy one of the most effective roles is lead to literature according to its high educational level it 's evident that the work of art ca n't exist without the lexical and grammatical support this is a good example of where language acts as a tool to create a cultural masterpiece this form of integrative learning where there is an interaction between fiction and linguistics draws attention of researchers so scientists are paying attention to the possibility of development of intellectual and creative abilities of students in the classroom reading of works of art in the original zagrayskaya 2009 explore the communicative potential of fiction in the language study stul 2007 golikova 2014 develop the basic techniques and methods of working with artistic text in a foreign language sadykova 2014 anyway the main issue that brings modern technique boils down to is to move away from the realities of grammar in the text and draw attention to the cultural code contained in it nowadays in textbooks where the authors are taking into account the basic requirements for fses the problem of the formal relationship to get acquainted with english literature has been managed to solve the modern textbooks has moved away from the formal approach the authors vaulina 2010 pay a great attention to forming culture-oriented competence this allows the teacher to involve literature as an integral part in the national culture of the target language thus the aesthetic sense is formed in the field of artistic expression on a par with the other forms of art this relationship is further strengthened by the fact that the text is not only read but also is listened to in the actor 's performance this additional instrument for the perception eliminates errors in understanding the author 's text encoding properly placed accents the tempo of reading constitute additional aids to facilitate more effective implementation of the dialogic function of the work of art conclusion using an integrative approach in english teaching is advantageously carried out in the subject area literature in this case students are actively involved in the cultural environment the language which is the tool for the perception of the work of art allows to aware the specifics of the author 's artistic method and some specific features of the national culture for example meeting with the hemingway 's world of america it 's important to demonstrate the importance of the iceberg theory to reflect the idea of the text but to show the peculiarities of this method is possible only by analyzing the piece in its original the ability to build a culture relationship form the reader discourse is made directly with the process of involving the students into the national environment and the language as the inseparable part of it is the author 's tool for encoding the text acknowledgement the work is performed according to the russian government program of competitive growth of kazan federal university references on education in the russian federation federal law dated december 29 2012 no 273-fl 2012 retrieved from http //base.garant.ru/70291362/ on approval of the federal state educational standards of secondary complete general education annex to the order of the ministry of education and science of the russian federation dated may 17 2012 no 413 retrieved from http //rg.ru/2012/06/21/obrstandart-dok.html bakhtin m.m the problem of the text the experience of the philosophical analysis // problems of literature. m. 1976. no 10. pp 122-151 karaulov j.n. filippovich y.n linguocultural consciousness of russian language person modeling and functioning. m. 2009. 336 p. eck van j a. trim l. m. threshold 1990 // the united kingdom cambridge university press 1990. 186 p. savignon s. communicative language teaching state of the art. tesol quarterly. vol 25. no 2 summer 1991 pp 261-277 hutorskoy a.v competence approach in training scientific handbook. m eidos the institute of human education 2013. 73 p. schepilova a.v theory and methods of teaching french as a second foreign language. m vlados 2005. 245 p. bim i.l profile training in foreign languages at the senior secondary school level problems and prospects. m prosvescheniye 2007. 168 p. archipenko m.a pedagogical integration as the factor of competitiveness increase of the future expert in the conditions of learning in higher education an example of discipline foreign language unpublished candidate dissertation oryol 2007. 204 p. tyupa v.i artistic discourse introduction to literature tver tver state university press 2002. 80 p. svirina n.m the methods of construction and maintenance of interesting literature lesson lecture 1 the tie of the lesson as a problematic aspect // literature. 2010. 16-28 february n 4 pp 42-47 golikova g.a. vafina a.h the value approach in education a man culture literature //pedagogy and education. 2014. no 1. pp 22-29 zagrayskaya y.s the methodology of integrated english and foreign literature teaching at home reading lessons unpublished candidate dissertation irkutsk 2009. 167 p. stul t.g implementation of communicative potential of a literary text in the method of teaching reading in a foreign language // psychological-pedagogical gaudeamus magazine. 2007. no 1 11 pp 104-110 sadykova a.g. yashina m.e. sharafieva a.d. citation as a stimulus to boost student 's communication skills at the english lessons // english language teaching. 2014. vol 7 12 no 12.- pp 12-25 vaulina j.e dooley j spotlight 9 english in focus grade 9 2010. 216 p. zulfia rafisovna zinnatullina kazan federal university alsu hadiyevna vafina kazan federal university subscribe to questia and enjoy publication journal of organizational culture communications and conflict volume/issue vol 20 no si publication date january 2016 subscribe to questia and enjoy publication journal of organizational culture communications and conflict volume/issue vol 20 no si publication date january 2016 facebook twitter addthis facebook twitter addthis we encountered a problem please try again a project with this name already exists an unknown error has occurred please click the button below to reload the page if the problem persists please try again in a little while