midtown new york ny ear nose throat doctors nilesh patel md if you have any questions concerns or comments regarding nilesh patel md please fill out the short contact form below. he is very courteous and has excellent bedside manner. brenda f. yelp excellent doctor exceptional experience. verified patient vitals dr. patel had a very good bedside manner i would highly recommend him. sp vitals he is very courteous and has excellent bedside manner. brenda f. yelp excellent doctor exceptional experience. verified patient vitals dr. nilesh patel is a leading ear nose and throat doctor providing the best otolaryngology care to patients throughout the midtown new york area his current focus is in treating sinus and allergy problems with medical therapy and outpatient procedures such as balloon sinuplasty and turbinate reduction while avoiding in hospital surgery whenever possible the practice utilizes the latest technological advances in otolaryngology he attended the prestigious sophie davis school of medicine accelerated seven year bs/md program and graduated from the new york university school of medicine in 1995 after completing a general surgery internship at the state university of new york health science cente r in brooklyn in 1996 he remained there to complete specialty training in otolaryngology- head and neck surgery residency in 2000 dr. patel is board certified in otolaryngology head and neck surgery and is active in the otolaryngology departments at new york university langone medical center and at the new york eye and ear infirmary of mount sinai he currently serves as the secretary of the medical board at new york eye and ear dr. patel has authored publications in otolaryngology journals and textbooks he has also presented at various otolaryngology meetings when it comes to caring for his patients he truly considers it a partnership he enjoys educating and involving patients in their own care his philosophy involves not only treating the acute illness but to search for ways to prevent it from occurring again his passions outside of medicine include playing guitar working on cars running and coaching his children in baseball and softball dr. nilesh patel is a leading ear nose and throat doctor providing the best otolaryngology care to patients throughout the midtown new york area his current focus is in treating sinus and allergy problems with medical therapy and outpatient procedures such as balloon sinuplasty and turbinate reduction while avoiding in hospital surgery whenever possible the practice utilizes the latest technological advances in otolaryngology he attended the prestigious sophie davis school of medicine accelerated seven year bs/md program and graduated from the new york university school of medicine in 1995 after completing a general surgery internship at the state university of new york health science cente r in brooklyn in 1996 he remained there to complete specialty training in otolaryngology- head and neck surgery residency in 2000 dr. patel is board certified in otolaryngology head and neck surgery and is active in the otolaryngology departments at new york university langone medical center and at the new york eye and ear infirmary of mount sinai he currently serves as the secretary of the medical board at new york eye and ear dr. patel has authored publications in otolaryngology journals and textbooks he has also presented at various otolaryngology meetings when it comes to caring for his patients he truly considers it a partnership he enjoys educating and involving patients in their own care his philosophy involves not only treating the acute illness but to search for ways to prevent it from occurring again his passions outside of medicine include playing guitar working on cars running and coaching his children in baseball and softball. dr. patel is excellent i was in a lot of pain and he treated me with care patiently and expertly i saw 3 other ent doctors who misdiagnosed me highly recommended. dr patel really knows what he is doing he explained every step prior to the procedure during and after it he is a truly compassionate and dedicated doctor. i have been going to him for years now recommend him to everyone they accommodate my working schedule with early appointments he s easy to get to. dr. patel is excellent i was in a lot of pain and he treated me with care patiently and expertly i saw 3 other ent doctors who misdiagnosed me highly recommended. dr patel really knows what he is doing he explained every step prior to the procedure during and after it he is a truly compassionate and dedicated doctor. thank you for your appointment request we will contact you shortly to confirm your request please call our office at if you have any questions thank you for your appointment request we will contact you shortly to confirm your request please call our office at if you have any questions we unfortunately can t schedule this type of appointment online please call our office at to make your appointment