columbian magazine 1797 to 1798 jamaican family search genealogy research library the oldest magazine known to have been published in jamaica is the columbian magazine or monthly miscellany the first number of which appeared in june 1796 it was printed and published by william smart of church street kingston the last number known appeared in june 1800 the magazine consists of a considerable number of extracts from english publications local news and local verse a set fairly complete the only copy known to exist is in the west india library of the institute of jamaica from it the following records of marriages and deaths are taken no births are recorded frank cundall died kingston mr. james eason lately from ireland mr. john kesler tailor miss frances cole mr. john wilson cabinetmaker mr. walter downie mrs. harrison wife of mr. george harrison merchant and mr i. g. nicholson in spanish town mrs. penoyre relict of doctor penoyre mrs. fortune both old inhabitants and associates lieut samuel watson of the royal regiment of artillery in st. ann 's john mcmillan esq. of st. elizabeth 's in liguanea mrs. ann east in port royal lieutenant wilgress of the royal artillery in westmorland julines hering esq at montego bay capt lambton of the ship rebecca lieut michael simon tramasse of his majesty 's 83rd regiment at savanna la mar mr. john dow merchant at falmouth mrs. rebecca lake an old inhabitant at the hotwells bristol i. gale senior of this island in england george scott esq. of this island deaths in kingston mr. john stevenson lately from england mrs. ashbridge mr. john o'brien lately arrived mr. alexander thomson lately arrived from scotland captain colin clunes mr. john cheek of the general post office mr. william barton lately from bristol mr. abraham pinheiro furtado suddenly mr. minot carpenter in st. andrew 's humphrey cole esq in st. george 's at the hope mrs. anne catherine browne in st. ann 's mr. james morrison carpenter at belgrove pen thomas reid tracy esq at martha brae mr. joseph slack merchant married in kingston major raimon chevollean chevolleau to miss louise margreritte de gourney marguerite de gournay mr. john burrows merchant to miss allen mr. abraham pereira to miss sarah courusa in hanover at cousin 's cove r. boucher esq. of st. elizabeth 's to miss barbara samuells esq at the recovery mr. james allan to miss eliza finucane parris at lucea james innes esq. of montego bay to miss binham danghter of george binham esq died in kingston doctor thomas barton of ship simon taylor mr. john bird mr. william barton mr. peter ross mr. francis carter mr. richard hinksman mrs. ann burn doctor simon brown of the roselle mr. alexander morrison mr. john crawford mr. samuel brown in st. james 's mr. james warburton mason at montego bay mrs. judith dawes wife of mr. nicholas dawes mason dr. j. p. tolson of the ship watt mr. michael verling in westmoreland mr. john dunbar overseer of grand vale estate in hanover doctor robert gibson at falmouth mr. andrew monteath carpenter capt raffles of the ship sebastina mr. james atkins carpenter at port antonio the reverend george hicks in london william white esq. of the parish of st. ann 's in this island married in kingston dr. nathaniel midwinter to miss elizabeth shackerly mr. david henry borth to miss mary ann lescarmota mr. j. t. w. bennett to miss halyburton in spanish town george elliot taylor esq. to mrs. bundy mr. peter watson to miss neale in trelawny w. s. woolery esq. of westmorland to miss elizabeth virgo daughter of james virgo esq. deceased at falmouth mr. john brown ship carpenter to miss mary clemetson married in kingston mr. emanuel levy to miss rebecea dacosta mr. edward evans to miss jane denton francis eriene garrell esq. to mademoiselle marie josef camoizin mr. william marsden to miss nancy reeder in port royal doctor charles steedman of his majesty 's ship jamaica to miss rosetta campbell in st. james 's at hendon mr. john morris to miss allen eldest daughter of mr. john allen deceased at egmont alexander edgar esq. to miss ann gordon in scotland william dallas esq. writer to the signet to miss elizabeth kerr youngest daughter of the late james kerr esq. of this island died in kingston mrs. sarah bonitto mr. benjamin lyons mr. stephen p. walcott miss lucy marshall mrs. rebecca glass mr. william burke mr. sampson lebat mrs. mercado mr. william fulton mr. david james mr. david isaac alexander mr. william rowdan evans in spanish town mrs. dickson wife of dr. david dickson david henriques esq. generally and justly esteemed and lamented for his urbanity and benevolence mr. edmund pusey march at lucea mr. spens nephew of mr. alexander spens mrs. hoyte wife of mr. james hoyte mr. daniel mcintire at falmouth mr. james sympson carpenter in vere at the alley mr. william hay merchant tailor at paradise estate mr. jacob room in westmorland james wedderburn esq. representative in assembly for that parish in st. mary 's at markham place john cosens esq drowned on his passage to england major drinkwater of the 62nd regiment married in kingston robert william sutherland esq. to miss jane jackson mr. henry bond attorney to miss gardiner rickard philbin esq. to miss gardner in spanish town thomas prince esq. to miss stevens william maxwell esq. to mrs. leslie relict of robert leslie esq dr. p. gallagher to miss halsted in liguanea mr. william hall to miss jackson daughter of robert jackson esq in hanover dr. george james binham to miss mary lawrence anglin daughter of william anglin esq at falmouth charles campbell esq. to miss ellis daughter of dr. william ellis 's in great britain at clippingham park cambridgeshire the rev mr. phillipson to miss tharp daughter of john tharp esq. late custos of trelawney in london william fielden esq. to miss jackson daughter of the late edmund jackson esq. of trelawney died in kingston miss anna claypoole mr. charles potts miss mary stone mr. isaac rodriques pereira mr. solomon rodriques de costa dacosta mr. solomon gabay senior mrs. mary williamson an old inhabitant mr. attwell smith supervisor of the workhouse mr. george cleland in spanish town mr. richard kempson master ralph franco and miss hannah franco children of mr. moses franco at bath robert jameson esq. m.d. of kingston in liguanea john hall sen. esq at montego bay philip anglin morris esq mr. james duterreau watchmaker in st. james 's mr. leonard pakinson overseer on eden estate in westmorland mr. james stewart married in kingston mr. aaron melhado to miss rebecca brandon mr. moses cohen to miss rebecca ishewron mr. joseph garnett merchant to miss stewart daughter of james stewart esq in liguanea samuel barnett jun esquire of mount hybla to miss eleonar gordon woolery youngest daughter of edward woolery esq at martha brae mr. alexander finlayson to mrs. murroe of montego bay frederick lamont esq. of falmouth to miss crew at montego bay mr. sheppard mason to mrs. reaburn died in kingston miss anne maria grier mr. charles michie formerly in the mercantile line mr. alexander henderson merchant dr. alexander dallas of the mercury captain freeborn of the hope emanuel baruch lousada esq edward woolery esq mr. francis white the rev joshuah hezekiah de cordova principal rabbi of all the synagogues in this island for near half a century and a man of the most extensive acquirements and profound conceptions in spanish town mr. david dickson printer mr. william sutherland doctor hugh munro in portland mr. leonard whitehead in st. george 's at wakefield robert loosely esq in st. dorothy 's miss anna maria rogers in clarendon mr. daniel kerr mrs. rodon wife of george rodon esq at montego bay mr. benjamin thomas lynch at st. james 's mrs. rebecca hine wife of mr. nathaniel hine jun. of falmouth mrs. sarah jane samuells mr. joseph whitehead in hanover william anglin esquire in st. elizabeth 's lewis jones pight esq in trelawney mr. william grant late overseer of content at falmouth mr. william sinclair shopkeeper mr. william winter mason at edinburgh at the age of 77 years 40 of which he had resided in this island john mclaren esq at bristol charles bernard esq. formerly a representative in assembly for st. james 's married in kingston mr. david nunes merchant to miss sarah feurtado daughter of david feurtado esq mr. john bartindale to miss isabella mylchris mr. william greenwood to miss anne ramage widow in spanish town andrew cox esq. of st. mary 's to mrs. elizabeth alves widow of alexander alves esq. deceased at montego bay mr. george jackson carpenter to miss ann harvey youngest daughter of mr. william harvey deceased in st. elizabeth 's the hon major browne of the 13th regiment or light dragoons to miss white daughter of john white esq. of that parish died in kingston mr. george ashbridge finlay mceachorn esq. deputy marshal for the windward district mrs. martha wansbrough miss mary salt steele infant daughter of daniel steele esq. mr. alexander mcintire of clarendon mr. robert h. elder mr. james murray at falmouth mr. duncan mckellar tailor in st. james 's at lilliput estate mr. henry neale at gosport in england mr. peter jamieson of this town died in kingston mr. samuel eagon mr. alexander simms aaron silvera esq. of the hebrew nation capt james watt of the ship mount pleasant thomas dance esq mr. robert clark cutler mr. robertson mr. james templar cammack charles dalrymple esq. and mr. eli conn mrs. sutherland widow at fort augusta capt nicholson of the 6th west india regiment in spanish town dr. lachlan shawe mr. james oliver planter mr. john sheppard mr. william white tailor in st. catherine 's miss jones youngest daughter of the hon henry james jones esq at montego bay mr. john harstead carpenter capt james smart in st. james 's mr. edward sprunt bookkeeper on that property mr. john frederick at montpelier new works mr. william wigley price in st. ann 's dr. john frederick nembhard mr. douglas rankin at martha brae mr. john thomas coppersmith in trelawny at golden grove estate mr. robert maitland millwright at york estate doctor william patterson married in kingston mr. louis t. c. deslande to miss marianne le feyre de luce mr. john j. clark to mrs. jane f. gouty j. dismore pinnock esq. of st. thomas in the east to mrs. e. truxion roberts mr. richard higginson to mrs. e. willan widow in st. ann 's at tarentum john taylor esq. to mrs. lawrence widow of benjamin lawrence esq. late of st. james 's in london john bridgman esq. to miss hall died in kingston mr. francis carter miss phillips of the hebrew nation lieutenant clowes of his majesty 's ship maidstone captain daniel cutts and mr. etheridge both lately arrived from america mr. john perry cabinetmaker mr. wickersham mr. william smith watchmaker mrs. eleanor hunter mrs. esther reynolds captain john lethany galloway an honest and industrious man and old inhabitant miss mary ann pitt mr. john ritchie coachmaker mr. thomas mills william walker esq. a gentleman whose purity of heart amiable manners and acknowledged abilities had obtained him the most important public and private trusts and endeared him to a wide and respectable circle mons christopher joseph chasal in spanish town mr. john lindsay keeper of st. catherine 's pound theophilus lyons esq. of st. mary 's mr. david taylor at green pond mr. richard sill aged 60 years in st. james 's at montpelier new works mr. william wigley price overseer at montego bay mr. john roberts in st. george 's robert cuming esq in st. ann s mr. joseph vaughan overseer of winnfield pen robert hawthorn esq in westmorland mr. andrew herbert in trelawney edward eccleston esq in st. mary 's doctor bean in london william jamieson esq. of this island david erskine esq. youngest son of the late john erskine esq. of lime in the parish of st. james 's the present month is distinguished for two most extraordinary instances of longevity in the demise at montego bay of mrs. mary anglin aged 84 and mr. abraham depass in st. mary 's aged 105 years 8 months and 13 days there died lately at the pen of fulten blechynden esq. in st. andrew 's a negro woman who had attained her 110th year married in kingston mr. jacob bassan to miss judith reitta both of the hebrew nation in spanish town robert anderson esq. captain in the 20th light dragoons to miss mary bourke rickets eldest daughter of the hon george crawford rickets esq. his majesty 's attorney general in the same town mr. thomas allee wheelwright to mrs. elizabeth brinklow at montego bay mr. william frederick to miss elizabeth bryan at savannalamar mr. clement court to mrs. sarah boynton widow of the late r. boynton esq. of the 20th light dragoons in london mr. joseph dewdney of this island to mrs. kaylet widow of thomas kaylet esq died in kingston mr. james silburn of port royal mountains mr. charles godfrey capt taylor of the ship matty dr. william david reid surgeon to the asylum mrs. elizabeth hodson widow of the late col. hodson capt thomas pinard of the polly of boston mr. anthony mccaa mr. berkley sidney knox mr. david moreno mr. penelope shilling william daggers esq mr. john lamond mrs. elizabeth norris william waterhouse esq captain scobio of schooner two friends in spanish town mr i. watson peeke fuller esq at salt ponds mr. jonathan curtin miss janet graham daughter of charles graham esq in st. andrew 's james rochead esq at old harbour dr. thomas bradford in clarendon thomas frederick campbell son of sir james campbell of kilbride in scotland late capt of the privateer brig balcarres in st. ann 's capt william adams of the ship landovery mr. yates chief mate of the same vessel at great river william chaplin mowat esq in st. james 's at newman hall estate mr. george taylor overseer thereof at crawl estate mr. john gibbes at montego bay mr. thomas bryan bird watchmaker in trelawney at peru estate james scarlett jun. esq at falmouth mrs. bush mr. james bradley at green island mr. patrick grant in st. thomas in the east at holland estate mr. johnstone bookkeeper married in kingston mr. w. frederick to miss elizabeth bryan mr. george maynard to miss hill mr. john james ellison to miss mary collins in st. james 's at schaw castle lieut hugh mchugh of the 83rd regiment to miss susannah schaw died in kingston capt james mclellan of the ship hope alexander mackeand esq. attorney at law mons francois buzelay miss leah riz of the hebrew nation mr. william biven captain george aitchinson mr. foster mrs. eleanor wood in spanish town mr. w. calnan of st. ann 's mr. henry kelsall mr. richard g. williams william witter esq at port royal mr. thomas mitchell carpenter of grove estate in vere mrs. eeve in the 78th year of her age in st. thomas in the east mr. thomas king in st. mary 's william ross esq. one of the representatives in assembly for that parish at little river higginson merchant of kingston in england mrs. shirley wife of the hon h. shirley esq. of this island and mrs. rankin relict of john rankin esq at lisle in france g. r. hamilton esq. of success trelawny married in kingston mr. alexander menzies don attorney-at-law to miss mary margaret pitchare capt peter aiken to mrs. catherine mackay stephen hill esq. to miss margaret orr of portland mr. isaac gomes musquito to miss esther prado in clarendon at four paths estate robert davis esq. to mrs. redwar relict of the late henry redwar esq. of spanish town in trelawny at colchis estate mr. john walford to mrs. mary josselyn died in kingston miss james mr. rice powell mr. samuel wynne miss elizabeth a. shroetert mr. aaron nunes dacosta capt n. anderson mr. james reilly mr. p. brien in spanish town moses adolphus jun. esq mr. jacob corea at the advanced age of 70 years mrs. harrison wife of george harrison esq. attorney at law in st. mary 's at whitehall dr. maxwell in st. james 's robert scarlett esq david schaw esq in trelawny at biddeford estate mrs. stevenson wife of mr. emanuel stevenson at dromilly mr. james burke at greenside estate mr. james brown overseer thereof at dumfries estate john mowat jun esq at woodlands edward chambers esq. collecting constable at savannalamar mr i. brydson samuel delprat esq in hanover at fathog-quarter estate mr. archibald mcnab overseer thereof at sea alexander jopp esq. merchant of kingston and mr. john gilzean of montego bay in england at clifton near bristol in january last general sir john dalling k.b at his house in london james kingston esq. late of this town merchant married in st. james 's at montego bay henry waite mummer esq. to miss eliza williams second daughter of the late martin williams esq. in falmouth john robertson esq. of new york to miss eliza haughton in edinburgh major john skinner of the 16th regiment of foot to miss ann mclean daughter of the late john mclean of arrislan in this island died in kingston mr. duncan mclachlan mrs. bailey wife of william bailey esq mr. patrick st. lawrence mrs. m. calder wife of mr. george calder mr. frederick cherry mrs. mary lawrence in the 82nd year of her age lachlan mcneal esq in spanish town mr. george cook mr. hunt mr. william poole a gentleman whose integrity and industry wore only equalled by the most pleasing and polished manners which caused his society to be courted and acceptable by all who had the pleasure of his acquaintance john spencer esq mr. welsh mason in st. dorothy 's suddenly mr. william alexander in vere mrs. sarahl garbrand lorain wife of the late dr. john lorain at falmouth mr. henry heron mr. william edwards mr. robert richard woulse in london wisdom barrett esq. of spot valley in the parish of st. james 's married in kingston mr. david keil carpenter to mrs sarah platt widow at martha brae mr. robert cadenhead to mrs. nelson widow of john nelson esq in trelawny robert linton esq. of parnassus to miss jane watt at salt marsh simon fraser esq. attorney at law to miss kentish daughter of the late john m. kentish esq in london alexander erskine esq. of lima in st. james 's parish jamaica to miss jackson daughter of robert jackson esq. of hampton in the same parish died in kingston doctor william codrington capt james stobo mrs. eleanor dickson mr. edmund h. ironside mr. thomas bath capt vicary of the ship phaeton mr. john shea in st. catherine 's at tamarind grove near spanish town alexander rose esq. of st. thomas in the east in spanish town mr. brodie who arrived in the last fleet lieutenant standish of the 63rd regiment and mr. john townsend an honest and industrious man at port royal elizabeth brown a black woman at the very advanced age of 124 lieutenant william venables of the royal artillery in vere at hillside mr. daniel mcdonald overseer thereof in st. james at springfield thomas linton esq. at belfield mr. john collinson at montego bay captain stupart of the lady mackworth mr. john seebeck mrs. smith wife of mr. john smith tailor dr. mullarkay passenger in the watt in westmorland at content mr. samuel grandell in trelawny at mahogany hall pen mr. james troup at hydehall estate mr. henry davison carpenter mr. kew welldigger at falmouth mr. henry heron mr. william edwards mr. robert richard woulse mr. charles stimpson son of capt p. stimpson late of the phoenix mr. thomas denham capt benjamin manlove of liverpool in hanover at great river capt john peal at lucea mrs chambers wife of jacob chambers at berne in switzerland lady keith relict of sir basil keith formerly governor of the island of jamaica married in kingston mr. john christian weppler of st. david 's to mrs. eliza boyle davidson widow of the late dr. walter davidson mr. samuel pinto to miss esther rebeiro in st. dorothy 's near old harbour mr. thowas conroy to miss mary ann mcmanus daughter of mr. hugh mcmanus carpenter in st. james 's at reading rodolphus buchanan esq. lieut 13th light dragoons to miss ann scott in trelawny at parnassus mr. jasper graham to miss reid daughter of john reid esq died in kingston mr. george mccormack dr. john todd mrs. carr wife of capt carr of the jupiter mr. benja bruce mr. thomas goodwin mr. benjamin reynolds mr. joseph harris mr. david freebairn capt richard marge mrs. mary weaver midwife mr. allen capt john richards lieutenant seymore of the 60th reg mr. james hegner mr. william peat mr. charles mckell in st. andrew at stony hill masters curwen and john heslop aged 8 and 11 years sons of lieut heslop 60th regiment in st. catherine 's at port henderson miss e. craskell youngest daughter of the late thomas craskell esq at his mountain near spanish town william shields esq. at the very advanced age of 98 years seventy-one of which he resided in this island in spanish town mr. james holmes at maxwell 's pen dr. millner nailor aged 74 years in spanish town miss martha jones eldest daughter of the hon james jones esq in st. dorothy 's miss ann williams king daughter of mr. james king in st. mary 's benjamin bennett tharp esq in hanover philip anglin esq in trelawny at falmouth mr. odiarne c. walter mr. george clepham of the roselle capt gourley mr. andrew ruff master thomas mussendon son of mr. william a. mussendon lieut thomas williams of 83rd regiment at mt hermon mrs. grace hyne wife of daniel hyne sen. esq mr. richard perkins mr. burman wells of the flora of london killed by lightning at iron shore wharf mr. william irving son of james irving esq. of rio bueno and mr. henry binham son of dr. binham of hanover in st. james 's at montego bay lieut a. richardson of the 83rd regiment mr. william jewell lately from england mr. henry platt blacksmith at bethlehem mr. john mcdonald mr. thomas thorn mr. moses mitchell in st. domingo at jeremie mr. james macaskie in london mrs. margery lawrence relict of george whitehorne lawrence esq. of running gut in the parish of st. james hugh ingram esq. merchant search this site go to home plan of this website help frequently asked questions items in the samples directory items in the members directory photographs maps prints etc jamaica almanacs property owners civil military registers church of england dissenters civil registration wills jamaican roman catholic church registers jamaican methodist baptisms slaves and slavery in jamaica immigration immigrants to jamaica