our view time to go set records with our ballots editorials heraldbanner.com intervals of clouds and sunshine high 66f winds light and variable.. mostly clear skies low 47f winds se at 5 to 10 mph updated december 7 2019 1:57 am greenville texas hunt county has a unique opportunity the next two and a half weeks we could set a state record for highest voter turnout – and it wouldn t really be difficult at all according to new numbers from the texas secretary of state hunt county now has 55,193 registered voters with approximately 67,500 citizens 18 or older that means 82 percent of hunt county adults are signed up to cast a ballot during early voting which starts tomorrow or on election day nov. 6 that s a much higher rate of registration than the state which now has 15.8 million registered voters a new record high meaning about 61 percent of the state s eligible residents are registered in the 2016 election hunt county saw a record high 61 percent of registered voters show up to cast ballots we can do better than that – we must there is much at stake in this election even without a presidential race on the ballot to name just a few of the biggest issues expected to be decided in the near future by the united states congress for which two seats will be on the ballot • the future of medicare and social security now due to run out of money in 2026 and 2034 respectively republican leaders this week issued calls for even faster rollbacks to those programs both of which are funded by your income taxes • the accessibility and affordability of health-care services and insurance also facing big decisions as congress considers eliminating protection for many more pre-existing conditions • an answer to the big immigration question and president trump s proposed border wall locally voters should consider the challenges they face on a daily basis before choosing their candidates are your roads in decent shape are your property taxes high enough are you concerned about local infrastructure your school district finances or funding levels well it s time to get off facebook and put your ballot where your mouth is people if everyone who complains about any one of the above things in hunt county goes to vote we will surely set a record for highest voter turnout in the state and possibly the country participation in our democratic republic is not simply a right it is a responsibility. it is something we should all do and we should help and encourage our friends family and neighbors to do the same let s do this see y all at the polls • • • early voting opens tomorrow at 8 a.m. and continues for two weeks til election day nov. 6 early votes can be cast in two locations at the hunt county voter administration office 2217 washington st. greenville from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. weekdays monday oct. 22 through friday nov. 2 plus the following extended hours tuesday oct. 23 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. saturday oct. 27 8 a.m. to noon sunday oct. 28 1 to 5 p.m. and thursday nov. 1 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. at greenville high school 3515 lions lair on oct. 25 and oct. 26 7 a.m. to 7 p.m thank you you 've reported this item as a violation of our terms of use error there was a problem with reporting this article this content was contributed by a user of the site if you believe this content may be in violation of the terms of use you may report it no comments have been posted yet backdoor comedy club landon winery community high school cafeteria commerce public library northeast texas children s museum landon winery landon winery community high school cafeteria the fellowship first baptist northeast texas children s museum greenville tx the fellowship first baptist the fellowship first baptist royse city chamber of commerce braum s in greenville the fellowship first baptist landon winery the fellowship first baptist greenville municipal auditorium dairy queen in greenville tx the fellowship first baptist thomas e. williams 61 of greenville departed this life on dec. 4 2019 his homegoing services will be held saturday dec. 7 2019 at 11 a.m. at love faith fellowship church 1009 rees st. in greenville texas public visitation will be held friday dec. 6 2019 from 10 a.m. to 6 p. sharon polk 63 of greenville departed this life on nov. 28 2019 her homegoing services will be held saturday dec. 7 2019 at 1 p.m. at mt elem baptist church 3102 dalton st. in greenville texas public visitation will be held friday dec. 6 2019 from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. at love articles images videos commented sorry there are no recent results for popular commented articles medical office looking for full time nurse practitioner please send resume to medoffice1224 gmail cnas needed at farmersville health rehab 12 hour shifts 6a-6p and 6p-6a every other weekend o the herald-banner in greenville a five-day-a-week publication located an hour northeast of dalla geus has the following position available custodian/groundskeeper responsible for performing cus geus has the following position available customer service representative i ensures delivery of full-time ranch hand experienced ranch hand needed for 2200+ acre ranch near sivells bend will w geus has the following position available consumer service representative i ensures delivery of paris junior college open position â.¢advisor educational opportunity center greenville center geus has the following position available electrical engineer geus a municipality owned electri the herald-banner in greenville a five-day-a-week publication located an hour northeast of dalla greenvillelifeart soulbyron taylor s heart vision leadthe revival of downtown greenvillealso inside rally round greenvilleschools attention on artcoaching with charactertreehouse adventures and much more first amendment congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof or abridging the freedom of speech or of the press or the right of the people peaceably to assemble and to petition the government for a redress of grievances welcome to your feed this is the home for all your notifications such as breaking news or when someone replies to your posts