100 best albums of the 1980s rolling stone get the magazine the best in culture from a cultural icon subscribe now for more from the authority on music entertainment politics and pop culture plus get a limited-edition tote free newsletter signup sign up for our newsletter and go inside the world of music culture and entertainment from synth pop and rap to metal and funk 100 best albums of the eighties selected by the editors of rolling stone first 10 entries here span the clash s polyglot punk prince s crossover funkadelica afro-bop from talking heads and paul simon and hymns of innocence and experience by u2 and tracy chapman this has been the first rock roll decade without revolution or true revolutionaries to call its own the fifties witnessed nothing less than the birth of the music the sixties were rocked by beatlemania motown phil spector psychedelia and bob dylan the seventies gave rise to david bowie bruce springsteen heavy metal punk and new wave in comparison the eighties have been the decade of among other things synth pop michael jackson the compact disc sixties reunion tours the beastie boys and a lot more heavy metal but if the past 10 years haven t exactly been the stuff of revolution they have been a critical time of re-assessment and reconstruction musicians and audiences alike have struggled to come to terms with rock s parameters and possibilities its emotional resonance and often dormant social consciousness the following survey of the 100 best albums of the eighties as selected by the editors of rolling stone shows that the music and the values it stands for have been richer for the struggle punks got older and more articulate in their frustration and rage while many veteran artists responded to that movement s challenge with their most vital work in years and rap transformed the face — and voice — of popular music the first 10 entries here span the clash s polyglot punk prince s crossover funkadelica afro-bop from talking heads and paul simon and hymns of innocence and experience by u2 and tracy chapman further down the list old-timers like dylan the stones and lou reed hit new highs public enemy and run-d.m.c kicked out some serious streetwise jams metallica and guns n roses established new hard-rock beachheads and hüsker dü sonic youth and the replacements offered definitive statements of postpunk angst the embarrassment of riches on this list is all the more remarkable since arthritic radio programming corporate sponsorship and outbursts of racism and sexism in rap and metal have complicated rock s present and raised fears for its future best-of lists such as this one are by nature subjective but rock in the eighties was like that — lively varied contentious and to some degree inconclusive looking at the best rock has had to offer in the eighties it s clear that there s plenty of life left in the old beast yet the next revolution may be just around the corner this feature was originally published in the november 16 1989 issue of rolling stone one of the most fervent and forceful political statements to emerge from eighties pop music sun city didn t achieve the sales or wide radio airplay of other cause records like we are the world nevertheless the single and the accompanying album managed to achieve their primary goals to draw attention to south africa s racist policy of apartheid and to support a cultural boycott of the country. it was completely successful and that s such a rare thing says sun city organizer and coproducer steve little steven van zandt who rallied dozens of top rock funk rap and jazz acts to work on the project. issue-oriented events and records can be very frustrating because you really don t see the results whether it s feeding people in ethiopia or raising money for aids research our goal was to stop performers from going there and to this day no major artists of any integrity have played sun city. van zandt a former member of bruce springsteen s e street band was sitting in a los angeles movie theater waiting for a film to start when he got the original inspiration for the project the theater s pa system was playing peter gabriel s biko which eulogizes the murdered south african human-rights activist and van zandt was captivated by the song s message he started examining the apartheid situation and began to write an anthem about the entertainment resort called sun city for his third solo album a vegas-style recreation center with glamorous hotels gambling casinos showrooms and spas sun city is located in bophuthatswana one of south africa s so-called homeland regions where zulus were relocated without their consent in efforts to legitimize the area sun city has offered vast sums to entertainers to perform there some of the acts that have done so in years past include rod stewart queen and linda ronstadt although executives at the resort frequently try to downplay the realities of apartheid the sun city complex has become a symbol of the opulence that whites enjoy at the expense of the country s black natives rethinking his initial approach to the project van zandt decided to release the tune as a single for maximum effectiveness rather than performing the song himself however he considered using artists from various genres to sing one verse each hoping to break down musical separatism in the united states as well as apartheid in south africa the idea took on a life of its own and more than fifty musicians eventually wound up contributing their talents including bruce springsteen jackson browne gil scott-heron grandmaster melle mel bonnie raitt lou reed david ruffin run-d.m.c. ringo starr pete townshend and bobby womack the embarrassment of riches evolved into different versions of sun city for single release and an entire album of outtakes. peter gabriel had a basic log-drum part he did with a chant for about seven minutes and i didn t have a place for it on the single so it became an album track says van zandt. the same thing happened with miles davis i had a part for him on the intro just a few seconds but he played for seven minutes there i was using five seconds on the song and i thought i can t leave six minutes of miles on the floor so we got herbie hancock tony williams and ron carter and put together a jazz version. in addition to the jazz number and the sun city single davis also appeared on several other of the album s tracks including the galvanizing rap collage let me see your i.d. a stark harrowing glimpse of south africa s totalitarian regime which restricts free movement and forces blacks to carry identification papers the song is centered on improvised lyrics by scott-heron and also features rapper grandmaster melle mel the malopoets a south african vocal group and peter garrett lead singer of midnight oil less than forty-eight hours before the album was to be mastered u2 s bono made a surprise appearance at the studio where van zandt and coproducer arthur baker were working on the final mix bono brought tapes of a newly recorded number silver and gold too good to pass up the song was tacked onto the completed album although the title never made it onto the original cover credits because the artwork was already finished. it s kind of a country-blues song bono said at the time adding he was inspired to write it after spending the night with the rolling stones keith richards and ron wood helped bono record the track which the u2 singer called a gift to van zandt bono said his involvement in sun city was humanistically rather than politically motivated. people try to put it across as propaganda that it s the left or the right said bono. this is apolitical it doesn t matter what side you re on x2014 this is common sense. for whatever reason the single never became a radio hit some chalked it up to timid radio programmers who were afraid to broadcast the song s strong message others believed it was due to the track s aggressive rap attack which didn t fit neatly into the top forty format van zandt is inclined to agree with the latter explanation. there we were with an african chant and zulu rhythms miles davis playing in his style and a very danceable hip-hop rhythm with a rock guitar on top van zandt says. it was a very very wild combination of things but i realized then and i realize now that it s not a typical hit-single formula record. fortunately the lack of radio airplay didn t stop sun city from reaching the public thanks to a spectacular video clip directed by godley and creme jonathan demme and hart perry the antiapartheid message was heard and seen around the world more a minidocumentary than a music video the visually inventive clip featured all the performers on the anthem and also crosscut recent footage of south african unrest with scenes of the sixties civil-rights struggle in america vigorously championed by mtv and other cable outlets the video raised both consciousnesses and record sales several months later van zandt baker and others involved with sun city were able to donate more than a half million dollars to causes supporting the antiapartheid struggle perhaps more important than the money earned the album threw an effective political punch not only did it discourage musicians from playing the south african resort city but it also helped spread the word about new sounds like rap. the sun city project is about informing and motivating people said a rolling stone review of the album in 1985. that we can dance while we re organizing is this record s greatest triumph. a deranged painting of a snarling pit bull held back on a short leash adorns the cover of what up dog and a more appropriate image would have been hard to find was not was s 1988 breakthrough album is an untamed and snap-happy work a demented rhythmic blend of classic soul and crazed rock roll with a bark every bit as ferocious as its bite and it vindicated the struggling absurdist band from detroit by proving it capable of commercial success formed by two cynical white songwriter-musicians and fronted by the black vocal duo of sweet pea atkinson and sir harry bowens was not was has always taken a smart and occasionally smartass approach. if we had our druthers we d be living in a bizarro world where you could make ugly music and earn lots of coal for doing it says david weiss who created the avant-goofball group with childhood friend don fagenson the band s first two albums had achieved critical raves but miserable sales things became so dismal after its second album stiffed that the band came dangerously close to permanent not-was status with the group in complete disarray weiss says he was doing lamentable home-video scores while fagenson produced sexual deviants like transvestite singer marilyn bowen worked with the o jays and atkinson was probably watching the soaps and pimping weiss says jokingly after landing a new record deal in england the band bounced back with what up dog x2014 a collection of diverse songs ranging from the sentimental and heartfelt somewhere in america there s a street named after my dad to a track about the jfk assassination 11 mph. a brilliant collage of musical genres the album manages to dovetail smooth ballads like anytime lisa and a calypso-flavored collaboration with elvis costello shadow and jimmy with more experimental pieces like the primal screamfest dad i m in jail. after several of the songs became hits in europe the album was picked up for u.s. release by chrysalis records with so many deliciously wicked numbers it might seem tough to pick a single highlight but for weiss the album s tour de farce is wedding vows in vegas a track included on the cd version of what up dog the song is a smoky sardonic number crooned by cocktail-lounge icon frank sinatra jr. he came in like a hit man to sing that day weiss says of the hour-long session after the late-1988 release of what up dog there was no question which world was not was inhabited walk the dinosaur climbed into the top ten and spy in the house of love reached number one on the dance charts but however welcome success may have been weiss still sounds like a man with more than a few questions about the merits of pop music. it s easy to make disgusting unlistenable records that are just plain weird he says. but that s what we do on a good day. labour of love by britain s ub40 was exactly that an enjoyable way of paying tribute to the reggae tunes that meant the most to the band members when they were growing up the ten numbers they chose to cover from among hundreds they knew and loved were originally recorded between 1969 and 1972 x2014 a period that corresponded to the band members early exposure to reggae at weekend-long parties in the ethnic neighborhood of balsall heath in their hometown of birmingham in the sixties the term reggae was used interchangeably with bluebeat ska and rock steady it was jamaican pop music meant for dancing. in those days read labour of love s liner notes reggae appealed not to the intellect or the social conscience but to the heart and hips. although ub40 s own material has often been topical the group felt that the historical perception of reggae as purely political music was off base and labour of love was its way of setting the record straight. it s african and calypso rhythms fused together with american rhythm blues says guitarist robin campbell. all it s ever been is homemade pop music and it just gets up my nose when people start talking about reggae as a political or religious music. the group chose material ranging from the well known jimmy cliff s classic many rivers to cross to the unknown winston groovey s please don t make me cry ub40 s lilting rhythms uncluttered arrangements and sweet soulful vocals proved irresistible and labour of love helped break ub40 which had been famous in europe since 1980 in the u.s through a convoluted string of events red red wine x2014 written by neil diamond covered by tony tribe and rediscovered by ub40 x2014 became a number one hit in 1988 four years after its first appearance on labour of love the album also reentered the charts doing better the second time around and outselling the band s then-current release simply titled ub40. i think it s purely the fact that american radio is now prepared to play reggae whereas before it wasn t campbell says of ub40 s long-overdue recognition in the states sax player brian travers claims that ub40 may someday do a second volume of reggae covers. we re going to do another version when we get the chance just to preserve them he says. we do it because the originals are such a turn-on. the mona lisa s sister signaled the urgent comeback of graham parker x2014 an artist who had lost direction following several tough r b-fueled albums recorded in the late seventies ambitious and fiercely spare the album examines the progress of parker s life in powerful terms exploring the relative value and meaning of love and loss work and creativity success and failure. the mona lisa s sister was really exciting for me because i had an idea that was a little off the wall and i didn t compromise it for anybody parker says. and it paid off. the notion parker had for his 1988 album was that he should write all the songs and produce them himself-but that proved problematic the trouble started when parker submitted a thirty-song demo tape to his new label atlantic records the label didn t like the songs and asked parker to work with an outside producer and collaborate with other songwriters parker who felt that his recent albums had been fatally overproduced refused atlantic released him from his contract and parker eventually signed with rca where he found the autonomy he craved parker called in guitarist brinsley schwarz and bassist andrew bodnar two members of his original backing band the rumour the only other musicians that appear on the mona lisa s sister are keyboardist james hallawell singer christie chapman and drummers pete thomas of the attractions terry williams and andy duncan the stark bare-bones production cost a mere 60,000 the mona lisa s sister is one of parker s most personal records the ballad success is a scathing indictment of the ethic that judges people by their material worth. it was the experience with atlantic that really kicked the song out of me parker says. under the mask of happiness takes off from parker s impressions of joe mcginniss s book fatal vision to explore the tensions and denials underlying a seemingly perfect marriage the single get started start a fire x2014 which opens with the lines the mona lisa s sister doesn t smile/she tried to pose but only/for a while x2014 has an especially personal meaning for parker it relates to the album s cover which depicts a modernist mona lisa sporting parker s trademark shades. i m the mona lisa s sister you know says parker. and the record company is the mona lisa or something like that i was the sister who didn t get the painting done of herself. looking back at the mona lisa s sister parker says what it s given me is an approach that i can always go back to with the right kind of songs you can record songs and make them pretty honestly without a circus happening around you and lots of money being thrown away you really can. x2022 rolling stone s original 1988 review when told that culture club s colour by numbers had been selected as one of the top 100 albums of the decade boy george said with typical playfulness as well it should be. the band s second lp colour by numbers was released in the fall of 1983 while a second british invasion was dominating the american pop charts but george insists the album s surprisingly mature pop polish wasn t motivated by competition with his peers. we used to call duran duran bottles of milk they were so white bread george said. we certainly weren t competing with spandau ballet we wanted to be more like the older people we admired. colour by numbers does display a respect for pop history when george debuted the ballad that s the way i m only trying to help you at a sound check one day he said everyone said oh it s really like elton john after the album was released george told a reporter that it s a miracle borrowed from the melody of a gilbert o sullivan song and church of the poison mind is nearly identical to stevie wonder s uptight. but the familiarity of the group s songs bothered at least one person. the guy who wrote handy man jimmy jones tried to sue us over karma chameleon george said. i might have heard it once but it certainly wasn t something i sat down and said yeah i want to copy this we gave him ten pence and an apple. culture club made its second album with the same producer steve levine and at the same studio red bus studios in london it had used for its debut george attributes the band s improvement from the tropical pop of kissing to be clever to the input of outside musicians notably keyboardist phil pickett who co-wrote two songs with the band and singer helen terry who electrifies several tracks within months of the release of colour by numbers george s plucked brow was on the cover of newsweek followed by a tonight show bitch-off with joan rivers a boy george doll and his infamous acceptance speech at the grammys when george thanked the audience for knowing a good drag queen when you see one. george said he last listened to colour by numbers three years ago when he was trying to kick his heroin addiction. i thought some of the singing was out of tune he said with a giggle. it s definitely the best culture club album but i don t know if it s my best record. during three recent concerts in australia the only song from colour he performed was victims the album-closing ballad which doesn t mean he s not proud of the band he may x2014 or may not x2014 be re-forming. we had a good formula and other groups obviously picked up on that he said. i think wham definitely picked up on it in the beginning i ve read things where people have said the songs were awful and the only important thing was the way i looked colour by numbers definitely does have a place above who or below who i m not sure. we were basically in a pretty mean run at that time says larry crane guitarist with john cougar mellencamp s band. we were going in and getting things done and the band was clicking. scarecrow consolidated the band s rugged roots-rock thrash and the ongoing maturation of mellencamp s lyrics the album is largely about dreams and illusions in america and how the essential character of the nation was being twisted in a government-supported climate of corporate greed the most visible manifestation of the problem from mellencamp s perch in central indiana was the rash of farm foreclosures across the midwest despite the bittersweet reflective tone of songs like the face of the nation and minutes to memories and the sentimental cast of his ode to rural america small town the rehearsals that led up to the recording of the songs were nothing but pure fun the group spent a month at mellencamp s insistence learning a hundred classic rock roll songs from the sixties. we got a bunch of those tapes you see advertised on tv with all the old songs on them crane says chuckling and god we learned everything. they rehearsed behind mellencamp s house inside what had been a dog kennel when a cousin opened up a bar nearby mellencamp christened it by playing an entire evening s worth of cover versions from white room to lightnin strikes. when it came time to cut scarecrow the band members employed the lessons they learned from their sixties studies the idea according to producer don gehman was to learn all these devices from the past and then use them in a new way with john s arrangements. mellencamp would make comments like i want this to be like an animals record and i want the overall record to have this kind of a tone like maybe it was a modern-day dylan record. indeed dylan himself hadn t been that bitingly topical in years. you ve got ta stand for somethin /or you re gon na fall for anything mellencamp sings and on scarecrow he dug in and made a stand x2022 rolling stone s original 1985 review x2022 photos farm aid 25 featuring willie nelson john mellencamp dave matthews and more x2022 photos a history of rocker-actor couples when new order began recording its second album power corruption lies x2014 a landmark album of danceable post-punk music x2014 late in 1982 it wasn t a band but a mere shadow of joy division ian curtis the manchester group s singer and songwriter had hanged himself in may 1980 the remaining members x2014 guitarist bernard albrecht bassist peter hook and drummer stephen morris x2014 had taken a new name added gillian gilbert on guitar and keyboards and gone back into the studio with joy division producer martin hannett movement new order s 1981 debut owed more to joy division than to new order stephen morris says the album was recorded in a situation of complete turmoil according to albrecht the band s reluctant new singer and lyricist. we were all wondering what to do next. new order followed movement with a few singles including temptation a transitional song that incorporated a solid dance beat on power corruption lies x2014 originally released by the british factory records in 1983 and reissued in this country on qwest/warner bros. two years later x2014 the band members produced themselves upgrading from home-built synthesizers and sequencers to state-of-the-art models in the process. we got the machines two weeks before we went into the studio and we didn t really know how to work them morris says. blue monday the first single from those sessions was an exercise in learning how to use sequencers says morris. we were trying to create a sort of frankenstein-monster song where you just press a button and the song comes out. released in march 1983 blue monday is one of the best-selling twelve-inch singles in british history it was later included on cassette and cd versions of power corruption lies but not the lp the band s struggle with technology helped give power corruption lies its defining tone which morris describes as fragile and wintery. as is the band s custom the album s cryptic song titles were added only at the last minute. ultraviolence was a term from a clockwork orange the title power corruption lies morris says came off the back of a george orwell book. peter savile s cover design shows only a cropped reproduction of roses by henri fantin-latour a french impressionist with no mention of the album title or band name a piece tentatively called kwi x2014 as in that kraftwerk one x2014 became your silent face which offered the first glimpse of new order s skewed sense of humor. you ve caught me at a bad time albrecht sings quietly. so why don t you piss off. says morris it was a very majestic piece and we thought ah it s getting too serious after six weeks in the studio new order went on tour. we d recorded these songs but didn t know how to play them says morris. the first night there was a resounding silence to every song people just stood there a lot of hard-core joy division fans wondered what we were up to but fortunately we started creating new order songs. x2022 rolling stone s 500 greatest albums of all time substance by new order the night i fell in love recorded in 1984 was luther vandross s fourth album but this new yorker with the polished tenor had been in the music business since the early seventies he wrote a song for the wiz sang on co-wrote and arranged david bowie s young americans in 1975 toured as a background singer with bette midler chaka khan and carly simon recorded albums as a member of three bands and did sessions with barbra streisand quincy jones and others he also sang a lot of ad jingles but when he recorded his own albums vandross says he got tired of going into the same studios driving up the same streets and going up the same elevators i had gone up during all my years of sessions after a few albums i said there s got to be another way to record vandross booked time at air studios on montserrat in the west indies bringing with him the same musicians he d used since never too much his 1981 debut x2014 bassist and coproducer marcus miller keyboardist and arranger nat adderley jr. drummer yogi horton and guitarist doc powell he also enlisted billy preston on organ and singers cissy houston alfa anderson of chic and darlene love. we were out of town so the band wasn t looking at their watches having a 4:30 pepsi-cola jingle they had to go do says vandross. once you get someone away from that new york session mentality their whole countenance relaxes and their guard comes down they take off that bulletproof vest they ve been wearing and give you the best that they ve got. a lot of people go down there because of the comfort vandross continues. there s a cook there are lots of lounges it s magnificent outside the control room is a big swimming pool on the side of a gigantic mountain that leads to the ocean the mood it puts you in gives you a better perspective on your music. of the album s first single the finger-popping til my baby comes home vandross says that was one of the baddest things on radio you had a big pop element without ignoring the soul element. next was creepin a stevie wonder ballad from fulfillingness first finale followed by if only for one night a torchy brenda russell song vandross heard roberta flack sing on tour the moody ballad wait for love vandross says gets the most applause in concert we tear that thing up. but the album s most startling song is my sensitivity gets in the way a romantic s bald confession. there are only two songs i ve written that are absolutely personal x2014 my sensitivity and any love the title track to his most recent album x2014 and if they apply to anyone else that s a peripheral consideration. discussing the eight tracks on the night i fell in love vandross says yeah that s a good album there was something magical about the way everyone responded to it which to this day i can t account for. x2022 rolling stone s original 1985 review x2022 rolling stone s 100 greatest singers of all time luther vandross it s all in the songs says tom petty if you ve got the songs it s all very simple with full moon fever i was lucky in that the songs just kept coming up and i hit a good period of writing that carried through the traveling wilburys. full moon fever petty s first album without the heartbreakers fell together almost by accident early in 1988 when he and new acquaintance jeff lynne wrote and cut a few songs together at guitarist mike campbell s garage studio the result was an album of pop nuggets with a bright sixties-style sheen. i ve always loved the british rock and pop of the sixties and jeff feels the same way petty says. within the heartbreakers i represent some portion of that sound but they have so many other influences if you take me away from them this is what you get. the only heartbreaker involved to any significant degree was campbell who coengineered coproduced and played guitars and keyboards full moon fever was truly a garage record. we actually had to pull the cars out at the start of the day petty says laughing the sessions were relaxed and unhurried and petty credits lynne the former leader of elo for the upbeat atmosphere. jeff just loves to be in the studio he says. it s like disneyland to him all right we re making a record boy what fun and it rubbed off on me and mike. the sessions also led to the traveling wilburys the impromptu supergroup whose knockoff album was a sensation in 1988 roy orbison began hanging around the studio and george harrison showed up to play acoustic guitar on i won t back down. the idea of four musicians x2014 petty campbell lynne and harrison x2014 strumming around a mike worked so well it was adapted by the wilburys petty and lynne worked up nine songs and then stopped to make the wilburys record afterward petty cut three more tracks to round out full moon fever including a shamelessly faithful cover of the byrds i ll feel a whole lot better. in his lyrics petty strove to say more in fewer words citing randy newman s influence. i d sung a couple of tracks on his last album and i was so impressed by his material it made me want to quit the business petty says. he can say so much with a simple line i just kept thinking i wanted to keep the lyrics real simple as if it were a conversation. some songs were personal others journalistic. zombie zoo for instance was written about a punk club in l.a. following a conversation in a diner with some musicians who played there. i wrote it as if i were jed clampett going to the zombie zoo petty says. it wasn t meant as a put-down it was done for comedy s sake. and it caught the spirit of play that marked the sessions. we did full moon fever for the sheer fun of it petty says. we never sweated it it was the most enjoyable record i ve ever worked on. x2022 rolling stone s original 1989 review x2022 photos classic super bowl moments x2022 photos tom petty works new mojo in oakland this is definitely an album of the eighties says lyle lovett because it took almost the whole of the eighties to do it. the line is typical of the dry wit that lovett employs in his offbeat country and blues songs x2014 and also accurate some of the songs on lyle lovett were written as early as 1979 in 1984 he spent his life savings as well as a loan from his parents to record eighteen demos ten of these were finally remixed and released in 1986 the wait paid off lyle lovett x2014 an assured refined collection of tunes about rocky romances dubious weddings and sturdy old porches x2014 heralded the arrival of a major songwriter who brought absurdity and wit to a field that was normally earnest and predictable in 1984 lovett a texas singer-songwriter with a degree in journalism hooked up with the j. david sloan band at a music festival in luxembourg he returned with the members of the band to their native arizona and one day in june he cut four songs at chaton recordings in scottsdale lovett then drove to nashville looking for a publishing deal and wound up recording fourteen more demos that august he sent the tape around to record companies they liked the material but wanted him to re-record it which he refused to do finally the tape found its way to singer-songwriter guy clark who recommended him to tony brown at mca. when i first heard the demos says brown i thought how could this tape have been around for more than a week without somebody putting it out this guy was so developed so focused. aside from some remixing and minor overdubbing the tapes were virtually released as is brown helped lovett select ten songs the rest have appeared on subsequent albums with an ear to country radio four made the c w top twenty. i probably would have chosen fewer country songs and weighted it more toward the blues-oriented stuff lovett says today. but it ended up being more representative of my songwriting. and as a homespun sampler of a rookie off the street it has few peers. i don t give a fuck about rock roll sting declared unequivocally in 1987 there was he complained no new fuel in rock music. instead he said musicians should be looking outside of rock to african jazz and even classical music anything anything will do. nothing like the sun released shortly after that tirade was everything but the kitchen sink a double-album banquet of seductive hispanic and brazilian rhythms exultant reggae big-band jazz and melancholy euroballadry featuring an all-star genre-busting crew branford marsalis mark knopfler eric clapton rub xe9 n blades and andy summers sting s sources ranged from german composer hans eisler and jimi hendrix a jazz reading of little wing to a traditional chilean courting dance in they dance alone a haunting tribute to the families of chile s disappeared opponents of the government who are believed to have been murdered in his lyrics sting juxtaposed meditations on death and rebirth x2014 his mother died during the making of the record x2014 with observations on religion history and in englishman in new york spiritual and cultural exile literally worlds away from the artful simplicity of his hits with the police and even his jazz-fusion tangents on the dream of the blue turtles his first solo excursion nothing like the sun is as much a vivid reflection of the mushrooming exploratory fervor among many of sting s middle-aged pop peers such as peter gabriel talking heads and paul simon as it is an expression of sting s disgust with the state of pop ironically the eleven original songs on the album were the product not of extensive musical field trips but of five months concentrated writing in new york city in the winter and early spring of 1987. i had already started writing songs before that back in london he told rolling stone during a brazilian tour the following year. but i brought those fragments over and i had this kind of monkish life i lived on my own i cooked my own food i went to the gym every day i took piano lessons the phone was off the hook and i worked usually from twelve midday to very late at night. the strict regimen though combined with the emotional weight of his mother s recent passing made it hard for him to be objective about the results. they dance alone was a song i played to people as a demo in my apartment he says. people were visibly moved i was too bound up in it to make judgments. sting s record company initially questioned the wisdom of his musical expeditions on nothing like the sun. it wasn t simple enough or directed toward the charts says sting. i said why underestimate the record-buying public in fact the album was a commercial success spawning a hit single in the jaunty we will be together. it confirms my belief that sophistication or intended sophistication is not the kiss of death he said proudly. as long as you re grounded somewhere in common sense. x2022 rolling stone s 1997 review x2022 photos hot rock offspring featuring madonna sting keith richards and more stars famous kids if i see someone cute aretha franklin told producer narada michael walden during an initial telephone conversation to discuss working together on an album the singer was planning i may wink then he may wink and it s like who s zoomin who the phrase x2014 which franklin said was an old new york street expression x2014 immediately caught walden s imagination. at that time i hadn t worked on an album by anyone of aretha s stature walden says. i wanted to design something just for her. the result was the title track of franklin s 1985 comeback album who s zoomin who the reclusive franklin had spent many of the preceding years in her hometown of detroit looking after her seriously ill father the reverend c. l. franklin according to walden aretha hadn t sung seriously in two or three years after her father died in 1984 the singer began thinking about returning to the music scene walden started assembling backing tracks in los angeles since franklin doesn t like to travel x2014 she refuses to take airplanes when on tour x2014 walden brought the session tapes to detroit where franklin added her vocals. she had to get reacquainted with being in the studio walden says and she d get winded. but it didn t take long for the singer to regain her form. she ll sing a song down in the lower range maybe four or five times he says. then she ll sing it up in her range and do two or three takes. who s zoomin who produced two top ten singles x2014 franklin s first album to do so since 1972 s young gifted and black x2014 with the title track and freeway of love. the latter boasted a cameo appearance by e street saxophonist clarence clemons. sisters are doin it for themselves featured annie lennox of eurythmics and was produced by lennox s band mate dave stewart looking for a male singer to work with franklin on another duet push walden put out signals but a lot of people were frightened to death to sing with her. former j. geils band vocalist peter wolf however jumped at the chance. peter s got guts says walden. he put his helmet on and came up in there. despite franklin s awesome reputation as a singer walden found her easy to work with. she s a black mae west he says. she s very fast i didn t pull anything out of her she s so vast and brings so much to her takes that it s more a question of keeping up with her and when it stops it stops so you ve got to be on your toes before any session with her i d jog four or five miles just to be mentally alert you have to be x2014 she s the queen. x2022 rolling stone s original 1985 review x2022 rolling stone s 100 greatest singers of all time aretha franklin x2022 video jeff beck aretha franklin ozzy osbourne and annie lennox encourage young rockers backstage at hall of fame concert and from the comfort of a dreamer s bed/and the safety of my own head/i went on speaking of the future/while other people fought and bled. with those words from the opening verse of for america the first track on lives in the balance jackson browne turned away from the personal introspection that had characterized his earlier work and took dead aim at one of the most important political issues of the eighties u.s. policy in central america the album was inspired in part by visits browne made to central america in 1984 and 1985 though he had already begun writing for america and the title track prior to his trips. i know that in going to central america i was really moved to want to do something browne told rolling stone in 1987 to talk about whether we really believe in freedom and justice for all or if it isn t just freedom and justice for us while we do the most unspeakable things to other cultures. months before the iran-contra scandal broke in the press browne sang on lives in the balance of wanting to know who the men in the shadows are/i want to hear somebody asking them why. after the arms-for-hostages deals hit the news the increased public awareness of the u.s. government s covert war in nicaragua prompted browne to produce and pay for a video for lives in the balance well after the album had passed its peak in terms of sales discussing the song at the time of the video s release browne said i imply that the truth is kept from us on a regular basis i flat out say the government lies well these things are no longer heresy. other songs examine related aspects of the album s political theme the haunting soldier of plenty indicts the paternalism of america s attitudes toward its latin neighbors while lawless avenues with touching spanish lyrics by jorge calder xf3 n explores the impact of american foreign policy on life on the home front x2014 specifically in this case in the hispanic ghettos of los angeles and intriguingly amid all the hard-hitting sociopolitical commentary stands in the shape of a heart one of browne s finest love songs lives in the balance never achieved the commercial success of some of browne s earlier records that hardly mattered to him. i like this album as much as any i ve ever done browne said. and there s a certain comfort a security that i have talking about something that i feel this strongly about and whether or not an album succeeds wildly or not that s intact. x2022 rolling stone s original 1986 review x2022 rock and roll hall of fame q a jackson browne most of the songs on steel wheels were written by mick jagger and keith richards during a three-week session in barbados that get-together was the make-or-break point for the rolling stones 1989 reunion x2014 a reunion that had been imperiled by jagger s and richards s solo records and by a year of public backbiting between the two their attitudes in approaching the barbados session say a great deal about the differences between them. i said to the old lady i m going over to barbados to write songs x2014 i ll see you in two weeks or two days richards says of the conversation he had with his wife patti before leaving. i had no idea and i m sure mick didn t either. jagger however admits to having no such doubts about his ability to work with richards. i never worry about those things he says. i just get on and do it keith is very supersensitive about all that sort of thing and worries that maybe it can t happen i said well we ll just try if we don t do it we don t do it each man brought material to the session jagger had a rocker hold on to your hat while richards had a ballad almost hear you sigh. but they began writing together immediately. we got two or three songs in the first hour and once you get a roll going there s no problem richards says. what s good for the music will be good for us personally. and richards says there was something of a rapprochement. it was very funny because with all the shit that s been going down over the last few years you never know he says. but it was do you remember when you said and both of us are cracking up. charlie watts s arrival on the scene also bolstered richards s sense of possibility for steel wheels. i drove up to the rehearsal place and i heard him playing says richards. i just sat in the car for five minutes and listened and i said yeah no problem this year s made musically jagger was concerned that the songs on steel wheels not repeat the sort of problems that had made him feel constrained in the stones the album s most radical departure is continental drift with its north african feel and use of the master musicians of joujouka from morocco. i never thought i d get away with that with the stones but they bought it jagger says steel wheels also seems to have provided jagger with an opportunity to respond to richards s public criticism of him on the album s first single mixed emotions jagger sings button your lip baby and declares you re not the only one with mixed emotions. but the song ends with jagger singing let s stick together. i just averted my eyes richards says laughing about his response to hearing the song s lyrics. although i realized it s not mixed emotions it s mick s emotions jagger moans when told of richards s remark. well i wrote that about this girl i know actually x2014 it s got nothing to do with the rolling stones he says with a laugh. i hate to disillusion you. x2022 rolling stone s original 1989 review x2022 photos rare and intimate pictures of the rolling stones x2022 photos the secret history of the rolling stones and the beatles he was a major rock roll star his records were fm-radio staples he sold out coliseums his live shows were legendary but by 1980 bruce springsteen had not yet placed a single in the top twenty and he hadn t really made an album that fully captured the bracing live sound of the e street band the river changed all that the album is the work of a top-notch rock band playing live in the studio over the course of two discs springsteen displays a little bit of everything that drew people to him if songs like jackson cage point blank and independence day recall the grim relentless darkness on the edge of town tunes like the frat rocker sherry darling and the number five hit hungry heart are lighter and more buoyant and if the sheer giddiness of crush on you and i m a rocker make the river sound like springsteen s party record sobering character sketches like the title track and stolen car argue otherwise the album didn t come easily to springsteen. i search for that internal logic that connects everything he said later. and if it comes real naturally it s great with the river man forget it it took many months years you know all in all the album consumed more than a year in the studio in excess of 500,000 in recording costs and what springsteen remembers as about ninety songs that were rehearsed and either recorded or rejected in the spring of 1979 springsteen and the band began cutting songs like the ties that bind and roulette a savage rocker that would remain unreleased for eight years by that fall springsteen and his coproducers jon landau and steve van zandt had compiled a single-disc album that was to include hungry heart a rockabilly arrangement of you can look but you better not touch and the still-unre-leased gems cindy and loose ends. but when they returned to the studio after playing two no nukes concerts in new york with other concerned musicians springsteen decided he didn t want to put the finishing touches on that record instead he was looking for something richer and more expansive x2014 something that would take close to another year to finish. i was trying to answer where are these people going now he said. i had an idea where they were going but i wasn t really sure i guess i didn t know where i was going you know on the river springsteen accepts the fact that contradictions and paradoxes can be part of his music because they re part of everyday experience and the decision to make a two-record set gave him the space to let his characters go just about everywhere the trip encompasses a hard-rocking visit to cadillac ranch and the disquieting vision at the heart of the stark finale wreck on the highway. bruce springsteen didn t title his summational record the river for nothing wrote paul nelson in his rolling stone review of the album. each song is just a drop in the bucket and the water in the bucket is drawn from a river that can take you on a fast but invigorating ride smash you in the rapids let you float dreamily downstream or carry you relentlessly across some unknown county line. x2022 rolling stone s original 1984 review x2022 photos bruce springsteen s surprise set at asbury park x2022 photos bruce springsteen on the cover of rolling stone i knew that i wanted to make a real album that expressed how i felt says neil young of his most recent album freedom. i just wanted to make a neil young record per se something that was just me where there was no persona no image no distinctive character like the bluenotes guy or the guy in everybody s rockin it s the first time i ve felt like doing an album like this in years. freedom veers between folkie ballads ways of love someday and too far gone and screeching rockers eldorado and a wild-eyed cover of on broadway the album is bookended by contrasting versions of the bitter ironic rockin in the free world. the opener is live and acoustic with the audience singing the chorus while the finale is an angry electric rendition with an additional verse young used a similar device on rust never sleeps it s the longest album i ve ever done says young. it s a real mouthful when i listen to it it s almost like listening to the radio x2014 it keeps changing and going from one thing to another. he d originally planned to release a purely electric rock album x2014 nothing but abrasiveness from beginning to end he says x2014 that he d recorded in new york five songs from those sessions were released on an import ep called eldorado for the album that was eventually released he mixed in material from some subsequent acoustic sessions looking to strike a balance the result is young s most personal and unguarded set of songs in many years. music can be like therapy he says. it s like getting parts of yourself out which i used to do all the time but i was at a point in my life where i really closed off my emotions about a lot of things i didn t understand i just shut down the whole program and did things that were more on the surface level because it was safer now i feel time has healed whatever was bothering me so much i feel more open and i can write songs that are more directly involved with what i m thinking. x2022 rolling stone s original 1989 review x2022 rolling stone s 100 greatest artists of all time neil young x2022 photos musicares person of the year tribute to neil young george michael sang suggestively on i want your sex the incendiary hit that ignited his 1987 album faith besides the sensual implications the lyrics could also describe the british performer s make-over from teen idol to mature pop talent with his solo debut. i was trying to shake an image x2014 a very glossy bubblegum image says michael recalling his early-eighties career when he and childhood pal andrew ridgeley sang together as the prefab dance duo wham after their split in 1985 michael became intent on finding a fresh start as a solo artist shying away from his persona as a preening dandy who sang drivel like wake me up before you go-go michael cultivated a new approach that was seriously sexy with torn jeans perfectly coifed hair and stubble that would make don johnson envious he became the leading progenitor of a style that all but redefined late-eighties fashion but the real change was in the lyrics not the look beyond the beat-crazy dance rhythms most of the songs on faith revolve around important issues. i want your sex for example raises the issue of monogamy in the age of aids look at your hands deals with abused wives and monkey touches on the horrors of addiction. i wouldn t have dared approach subjects like wife beating or addiction when i was with wham says michael. but i had been liberated from those particular confines. michael spent almost two years writing and recording faith influenced he says by a lot of american radio which kind of seeped into my consciousness. months before he began recording the album he had created i want your sex as a song for a friend to sing but he reclaimed it. i want your sex unleashed a torrent of protest and publicity for the young star the bbc banned the song in england and many american stations refused to play it nevertheless spurred by an outrageously erotic video clip and all the surrounding controversy michael s sassy come-on sold more than 1 million copies in the united states after i want your sex scored the catchy single faith was released in october the entire album was released a month later supercharged by four more hit singles x2014 father figure one more try monkey and kissing a fool x2014 the album went on to sell 14 million copies worldwide and faith became one of the few albums to top the pop and black charts simultaneously as further evidence of its broad-based appeal faith subsequently captured a grammy for album of the year and topped rolling stone s annual readers poll. i was expecting the album to be big but i wasn t expecting anything like the success it had says michael. there was a fair amount of pressure on me to carve a different niche as a solo artist without actually having to force it the progression had to be natural but i also knew there had to be a progression. x2022 rolling stone s original 1988 review x2022 photos george michael remembers the recording of his classic lp faith x2022 photos how 16 rockers came out of the closet i wanted to come in touch with the common factor and not seem to be some sort of alien freak david bowie told writer lisa robinson shortly after the release of let s dance his most accessible x2014 and commercially successful x2014 album. i don t want to seem detached and cold because i m not. a warmer more open bowie was evident at every turn on let s dance whose bright upbeat exterior and approachable lyrics celebrate modern love and sensual romance beneath serious moonlight. coming off of four hermitic experimental and disillusioned albums x2014 from low to scary monsters x2014 bowie pulled an about-face his newly found extroversion complete with a haystack-yellow british-schoolboy haircut netted him three top twenty singles x2014 modern love china girl and the chart-topping title track let s dance was a determined move to recapture the spotlight by a musician who five years earlier had told melody maker i feel incredibly divorced from rock and it s a genuine striving to be that way. let s dance grafts brassy big-band swing onto a solid contemporary r b foundation bowie tapped nile rodgers guitarist for the stylish new york dance band chic to produce let s dance excluding texas blues guitarist stevie ray vaughan who was bowie s suggestion the musicians were drawn from rodgers s circle. except for bernard edwards no person had influenced me more rodgers says of bowie yet the collaboration was nothing like what he had had in mind. to be honest when i first got involved i wanted to do a very noncommercial avant-garde album says rodgers. i thought i was finally getting a chance to show that black people can do records about things other than dancing making love and stuff like that i was quite surprised when i got to europe and we were working on songs called let s dance and modern love after some discussion bowie said nile i want you to do what you do best x2014 make great commercial records. he trusted rodgers s instincts and the album was finished in nineteen days its swift popularity caught the normally unflappable bowie off guard. david might not want me to say this says rodgers with a chuckle but for the first few weeks even he was surprised he s a big artist and a rock roll demigod but there was still a garage-band guy in there who couldn t believe his record was selling i d be lying in bed and the phone would ring hello nile this is david look what s happening did you see billboard this week wow unbelievable x2022 rolling stone s 1997 review x2022 photos paintings and photos by paul mccartney bob dylan david bowie and more x2022 photos david bowie in songwriters glenn tilbrook and chris difford the british new wave has finally found its own john lennon and paul mccartney. this statement of high praise for squeeze s dynamic songwriting duo began rolling stone s review of east side story squeeze s fourth album joined by keyboardist and singer paul carrack in his one-album cameo as a squeeze member the group filled the album with smart uptempo pop tunes whose lyrics scanned in difford s words like suburban short stories. difford and tilbrook credit elvis costello who coproduced most of the album with roger bechirian for providing inspiration and encouraging the band to move into different areas. elvis gave us a broader canvas to work on says tilbrook. he considered some songs we d written that i wouldn t have thought would be squeeze songs. for example when tilbrook was fast-forwarding a tape of demos he accidentally landed on labeled with love a country western number he hadn t intended to play it for costello who nonetheless liked it right away when tilbrook protested that it didn t sound like squeeze costello said let s do it anyway. east side story s best-known song is tempted sung in a husky soulful voice by paul carrack with costello and tilbrook chiming in here and there difford wrote the lyrics on the way to the airport and all the things in there are pretty much all the things that were in my mind on that trip he says though tempted became an fm-radio favorite it didn t crack the u.s. top forty. it s one of those records everyone thinks is a hit but it wasn t really says tilbrook. i was disappointed it didn t do better but i ve felt that way about a lot of our records. musical touches both playful and artful ranging from the surreal wavering keyboards on heaven to the full orchestra on vanity fair adorn east side story yet squeeze maintains that the record was an uncomplicated one to make. it was quite an old-fashioned approach to record making says tilbrook. there weren t really any production tricks on it the production really involved arrangements and then just a straightforward recording of the songs. as a side note the name lennon cropped up in an unexpected way midway through the sessions. one morning elvis called and said that john lennon had been killed the night before and that we weren t going to go out to the studio that day difford says. then he called back and said no let s just go in get some drink and play we didn t record anything we were just playing the blues. it s real obvious to me says producer ted templeman when asked why 1984 won van halen a broader and larger audience. eddie van halen discovered the synthesizer. the foursome had been selling out arenas for more than a decade on the basis of eddie s virtuosic fleet-fingered guitar playing singer david lee roth s blunt raunchy lyrics and the brute force of michael anthony s bass and alex van halen s drums but 1984 abetted by tunes that swirled elements of synth pop into metal x2014 most evidently on the hit single jump x2014 and by a string of campy low-budget videos that found favor on mtv carried van halen to a new plateau of popularity no longer viewed as threatening to those with a chronic fear of metal the band somehow became amusing and even endearing to middle america and all the while van halen continued to rock like crazy according to templeman who produced all six van halen albums prior to and including 1984 having time to experiment in the studio made a difference. the group was finding out how to do stuff for themselves rather than here do this because we ve got ta get back on the road he says. so they had a little time and got creative they got into all kinds of different things because they were bored doing the same old stuff. at the time eddie was in the process of building his own studio with don landee the band s longtime engineer and now its producer while boards and tape machines were being installed the guitarist began fiddling around on synthesizers to pass the time. there were no presets says templeman. he would just twist off until it sounded right. one night eddie and alex laid down an instrumental demo of what would become jump excitedly ringing up their slumbering producer when they finished. i still have it on my answering machine recalls templeman with a chuckle. ted come on up it s like three in the morning but we really came up with something great they played a little bit over the phone. roth added the lyrics which he wrote while being chauffeured in his red mercury convertible and jump went on to top the charts x2014 heralding the arrival of hard rock and heavy metal in the theretofore impervious top forty. they connected with a pop audience says templeman. whatever bon jovi has today van halen picked up with jump then. jump was followed by two more singles from 1984 i ll wait a ballad whose chorus was written by roth with an uncredited michael mcdonald and panama a hard-charging number to which the sounds of eddie van halen s revving lamborghini were added the album turned out to be the last recorded by van halen in its original configuration as roth left x2014 not entirely amicably x2014 to go solo and was soon replaced by sammy hagar producer templeman swears he didn t see it coming there were no indicators to signal a breakup at all matter of fact they were really united on that sucker balls to the wall they were going after the world man x2022 rolling stone s original 1984 review x2022 photos van halen through the years it wasn t until the release of her second album that suzanne vega achieved fame scoring an unlikely top forty hit with luka a song about child abuse but the singer s 1985 debut album suzanne vega had already awakened listeners to a fresh new voice reviving the folk-music genre after nearly two decades of dormancy for vega who was then twenty-five years old the album was cause for uncertainty and isolation as much as triumph. i felt a little bit like a novelty act she says of her auspicious introduction vega was certainly an anomaly during the mid-eighties softly strumming an acoustic guitar and singing introspective ballads while the rest of the music world was caught up in bigger-is-better events like live aid and bruce springsteen s born in the u.s.a. mega-tour in retrospect however vega s intimate first album proved to be a significant milestone in this decade ushering in a flock of female folk singers including tracy chapman melissa etheridge michelle shocked tanita tikaram and the indigo girls having taught herself guitar at the age of eleven vega began writing her own songs when she entered her teens after graduating from barnard college in 1982 she began playing small coffeehouses in greenwich village x2014 the same area of new york city where nearly every sixties folkie first tuned up his gibson but vega a child of the eighties hardly fit the protest-singer mold even though she carried an acoustic guitar her hero wasn t folk icon bob dylan but punk godfather lou reed there were other differences as well after years on the northeastern club circuit she had developed a direct emotionally tempered style that she has said was inspired as much by novelist carson mccullers and painter edward hopper as by romantic balladeers leonard cohen and laura nyro weaving these diverse influences into a deeply moving album were producers lenny kaye formerly patti smith s guitarist and steve addabbo vega s manager who brought modern touches to vega s straight-ahead style enhancing the singer s sparse sound with subtle electric guitars graceful violins and even new age synthesizers all of which added gentle textures to her haunting material vega s prowess with simile and metaphor dominates the entire album perhaps most effectively on songs like undertow freeze tag and straight lines. but vega s sphinxlike wordplay reaches its apex on small blue thing a ballad more reflective of an intangible feeling than a literal object. the song is actually pretty straightforward x2014 it s not a riddle she says with a laugh. i never try and be tricky at the time i felt like a small blue thing i never expected that people would think that it stood for something some people even asked if it s a fetus it s not that at all x2014 it s a mood. the structures behind folk music and folk songs are very elemental sort of like water vega adds. you go through your fads with wine and soft drinks and everything else but water is the basic thing you always go back to. i had given up on ever getting a record deal and became a staff songwriter going into the office eight hours a day and trying to write for the radio says the nashville-based country rocker steve earle what happened was that during that period i learned a lot about craft. when earle finally did get to make a full-length album in 1986 after having written songs for artists ranging from waylon jennings to carl perkins he could apply professional songwriting polish to his dylanesque verse and outlaw style of music the result was guitar town an album that straddled country and rock to create something startlingly new in the words of a fellow artist john hiatt it was pretty much a darn near flawless record great writing fantastic album. guitar town tells simple stories of people living in hard times such as the cautionary good ol boy gettin tough it also relates the autobiographical tale of a country singer rolling down the road from guitar town to hillbilly highway trying to outrun the blues. it s important to me to make sure the average person can understand what i m trying to say says earle. songwriting at its best is very rarely poetry it s usually narrative and practically journalism it is a form of literature but one you can consume while you re driving your car. guitar town boasts everything from a rich orchestral twelve-string to some deep twangy solos on the danelectro six-string bass it was recorded at an all-digital studio in nashville by embracing the latest technology earle hoped his hometown would receive its due as an up-to-date music metropolis. i want to see nashville become a place to make records and not just country records says earle does earle see himself as more of a country or a rock artist i ve been more readily accepted on rock radio but as my audience gets older with me i ll probably end up back on country radio he says. i think that as a singer i borrow more from hank williams than from david bowie. x2022 rolling stone s 500 greatest albums of all time guitar town by steve earle it s easy to be a genius in your twenties says robbie robertson. in your forties it s difficult. such was the trepidation with which the former band guitarist and songwriter approached making his long-put-off solo album but he needn t have fretted so much robbie robertson x2014 released in 1987 a full decade after the band broke up x2014 is ample proof that robertson s abilities are still very much intact from the album s ethereal opener fallen angel dedicated to robertson s former band mate the late richard manuel to testimony its hard-rocking conclusion robertson establishes himself as his own man. it was a personal statement robertson says of the album. when i was younger i thought i was too young to really be personal i thought that what i was feeling and thinking might be half-baked. robbie robertson took three years to complete and cost over 750,000 to make traveling to new orleans woodstock dublin and england for inspiration and recording sessions robertson enlisted the help of u2 gil evans maria mckee the bodeans peter gabriel two of his cohorts from the band x2014 rick danko and garth hudson x2014 and the obscure but gifted guitarist bill dillon as sidemen much of the work was done in a studio in santa monica that robertson turned into a kind of workshop-cum-lounge with guitars and synthesizers at the ready he spent months and months working on ideas although he began the recording sessions with an album s worth of material many of the songs that showed up on the finished record x2014 sonny got caught in the moonlight testimony sweet fire of love and somewhere down the crazy river x2014 were written in the studio. i felt it was important for robbie to write new songs for this record says coproducer daniel lanois robertson wrote passionately about saving the planet showdown at big sky the price of fame american roulette and romance broken arrow i never wrote about the environment before says robertson. i feel very strongly about this stuff but in the past i felt like i d be jumping on the bandwagon now i felt like i couldn t help it. robertson sees the album as just the start of a new kind of songwriting and record making. i was proud to rip open my chest and bare my soul he says. i m not embarrassed to talk about these things anymore do you know what a skin walker is it s a thing in indian mythology there are certain people born with this gift and they re able to actually get inside you and mess with your feelings and with your mind and if a skin walker chooses to get a hold of you there s not much you can do i want a song to get inside me to feel it did the old skin walker on me i was kind of discovering that on this album and now i m pursuing it. x2022 video robbie robertson talks about the evolution of his guitar style x2022 rolling stone s 100 greatest guitarists of all time robbie robertson when the human league s american debut dare began its race up the charts in 1982 both the band and the album seemed unabashed rock rip-offs to more than a few skeptics the british band after all sported no guitars and there was no drummer or bassist in the group either what the human league used to create dare was a wash of synthesizers performed by band members who didn t even consider themselves to be professional musicians we started out as rank amateurs with a belief that you could use technology to make up for the fact that you hadn t acquired any skill that you could use computers to make up for the fact that you hadn t any keyboard players that you could use sequencers to do rhythms rather than employ a drummer human league vocalist and songwriter phil oakey told musician magazine in 1982 dare helped pave the way for the onslaught of electronics that would permeate rock on every level in the eighties the album demonstrated that synth pop was a viable alternative to rock s time-tested but guitar-glutted formulas dare and its smash single don t you want me also proved that the lucrative american market would willingly digest synth pop provided there was enough in the way of melody and rhythm to overcome the sometimes sterile strains of the synthesizer sound with dare the human league linked itself as much to the sex pistols as it did to kraftwerk and giorgio moroder two seventies pioneers in techno-rock like punk — a movement completely at odds with the kind of pop music a band like the human league wanted to make — the band confirmed that attitude and not musicianship is what s really important in the rock roll process and that with enough determination virtually anyone can play the music produced by martin rushent who had also worked with the buzzcocks and the stranglers dare was the human league s third album the previous two reproduction 1979 and travelogue 1980 were u.k.-only releases critically acclaimed both lps nonetheless possessed largely unfocused attempts at making synth pop an accessible rock style after a personnel shake-up in 1980 that left oakey and philip adrian wright the only surviving members of the original human league ian craig marsh and martyn ware went on to form the british electric foundation and then heaven 17 the band was revamped with newcomers ian burden and jo callis on synthesizers and joanne catherall and susanne sulley on vocals aside from delivering an alluring synthesizer-soaked brand of rock on dare oakey and the rest of the human league further validated their best songs with lyrics that went beyond pop pap seconds a deceptively haunting song about the jfk assassination darkness a tune about paranoia and the sound of the crowd a satirical stab at conformity are nearly as memorable as don t you want me but in the end dare is most remembered for its slick synthesizers drum machines dance rhythms and palatable pop we wanted to have a number one record — like the beatles oakey said with don t you want me the human league achieved its goal. i don t want to live in history books john lydon told rolling stone in 1979 by way of burying his old band the sex pistols and praising his new one public image ltd we re trying to write the next chapter. however iconoclastic they had been the pistols were just a rock roll band pil was an anti -rock roll band and if the members of the group were on a search-and-destroy mission they found their target on second edition guitarist keith levene says the album x2014 which was also known as metal box because its original u.k. packaging looked like a small film can x2014 represents the peak of early pil and dismisses the idea that the anarchistic band was all a joke. it fucking wasn t like that okay levene says. we were trying to do something serious. the band wanted a unique album cover and toyed with ideas such as a sardine can that would require a key not supplied and even what levene describes as a sandpaper-type record which would fuck up all your other records when you put it in your collection. eventually the album was released in the u.k. in a limited edition of 50,000 as three twelve-inch records recorded at 45 rpm for maximum sonic impact crammed into an embossed tin can and titled metal box the tracks weren t listed on the album or the labels which were at least color coded much to the band s displeasure the album was released in the united states with a cardboard jacket a different title second edition and relatively inferior sound with jah wobble s reggae-drenched bass way up front and levene s dissonant guitar forays the band pumps out droning fragmented dance music x2014 disco samuel beckett style lydon s disembodied monotone vocals sound like they were phoned in long-distance virtually all the songs on the album were improvised in the studio bassist wobble would play until the other two heard something they liked then structure a track around it using a clutch of session drummers levene says the best work on the record began as mistakes that were then refined and repeated. there was a great lack of fear a childlike innocence in the way it was approached says wobble many saw in lydon s lyrics an attempt to bury the sex pistols myth significantly he had changed his name back from johnny rotten on the opening track albatross he sings about getting rid of the albatross perhaps a reference to former pistols manager malcolm mclaren on memories he wails this person s had enough of useless memories and whatever s past/could never last. second edition also features three instrumentals including the beautiful radio 4. but according to levene dropping vocals wasn t a conceptual statement. nobody was around he says and i had to do something with the bloody studio time. x2022 johnny rotten contemplates new sex pistols pil albums she s so unusual was an appropriate title for cyndi lauper s 1983 debut record from her electric-orange hair and colorful flea-market wardrobe to her squeaky giddy voice lauper hardly appeared an odds-on bet to become one of pop s premier vocalists nor are many of the songs selected for she s so unusual conventional. she bop a seductive account of female masturbation girls just want to have fun an uncut statement about sexual freedom and he s so unusual a short but sweet taste of a 1929 tune that recalls comedienne gracie allen weren t the kinds of songs that typically add up to a hit album but that s precisely what she s so unusual became the multiplatinum disc and its four top five singles made lauper an instant star before embarking on a solo career lauper sang with blue angel a group she cofounded in 1978 the band s debut album released in 1980 bombed and blue angel broke up lauper signed a record deal with portrait and with producer rick chertoff at the controls she began work on she s so unusual chertoff brought in rob hyman and eric bazilian of the then-unknown philadelphia band the hooters to play on the record together they opted for a synth-heavy sound that evoked the girl-group era of the early-sixties and deftly played lauper s vocals against thick arrangements not yet an accomplished songwriter although she co-wrote she bop and the touching ballad time after time lauper looked outside for material she interpreted the brains money changes everything prince s when you were mine and robert hazard s girls just want to have fun with wit and conviction that she was able to integrate her zaniness into she s so unusual without sacrificing the underlying seriousness of the songs or her vocal delivery also meant something to lauper s career few solo artists have been able to balance such a delicate dichotomy the first time around fewer still have made it seem so easy x2014 and so much fun x2022 rolling stone s original 1983 review x2022 prince performs killer show with help from janelle mon xe1 e cyndi lauper it began as dream factory a two-record set with major contributions from revolution members wendy and lisa then metamorphosed into crystal ball a three-record extravaganza whose lengthy title track was to be prince s masterwork but by the time of its release it had once again become a two-disc set not titled sign o the times highlighted by the outstanding curtis mayfield-styled title track one of prince s strongest social statements the album is his most diverse work with material ranging from the steamy funk of hot thing and the jazzy balladry of slow love to more esoteric gems such as the ballad of dorothy parker and the fanciful starfish and coffee. this was also the album that marked the return of prince s more controversial side with the sexually provocative if i was your girlfriend. produced arranged composed and performed by prince sign o the times found him back in complete control of every aspect of his music he abandoned the neo-psychedelic qualities that had come to the fore on his previous albums pursuing a tougher soul music evident on the title track housequake and u got the look. he was hearing a different kind of music says alan leeds vice-president of prince s paisley park records at first dream factory was to have been another band album like the preceding purple rain around the world in a day and parade but along the way prince disbanded the revolution and put existing band tracks on the shelf instead he holed up in the basement of his new house and began cutting solo tracks about half the album was recorded at home the rest was recorded at sunset sound in los angeles prince played or sang nearly everything although there were some contributions from sheila e. former revolution members wendy and lisa and a few others the three-record crystal ball concept was followed all the way through to the mastering stage and included a suitelike twelve-minute title track but prince and warner bros. decided a three-record set wasn t the best move coming after parade which had not been one of prince s better sellers what became the new title track was written toward the end of the recording sessions. he had begun to see the effect of crack and drugs on young people says leeds. he s not really a preacher but it s certainly an antidrug song. u got the look one of several hits became a duet featuring sheena easton by accident. sheena just happened to be around says susan rogers who engineered the album. he said how d you like to do this feel like singing it was very spontaneous. if i was your girlfriend features a very personal lyric directed at susannah melvoin who had been prince s girlfriend. being wendy s twin sister she s very close to wendy says rogers. it was a way of asking why can t i have the closeness you have with your sister why can t we be friends too in retrospect sign o the times looks more and more like prince s exile on main street one of the few two-disc sets by any artist that holds up through all four sides. there was a refreshing feeling about making his own music unencumbered by the band again says leeds. i think it showed an artist who had really grown. x2022 rolling stone s 2002 review x2022 photos prince s welcome 2 america tour at msg the seventies were the favored habitat of the eagles whose tales of livin it up at the hotel california vaulted the west coast rockers to superstardom in the wake of their unannounced breakup around the turn of the decade the individual members faced the eighties with a much less certain hold on their audience while his band mates x2014 especially his erstwhile writing partner glenn frey x2014 have steered a safe commercial course don henley has written and recorded songs with a sociopolitical conscience working at a painstaking pace he has made only three solo albums in this decade building the perfect beast is a meticulously crafted and programmed set of songs about love and politics the first side is given to personal reflections on love and loss such as the wistful gorgeous boys of summer. side two is more issue oriented tackling subjects from genetic engineering building the perfect beast to america s reckless foreign policy all she wants to do is dance the album s longest and most ambitious piece sunset grill describes in disturbingly vivid images a character s sense of entrapment in an evil convulsive metropolis you see a lot more meanness in the city/it s the kind that eats you up inside/hard to come away with anything that feels like dignity. henley s collaborator is guitarist danny kortchmar who has also accompanied james taylor and jackson browne kortchmar wrote or co-wrote nine of the ten compositions on building the perfect beast the arrangements are more varied and generally edgier than the eagles easy-rolling songs x2014 a development consistent with henley s growing politicization. maybe what i m trying to do is find a purpose for being in the music business he told rolling stone in 1985. i m trying to make people think a little bit and be aware of things maybe rock roll is not the vehicle for this sort of thing x2014 but i don t see why it can t be. x2022 rolling stone s 100 greatest singers of all time don henley x2022 photos eagles long run from the seventies and beyond there was such a flurry of activity at that time that i don t actually have too many memories of making the first album says marshall crenshaw of his acclaimed debut effort which earned him a reputation as a new master of pop-rock songcraft. all i can remember is my co-producer richard gottehrer eating a lot of pasta and me pumping thom panunzio our engineer for stories about his days working with john lennon. after all only a few years before making his big splash crenshaw had been touring the united states as an ersatz john lennon in various national companies of the successful pseudo-fab four musical beatlemania tiring of that well-paying gig crenshaw decided to leave the show and work on his own music by the summer of 1980 crenshaw x2014 who hails from the detroit area x2014 was playing his own tunes around new york city as part of a trio with his brother robert on drums and chris donato playing bass crenshaw s homemade demo caught the attention of alan betrock of the tiny shake records who put out a twelve-inch single of something gon na happen backed with she can t dance. producer richard gottehrer then much in demand because of his work with the go-go s heard crenshaw s demo and had rockabilly singer robert gordon cut a number of crenshaw s songs one of those covers someday someway became a minor hit reaching number seventy-four on the pop charts and helped create a buzz about crenshaw before long that buzz led to a record deal with warner bros initially crenshaw wanted to produce his own first record but he later agreed to bring in gottehrer as co-producer when gottehrer suggested session drummer anton fig and bassist will lee for the sessions crenshaw insisted on sticking with his own group. i fought to have robert and chris on that record he says because we d forged a group identity and come to that point as a unit. there were also disagreements over what material to put on the album. i originally didn t want someday someway on the album says crenshaw because i felt robert gordon had taken a shot with it already and i didn t want she can t dance on there since it had been on our shake single but i gave in. crenshaw and gottehrer finished the record in five weeks at the record plant in new york city x2014 despite breakdowns by a steady stream of vox amplifiers a few of which caught fire the final album is an alternately rousing and heartbreaking cycle of infectious pop rockers cynical girl rockin around in n.y.c. she can t dance and ballads mary anne not for me x2014 none of them clocking in at more than 3:07 critics loved the album and it sold well crenshaw s single of someday someway briefly hit the top forty peaking at number thirty-six. at the time everyone focused on the fifties-rock influence on my songs says crenshaw. i was widely compared to buddy holly x2014 which is a hell of a nice compliment but to me the real influences on that record were bands like rockpile and squeeze the first album is very much a product of its time i wasn t trying to make my pop masterpiece i was just trying to do a good day s work. it sounds like it was fun to make crowded house s debut album is full of lighthearted melodic enormously catchy pop songs mean to me world where you live now we re getting somewhere something so strong and its biggest hit don t dream it s over. from start to finish crowded house is shot through with the high spirits and sheer tunefulness of classic pop music but it turns out that the album wasn t so easy to make after all. it s remarkable to me that it sounds like a really simple easygoing album says crowded house leader neil finn because there was quite a large amount of angst involved in making that record. singer songwriter and guitarist finn drummer paul hester and bassist nick seymour formed the band after the dissolution of the underappreciated new zealand pop group split enz of which finn and hester were members they d been together for about a year when they traveled to los angeles to make their debut album for capitol records in 1986 x2014 but still says finn we weren t really a band at all having come from a band that had spent ten years together it just felt like a collection of three people at that stage. they shared a house in the hollywood hills x2014 hence the band s name x2014 and went to work with producer mitchell froom at the time best known for his work with the boston roots rockers the del fuegos. they hadn t really decided what they wanted the record to sound like says froom. even the broadest terms x2014 like should there be a lot of synthesizers or should it be more of a natural thing x2014 weren t sorted out we just tried different things as we went along and it seemed to take on a character of its own as it went along. it was bloody hard work says finn partly because it was all so new to me x2014 new producer new band new record company new town new everything x2014 that i was really cautious every step of the way i was wary of what mitchell was suggesting and second-guessing him and he wasn t completely confident with us either. a handful of session musicians including guitarists tim pierce and joe satriani the latter on backing vocals only were brought in and on now we re getting somewhere the experienced rhythm section of bassist jerry scheff and drummer jim keltner was used. at the time that was quite a threatening thing says finn. paul and nick felt quite sheepish about the whole thing the next day we recorded don t dream it s over and it had a particularly sad groove to it x2014 i think because paul and nick had faced their own mortality. the results hardly sounded forced though the album seemed to be a flop until persistent word of mouth and some never-say-die promotion turned it into a hit eight months after its release. it could easily have not been successful says finn indeed the group s follow-up album temple of low men failed to garner significant sales despite strong reviews. the difference between an album becoming successful and people thinking it s remarkable says finn and being obscure and completely forgotten about is really slight. this is the best record of its kind ever made wrote david wild in rolling stone s review of the traveling wilburys volume one. then again he added it s also the only record of its kind ever made. the traveling wilburys album was one of those happy accidents that was almost waiting to happen starting with a throwaway song quickly recorded by george harrison bob dylan tom petty roy orbison and jeff lynne for the b side of a harrison single the project soon took on a life of its own after completing the track and deciding it was too good to waste on a flip side the veteran rockers cooked up a full-length album that not only included some of each member s strongest material in years but also became one of the decade s genuinely unique musical achievements from the catchy folk-pop hooks of the first number handle with care to the breezy country-rock finale end of the line the album s chiefly acoustic tunes all have the sound of instant classics but the real kicker was the presentation rather than releasing the album under their own names the five musicians hid behind a thin cloak of anonymity attributing their work to a mythical supergroup and adopting hick personae as part of an elaborate charade that included a bogus biography and a custom record label the tongue-in-cheek concept was a humorous way of placing the emphasis on the music instead of the big names besides offering a witty commentary that mocked the symbols of superstardom the wilbury sobriquet served as a sly preemptive strike against those who might spoil the party and canonize the fun-fest as a serious rock summit the five half-brothers of the wilbury family were hokey but hip and their individual strengths complemented one another perfectly there was orbison lefty wilbury whose haunting dynamic vocals are enshrined on the operatic not alone any more and who reclaimed his former glory only to pass away shortly after the album became a huge hit harrison nelson wilbury spearheaded the project following his fine solo album cloud nine proving that his comeback was no mere fluke dylan lucky wilbury emerged from a rut of several mediocre albums with his sneering congratulations the jaunty dirty world and a seeming lampoon of bruce springsteen tweeter and the monkey man. meanwhile petty charlie t. jr. acted out the role of eager kid brother with his fine work on end of the line and the woolly pickup tale last night presaging his top-selling solo album the following year rounding out the quintet was lynne otis wilbury the former electric light orchestra leader who handled most of the production chores and also sang the throbbing rockabilly bopper rattled. describing a typical day in the life of the wilburys lynne remembers how the five musicians usually gathered at dave stewart s home studio in los angeles and banged out ideas until a complete song resulted from the jamming. we would arrive about twelve or one o clock and have some coffee says lynne. somebody would say what about this and start on a riff then we d all join in and it d turn into something we d finish around midnight and just sit for a bit while roy would tell us fabulous stories about sun records or hanging out with elvis then we d come back the next day to work on another one that s why the songs are so good and fresh x2014 because they haven t been second-guessed and dissected and replaced it s so tempting to add stuff to a song when you ve got unlimited time. while the wilburys were intended as a lark songs like heading for the light not alone any more and handle with care offer idealistic romantic messages from a fraternity of rock graybeards. well it s alright riding around in the breeze/well it s alright if you live the life you please says the opening lyric to end of the line. it is a comforting notion indeed as the uptight conformist eighties draw to a close ll cool j born james todd smith was seventeen years old when he recorded this early rap masterpiece rhymes such as they hear me they fear me/my funky poetry/i m improving the conditions of the rap industry proved prophetic x2014 radio went platinum ushering in rap s blockbuster era and heralding the arrival of a superb rapper the liner notes say reduced by rick rubin and simplicity was the key to radio. we were going to bring it down break it down reduce it to its most minimal form x2014 like real low says ll but its minimalism wasn t what made radio a rap landmark before 1984 most rappers had simply recited continuous rhymes over four minutes of groove rubin arranged raps like pop songs with verses choruses and bridges so that ll s rhymes could fit into this new format rubin says i would say you ve got twelve lines and you ve got to do it in eight and ll would rewrite it so it worked in eight it was just making rap more like songs. ll cool j stands for ladies love cool james he became one of rap s first heartthrobs partly because of his dimpled good looks and macho swagger but also because radio includes two of the earliest rap ballads the cuddly i want you and i can give you more. one of radio s most powerful tracks is rock the bells. oddly enough the track has no bells on it ll was set to record the track using a cowbell break from a song called mardi gras until run-d.m.c used the identical best on its peter piper. as ll puts it i got housed. rubin suggested using a percussion break from the go-go great trouble funk instead and ll turned in a ferocious performance the moment when he yells rock the bells and the go-go beat kicks in is one of the most dramatic in rap the album s opener i can t live without my radio became a b-boy anthem now that ll has reached the advanced age of twenty-two he says he is still unable to live without his radio. but now it s in my car x2014 know what i mean x2022 rolling stone s original 1986 review x2022 rolling stone s 500 greatest albums of all time radio by ll cool j the specials found a happy medium between the aggression of punk and the more danceable upbeat rhythms of ska sporting porkpie hats and two-tone suits the racially mixed seven-member band from coventry in britain spearheaded a ska renaissance the specials debut album produced by elvis costello also launched the briefly successful 2-tone record label the specials opens with a cover of robert dandy thompson s ska anthem a message to you rudy then dives into more manic numbers like a gritty version of rufus thomas s do the dog and the band s own concrete jungle. in his first outing as a producer costello captured the spirit of the specials frenetic live shows by re-creating a club environment in the studio. it was a terrific atmosphere says vocalist neville staples of the sessions at london s pw studios. we just went in and played our show it was all live in the studio. in fact for the song nite club the band even brought in an audience. we had roadies chrissie hynde and a few other friends says staples. it was a laugh because we had a little drink to get the pub atmosphere going. we wanted it to be like the first clash album said bassist horace panter shortly after the album s u.s. release in 1980. not necessarily produced just recorded costello was more of an observer if you like suggesting things that we were too involved in to see ourselves. in addition to its punk-meets-reggae sensibility the specials is charged with antiracist sentiment just because you re a black boy/just because you re a white/it doesn t mean you ve got to hate him/doesn t mean you got to fight sings terry hall in the calypso-flavored doesn t make it all right. we were working as a black and white unit says staples. at the time there was a lot of racism happening so we just thought well we went to school with black and white guys instead of fighting and calling people names let s work together so we combined black music with punk we just mixed the two cultures. nothing says randy newman when asked what he had been thinking about when he began work on his eighth album trouble in paradise. i had no cohesive plan in mind. a cynical tour de force trouble in paradise sets several of newman s nastiest portraits of prejudice greed ego and small-mindedness against some of the most striking music of his career. it came to be about places and situations that could be ideal says newman but are somehow messed up. newman is clearly one of pop music s preeminent songwriters but with trouble in paradise he also mastered the art of great record making today it stands as one of the best albums of his career a fully realized collection of story-songs in which newman s dark take on the world is fully fleshed out although the best-known song is newman s love-hate letter to his hometown i love l.a. look at that mountain/look at those trees/look at that bum over there man/he s down on his knees trouble in paradise is full of clever material. christmas in cape town with its disturbingly spooky music is a poignant tale of racism and mean-spiritedness in mikey s two old-timers complain about what the world is coming to distressed by the minorities now frequenting their favorite bar. there s a party at my house sounds like a good-time rocker until the punch line hey bobby get the rope which hints at kinky escapades the centerpiece of the record is my life is good which details the self-importance of a hollywood wheeler-dealer asked about the similarities between the song s protagonist and himself newman laughs and says if i were that big a jerk i wouldn t admit to it. the arrangements throughout the album have a cinematic quality newman worked on movie scores to the natural and ragtime his songs are quite visual says lenny waronker who coproduced the album with russ titelman. his songs are like little movies it s like scoring eleven films. the album includes some impressive cameos don henley lindsey buckingham christine mcvie rickie lee jones bob seger wendy waldman linda ronstadt jennifer warnes and paul simon all contribute. his peers have such a high regard for him says waronker. they wanted to be a part of it and help get randy s stuff out to a lot of people. how does newman feel now about trouble in paradise it s a pretty good batch of songs he says. there are things about it i love like the first half of miami i like the two ballads real emotional girl and same girl and my life is good x2014 although if i had to do it again i might not do it the same way it might be funnier just with piano. x2022 rolling stone s original 1983 review keith richards thought the neville brothers fiyo on the bayou was the best album of 1981 most music fans never had a chance to form an opinion. i knew it wasn t going to get played on the radio says cyril neville. so i didn t build up any false hopes we just made the best record we could. with fiyo on the bayou the neville brothers x2014 singer aaron keyboardist and singer art saxophonist charles and percussionist cyril x2014 set out to capture their undisciplined sound descended from new orleans mardi gras music while commercializing it enough to reach a broad audience the tracks on fiyo on the bayou can be divided into two distinct categories dance-floor burners like hey pocky way and sweet honey dripper and showcase ballads for the band s primo canary aaron like mona lisa and the ten commandments of love the first time i saw the nevilles was at the bottom line in new york says producer joel dom. they completely blew me out of the water. dorn pitched a nevilles deal to a m which initially didn t share the producer s enthusiasm. a m thought the nevilles were too ethnic and too regional he says concurrently singer bette midler x2014 whom dorn had produced and who is also a nevilles fan x2014 lobbied a m on behalf of the band the label eventually gave dorn the green light a self-admitted sucker for aaron s angelic voice dorn painstakingly surrounded it with lush orchestration. when we cut mona lisa we used the new york philharmonic says dorn and aaron sang live in the booth we turned out all the lights except for one spot that was focused on a nat king cole album he sang the whole song to that album. of course everyone involved was convinced he had a hit on his hands. it was one of the few times that i ve made a record and was 100 percent satisfied when we finished says dorn. i felt fiyo on the bayou was the culmination of my career. but the title of the album proved confusing both cyril and keyboardist art neville had been members of the seminal new orleans band the meters which had released a 1975 album entitled fire on the bayou inclusion of a new version of the meters signature tune hey pocky way on fiyo further muddied the bayou. we wanted those songs to be heard by more people says aaron most radio stations were just as puzzled by the nevilles style which didn t fit easily into any programming format. we just couldn t get any airplay says dorn. it was the kind of record where i wished i could have gone door-to-door and said here x2014 listen to this record in my tribe x2014 a feast of acoustic rockers centered around singer natalie merchant s alluring vocals and a jangly guitar sound x2014 vaulted 10,000 maniacs from underground status into the top forty and not a moment too soon either the third album from the upstate-new york cult band was literally a make-or-break affair. there was a lot of pressure on us says keyboardist and band cofounder dennis drew. if tribe hadn t been successful there never would have been another album. in my tribe is more than a successful record x2014 it is a poetic heartfelt message about social concerns such as alcoholism child abuse and illiteracy the maniacs didn t always have such a passionate sense of purpose drew and steven gustafson both college-radio djs formed a band called still life which started out covering joy division and gang of four songs merchant joined after wandering into the radio station armed with a pile of lps she wanted heard on the air also recruited were guitarist rob buck and john lombardo a seasoned composer-guitarist who served as the group s major creative force drummer jerome augustyniak came on board in 1982 and the group x2014 after changing its name x2014 released an independent ep and album before moving to elektra records the maniacs major-label debut the wishing chair won fine reviews but met with indifference outside alternative-music circles lombardo quit under stormy circumstances and the anxiety proved to be contagious after rejecting demos for the band s next album elektra insisted the group work with producer peter asher best known for his work with linda ronstadt and james taylor the shotgun marriage worked out in the end but it was a shaky trip to the altar the band felt uncomfortable recording in los angeles asher s home turf the maniacs were also unhappy with many of asher s additions to their sound including computerized drums asher insists he was merely cajoling the band into doing its best work elektra suggested doing a familiar song as the lead single resulting in a cover of cat stevens s peace train. the gambit failed to break the group and the song was later removed from the album after stevens x2014 a converted muslim x2014 called for the death of satanic verses author salman rushdie the maniacs ultimately scored with their sadly lilting second single like the weather. it took two years for in my tribe to go platinum but even the band agrees it was better late than never. the album gave us a great chance to really coalesce as a band says drew. at that point we had to save our career and make a good record we fucking buckled up tightened our belt and did it. screaming electric guitar punctuates the raucous melodies and street-smart lyrics on vivid an album that not only marked the auspicious debut of the hard-rocking band living colour but was also credited with breaking down racial barriers in pop music the band proved to be the first black rock group to attract a large mainstream audience since sly and the family stone in the early seventies and the album s ascent was accompanied by as much hubbub over the band s ethnic makeup as its compelling style. it wasn t like the idea of vivid or living colour was generated by some sort of desire to make it in the white world of rock music says lead guitarist and group founder vernon reid. there was a lot of talk about it but it s not odd that black people play rock roll x2014 what s really odd is that people think it s odd it s a shame more people didn t focus on the music itself because that s what we wanted. the music itself is an intoxicating brew of hard grinding rock with splashes of funk jazz reggae rap punk and even country rhythms darting from the hip-hop twang of broken hearts to the philosophical metal assault of middle man the band refuses to stay stuck in any single groove vivid s opening track cult of personality is the real kicker a bursting riff-rock anthem on the harmful effects of idolatry and blind faith that ironically helped catapult living colour to the status of pop icon the group s seeming overnight success was actually years in the making born in england and raised in brooklyn reid earned his musical chops during the early eighties playing guitar in electric jazz outfits like defunkt and ronald shannon jackson s decoding society he formed living colour as a trio in 1984 going through various configurations for two years before hooking up with singer corey glover drummer william calhoun and bassist muzz skillings then came the real stroke of luck reid was called in to play on mick jagger s solo album primitive cool and the stone dropped by the new york punk club cbgb to catch living colour s show jagger got so worked up over the set that he took a week off from mixing his own album to produce two demos x2014 glamour boys and which way to america x2014 for the fledgling group after the jagger tapes made the rounds and snagged living colour a record deal the band called in primitive cool coproducer ed stasium to oversee the rest of the album jagger whose demos appear in their original form on vivid came back later to blow harmonica on broken hearts while other studio guests included public enemy s chuck d. and flavor flav delivering a social-commentary rap on funny vibe. reid points to memories and other tracks on the album as evidence that the songs are meant to portray the personal feelings of band members rather than pursue any specific social agenda. the fact that we re african americans has a lot to do with what s on the record and what we see in our lives reid says but all our problems aren t generated by the fact that we re black. social issues provided the basis for several numbers such as the scathing attack on gentrification open letter to a landlord but there are also touching love songs i want to know a talking heads cover memories can t wait and an offbeat funky theme song what s your favorite color according to reid the heads cover was one of the band s particular favorites and had been in its live repertoire for some time. the duality of the interior life someone s leading and their exterior life spoke really powerfully to us says reid. people say we re obviously a message band reid adds. but we re just trying to chronicle a certain thing that was happening with us that thing about messages x2014 well really the record was about the way we feel. x2022 living colour headline black rock coalition tribute in nyc they offer cut-up situational accounts of the paradoxes of leisure as oppression identity as product home as factory resident as tourist sex as politics history as ruling-class private joke wrote greil marcus in rolling stone of the gang of four in 1980 but as the band s drummer hugo burnham says we were also a great fucking rock roll band. the band s propulsive funk riffs ran headlong into jarring stops and starts singer jon king s harangues battled against andy gill s noisy guitar lines bassist dave allen s heavy bottom laid down the law as burnham pounded out tricky tattoos the relentless churning thrust of tracks like damaged goods and i found that essence rare built up unbearable tension then released it in transcendent explosions heeding funkmeister george clinton s slogan free your ass and your mind will follow gang of four was intent on shattering both musical and lyric conventions x2014 that their driving dissonant music prove danceable was not only necessary it was also inevitable. we were trying to invent a new kind of music a new kind of language gill says of entertainment we were using the building blocks of rock music funk music and pop music dismantling them to see what was there and using what we felt like using. and gang of four s revolutionary pop rhetoric not only infiltrated the dance floor x2014 it also invaded the corporate world as the band was one of the few early postpunk outfits to sign to a major label it was a situation some found hypocritical but as burnham says if you ve got something to say and you want people to hear it what s the best thing to do make as many people hear it as possible. the radical musical approach is epitomized by the way gill s atonal arrhythmic guitar ricochets all over at home he s a tourist or by his post-hendrix feedback on anthrax. in his lyrics king may work in anything including godard films news items terminology from video games and tv advertising slogans to make his points about the effect of western culture on interpersonal relationships the title of the album neatly reflects its own paradox x2014 that of commenting on entertainment and being it the title comes from the song 5:45 in which a man watching the evening news comes to the realization that guerrilla war struggle is a new entertainment it isn t all straight sociopolitics songs like damaged goods and contract are about romance demystified and reduced to a transaction x2014 a contract in our mutual interest. anthrax contains two separate sets of lyrics sung simultaneously one a song comparing love to a cattle disease the other a brief essay about why pop music is so fixated on love recording took place in four weeks from april to may 1979 the mood at the studio was hardly convivial x2014 gill and king helped produce the record and there was as much jockeying over production credits as good seats at the mixing console. it was really vicious it was hell burnham says with a chuckle. but we got a fucking brilliant record out of it. one can spot a clear gang of four influence in r.e.m. inxs and u2 as well as countless other bands unfortunately gang of four never quite matched entertainment again and underwent a gradual and messy breakup leaving behind this postpunk masterpiece as its legacy x2022 rolling stone s original 1980 review x2022 rolling stone s 500 greatest albums of all time entertainment by gang of four the album took a year to record and had to sell 1 million copies just to break even but def leppard s 1983 chart torcher pyromania was worth the time and expense it sold more than 9 million copies and with its radio-ready blend of melodic savvy and stadium wallop defined the mainstream metal sound of the eighties for better and worse for worse because pyromania unleashed a plague of cheap imitators poison winger and white lion for better because the leppards and their producer hard-rock auteur robert john mutt lange set precedents for commercially astute songwriting and sheer studio ambition the massive yet airy vocal harmonies philharmonic layers of guitar without compromising the basic thump. we gave mutt songwriting credits because this time he actually helped us structure the songs singer joe elliott said in 1985. they weren t written songs that he changed he sat down with us as a sixth member of the band and participated in the whole thing. lange and the leppards worked for months on riffs and choruses trying different combinations and then sewing them up when they made melodic and commercial sense but the writing wasn t all so academic. photograph was a song with a good chorus a hot bridge but a flabby verse riff until guitarist steve clark started noodling around on his guitar one night while the rest of the band was watching world cup soccer. the announcer suddenly got quiet elliott said and we heard this guitar blasting from the room next door it sounded great so we got up and ran over to see what was going on steve sat there beaming saying i fixed it and that was it photograph was born. pyromania was a hard-rock temple built brick by brick to get a sound that combined metal muscle with studio precision lange recorded each member of the band individually starting with bassist rick savage a single guitar riff overdubbed with clean harmonies funky distortion and screaming feedback might take up to three weeks to record often one string at a time when the band members later went to do background vocals they discovered all of the guitars were slightly out of tune it was too late to re-record them so the guitars were put through an electronic harmonizer to cover up the bum notes lange s obsessiveness with the smallest sonic details had a big downside it was hard to tell from day to day whether any progress at all was being made on the record after an all-night session lange would often play work tapes for leppard comanager peter mensch who lived a short drive from battery studios. mutt would come in and say listen to what we did tonight x2014 and three more words would be added to a vocal says mensch. it got to a point where i d keep listening to these tapes and i couldn t tell what was there and what was missing. there were personal complications too founding rhythm guitarist pete willis was fired midway through the sessions because of a debilitating alcohol problem within forty-eight hours his replacement phil collen of the london glam-rock band girl had cut the solo for stagefright. that was nothing compared to the calamity of recording the next lp hysteria that album took three years to record drummer rick allen also lost his left arm in an auto accident fortunately it takes more than a little trauma to keep a good leppard down as pyromania so ably proved. there was always that feeling there that we have to do it right rick savage said a couple of years ago. or we don t do it at all. x2022 rolling stone s original 1983 review x2022 video def leppard talk about their love of glam rock captain beefheart once said of his music i m just throwing up x2014 in tie-dye. if so then doc at the radar station released in 1980 is one of the most colorful and pivotal records in his singular catalog poised on the cusp of a new decade beefheart a.k.a don van vliet poured out his innards in technicolor for doc at the radar station serving up his most colorful and caustic verse in years on a sprawling distinctively beefheartian platter of corrosive avant-rock jungle-blues squawk alien-guitar romanticism and willful yet often playful atonality he added a mellotron to his aural palette as well attacking it on sue egypt and ashtray heart with the vigor of the phantom of the opera his singing too was more animated x2014 going from stratospheric screech to subterranean howlin wolf in a heartbeat x2014 and laced with an unmistakable menace in short doc at the radar station is the true emotional and musical heir to beefheart s epic 1969 masterpiece trout mask replica capturing his remarkable art with power and unprecedented cohesion beefheart recognized his own achievement at the time one doc rocker is proudly titled best batch yet. and guitarist moris tepper who joined beefheart s magic band in 1975 still believes that the album was the peak of his tenure. we were able to pull the goo out a lot more clearly than we had earlier says tepper. there was a density that was not on earlier records. as always beefheart dictated the content of his twelve songs for doc at the radar station to the magic band in obsessive detail presenting tapes of himself playing the piano or sometimes just whistling a phrase and telling the band to interpret it exactly for sue egypt tepper says there were sections on beefheart s demo where he was literally screaming bloody murder into a tape recorder and then going here play this guitarist-drummer john drumbo french who had played on trout mask replica and was already familiar with beefheart s idiosyncrasies recalls the rather odd way the band did backing vocals on run paint run run. we didn t have a copy of the lyrics says french. we were supposed to be singing these parts and we didn t know where the heck we were supposed to be singing or what the words were i think the reason he did that was to get that anger that kind of screaming out of us he wanted us to sound really desperate and it came out real well. beefheart s own desperation is evident on the record. making love to a vampire with a monkey on my knee is a violent lyric climax gnats fucked my ears n nostrils/hit my brain like hones n numbed t nothing oh fuck that thing fuck that poem yet the album also has moments of remarkable tranquillity such as gary lucas s solo guitar performance on flavor bud living. doc at the radar station was in a sense beefheart s last hurrah after ice cream for crow in 1982 a weary and frustrated beefheart retired from music to concentrate on painting he did the cover art for doc at the radar station but when contacted recently at his northern-california retreat beefheart said that he still listens to doc a lot often while painting. i m the music i m making when i m painting he declared. i m still doing the same damn thing the paintbrush is my pen now. x2022 rolling stone s original 1980 review x2022 the odyssey of captain beefheart rolling stone s 1970 cover story x2022 photos captain beefheart a life in photos lou reed s 1982 album the blue mask was the end of something as reed put it in a 1986 rolling stone interview the absolute end of everything from the velvet underground on the blue mask was the final ending and legendary hearts the 1983 follow-up like a coda. the blue mask certainly marked a crossroads in reed s life and art in stark contrast to his well-publicized personal and musical indulgences of the seventies reed was now married and enjoying the new-found domestic calm documented in my house and heavenly arms the ballads that bookend the album at the same time he had formed a lean mean quartet combining his own psycho-twang with that of the celebrated new york guitarist robert quine and the fluid r b bass of fernando saunders the result is a poetically compelling musically brutish summation of reed s rites of rock roll passage the blue mask harks back to the twin-guitar violence of the velvets and reed s earliest literary conceits my house is dedicated to his mentor at syracuse university the poet delmore schwartz at the same time the album casts a hopeful eye toward the future while effectively closing the book on reed s extended narrative odyssey through the dark side of human experience x2014 violence the gun alcoholism underneath the bottle and spiritual isolation the howling waves of fear reed who had already written definitive songs about drug addiction and sexual perversion managed to top himself with the title track which was packed with graphic images of sexual torture oedipal desire and finally castration. i can t even listen to that song the usually fearless reed admitted in 1986 initially reed gave each member of the band a bare-bones demo of the songs for the blue mask with reed singing and strumming an electric guitar there were no rehearsals as such before the band went into the studio in october 1981 according to robert quine we d just go in every day and do at least one maybe two songs we d start to play and the arrangement would take shape. to preserve the spontaneity and bare-knuckles sound of the band each track was recorded live reed redid his vocals later and usually nailed down in two or three takes. the blue mask itself didn t even take that long. we did one half-finished take on that one says quine did another one and that was it that s a great moment when reed takes that guitar solo at the end it s every bit as brutal and energized as his stuff with the velvet underground. x2022 rolling stone s original 1982 review x2022 the 25 boldest career moves in rock history x2022 rolling stone s 100 greatest singers of all time lou reed i was having fun on that album george clinton says of computer games which contains blueprints for all the tangents funk and rhythm blues would take in the eighties with a cosmic giggle clinton co-opted the new technology x2014 sequencers samples remixing looping and scratching in addition to reestablishing clinton early in the new decade computer games netted him a comeback hit in atomic dog a funky ode to man s best friend filled with canine woofing and all sorts of rhythmic trickery that has since been sampled on numerous rap and hip-hop records throughout his four decades in music clinton s sales figures have never been a true measure of his influence in the seventies he forged a white-rock-black-funk synthesis with the bands parliament and funkadelic much as sly stone and jimi hendrix had done in the sixties parliament featured horns and was closer to soul while funkadelic emphasized guitars and was closer to rock there were many offshoot projects as well with clinton juggling roles as master conceptualist in 1981 however an overworked clinton put p-funk on hold and took time off to straighten out personal and legal business almost two years later computer games announced his return clinton worked especially hard on the album to prove that i still had my brain together he says. the minute you get real drunk or wrecked the first thing you think is oh lord if you let me out of this one i won t do it no more mine is i have to be able to cut a record that s the only thing that will let me know i didn t fuck up i just had to find that out for myself and i think i was all right in truth clinton was often brilliant giving an eighties face lift to funk on atomic dog and looping up a storm on the wild collage of old and new soul songs titled loopzilla. atomic dog which neither clinton nor the record company viewed as commercial was a sizable hit in fact says clinton atomic dog wouldn t get out of the way for any other single off that album. six years later it remains so popular that clinton cut another dog song x2014 why should i dog u out x2014 for his latest album the cinderella theory. i figured let s give em some more dog let s start right off doggin em again clinton says laughing. i thought they had enough of atomic dog but they didn t so here s some more with fleas and ticks. x2022 rolling stone s original 1983 review the next logical step after you ve gone to paul simon s graceland the indestructible beat of soweto is a classic out of the bleak and dusty streets of soweto south africa s largest black township springs music that s joyous and proud x2014 and you can dance to it trevor herman an expatriate white south african i left for the obvious reasons compiled these twelve tracks which were recorded in the early eighties when a resurgence in township music known as mbaqanga and consciousness about apartheid propelled the music out of south africa and won it international acclaim mbaqanga takes its name from a doughy cake sold on township streets x2014 it s very workaday music that deals with everything from drunken husbands to gossips to hard-working miners. in most parts of africa herman says music is more than entertainment x2014 it s part of life everything is celebrated in song in the rhythm of living. an alloy of several tribal styles as well as jazz and reggae mbaqanga shares a number of similarities with the blues and not just because it is a music born of oppression like modern blues mbaqanga came about when workers flooded into major cities bringing their local music with them and like the blues mbaqanga got electrified when it came to the city one strand of mbaqanga music comes from hymns learned from missionaries very evident in ladysmith black mambazo s stirring nansi imali here is the money there s a lot of reggae in the two tracks by the legendary mahlathini and the mahotella queens and a country western sound pervades sobabamba by udoketela shange namajaha in the early sixties several township styles x2014 jazz penny-whistle music and marabi honky-tonk music x2014 coalesced into a dance mus xef c that became known as township jive with a steady beat adorned by droning acoustic guitars tinkling electrics and rich vocal harmonies that are joyous gritty and real mbaqanga became party music played in shebeens illegal bars ignored by the government at workers parties on the street and in the recording studio where groups often united for one-shot recordings herman theorizes that the strong beat came from american groups such as the supremes. also a lot of players were listening to the beatles he says. not so much the music but the instrumentation. since many mbaqanga bands are ethnically mixed their music brings together different black ethnic groups if south africa s black majority hasn t prevailed because it is a house divided it s not the fault of mbaqanga in the final analysis it s inspirational music. maybe they re living in hell herman says of the mbaqanga players but when they get down to the music it s something from themselves something from the heart something that gives them strength. on empty glass his second solo album pete townshend chronicled the personal tumult he was experiencing and initiated an adult style of songwriting that helped reenergize the singer-songwriter tradition in the eighties eight of the ten songs were written following who drummer keith moon s death late in 1978 in december of 1979 during the band s american tour eleven fans died in a preconcert crush outside riverfront coliseum in cincinnati meanwhile the members of the who were repeatedly dismissed as worn-out ancients by britain s scornful punks amid the turmoil townshend resolved to make a solo album. in a way i ve got the punk explosion to thank for making that decision he said at the time. it freed me it allowed me to be myself it dignified me in a way to be cast to one side i felt uneasy with the way the who were inevitably on the road to mega-stardom it was the most important thing i ve ever done for me x2014 to allow me to have a new beginning to actually grow. on empty glass townshend s ambivalent obsession with punk dominates both the lyrics and the music produced by chris thomas who d recently worked with the pretenders and the sex pistols the album was raw muscular and focused in a way the who never would be again although he d begun a spiral of booze and drugs that would lead to a bout with alcoholism and a temporary split with his wife karen townshend pledged in a little is enough to make the best of their fitful marriage. i was able to very easily put into words something that had actually happened to me when i was a thirty-four-year-old he said. it s very emotional but it s also very straightforward and clear. of course a literal reading of a songwriter as complex as townshend can be deceptive as in rough boys and and i moved written for bette midler taken by some as confessions of homosexual lust townshend said a lot of gays and a lot of bisexuals wrote to me congratulating me on this so-called coming out i think in both cases the images are very angry aren t they in rough boys the line come over here i want to bite and kiss you is about i can scare you i can frighten you i can hurt all you macho individuals simply by coming up and pretending to be gay and that s what i really meant in that song i think. he dismissed let my love open the door as just a ditty but it charted as high as any who single ever had reaching number nine. if i disagree with the fact that empty glass is the best work i ve done in a long time i would be fooling you townshend said in 1982 later he admitted that the who seemed much less viable as a result i think the only thing that really went wrong was that i realized as soon as empty glass was finished hey this is it i m not able to achieve with the band what i ve achieved here x2022 rolling stone s original 1980 review x2022 rolling stone s 100 greatest guitarists of all time pete townshend it s a heavy album says bernard sumner who played guitar and keyboards with joy division and still can t listen to closer. it was a voyage into the dark side of yourself. decades the masterpiece that closes the record seems to tell of that voyage we knocked on the doors of hell s darker chambers/pushed to the limit we let ourselves in/watched from the wings as the scenes were replaying/we saw ourselves now as we never have seen. the eerie soundscapes and fatalistic lyrics on closer re-released on qwest/warner bros. take listeners down into the abyss and challenge them to crawl back out metal machine rhythms and twisted tortured guitars echo ian curtis s anguished vocals while synthesizers add a feeling of steely high-tech alienation peter hook s bass often carries the melody an innovation much copied since x2014 there s not a doom rocker around who doesn t owe something to joy division but they re just gray imitations of a deep dark band. mother i tried/please believe me/i m doing the best that i can/i m ashamed of the things i ve been put through/i m ashamed of the person i am curtis sang on isolation. as if to prove he really meant it curtis took his life soon after the album was recorded hours before the band was to embark on its first american tour the band changed its name and carried on as new order joy division s powerful first album unknown pleasures had topped the british independent charts in 1979 yet the members of the band weren t fully satisfied with the sound of it. we wanted it to be more powerful says sumner less than a year later they recorded closer curtis acted as musical director as sumner says the madder the music sounded the more pleased he would be with it. the members of the band would sleep all day and work through the night undisturbed until dawn when twittering birds would sometimes find their way onto the studio tapes sumner says that while they were recording a room sound they picked up a phantom whistling the tune of decades x2014 odd since the building was otherwise deserted figuring it was a bad omen they left it off the record ironically curtis dropped hints about his fate yet no one could decipher them he once told sumner i feel like i m caught in a whirlpool and i m being dragged down and there s nothing i can do about it. but he wouldn t explain what he meant says sumner. i think he wanted someone to help him but he didn t want to ask. x2022 rolling stone s 500 greatest albums of all time closer by joy division x2022 remembering joy division s ian curtis 30 years after his death john fogerty began recording centerfield the album that revived his long-dormant career right after he attended the major-league-baseball all-star game at san francisco s candlestick park in the summer of 1984 fogerty s seats were he notes in center field. i was very aware of the connotation of center field x2014 the comeback spotlight angle of it says fogerty. it all seemed very zen-like and cosmic to me at the time. fogerty s hopes were of course rewarded centerfield went on to become his first number one album since his departure from creedence clearwater revival and two of its singles old man down the road and rock and roll girls went top twenty creatively the album found fogerty at the top of his form and it contains songs that rival his best work from ccr s glory days centerfield shows fogerty to be a mature record maker it is a concept album that can be taken as simply a great collection of songs a kind of whitman s sampler of what john fogerty is about as he puts it but look a little deeper and one finds an intensely autobiographical album a survivor s tale that celebrates the durability of rock roll and the power inherent in remaining true to one s own beliefs while some of the songs on centerfield like rock and roll girls and big train from memphis evoke lost innocence others cynically portray fogerty s experiences in the music business the title of vanz kant danz which was originally named zanz kant danz refers to saul zaentz the head of fogerty s former record label and searchlight chronicles the emotional toll the ccr years had taken on fogerty but the story fogerty tells on centerfield has a happy ending the title track of course is the centerpiece of the album a song about getting another chance at the big time and i can t help myself expresses the excitement john fogerty felt at once again being a player on the rock scene fogerty had been trying to write songs for an album for years but he says they just didn t come together toward the end of 1983 he finally regained his muse. stuff just suddenly started to click he says. so much so that i began to think i m gon na be able to make a record pretty soon he came up with about twelve songs but narrowed the song list down to the nine that appear on the album the actual recording of centerfield took two months at the plant the sausalito california recording studio best known as the site of fleetwood mac s rumours sessions and cost just 35,000 because fogerty worked from detailed demos and notes recording was straightforward and painless. centerfield probably more than any record that will ever be made is a result of one guy s homemade production says fogerty. from the artist to the listener here s a case where the guy who wrote the songs literally put all the sprockets on the drums it wasn t shipped off to have a bunch of roadies to do x2014 each thing was actually hand-done by me. for fogerty everything was riding on the fate of the album. it was more than a comeback he says. there were a bunch of things that were going to be set right once the thing was really ready i had to do more than just finish the sucker x2014 it had to be good enough to be a hit there was a lot of stuff to be proven it was more than the act of just finishing the race x2014 i had to win the race. x2022 john fogerty s centerfield gets honored by baseball hall of fame x2022 rolling stone s 100 greatest guitarists john fogerty speaking in tongues was a lighter record says talking heads singer david byrne referring to the band s 1983 release. i guess we wanted to show that we weren t totally one-sided we were in danger of being categorized as a kind of quirky gloomy bunch of weirdos. the band s playful side indeed shines through on the album s nine songs which include such tracks as the wobbly making flippy floppy the animated girlfriend is better and the cheery this must be the place naive melody for all its lightheartedness however the album still managed to fuse the band s disparate musical interests most notably the afro-funk that byrne had led the band to explore on its preceding album remain in light and the dance-oriented sounds that drummer chris frantz and bassist tina weymouth had pursued with the tom tom club and years of touring had given the heads a sense of how to craft songs that would appeal to their audience. by playing live you figure out what it is that makes people jump up and down and what it is that makes them sit in their chair says frantz. when it came time to do speaking in tongues we knew we were going out on the road it s not like everything is premeditated but we had this feeling that it s not just about art it s also about entertainment when we went out on tour after that it was the first time that the kids would go nuts for the songs off the current album in the past they d go for the old ones like psycho killer and take me to the river the band wrote the tracks at the blank tapes recording studio in new york. the writing was done by four people sitting down in a studio and just rolling the tape says frantz. we d record these long extended grooves and then bring in people like alex weir to add a little bit of additional guitar and various other people like keyboardist wally badarou. byrne sang nonsense lyrics which he later refined. i sang all the words in gibberish first he says and then made words to fit later i d done that a little bit before but it was the first time i d done it for a whole record. some of the gibberish actually made sense says weymouth. certain phrases like i ve got rockets in my pockets on moon rocks actually remained on the record from the first improvisational takes we didn t want to lose them because they were so free and they fit right in. the chorus in the opening song burning down the house was inspired by a parliament-funkadelic show. i heard these kids in the audience screaming burn down the house says frantz and i thought wow that sounds like a song i guess it was a good title because i heard it on classic rock radio twice today frantz says now. they won t play our new stuff but they ll play the old stuff hey it was a classic title but what we really wanted to do was rock the house. x2022 rolling stone s original 1983 review john hiatt made his best album the brilliant and skillful bring the family in record time x2014 four days in february 1987 to be exact on it hiatt was accompanied by a small simpatico ensemble of all-star musicians guitarist ry cooder bassist nick lowe and drummer jim keltner the sessions were preceded by no rehearsals or preproduction lowe in fact went straight from the airport to the studio arriving just in time to cut memphis in the meantime a song he had never heard before the spontaneity of it all hiatt believes was largely responsible for the understated forthright collection of songs that resulted. i just don t think it would ve come out the same if we d spent more time on it he says. the beauty of the project was that none of us was given the time to think with the old left side of the brain. producer john chelew imposed a four-day limit on the sessions his motivation had less to do with economics or scheduling than a desire to capture the performances with an unstudied first-take freshness hiatt himself likens it to a jazz session where a band runs a tune down a few times cuts it and moves on. i imagined it might be something similar to that in terms of the intensity and the fun hiatt says. it was kind of scary too but very exciting. there were seat-of-the-pants decisions made at every turn when the band couldn t settle on an arrangement for the moving confessional have a little faith in me hiatt banged it out alone at the piano during a break and it wound up on the album in that form lowe s breathless arrival the first day gave memphis in the meantime its odd loopy rhythms. it sounds like a car with four bald tires says hiatt laughing. it s like a four-man groove sputtering down the road and i really like the record for that. hiatt is especially fond of bring the family s love songs having beat his alcohol and drug problems in 1984 hiatt was a clearheaded happily married and much less vituperative songwriter. learning how to love you for instance is a song i had never been able to say quite so directly hiatt says. i m a coward basically when it comes to love and that was the first time i really felt willing to come out and be a little vulnerable. the emotional openness and spiritual resurgence carried through the whole album x2014 which amazingly enough was made at a time when hiatt didn t even have a record deal in america. the normal sort of pressures of making a record real or imagined just weren t there says hiatt. i m not so sure a major label would have even let it happen frankly although they all seemed to want it after we made it it went against the corporate approach to record-making which is it can t be any good you didn t spend any time or money on it to the contrary bring the family is one of the most sublime and deeply felt albums of the eighties. i think the effect this group of musicians had on each other is that we all wanted to do our best hiatt says. the way i look at the album today i really see it as a true collaboration of which i was just a cog in the wheel i m not trying to feign humility but it was just such a group effort it s a very inspirational bunch i would like to go on record to say i sure hope it happens again. i love doing third albums says jimmy iovine who coproduced dire straits making movies with the band s lead singer guitarist and songwriter mark knopfler. a group makes its first album and then the record company rushes them into the studio to make their second album after that they go whoa wait a second they get a little more confident they step back and say okay now we re gon na do it iovine s description is an apt summary of the road dire straits traveled to get to making movies which followed the band s distinctive 1978 debut dire straits and its disappointing second album communique the description also captures the nature of knopfler s ambitions for the record. i think he wanted to take dire straits to that next step especially in terms of the songs and to have the album really make sense all together which i think it does iovine says. it s a really cohesive album he stunned me as far as his songwriting talents the songs on that album are almost classical in nature. knopfler contacted iovine because he liked iovine s work on because the night the patti smith single that she d co-written with bruce springsteen iovine who had also worked on born to run and darkness on the edge of town was instrumental in calling e street band keyboardist roy bittan into the sessions for making movies without him the album s cinematic power and evocative landscapes might have been impossible to achieve the melodicism and romantic intensity of bittan s playing alternately underscore and serve as a foil for knopfler s guitar x2014 and help elevate such tracks as romeo and juliet tunnel of love and expresso love to poetic heights bittan s role became especially important because knopfler s brother david the band s rhythm guitarist left dire straits during the first week of recording guitarist sid mcginiss was brought in to assist mark bassist john illsley and drummer pick withers but bittan s contribution was unique in that it was the first time the band had ever fully worked a keyboardist into its lineup. mark was real excited because it was the first time he expanded dire straits in a way that has been consistent since then bittan says. it was a seminal album for them in that respect. bittan describes the sessions for making movies as work sessions where we went in and really took time to capture the emotion and paint the picture they were not very straightforward songs the subtleties of emotion that he was trying to capture was something real special x2014 it reminded me of bruce you know making movies was recorded in six weeks but iovine says it basically happened on the first six days of the sessions the right people were in the room together it really was making a record in the pure sense of the term the whole thing sounds like one song but you know what that is that s the writing the guy who wrote it he wrote the album like that he wanted to make the album like that. x2022 rolling stone s original 1981 review the pioneering rap-metal fusion of the song rock box and the powerful 1984 debut album it came from run-d.m.c. catapulted nineteen-year-old rappers run joseph simmons d.m.c darryl mcdaniels and their dj jam master jay jason mizell to the top of the rap heap and beyond. rock box proved that rap like rock is a malleable art form capable of absorbing other influences continually reinventing itself in the process run and d.m.c wielded rhymes like rockers wield guitars the hugely influential rock box made the comparison explicit by souping up an inspired brag session with an innovation blistering heavy-metal guitar from ace sessionman eddie martinez although run thought it was a bad idea at first the marriage of metal and rap was inevitable as rappers had already been using rhythm tracks from songs such as billy squier s big beat and aerosmith s walk this way. rock box kicked down musical barriers it was the first video by a rap artist on mtv thereby attracting a large white audience the rap-metal fusion remained influential in the summer of 1986 run-d.m.c s remake of walk this way went top five the beastie boys rode rap metal to platinum heaven with hits like fight for your right to party and tone-l xf6 c s wild thing with its van halen guitar hook went double platinum early this year run-d.m.c includes several other rap classics as well the group s first two singles it s like that and hard times paint bleak pictures of unemployment inflation and war but go on to promote school work and church as a way out but the positive message wasn t simply a public service. i was trying to get a record that was positive run says because i knew that the radio didn t want to play anything negative. on tracks like sucker m.c s run and d.m.c rapped over little more than an infectious drum-machine beat spiced up with synthesized hand-claps capturing on vinyl what rappers had been doing in new york city parks for years although radio initially bridled at the minimal approach the record s hip street sound eventually proved irresistible giving creedence to run s assessment of the album it s good to be raw. run s brother russell simmons who went on to become rap s foremost impresario as co-owner of def jam records helped arrange the vocals and coproduced the album with larry smith a veteran r b musician who programmed the drum machines and supplied the odd organ swoosh jam master jay scratched in percussion effects while the two rappers took a novel tag-team approach uncannily finishing each other s lines phrases and even words besides some heavy breathing smith made a unique contribution to wake up. if you really listen to the record smith says you ll hear somebody peeing in the toilet and flushing it that was me x2022 rolling stone s original 1984 review in this article best albums bruce springsteen eighties want more rolling stone sign up for our newsletter let s go newsletter signup have a tip follow us alerts newsletters 2019 penske media corporation rs live media logo arrow calendar path shape plus minus rs-charts-logo