parkway haughton athletes top all-district 1-5a baseball usa today network presents vrtually there a weekly virtual reality series that delivers amazing adventures extreme nature sports fantasies and the world 's most fascinating people we do n't just tell incredible stories we let you live the experience in fully immersive environments use your vr headset laptop or smart phone to experience in 360\u00b0 video and virtual reality download the usa today app now with virtual reality and subscribe to our youtube page three new thrilling vr experiences each week immerse yourself have an existing account already have a subscription do n't have an account get the news let friends in your social network know what you are reading about captain shreve 's todd sharp is coy a link has been sent to your friend 's email address a link has been posted to your facebook feed to find out more about facebook commenting please read the conversation guidelines and faqs welcome to our new and improved comments which are for subscribers only this is a test to see whether we can improve the experience for you you do not need a facebook profile to participate you will need to register before adding a comment typed comments will be lost if you are not logged in please be polite it 's ok to disagree with someone 's ideas but personal attacks insults threats hate speech advocating violence and other violations can result in a ban if you see comments in violation of our community guidelines please report them parkway 's eric williams is greeted by his teammates after hitting a 2-run homer in their game against captain shreve thursday photo stan carpenter the times buy photo even though their respective schools finished behind captain shreve in the district 1-5a race parkway and haughton athletes swept top honors in the recently released all-district 1-5a team parkway senior eric williams a southern-baton rouge signee captured mvp honors after hitting .385 with 7 home runs and 36 rbis for the league runners-up senior nick heckman a nicholls state signee was dominant on the mound for the bucs with an 0.48 era and 34 strikeouts in 29 innings he defeated both shreve and parkway during the 2018 season haughton s nick heckman prepares to throw a pitch photo andrea heckman/contributed photo captain shreve coach todd sharp landed coach of the year honors after taking his team to the lhsaa class 5a state quarterfinals the gators were 34-6 overall and 10-2 in the district additional pitchers named to the first team were airline senior jerry couch 1.85 era and shreve seniors reid dubois 2.30 era and stephen smith 1.54 era infielders recognized for their play were juniors caleb reese .359 eric brown .310 and amani larry .378 of parkway dubois .361 and senior noah gondran .463 of evangel outfielders on the first team are byrd junior charlie barham .367 shreve senior anthony stallcup .370 haughton senior lake lowery .381 and williams. br byrd s julien deleon .343 is the all-district designated hitter utility players named to the first team were sophomore blake shapen of evangel .343 senior christopher noble of shreve .310 freshman peyton stovall of haughton .394 and senior derious bradford of parkway .324 captain shreve coach todd sharp photo submitted photo twitter jimmywatson6 superstitions abound for haughton s nick heckman 1-5a all-district mvp eric williams parkway pitcher of the year nick heckman haughton coach of the year todd sharp captain shreve first team pitchers jerry couch airline sr. 1.85 era reid dubois captain shreve sr. 2.30 era stephen smith captain shreve sr. 1.54 era nick heckman haughton sr. 0.48 era infield caleb reese parkway jr. .359 noah gondran evangel sr. .463 reid dubois captain shreve sr. .361 eric brown parkway jr. .310 amani larry parkway jr. .378 outfield charlie barham byrd jr. .367 anthony stallcup captain shreve sr. .370 lake lowery haughton sr. .381 eric williams parkway sr. .385 designated hitter julien deleon byrd jr. .414 utility blake shapen evangel so. .343 christopher noble captain shreve sr. .310 peyton stovall haughton fr. .394 derious bradford parkway sr. .324 second team pitchers bryson connell airline so cameron meeks captain shreve jr. george booras parkway sr. matthew mckee parkway sr. infield mason simmons haughton sr. jathon patton haughton sr. chris hayes airline sr. wil stipp shreve sr. cj mcwilliams haughton so outfield conner hurd byrd sr. cj berry evangel sr. hunter hollis airline sr. logan ellinwood captain shreve sr. dh hayden travinski airline jr. 2019 www.shreveporttimes.com all rights reserved