potential of mungbean vigna radiatus as a trap crop for managing apolygus lucorum hemiptera miridae on bt cotton sciencedirect sciencedirect in recent years the mirid apolygus lucorum has become the key insect pest of bt cotton in china currently insecticide use is the sole pest management option available for most chinese cotton farmers as irrational pesticide use may have several undesirable effects environmentally sound and sustainable management alternatives are urgently needed in this paper we evaluate the potential of mungbean vigna radiatus as a trap crop for a. lucorum in bt cotton plant suitability trials showed that a. lucorum population densities on mungbean were significantly higher than those on cotton large-scale field experiments were conducted during 2006 and 2007 to determine the effectiveness of mungbean strips for managing a. lucorum in bt cotton fields in this experiment 0.1 ha bt cotton fields were established and mungbean strips covered approximately 10 of the total area with periodical insecticide applications in mungbean strips average mirid population densities in cotton fields were 18.1 ± 2.1 individuals per 100 plants versus 36.0 ± 3.4 in the fields without mungbean strips in 2006 however a. lucorum population still surpassed economic threshold i.e. 5 10 and 20 individuals per 100 cotton plants at the seeding stage the squaring and flowering stages and the belling stage respectively in 2007 aside from the insecticide sprays within the mungbean strips 2–3 insecticide applications were done in the cotton field as a result a. lucorum populations were kept below economic threshold and the total amount of insecticides reduced about 70 of those used in the common chemical-controlled fields our work shows that mungbean has considerable potential as a trap crop in bt cotton fields and its adoption by chinese farmers very likely will reduce current levels of pesticide use in this crop plant bugs heteroptera miridae are important pests of cotton worldwide wheeler 2001 in the major chinese cotton-growing regions apolygus lucorum meyer-dür and various adelphocoris species have historically been considered important herbivores cao and wan 1983 lu et al. 2008 adults and nymphs feed on both vegetative and reproductive cotton plant tissues and attain high population densities during critical cotton squaring flowering and belling stages lu et al. 2008 since the massive adoption of bt cotton in china during the late 1990s mirids have steadily become the principal insects pests of this crop wu et al. 2002 wu 2007 lu et al. 2008 and are currently inflicting cotton yield losses up to 20–30 lu et al. 2007a one of the dominant mirid species is a. lucorum in bt cotton fields in chinese changjiang river and yellow river cotton-planting regions lu et al. 2008 at present chinese farmers almost exclusively rely on chemical control which may create problems of resistance development pest resurgence and environmental pollution lu et al. 2007a given the many drawbacks of a sole reliance on chemical pesticides environmentally friendly pest management options urgently need to be defined a promising environmentally sound approach to manage insect pests in agricultural and forest systems is trap cropping hokkanen 1991 foster and harris 1997 shelton and badenes-perez 2006 cook et al. 2007 the practice of trap cropping is based upon the exploitation of insect preferences for certain host plants based upon visual tactile or olfactory cues yan 2003 schoonhoven et al. 2005 hokkanen 1991 shelton and badenes-perez 2006 by inter-planting highly attractive plant species with susceptible crops pest insects can be attracted and diverted from the target crop additionally the effectiveness of trap crops can be increased by targeted use of other control methods such as insecticide sprays hokkanen 1991 shelton and badenes-perez 2006 for example castle 2006 applied insecticides to control bemisia tabaci on a cantaloupe trap crop thereby preventing adult dispersal into a main cotton crop the combination of insecticide sprays and trap crop was also used to manage zonosemata electa in bell peppers boucher et al. 2003 rational use of insecticides within the trap crop can lower overall pesticide use and associated environmental impacts hokkanen 1991 shelton and badenes-perez 2006 trap cropping has been successfully used for management of mirid pests worldwide in usa alfalfa strips are inter-planted with cotton and managed distinctively to control lygus hesperus stern et al. 1964 stern et al. 1969 godfrey and leigh 1994 presently cotton–alfalfa inter-planting is used at a commercial level in california shelton and badenes-perez 2006 in australia alfalfa strips are established within commercial cotton fields to lower creontiades dilutus infestation levels mensah and khan 1997 recently two other studies showed that matricaria recutita could serve as a potential trap crop of lygus rugulipennis on strawberry easterbrook and tooley 1999 and multiple plant species e.g. trifolium pretense artemisia vulgaris could be used for trapping lygus spp in lettuce fields rämert et al. 2001 however trap cropping waits to be explored as a management option for mirids such as a. lucorum in bt cotton in china in this paper we examine the potential of mungbean vigna radiatus l. as a trap crop for a. lucorum in bt cotton in china two-year plant suitability trials were conducted to compare a. lucorum population levels in separate cotton and mungbean plots then the effects of mungbean strips on a. lucorum infestation levels in cotton were determined in large-scale field experiments plant suitability trials were conducted at the langfang experimental station of chinese academy of agricultural sciences hebei province china during 2006 and 2007 we established multiple 4 m × 4 m plots in a 15m-wide parcel positioned within a bt cotton field within these plots we planted 43 different plant species of 13 families in 2006 and 130 species of 21 families in 2007 lu y.h. unpublished data each plot contained only one plant species and each plant species was grown in a total of three plots as separate replicates individual plots were spaced at 1 m intervals among the different plant species was a transgenic cotton variety sgk321 and a mungbean variety jilvdou2 sgk321 expresses the cry1ac and cpti toxic proteins and was provided by the biotechnology research institute chinese academy of agricultural sciences caas jilvdou2 was supplied by the baoding institute of agricultural sciences hebei province china in early may all different plant species were sown and plots were subsequently managed using identical agronomic practices and without insecticide use in each plot we surveyed a. lucorum population numbers from mid-june to mid-september during both years this sampling period coincides with the time during which a. lucorum is present in cotton fields in china lu et al. 2008 sampling consisted of a visual inspection of plants for presence of a. lucorum adults followed by knock-down techniques to determine abundance of nymphs and adults rämert et al. 2001 visual inspections mainly surveyed the upper part of plants knock-down techniques basically consisted of pulling parts of the plants over a rectangular 40 cm × 26 cm × 11 cm white-colored pan after which plant material was struck four times and the number of dislodged individuals was counted during each sampling event total number of adults and nymphs were recorded for both the visual inspection and knock-down method plots were sampled every 5 days and sampling was conducted in four 1 m 2 subplots within each plot in 2006 we established a total of six 700 m 2 35 m long 20 m wide cotton fields at the langfang experimental station in 2007 research was conducted in six 800 m 2 40 m long 20 m wide cotton fields in both langfang and xiajin shandong province during both years cotton var sgk321 was planted between may 1 and 5 and subsequently managed using standard agronomic practices in 2006 we planted one 20 m long 1.5 m wide strip of mungbean in the middle of three cotton fields and left the same-sized strip bare in the remaining three fields mungbean was planted on june 27 when cotton was at the squaring stage subsequent cotton fields were separated by 10 m intervals which were kept free of vegetation in 2007 we planted a 20 m long 1 m wide strip of mungbean on may 3–5 at both the northern and southern border of three cotton fields in each site in the same fields we planted a second mungbean strip 40 m long 1 m wide from south to north in the center of each field on july 5 during both years fields with and without mungbean strips were managed in the same fashion and mungbean strips received identical fertilizer and irrigation treatment as cotton fields during both years we monitored a. lucorum population density in mungbean every 5 days using the knock-down technique at each sampling event we monitored a. lucorum population levels in 10 different locations per mungbean strip mirid population densities in cotton were determined by visually inspecting a total of 20 plants at five random sites within each field at 5–7 day intervals wu et al. 2002 lu et al. 2008 in 2006 mirid population surveys were done from july 25 to september 8 at langfang while in 2007 surveys were conducted from june 21 to september 9 at langfang and from june 20 to september 3 at xiajin for both mungbean strips and cotton fields we recorded the numbers of a. lucorum adults and nymphs at each sampling event from the first appearance of a. lucorum on mungbean endosulfan 0.210 kg a.i ha −1 was applied at 10-day intervals in the mungbean strips in 2006 no measures were taken to control a. lucorum in cotton fields in 2007 we also applied insecticides in cotton depending on a. lucorum densities within each field when a. lucorum population density within a given field exceeded economic threshold i.e. five a. lucorum per 100 cotton plants at the seeding stage 10 individuals per 100 plants at the squaring and flowering stages and 20 individuals per 100 plants at the belling stage zhang et al. 1986 acetamiprid 0.018 kg a.i ha −1 was applied uniformly within the respective field statistical differences in a. lucorum population density in mungbean strips vs. cotton fields and in cotton fields with vs. without mungbean were determined using paired t -tests sas institute 1988 prior to analysis data were log-transformed lg n +1 to meet assumptions of normality and homogeneity of variance in 2006 the number of a. lucorum nymphs and total individuals on mungbean were significantly greater than those on cotton from june 14 to august 28 paired t -tests p 0.05 fig 1 a and c however adult densities on mungbean were only significantly greater than those on cotton from june 14 to july 29 and from august 13 to 28 paired t -tests p 0.05 fig 1 b in 2007 adult and total a. lucorum densities were significantly greater in mungbean than in cotton from june 16 to august 10 paired t -tests p 0.05 while nymph density in mungbean was significantly greater than in cotton from june 26 to august 5 paired t -tests p 0.05 fig 2 fig 1 population densities of a. lucorum in mungbean and cotton plots in 2006. a total individuals b adult c nymph an asterisk indicates a significant difference in a. lucorum density at a given sampling event between mungbean and cotton plots paired t -tests p 0.05 mirid population densities are indicated as individuals per square meter fig 2 population densities of a. lucorum in mungbean and cotton plots in 2007. a total individuals b adult c nymph an asterisk indicates a significant difference in a. lucorum density at a given sampling event between mungbean and cotton plots paired t -tests p 0.05 mirid population densities are indicated as individuals per square meter in 2006 a. lucorum densities on cotton with mungbean strips were significantly lower than in cotton without mungbean throughout the sampling period paired t -tests p 0.05 however a. lucorum densities in cotton fields with mungbean exceeded economic threshold levels during four successive sampling dates august 9–24 fig 3 fig 3 population densities of a. lucorum in cotton fields with and without mungbean strips at langfang in 2006 mungbean strips were chemically treated every ten days from july 25 to september 3 no chemical spray was used in cotton fields with mungbean strips an asterisk indicates a significant difference in a. lucorum density at a given sampling event between cotton with and without mungbean strips paired t -tests p 0.05 mirid population densities are indicated as individuals per 100 plants in 2007 a. lucorum densities in both langfang and xiajin were significantly lower in cotton with mungbean strips than in those without mungbean throughout the sampling period paired t -tests p 0.05 however two and three insecticide applications were still needed to control a. lucorum populations at langfang and xiajin respectively fig 4 fig 4 population densities of a. lucorum in cotton fields with and without mungbean strips at langfang a and xiajin b in 2007 at langfang insecticide applications were made every ten days in early-planted mungbean strips from june 21 to august 10 and in late-planted strips from july 21 to august 30 chemical sprays were used in cotton fields with mungbean strips on july 16 and august 5 at xiajin early-planted mungbean strips were chemically treated every ten days from june 20 to august 9 and late-planted strips were treated similarly from july 20 to august 29 chemical sprays were used in cotton fields with mungbean strips on july 10 and 25 and august 9 an asterisk indicates a significant difference in a. lucorum density at a given sampling event between cotton with and without mungbean strips paired t -tests p 0.05 mirid population densities are indicated as individuals per 100 plants many phytophagous insects exhibit clear preferences for certain plant species qin 1987 yan 2003 schoonhoven et al. 2005 the study of such host plant preferences is the basis for the development of pest management strategies such as ethological control e.g. the use of chemical attractants for monitoring or mass trapping and trap crops foster and harris 1997 schoonhoven et al. 2005 this study shows that a key pest of bt cotton in china a. lucorum exhibits a preference for mungbean over cotton and that the establishment of mungbean strips within cotton fields greatly reduced a. lucorum population levels in the latter population densities of both adult and nymph a. lucorum in mungbean were significantly greater than those in cotton during most of the cotton-growing season our field experiments confirm results from olfactometer trials comparing attractiveness of cotton vs. mungbean lu y.h. unpublished data in these trials a greater proportion 70 of a. lucorum adults were attracted to mungbean odours than to cotton volatiles both laboratory trials and field experiments indicate that a. lucorum prefers mungbean over cotton and that this host plant preference may be mediated by volatile cues other plant species such as ricinus communis impatiens balsamina also proved highly attractive to a. lucorum lu y.h. unpublished data in plant suitability trials a. lucorum densities on r. communis and i. balsamina at the flowering stage were similar to those on mungbean however mungbean was included in further field trials as general management requirements of this crop such as irrigation fertilization and weed management are greatly similar with cotton li et al. 2006 additionally mungbean is an important crop in china and its pods and seeds are used as food traditional medicine and forage for cattle cheng and cao 1996 mungbean is mainly found in the yellow river and changjiang river regions where about 0.8 million ha per year are planted with this crop also as a means of diversifying income sources chinese farmers frequently inter-plant mungbean in cotton fields in these regions li et al. 2006 although mungbean strips effectively attracted adult a. lucorum a. lucorum densities on cotton still exceeded economic threshold when no insecticide applications were made in this crop similar findings were made with cantaloupe as a trap crop for b. tabaci in cotton castle 2006 adoption of corrective insecticide applications through pest monitoring in combination with trap cropping effectively suppressed a. lucorum densities the use of two or three insecticide applications in cotton fields with mungbean strips compares to current farmer practices which include up to 20 insecticide applications during one single cropping cycle as such the amount of insecticides used in cotton fields with mungbean strips was approximately 30 of those currently used in bt cotton production in china in addition to a direct reduction in product costs adoption of a mungbean trap crop may also lower associated labor costs and reduce the environmental impact of cotton production mungbean strips attracted a great number of a. lucorum thereby directly reducing its population levels in surrounding cotton fields and effectively acting as a sink habitat however as reproduction of a. lucorum in mungbean plots was comparatively high lu y.h. unpublished data and a. lucorum has great flight capability lu et al. 2007b mungbean plots can also easily serve as source habitats from which mirids may re-infest cotton fields hence an effective a. lucorum management strategy should be devised to prevent such re-infestation although calendar-based insecticide sprays were used in the experiment a. lucorum management of mirids based on frequent monitoring is recommendable population densities of a. lucorum in mungbean as in cotton should be monitored routinely especially after heavy rainfalls ting 1963 ting 1964 aside from recurrent insecticide applications within the trap crop a variety of other measures can be used for management of the targeted pest insect hokkanen 1991 for example specific management i.e. mowing regimes of alfalfa strips is effective in controlling both lygus spp stern et al. 1964 stern et al. 1969 godfrey and leigh 1994 and c. dilutus mensah and khan 1997 also swezey et al 2007 found that vacuuming alfalfa strips with a tractor-mounted device greatly reduced adult and nymph l. hesperus semiochemical and pheromone baits can also be deployed within trap crops hokkanen 1991 vernon et al. 2000 repellent non-host crops synthetic repellents anti-feedants and alarm pheromones can also increase effectiveness of a trap crop cook et al. 2007 one example of such combined approach is the highly successful push–pull strategy for control of stem borers chilo partellus eldana saccharina busseola fusca and sesamia calamistis in maize and sorghum in africa khan and pickett 2004 cook et al. 2007 also the use of various plant species simultaneously as trap crops can greatly enhance control of a key pest seal et al. 1992 muthiah 2003 hence a multitude of different strategies could be considered to improve the effectiveness of mungbean strips to manage a. lucorum in cotton fields in china trap crops may also provide suitable resources or shelter conditions for insect natural enemies which may further contribute to suppress pest populations in the trap crop strips or broader cropping field mensah and sequeira 2004 tillman and mullinix 2004 reported that a sorghum trap crop used to manage helicoverpa armigera also increases rates of parasitism by trichogramma chilonis mensah 1999 found that the population density of predators recorded in alfalfa strips was higher than in the cotton crop in our study we found high abundance of several predators such as ladybird beetles lacewings and spiders in mungbean strips lu y.h. unpublished data however the effectiveness of these predators to control a. lucorum has not been assessed the size of an effective trap crop may vary greatly but in general about 10 of the crop area is used hokkanen 1991 to reduce plutella xylostella population levels in cabbage between 5 and 13 of cropping area is used as trap crop srinivasan and moorthy 1991 badenes-perez et al. 2005 only 1 of the total cropping area is dedicated to trap crops to manage helicoverpa spp in cotton fields sequeira 2001 also distances between subsequent trap crop strips may vary greatly sevacherian and stern 1974 mensah and khan 1997 michaud et al. 2007 in the present study we found that 10 trap crop and 20 m distance between subsequent strips effectively controls a. lucorum however additional research should be conducted to determine whether a smaller area of trap crop or larger distances between subsequent strips could be equally effective in controlling a. lucorum as mungbean strips occupy about 10 of total cropping area it is expected that chinese cotton farmer may suffer direct economic losses however the forecasted reduction in a. lucorum infestation levels and associated drop in insecticides sprays see above in combination with the commercial value of mungbean 5–7 rmb/kg in chinese market could offset such losses mungbean proved attractive to adult a. lucorum at the seedling and flowering stages however it becomes less attractive after flowering hence the mungbean strips were planted twice throughout the 2007 growing season as to ensure a constant attractiveness to a. lucorum early-planted mungbean strips i.e. established in may reduced the number of a. lucorum from early june to early august in the meantime late-planted mungbean strips i.e. established in july successfully managed a. lucorum in surrounding from late july to mid-september mungbean is usually sown during the period from april to august in china cheng and cao 1996 in conclusion the establishment of small mungbean strips combined with frequent pest monitoring and corrective insecticide use i.e. in mungbean strips as cotton fields has considerable potential to be adopted by chinese cotton farmers as an environmentally sound low-cost ipm strategy against a. lucorum in bt cotton we thank xiaofei zhou for field assistance this research was supported by chinese ministry of science and technology 973 projects grant 2006cb102004 national key project of scientific and technical supporting programs 2006bad08a07 elsevier we use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content and ads by continuing you agree to the use of cookies copyright © 2019 elsevier b.v. or its licensors or contributors sciencedirect ® is a registered trademark of elsevier b.v