training wheels bill denbrough x reader chapter 12 x27 animal attack x27 wattpad you are reading there x27 s a new girl in town obviously she hasn x27 t heard of clowns and curfews a new girl in the losers club she wonders about the x27 red balloon x27 appearing around town and her mother was acting weird suddenly everybody realize x27 s what x27 s going on clowns fanfic itcomesoutatnight weallfloatdownhere ít you woke up rain still pounding on your window you sighed and pulled on your rain-coat over your pajamas. dad i m going to bill s you climbed on your bike and made it almost until- ka-cgun k the gutters made a weird sputtering noise. hello y/n. the familiar clown face popped up you could smell his sweet sickly aroma. w-what do you want penny wise laughed. i want to feast give me billy-boy y/n you wanted to punch him so badly. no i wont he grabbed onto your ankle. give me billy-boy y/n. no you kicked him in the face as hrs as you could and peddled you knocked on bills front door mrs. dunbrough opened the door and smiled. you must be y/n come in bills upstairs. you walked into their living room and saw a small shrine of georgie in front of the picture of him was a paper boat s.s georgie you walked upstairs and opened his door. bill bill turned around quickly he had no shirt on his eyes widened and he covered himself up with a worn-out wool blanket. y-y/n what re you doing h-here you rubbed your arm awkwardly and took off your rain coat. i wanted to see you. he looked at you surprised you shivered. why isn t your fireplace lit bill looked at the fireplace embaressed. i-i don t know h-how to light it. you grabbed a few wood blocks and threw them in you then lit it and sighed in pleasure. now it s warm but.. you kicked off your shoes and climbed under the blanket with bill. it s warmer under here. y-y/n i m shirtless you giggled and moved around. but i m soooooo warm.. you closed your eyes and pretended to snore. y-y/n you peeked at bill he started to tickle your sides. bill bill no you kicked your legs and started to laugh he grinned. w-what s the magic word big daddy bill doubled over laughing and you sat up grinning. always works. bill calmed down and pulled on a shirt. w- wan na go to the losers you nodded and pulled on your raincoat 14 you all met at richie s house. hey y/n. he winked at you and you punched his arm laughing. guys look.. ben pointed to xa0 a newspaper you gasped and froze. oh my god. on the front of the newspaper s page was a big picture of your mom s sprawled out body covered in blood and her arms were missing animal attack m/n l/n body found in sewers this morning at 5 00 am m/n s missing body was found both of er arms were chewed off by some sort of animal you looked at the losers with a horrified look. that s no animal attack 4