teacher x27 s assistant jimin x reader halloween wattpad you are reading the jimin version and first book in the x27 teacher x27 s assistant x27 series hope you enjoy army bts jimin parkjimin series wattys2018 a/n short your pov short it was officially halloween we were going to do appeal versions of one of our choreographed songs pr as group decided we d dress up as bts members i had the things i needed for my costume ty had hers so did daisy and ceecee i was being jimin ty was being j-hope obviously daisy was being jin ceecee was of course jungkook we actually talked with khloe tori and hannah they said they d dress up as members too to complete the group they knew the dance too so they would also dance with us in the video then once that was completed we d have a party jimin s pov short halloween was today we were going to dress up as a girl group and then some i was being kammelia aka yn j-hope was gon na be ty aka lily his girlfriend jungkook was also going to be his girlfriend ceecee aka madison jin was going to be daisy then we ran out of their members the others figured out what they were gon na do we did an appeal version we were all done getting ready we walk out just as the girls walk out let me just say we were shook 9 your pov we walk out at the same time the boys do we start laughing. wow. jimin said i nod my head we were dressed like they were in their baepsae dance practice video. woah. i stated they had our numb music video outfits the outfits you wore first in the concert chapters we had actually planned this somewhat we just didn t say which outfits yoongi taehyung and namjoon had dressed how they thought that hannah tori and khloe would dress if they were part of the group girls daisy- jin outfit tori- rap monster outfit you- jimin outfit khloe- suga outfit ty- j-hope outfit hannah- v outfit ceecee- jungkook outfit boys jimin- your outfit jin- daisy s outfit jungkook- ceecee s outfit j-hope- ty s outfit suga- assumed khloe s outfit taehyung- assumed hannah s outfit rap monster- assumed tori s outfit that s how we looked we took a picture and posted it onto twitter then we recorded the video we explained at the beginning who the other three were after we were done the boys went then it was time for the party. you look good as me. jimin said and stood next to me i was just standing in a door way watching everyone have fun i wasn t much of a party person. thanks you make a pretty good kamelia. i said back causing us both to laugh. your blue hair looks pretty. i said then blushed after i realized what i had just said. really now. he said and looked at me smirking causing me to blush more. yah babo stobi it i said jin and jungkook turn their heads toward me we all smirk. oh dear jimin trailed. s-t-o-p i-t we yelled then began laughing as jimin put his fingers in the bridge of his nose and sighed. aish .. you three jimin said and walked away i high-fived jungkook and jin jungkook then grabbed my arm and dragged me away from everyone else after jin walked away. i know you still have feelings for him yn ~noona. jungkook said after everyone was out of ear shot. w-what what are you talking about i i started. noona yes you do it s obvious why won t you tell him yoongi~hyung would tell you the same thing. he explained. i know but i can t he just won t ever feel the same. i muttered. but noona he started. i don t have time for this kookie i don t have the energy either i m sorry goodnight tell the others i went to bed. i said and went to my room to sleep i had started eating slightly the last few weeks not much if i over do it i d throw up. jimin i wish you d love me .. but i hope you find someone who will make you happy .. even if it will never be me. i whispered to myself i let a tear slip out of my eye the closed my eyes to sleep 6