Jichao Chen Lab, Lung Biology Research | MD Anderson Cancer Center Log in to our secure, personalized website to manage your care (formerly myMDAnderson). If you are ready to make an appointment, select a button on the right.If you have questions about MD Anderson’s appointment process, ourinformation page may be the best place to start. Find information and resources for current and returning patients. Learn about clinical trials at MD Anderson and search our database for open studies. The Lyda Hill Cancer Prevention Center provides cancer risk assessment, screening and diagnostic services. Your gift will help support our mission to end cancer and make a difference in the lives of our patients. Our personalized portal helps you refer your patients and communicate with their MD Anderson care team. As part of our mission to eliminate cancer, MD Anderson researchers conduct hundreds of clinical trials to test new treatments for both common and rare cancers. Choose from 12 allied health programs at School of Health Professions. Learn about our graduate medical education residency and fellowship opportunities. The B-Cell Lymphoma Moon Shot is revolutionizing the conventional medical research approach to rapidly translate findings into patient treatment options and develop personalized therapeutic strategies. Jichao Chen, Ph.D.  Principal Investigator  Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email App Print AddThis My lab is interested in the normal developmental processes that build the lung and how such processes go awry during lung malformations, injury and tumorigenesis. What is unique about my lab is our effort to develop a series of three-dimensional labeling and imaging methods such as optical projection tomography. We develop these novel methods to address a major challenge in studying lung biology – its complex three-dimensional architecture including the tree-like airways and honeycomb-like alveoli, making it difficult to compare structures on conventional two-dimensional sections. MD Anderson Cancer Center 2121 W. Holcombe Blvd. Houston, Texas 77030 Room Number: IBT7.716 Phone: 713-745-0630 Email: jchen16@mdanderson.org © 2019 The University of Texas  MD Anderson Cancer Center  