Ten Pressing Questions plus OSU-Maryland Official Game Thread Podcasts Special Offer One Month for Only $1 Go VIP - One Month for Only $1 No. 10 Ohio State will visit Maryland at noon Eastern today. The game will be televised nationally by ABC. Click  here  to participate in our OSU-Maryland Game Day Thread on the Front Row message board. Click  here  for our OSU-Maryland Game Data page. As always, we have our Ten Pressing Questions feature to prepare you for today s game. We will provide the answers in our First Look column. Here we go: * 1. Can Dwayne Haskins make history (and stay hot) at Maryland?   Haskins is within striking distance of the Ohio State single-season records for passing yardage and touchdowns and he can break both records on home turf in Maryland, where he attended high school. Maryland is top 20 in passing defense, however, and could make it tough on him. * 2. Can the Buckeyes establish the run game vs. Maryland?   It took until the fourth quarter last week at Michigan State before OSU flexed its muscles and Mike Weber was able to get going. The Buckeyes are craving for balance. Can Weber and J.K. Dobbins get it going earlier this week? * 3. Which wide receiver will step forward?   With Austin Mack out, freshman Chris Olave began to make his presence felt last week vs. Michigan State. Maryland s secondary has proven tough. Is this a K.J. Hill kind of day? * 4. Will Ohio State s offensive line play its best game?   This is Week 11. This is November. It s time to put the missed blocks and mistake of the past weeks in the rear view mirror. Fifth-year senior Isaiah Prince should want to do well in his home state. * 5. Will there be a Tate Martell sighting?   After weeks (and weeks) of inactivity, Ohio State took the wraps off Martell last week and he nearly scored a touchdown in a red zone situation. OSU is among the very worst in the country in red zone touchdowns. Will this be the week Martell makes  a real difference? * 6. Can Ohio State stop Maryland s running game?   Freshman Anthony McFarland had 210 yards rushing last week against Indiana. OSU s front seven will be tested by Maryland s running game. * 7. Can the Buckeyes contain Maryland QB Tyrell Pigrome?   Maryland lost Kasim Hill for the season last week vs. Indiana. Tyrell Pigrome was the starter going into 2017 before suffering an injury. He is adept as a runner and a thrower. He will step in as the starter this week. * 8. Can Ohio State s linebackers continue their upward trajectory?   It s been a rough year for the linebacker corps. But OLBs Malik Harrison and Pete Werner continue to make inroads and MLB Tuf Borland seems like he is all the way back from the Achilles injury that has slowed him. This unit will be tested by this Maryland offense. * 9. Can OSU s special teams continue to deliver the goods?   Ohio State won last week at Michigan State on the back of punter Drue Chrisman, who was somehow overlooked as the Big Ten special teams player of the week. If the Buckeyes pin the Terrapins back like that this week, look out. * 10. Can the Buckeyes polish their game for what comes next?   Seriously, bro, the preliminaries are over. Championships will be on the line in each game going forward. It is put up or shut up time for this Ohio State team. * Bonus Question: Are the Buckeyes ready for Michigan?   Experts who have seen each team play 10 games to date are a bit doubtful that Ohio State can maintain its dominance over Michigan. The Wolverines have cut a wide swath across the Big Ten. But if Ohio State loses this game to Maryland, next week s game will mean a whole lot less. Translation: It s time to show what Ohio State football is all about. We will let you know how they do. Enjoy the game and check out Bucknuts.com later today for all of the coverage. Do you have your copy of Undisputed Champions? Click  here  for ordering information. Special Offer One Month for Only $1 Go VIP - One Month for Only $1 CBS Sports Digital Facebook Twitter Instagram Podcast Sportradar  2005-2019 CBS INTERACTIVE ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. CBS Sports is a registered trademark of CBS Broadcasting Inc.  