Kajeet | Cell Phones for Kids | FAQ In order to expand our mission in the K-12 education market and better focus our strategy to our  Education Broadband ™ business, we have made the decision to fully focus on connectivity in public and private school districts and close our consumer cell phone division on Aug. 23, 2017. As school instruction began moving online, the Kajeet focus turned from providing consumer cell phones and service to equipping schools and districts with safe, mobile Education Broadband outside the classroom. Today, we provide tens of thousands of economically disadvantaged students – those who lack Internet connectivity at home – with safe online access that keeps them focused on learning and succeeding in school. Discontinuing our consumer cell phone division will allow us to better help kids succeed in school, improve grades, and increase graduation rates. In order to ensure continued service with your current phone number, you will need to move your mobile number to another wireless carrier before Aug. 23, 2017. You may move your number to a carrier of your choice. In order to make this as simple as possible, we have partnered with  TPO Mobile . They offer competitive rates and a  special promotion with the first month of service at 1 cent ($.01) for Kajeet customers. The TPO customer care number is 1- 844-TPO-TEAM. Your Kajeet account will continue to auto renew until the Kajeet phone number has been ported out to another carrier, the account has been deactivated, or until your credit card has been removed from the account. We suggest that you port your number before the last renewal date before Aug. 23. Auto renewals will stop after Aug. 23. Customers can check their  renewal date online  and make changes to credit card and auto renew options. If you have a question about your specific account, please email us at  care@kajeet.com . If you don’t port your Kajeet number to another provider by Aug. 23, your phone will stop working, and you may lose the ability to move the number to another carrier. In order to port your number to another carrier, you will need an Account Number and PIN. Please email us at  care@kajeet.com to get your PIN. Your existing device may be used with another carrier depending on the device model and network requirements for that carrier.  TPO Mobile offers the same Sprint-based Bring-Your-Own-Device program that was available on Kajeet, so in most cases you should be able to continue to use your Kajeet device and SIM card. Please make sure to confirm your handset will work with your new carrier first. In some cases we may be able to retrieve a number that has been deactivated. If you have an issue porting your Kajeet phone number or if the account was deactivated prior to the number being ported, please email us at  care@kajeet.com  and we will do our best to assist you. We are thankful to the hundreds of thousands of devoted parents who chose our cell phone service to safely connect and communicate with their kids over the years. For many of the children and their families, we were their first step to exploring the mobile world. It is because of our successful cell phone business that we were able to expand our technology into other markets, specifically one where our solution works to solve the homework gap. Together with schools and districts from coast to coast, we stay true to our original mission and look forward to making a difference for tomorrow.  