 Landscapers in Roodepoort, Gauteng, South Africa As the premier landscape design firm in Roodepoort, Gauteng we offer a complete design/build firm that will work closely with you throughout the process of transforming ideas into reality. Our commitment is to provide unmatched service and the utmost in quality to our customers in Roodepoort and the surrounding area. We have instituted countless measures to insure that each client receives the consistent level of landscaping excellence that everyone should expect. We pride ourselves in doing our work as courteous and trustworthy professionals. Our ultimate responsibility is to supply Roodepoort and surrounding areas with a landscaping company that is dependable, reliable, and cost efficient. We look forward to the opportunities to meet our loyal clients needs as we grow to better serve our customers. Landscaping We have established ourselves as the industry standard for quality work at a competitive price in Roodepoort. We take pride in our ability to service the large commercial landscaping needs in our local area and beyond. Our staff consists of dedicated employees who are part of a team that can take on the challenges that arise from multifaceted projects. From landscaping installations, professional landscape lighting, large scale irrigation work, to solving drainage issues - our company can provide the man power needed to get the job done. We offer our services in Roodepoort, Gauteng. Our goal as a landscaping services provider has always been and will continue to offer outstanding work and customer service at a reasonable price. We look forward to consulting with you on your project. Contact us at: The premier landscape design firm in Roodepoort, Gauteng we offer a complete design/build firm that will work closely with you throughout the process of transforming ideas into reality. Full service tree removal company. We service all types of tree removal and clearing throughout the greater Roodepoort, Gauteng area. We founded our Roodepoort, Gauteng Garden Service to provide a diverse range of services for all types of properties, both residential and commercial. 