Lake Oku | RZSS Blog Hello, I am excited to say that a picture a giant armadillo mother and its baby, taken as part of the  Giant Armadillo Project , has been awarded as runner up in the  BBC Wildlife Magazine  Camera Trap 2013 new discoveries category. Congratulations to Dr Arnaud Desbiez, Regional Coordinator for Conservation and Research in Latin America for RZSS, and the rest of the Project team for this wonderful recognition!  This is in fact the first EVER photograph captured of a baby giant armadillo. Another image of a giant armadillo taken with a remote camera trap was also commended in the animal behaviour category. Giant Armadillo Baby by Pantanal Giant Armadillo Project The  Pantanal Giant Armadillo Project  was established in 2010 and prior to this the species was almost entirely unstudied. Indeed, virtually nothing was known about the species’ reproduction before the series of camera-trap photos, including the award winning image, was captured. The winning camera trap images can be seen in the December issue of  BBC Wildlife Magazine . In other news, the RZSS Conservation team recently received an update from researcher Thomas Doherty–Bone, upon his return to the UK after a visiting the  Amphibian Research Project in Cameroon  last month. This project, which is supported by RZSS, focusses particularly on the Lake Oku clawed frog which is listed as Critically Endangered on the IUCN red list – though a lot of other amphibian species are also studied and protected. A lot of great work was discussed and carried out while Thomas was in Cameroon, from holding conservation action plan workshops to helping on the development and implementation of the scholarship programme in local schools. Lake Oku in Cameroon Two conservation action plan workshops were held at Lake Oku, one with 30 delegates for Lake Oku summit grasslands area and another with 40 stakeholders for the shores of Lake Oku. Plans for the future of conservation in both these areas were discussed, issues that arose were access to these areas and a possible development on the shores. Action plans will be written up and it was unanimously agreed that all livestock should be removed from the forest surrounding the lake which is a step forward in protecting the area. Work is also being done with local schools to promote environmental education. While Thomas was in Cameroon, the scholarship program “The Kilum-Ijim Young Scientist Award” was reviewed. This scheme approaches secondary schools to select the two best performing science students entering Form 2, who then have their tuition paid for the following academic year. Three schools were targeted, with a total of six pupils supported. The scheme is being continued for the 2013/14 academic year, with an additional six schools targeted, which will benefit a total of 18 pupils in the next year. The field visit by the  CRAUC  coordinator has been a very successful endeavour, particularly for engaging with multiple stakeholders in the management of critical amphibian habitats. The production of conservation action plans is an important step, with the possibility that in the next five years, at least the Lake Oku Clawed Frog could be safe enough to have its IUCN assessment classification improved to a threat less than Critically Endangered. Additional work is needed to ensure this becomes a reality, as well as for the other threatened amphibians and their representative habitats. Because we don t think about future generations, they will never forget us. Henrik Tikkanen Hello, After our announcement on Tuesday that we no longer believed Tian Tian was pregnant, we received quite a large number of emails and letters from members of the public offering understanding and support for not only Tian Tian but also her team of dedicated keepers who remotely monitored her around the clock for several weeks. Thank you to everyone for your kind words; Tian Tian is doing very well and the panda enclosure should be open to the public by the end of the week. As mentioned in the last blog post, Tian Tian had consistently shown signs of pregnancy until recently, when her behaviour and hormone results returned to that of a panda that was no longer pregnant and the most likely outcome is that her body reabsorbed the foetus. If you haven’t yet seen it, Iain Valentine, Director of Giant Pandas for RZSS explains this in more detail on our YouTube Channel: In other animal news, this Tuesday was Cindy the chimpanzee’s 48 th  birthday at Edinburgh Zoo and she celebrated with paper maché balloons and other treats from her keepers as enrichment. Out of the 18 residents at the  Budongo Trail  enclosure, Cindy is the oldest but not the highest ranking. In the chimpanzee social hierarchy, age is not the deciding factor for seniority. In our troupe, 21-year-old Qafzeh is our dominant male and 32-year-old Eva is our dominant female. Spiny puddle frog   Cameroon In an update from our conservation department, Tom Doherty-Bone the coordinator of the RZSS-supported project  Conservation and Research of Amphibians  in Africa recently visited our conservation department before his next trip out to Lake Oku in Cameroon. The Edinburgh Zoo shop donated a collection of stationary for Tom to take over to Cameroon to hand out to pupils in a local school where students have been receiving scholarships to attend. Tom will be working with local teachers to help improve teaching on biodiversity and environmental education as well as teaching methods for monitoring Lake Oku for amphibian species. This will all add to the long term sustainability of the project. Also, the  Scottish Beaver Trial  has been listed in the top three of Britain’s Best Conservation Projects by BBC’s Countryfile Magazine. Started in 2009, the Scottish Beaver Trial was the first reintroduction project of its kind in Britain, with five beaver families released into Knapdale, Argyll. The beavers have been monitored by in-field research experts to find out what sort of ecological impact beavers could have if they returned to Scotland. The Trial is due to end in May next year. Finally, a reminder that Simon Jones, our Curator of Plants and Head of Sustainability, will be holding a  Gardens Talk  next Thursday, 24 th  October. During the talk, Simon will discuss the wide ranging duties of his department, from enclosure design to caring for the thousands of plant species found in the gardens around the Zoo. He’ll also explain the important role of zoo horticulture and some of the exciting new projects his team are working on. Booking for this event is recommended. Tickets cost £5 for members and £7 for non-members. To reserve your place call 0131 314 0334 or e-mail ldickson@rzss.org.uk. This event will take place in the Education Centre between 7.30pm and 9pm. View Full Site Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com. 