Gucci Men ' s Jeans for sale | eBay There seems to be a problem serving the request at this time Showing slide 1 of 3 - Shop by Inseam 34 32 30 31 33 36 35 Tommy Hilfiger Men's Coats  &  Jackets Gucci Men's Coats and Jackets Burberry Casual Button-Down Shirts for Men Versace Casual Shoes for Men Dolce & Gabbana Men's Jeans Burberry Men's Sweaters Gucci Men's Pants PRADA Men's Jeans The Gucci clothing brand offers apparel and accessories for both men and women. Gucci men’s jeans come in options like their tapered denim pant, slim denim pant, and 60s pant. What are some of the characteristics of Gucci men's jeans? These jeans usually come in black or blue, and there are some with custom rips, embroidery, and bleached or faded patterns. Some jeans are tapered or have a slim-fit, whereas others are skinny, cropped, or straight-legged. Some pants have appliques or an embroidered design on a back pocket or leg. How do you measure for a pair of jeans? What are the embroidered or appliqued designs? Some Gucci garments will feature an applique of Alessandro Michele artwork, such as a tiger or flower and snake. You might also find the Gucci logo or designs or artwork from other artists. Do Gucci brand men's jeans have button closures? Some Gucci jeans have a zipper with a single button at the top, and others are button-down jeans. In what sizes are Gucci jeans available? They come in a wide range of sizes, such as small, medium, and large, as well as in Italian sizes that range from 27 to 46. There is also the big-and-tall size, LT. What fabrics are Gucci men’s jeans made from? Most Gucci men’s jeans are made of cotton, but the stretch pants may have 98% cotton and 2% elastane. The bottom of the jeans is meant to fit all the way over the upper part of shoes or bunch up slightly over the top of the shoe. The tag on Gucci men's jeans is often made of brown leather, but you can still wash them by hand or in a washing machine. For all that he's done for you and the family, thank dad this Father's Day  and shop for his favorites in Gucci men's jeans and more. Content provided for informational purposes only. eBay is not affiliated with or endorsed by Gucci. 