Solar power to all ZP schools soon: Chairman - The Hindu ZP Chairman M.Rajashekar addressing the media in Kurnool on Friday.Photo: U. Subrahmanyam  | Photo Credit:  PHOTO:U.SUBRAMANYAM Zilla Parishad Chairman M. Rajasekhar Goud has said that priority would be given to development of infrastructure in Kurnool.. Speaking to the media here on Friday in connection with the completion of six months in his office, Mr. Goud said that it had been planned to provide solar power to all Zilla Parishad schools and Mandal Parishad Development Offices. “A new building has been sanctioned to Zilla Parishad headquarters involving a cost of Rs 3.5 crore. The new building was sanctioned in view of the flooding of the office premises in 2007 and 2009. Another building is in pipeline to house Rajiv Panchayat Sasaktikaran Abhiyan which will be built at a cost of Rs. 2 crore,” he said. Mr. Goud said efforts were on improve quality of education in Zilla Parishad schools through a special programme. The supervisory system would be improved by filling the vacant posts of Deputy Educational Officers. He further said that plans were afoot to build an indoor stadium on the premises of Zilla Parishad school at Palukur near Banaganapalli, adding that land had been allotted for construction of a hostel at Perusomula in Sanjamala mandal. “All mandal offices will have video conference facility soon, linking the ZP headquarters,” he added. Why you should pay for quality journalism -  Click to know more Please enter a valid email address. No notifications yet. Be the first to comment Printable version | Dec 17, 2019 6:33:31 AM | https://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/solar-power-to-all-zp-schools-soon-chairman/article6728528.ece  THG PUBLISHING PVT LTD. The python was 12-feet long and weighed about 20 kg The expedition forms an important part of naval training, say officials Subscribe to The Hindu now and get unlimited access. Already have an account?  Sign In  Sign up for a 30-day free trial. Sign Up To continue enjoying The Hindu, You can turn off your ad blocker or Subscribe to The Hindu. Sign up for a 30 day free trial. 