PressReader - Daily Mail: 2017-03-17 - Ev &# xAD;ery &# xAD;one wanted to see that Tal &# xAD;iban guy dead COMRADES of Sergeant Alexan­der Black­man said yes­ter­day he shot a wounded Tal­iban fighter to pro­tect ju­nior col­leagues. They spoke out after the Ap­peal Court cleared him of mur­der and down­graded his con­vic­tion to man­slaugh­ter. The for­mer Marines said he ‘took re­spon­si­bil­ity’ for killing the in­sur­gent whom ‘ev­ery­body wanted dead’ be­cause sav­ing him would have risked Bri­tish lives. One even claimed HQ im­plied to Sgt Black­man on his ra­dio that he should kill the man, and a for­mer com­man­der ad­mit­ted it was not the only time such ac­tion had been car­ried out in the war. The commando, re­ferred to as Ma­rine A at his court mar­tial, had his mur­der con­vic­tion down­graded to man­slaugh­ter be­cause he had com­bat stress, could walk free within days. The Ap­peal Court said yes­ter­day a sen­tenc­ing hear­ing would be heard next Fri­day. This could lead to his im­me­di­ate re­lease be­cause he has al­ready served three and a half years. Five judges ruled that he was not in his right mind when he shot the in­sur­gent on Septem­ber 15, 2011. The court heard how he felt an im­mense re­spon­si­bil­ity to keep the 15 men un­der his com­mand safe, even tak­ing on ex­haust­ing ex­tra pa­trols him­self to do so. Fol­low­ing the ver­dict on Wed­nes­day, Sgt Black­man’s for­mer col­leagues told BBC Panorama they were glad he shot the fa­natic. Many feared the in­sur­gent had been de­lib­er­ately sac­ri­ficed by the Tal­iban as ‘hu­man bait’ to lure the Bri­tons into a trap. Sam Deen, one of the Marines on the fate­ful pa­trol, said they had all wanted to shoot him. He sug­gested Sgt Black­man de­cided to do it him­self to pro­tect ju­nior comrades, adding: ‘I said I’d put one in his head. [A] few of the other lads said that as well. I think [Black­man] took the re­spon­si­bil­ity for the younger lads. He didn’t do it in cold blood – he did it so we could draw a line in the sand.’ Sergeant Rob Driscoll, who was lead­ing a pa­trol nearby, over­heard the ra­dio con­ver­sa­tion be­tween Sgt Black­man and HQ about what to do with the in­jured Tal­iban. He said no one wanted to risk send­ing a multi-mil­lion-pound air am­bu­lance and crew, or ve­hi­cles along a road lit­tered with bombs, to res­cue the man. He claimed he heard ‘im­plied task­ing’ – an un­spo­ken sug­ges­tion that the in­sur­gent ‘needed to pass away some­how’. Sgt Driscoll added: ‘ Ev­ery­one wanted that guy to be dead.’ Speak­ing later to Ra­dio 4’ s To­day, he said: ‘There was im­plied task­ing. Ev­ery­one on that ra­dio was send­ing out a sig­nal to Al, “Make it so it doesn’t hap­pen”.’ Sgt Driscoll told Panorama: ‘I’m glad Al did what he did, be­cause all my guys went home. Maybe if he hadn’t done that, I’d have been go­ing to a few more fu­ner­als.’ Louis Nether­cott, a ma­chine gun­ner with Sgt Black­man, said: ‘It was bloody tough. There is a point at which he has had too much or seen too much or is too tired or too stressed. None of us got hurt, so it was a suc­cess­ful day.’ Ma­jor Steve McCul­ley, com­man­der of Sgt Black­man’s J-Com­pany, was asked by film­maker Chris Ter­rill, who was with the unit: ‘ Would you think what hap­pened was the only time that hap­pened in the Afghan War?’ Ma­jor McCul­ley replied: ‘No.’ Sgt Black­man’s first le­gal team faces be­ing sued for dam­ages for not car­ry­ing out a psy­chi­atric as­sess­ment that would have shown his men­tal dis­or­der, pre­vent­ing a mur­der con­vic­tion. An­thony Berry QC and ju­nior bar­ris­ter Peter Glenser were ac­cused of in­com­pe­tence. They did not com­ment last night. ‘ I’m glad Al did what he did, be­cause all my guys went home. Maybe if he hadn’t, I’d have been go­ing to a few more fu­ner­als Sgt Rob Driscoll ’ ‘ I think he took re­spon­si­bil­ity for the younger lads. He didn’t do it in cold blood Sam Deen’ ‘ There is a point at which he has seen too much or is too tired or too stressed Louis Nether­cott’ Com &# xAD;bat stress: Sgt Black &# xAD;man © PressReader. All rights reserved. 