Commercial Investigation | Hong Kong | Zion Advisory Corporate Forensic Investigation When the corporate management suspects fraudulent activities within a company, by business partners or even competitors, Zion Advisory can render professional investigative support to assist the corporation. ﻿ Our specialists have solid experience in serving various Fortune 500 companies, MNCs, locally listed companies and SMEs, conducting different kinds of investigations involving fraud, corruption, conflict of interest, employee misconduct, money laundering and asset tracing. Zion Advisory also assists our clients in fraud prevention and fraud risk management by helping them develop their corporate business ethics and compliance program, which include fraud risk health check, business process review, implementation of compliance policies and delivery of business ethics training to their employees, management and business partners. Our founder Mr. Andy Cheung has over 20 years experience in commercial fraud prevention and investigation.  He started his career working in the Independent Commission Against Corruption with the Hong Kong Government and subsequently moved on to the forensic team of one of the Big Four accounting firms.  He then joined an European multi-national corporation as the head of the compliance team for the Asia Pacific Region, where he set up the business ethics framework for the company and supervised various investigations in the Greater China, Vietnam and India.  Andy founded another independent consulting firm named MAWSL Consulting Limited in 2011 before setting up Zion Advisory in 2018. ​ Andy is a certified member of the Association of the Certified Fraud Examiners.  He speaks on various topics including fraud prevention  &  investigation, interview techniques as well as construction &  implementation of business ethics program for corporation.  Andy also talks to different media in Hong Kong, Singapore and China to share his experience in corporate investigation and fighting corruption. Andy Cheung Founder of Zion Advisory © 2019 by Zion Advisory Limited.  All right reserved. Rm 842, Rykadan Capital Tower 135 Hoi Bun Road, Kwun Tong Kowloon, Hong Kong ​ ​​ T: 852-29116490 E: info@zionadvisory.com​ ​ 