Henry Hervey Hancock Obituary - Visitation  &  Funeral Information Henry Hervey Hancock, born October 14, 1928 in Paris, TN, died at Methodist Hospice May 16, 2014. Arriving in Memphis in 1957 with his bride Margaret Fairchild Hancock to join the law firm of Burch Porter and Johnson. He was a long-time resident of Central Gardens until converting a riverfront warehouse into a home that welcomed friends and associates for social gatherings through the 80’s and 90’s; most recently the couple lived in The River Tower.   In later years, Mr. and Mrs. Hancock traveled to all seven continents and spent many months at their home at Wolf Laurel in the Appalachian Mountains of western North Carolina. He was known for his impish sense of humor, and his love of backgammon, bridge and gin rummy made him a regular presence at the University Club for more than 50 years. His creativity and skill in woodworking provided furniture for his home and gifts for family and friends.   Mr. Hancock graduated from Georgia Military Academy in 1946, received a BS from the University of Tennessee in 1952 and his Juris Doctor degree from the University of Michigan in 1957. In between these years he served two enlistments in the Army, first in an entertainment unit that played at the Ernie Pyle Theater in post-war Japan and later as an information officer at Ft. Eustace, Virginia. Also during this time he was employed by GE in New York and New Jersey, working in apparatus sales, market research and sales analysis after completing two months of electrical engineering and sales training in just 40 hours. In 1965 Mr. Hancock partnered with Mr. William Farris to found the Farris, Hancock law firm (now Farris, Bobango). Mr. Hancock served in a succession of leadership roles within the local legal and Port Authority communities. His endeavors as an attorney secured the city’s cable franchise in 1974 and provided business and legal counsel for its development through the 1980s. He was a member of the Board of Professional Responsibility of the Supreme Court of Tennessee and was Vice Chairman in 1988-1989. He was an active member of the Memphis and Shelby County Port Commission, the Propeller Club of the Port of Memphis (President, 1977-1978). He was a member and held various ethics, committee and board positions with the Memphis, the Tennessee, and the American Bar Associations. He was also a member of the American College of Trial Lawyers, Maritime Law Association of the United States, Federation of Insurance and Corporate Counsel, and the American Board of Trial Advocates. Always looking to advance his profession, he spent 18 years teaching law students the finer points of trial procedure at Memphis State University Law School.   Mr. Hancock leaves his wife of 56 years, Peggy, daughter Sharon Fairchild Hancock Brown of Olympia, WA; son Henry H. Hancock, Jr. of Manhattan Beach, CA; son-in-law Peter Brown and granddaughters Chloe and Brady Brown of Olympia; nieces Lori Weston Hudson and Terri Weston of Paris, TN, and nephew Owen Weston of Knoxville, TN; and best puppy friend, C.C.. He was preceded in death by his sister Lorraine Hancock Weston and parents Hervey H. and Annie Rowe Hancock.   A Remembrance and Celebration of Henry’s life will be held Tuesday, May 20 at 3:00 p.m. at the University Club. The family requests that memorials be sent to the Church Health Center or a charity of their choice. Double Tap to Remove Guaranteed Hand Delivery by a  Local Florist! Henry and I became friends in 1968 while I was living in Memphis. We later met in Louisville where was working and spent many memorable hours together. He was loyal and compassionate friend and I always thought of him in the highest regard. He went to Georgia Military Academy and I went to West Point which may have been the common bond, but whatever it was, Henry was the best.   Rob Hughes  Continue reading No media to show.  Canale Funeral Directors Website Designed by  funeralOne 