Initiative 1631 | yakimaherald.com First time here?  Click to create a yakimaherald.com user account . Rain showers early with bright sunshine by the afternoon. High 61F. Winds SSW at 5 to 10 mph. Chance of rain 60%.. Clear early followed by cloudy skies overnight. Low 37F. Winds light and variable.  Updated: November 17, 2019 @ 5:18 am Proponents say that most of the major fossil-fuel sources of greenhouse gas would be covered, while opponents point to pulp and paper mills, Alcoa and others that gain exemptions. Proponents of Initiative 1631, on the Nov. 6 statewide ballot, allege misleading tactics, and some business owners say they did not expect their enterprises to be listed on the flyer. No on 1631 says it got signed consents for the endorsements. One Washington state lawmaker wants election ads by political-action committees to display a kind of warning label that would include logos of top corporate donors.  Climate change is real and its consequences existential. Let there be no argument anymore about that. Deniers who reject the overwhelming scientific consensus need only consult the recently released United Nations report on climate change, a chilling document written by 91 scientists worldwi The carbon fee — estimated to raise roughly $1 billion annually by 2023 — would fund a surge in state spending to cut fossil-fuel use. Proponents say that is what’s needed to get the job done, while opponents raise concerns about a powerful new board directing investments. Community members gathered Saturday in downtown Yakima to vocalize their support for a statewide ballot measure calling for a carbon emissions fee.  Proponents of Initiative 1631, on the Nov. 6 statewide ballot, allege misleading tactics, and some business owners say they did not expect their enterprises to be listed on the flyer. No on 1631 says it got signed consents for the endorsements. One Washington state lawmaker wants election ads by political-action committees to display a kind of warning label that would include logos of top corporate donors.  Climate change is real and its consequences existential. Let there be no argument anymore about that. Deniers who reject the overwhelming scientific consensus need only consult the recently released United Nations report on climate change, a chilling document written by 91 scientists worldwi The carbon fee — estimated to raise roughly $1 billion annually by 2023 — would fund a surge in state spending to cut fossil-fuel use. Proponents say that is what’s needed to get the job done, while opponents raise concerns about a powerful new board directing investments. Community members gathered Saturday in downtown Yakima to vocalize their support for a statewide ballot measure calling for a carbon emissions fee.  Incumbent Martha Rice and challenger Earl Lee answer questions from the editorial board A proponent and opponent of initiative 976 each make their case to the editorial board. Proponents and opponents of Referendum 88 make their case to the editorial board Incumbent Alex Ybarra and challenger Steve Verhey answer questions from the editorial board Incumbent David Matson and challenger Dave Hansen answer questions from the editorial board. Incumbent  Roger Bell and challenger Ellen Overby answer questions from the editorial board. Candidates Russell Carlson and Crispin Garza answer questions from the editorial board. Holly Cousens answers questions from the editorial board. Candidate Eliana Macias answers questions from the editorial board. Candidates Patricia Byers and Thomas Sund answer questions from the editorial board Incumbent Martha Rice and challenger Earl Lee answer questions from the editorial board The measure would put an escalating fee on most fossil-fuel emissions, adding an estimated 14 cents to the cost of a gallon of gasoline at the pump. The initiative has drawn early opposition from oil companies. Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device. 