Rumour: Sony to Announce Release Dates for Death Stranding, Ghost of Tsushima, and Dreams at The Game Awards - Push Square Guest Login  |  Sign Up Guide: The Best Character Builds for Geralt in The W... Thu 10th Oct 2019 Guide: New PS4 Games Releasing in 2019 Sat 19th Oct 2019 Guide: All Free PS Plus Games in 2019 Sat 30th Nov 2019 Guide: How to Watch Virtual Reality Porn on PSVR Fri 4th Oct 2019 Guide: Spyro: Reignited Trilogy Cheats - All Cheat C... Wed 2nd Oct 2019 Guide: Red Dead Redemption 2 - How to Sell Valuables... Sat 2nd Nov 2019 Review: Professional Farmer 2017 (PS4) Tue 5th Jul 2016 Review: Dragon Ball XenoVerse (PlayStation 4) Tue 24th Feb 2015 Review: The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt (PlayStation 4) Tue 30th Aug 2016 DayZ - Far Too Little Far Too Late for the PS4 ' s Wor... Tue 4th Jun 2019 Review: Yu-Gi-Oh! Legacy of the Duelist (PS4) Fri 7th Aug 2015 Review: Minecraft: PlayStation 3 Edition (PlayStatio... Mon 23rd Dec 2013 Reaction: PlayStation ' s Most Ardent Fans Are Feeling... Tue 10th Dec 2019 Game of the Decade: Dark Souls Laid the Foundations ... Sun, 10am Talking Point: Should Capcom Remake Resident Evil 4? Wed, 12pm Talking Point: What Free January 2020 PS Plus Games ... 1pm Ghost of Tsushima PS4 Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice PS4 Titanfall 2 PS4 Sniper Elite VR PS4 Monster Energy Supercross: The Official Videogame PS4 Godfall PS5 FIFA 20/PES 2020 Career Mode Discussion [PlayStation 4 (PS4)] 1 replies |  0s ago The Pushsquare Football (Soccer) Thread [General Discussion] 1,155 replies |  0s ago The Movie Thread [General Discussion] 3,409 replies |  0s ago User Impressions/Reviews Thread [Retro  &  Other Gaming] 254 replies |  0s ago Your top 5 games released in 2019 [General Discussion] 35 replies |  0s ago Gaming Tat (...Return of the Tat!) [General Discussion] 265 replies |  0s ago The Chit Chat Thread [General Discussion] 3,765 replies |  0s ago Your Top 10 Games Of The Decade [General Discussion] 0 replies |  0s ago Playstation 4 Backloggery and most wanted! [PlayStation 4 (PS4)] 304 replies |  0s ago Guest Login  or  Sign Up But probably not We're less than a month away from  The Game Awards 2018 , and naturally, rumours of potential announcements are starting to fly around. The latest word on the street is that Sony is readying a trio of release dates for three of its own PS4 exclusives --  Death Stranding ,  Ghost of Tsushima , and  Dreams . This comes from a Brazilian website,  Combo Infinito , which claims to have received an email from Sony Brazil, plainly stating the above information. Via Google Translate, here's the supposed email from Sony: Update: Release windows for Death Stranding and Ghost of Tsushima will be revealed during this year's edition of The Game Awards next month. Official release date of Dreams will also be announced. Combo Infinito also speculates that this means we'll be seeing new footage from the three enigmatic titles. It's not impossible that Sony will show up at The Game Awards with something new, but to throw out several release dates for some of its biggest games at a third party event doesn't sound right to us. Granted, last year's event debuted a new trailer for Death Stranding, but we'd expect Sony to reveal dates for these games itself, not via something like Geoff Keighley's glitzy awards show. Take this one with a barrel of salt. Will Sony be making announcements at The Game Awards 2018? Will we see more from the likes of Death Stranding and Ghost of Tsushima, or is this rumour a load of rubbish? Sound off in the comments below. [via  comboinfinito.com.br ,  resetera.com ] About  Stephen Tailby Having grown up alongside PlayStation, Stephen has developed a wide knowledge of video games, from AAA blockbusters to the smallest indie gems. He also has the Platinum for The Witness, so there’s that. Comments  ( 55 ) Maybe a new trailer for one of them (most likely Death Stranding) will end with a date, but not all three. Then again, I was recently wrong about that E3 rumour... no The Last of Us part 2 for release date   sobbing sniff sniff Haha, uhm... nope. I really wanna believe this, cause im excited for death stranding, but... I don't believe it. Don't be so quick to dismiss, kids, we've seen that Sony has been doing things 'differently' as of late. I'll take a firm stance of 'I'll believe it when I see it.' I was surprised that Sony announced a date for Days Gone (which subsequently changed) at E3 as they had been keeping the reveal of the dates pretty close to the release - a few months. I can't see them announcing dates that far advance after having delayed Days Gone and all the other games that have had delays. I would prefer Sony to announce release dates a few months before a game releases rather than 6+ months and then end up having to delay it. Its possible that Dreams and even Ghost of Tsushima could get a release date - Dreams has seemed to been in development for years and its coming up to 4yrs now since Infamous so maybe they are close to the finish line. Death Stranding though seemed a lot less 'ready' to release - although some of that could be because the world seemed very empty and we just got the character walking in it - which could be to avoid spoilers. As such it seemed more like a test demo to see if their character and animation was working - not falling through the world, not getting stuck on things and moving the way they hoped - still a long way from being a 'game' so I would be more surprised if that was giving a release date. Push Square doesn't believe it but we all know what happened the last time they said that  Why couldn't it be TLOU 2 smh @get2sammyb  Like we didn't believe that Sony won't be at E3 these are strange times we live in nothing is impossible now. @AdamNovice @Hapuc  Touche!  @get2sammyb  Sony need reveal release date for The Last of Us part 2.. it is biggest anticipated game for everyone who loved first one @RDR2October26  I'm sure they'll tell us when they're ready. @CK97  yes i am dying to know release date for TLOU 2. hopefully it come out in 2019 instead 2020 You now what, after the whole ff7 remake/last guardian/shenmue 3 and now sony not attending e3 2019 rumor is actually true, I can believe maybe this rumor is true.. @get2sammyb  yeah i am worrying about it push to 2020. yeah it is most wanted game Why wouldn't anyone believe it. Apart from Ghost of Tsushima, the other 2 games have been in production way to long and are 2019 releases anyway. @RDR2October26  I doubt it'll be out next year to be honest. Not impossible, but I'd be surprised. @get2sammyb  yeah Neil Druckman said it is 50-60 percent done in December 2017 so right now : 80-90 percent done ? it will be completed 100 percent during summer then they polishing it for few months but maybe it release in October 2019 ? Good games alway come out in October every year Death Stranding? Yes, reveal date. Dreams  Beta  date announced. No official release date. GoT- no way. I genuinely believe that both Ghost and TLOU2 are launch cross-gen titles. :But probably not' Is pushsquare a bit like pachter when they give their opinions its safe to assume its the opposite? Edit: Also its says release windows not release date Lol, I just got pissed. I somehow read the title but skipped the word rumor and then saw it afterwards. I want a date for The Last of Us 2. ghost of tshushima cant wait for that game.release the beast.word up son I can't see that happening with Death Stranding   Kojima will take years to make that game(which is fine by me because he is a GOD and all his past games have been worth the wait) The other 2 games maybe but I can't see it really. Dreams should be out next year I guess tho. Individually anyone of them would’ve been believable but I don’t think Sony has ever announce the release date of multiple games at one event. Except maybe the launch titles for new console. I don't want to rain on anyone's parade here, but I'm Brazilian and after reading the original statement, I believe the correct translation should be that  " Release windows (...)  may  be revealed... " @RDR2October26 They should release it the same day as the E3 Xbox conference. I wonder if people would still go 'but but E3?'. Haha I ve always thought TLOU II would be last to release though 2020 just before PS5 launch. @MrBert  I just read the source, and seems like you're right indeed. If I'm correct they're saying a release window for Ghost and Death Stranding MAY be revealed. But a release date for Dreams WILL be revealed. That actually sounds pretty reasonable. But Portugese is not my native language at all, so correct me if I misinterpreted here. Considering Geoff spends half the night trying to get into Kojima's pants I wouldn't be surprised to get a Death Stranding release window during the show. And that window will be  " 2019 " . Ghosts could also get a  " late 2019 "  window. Dreams  " beta "  will go live during the show, hence getting a release window for the beta. I mean it's been 3 years, shouldn't take any company longer than 3 years to make a beta. You can thank me later  @Octane Sony canceled PSX, they are taking over TGA. Shawn Layden did name drop Dreams as the definite 2019 games alongside Days Gone and Concrete Genie. I think we'll get a beta launch date I'm sure. The latest on Death Stranding is that the game is in the polishing phase but that could be anything from 6 to 12 months from release. And has for GoT well we've only had two trailers for it so far so that might be further away. 2019 could be another good year for PS4 then? Still waiting on Concrete Genie myself @Kidfried  yes, you're absolutely right!! That's what I got from the  " official "  statement anyway Sony have been really unpredictable lately with PlayStation so anything is possible these days I wouldnt be surprised if dreams got a release date with an o btw the beta is live now. There has been so much coverage recently it cant be far out! Why would Sony Brazil send this info to one outlet only? Also the article says  " poderão ser reveladas "  which means  " may be revealed " . i would be suprised if death stranding gets a release window instead of the TLOU 2. but then again i also find it strange that all 3 games would get a release date except TLOU. I will be disappointed if Ghost of Tsushima gets a release window rather than a date. If it will be a release window, then that means that will be a post summer 2019 at the earliest. I hope this isnt the case. I would like it to come out May/June Yeah, I don't see that happening. I mean, they are are skipping e3 next year. Might makes sense to put out some release dates and windows to calm everybody down Doubt it, but it would be nice to see a release date for Dreams. I'm sorry for the long tangent in advance. I'd be surprised if Sony announced the release date for Death Stranding. I think that's probably a 2020 game. Saying that, we're talking about Sony and Kojima here so nothing should surprise me really. As mentioned in a comment above, a release window is more likely than a specific date. And Dreams is long overdue so why not. On a separate slightly related note- Of the currently announced PS4 exclusives left to come out... Dreams, Days Gone, Concrete genie, MLB The Show, Shenmue 3, Last of Us 2, Ghosts of Tshushima and Death Stranding. I'd be happy if one or two of these are due 2020 as that's a lot of PS4 exclusives for 2019. Not to mention the usual multi platform and VR games. Also, with recent releases of huge games Like Assassin's Creed Oddessy and RDR2 clocking in at 60+ hours. Not to mention all the season passes and online games etc. It's hard enough to keep up. It's great. Not quite sure how I ended up here but I think my point is. It's an amazing time to be a gamer. If no more PS4 exclusives were announced (and I'm sure they will), the PS4 will still be getting a brilliant send-off over the next couple of years. And I've heard Mark Cerny is taking home the Best eSports Coach Award! @rjejr  Fine by me lol. Should make the show more enjoyable to watch. Hope this is not true. A release for Dreams is fine, but I’m hoping the others are PS5 launch titles. @PS_Nation  Hi, do you think The Last of Us 2 release in 2019 likely October ? @RDR2October26  Most likely a PS5 release, same as Death Stranding. I definitely expect new trailers for all three games, but only one of them will have a legit release date, the others will have vague release window updates. good strategy for sony the game awards has millions of viewers @RDR2October26  Well, I’m not the best source, lol, but I wouldn’t bet on this release date. @starhops  Neil Druckmann said it gonna be PS4 and will be cross gen later after PS5 coming out Nothing gets me more excited than dates, prunes maybe. I'm not sure about Ghost of Tsushima and Dreams, but I'm quite sure Death Stranding will get a release date. If you follow the  " Analysing "  community you already know why, and if not... I guess just wait and we'll see.  That's sounds very odd. If Anything Last Of Us 2 should be the highlight  &  reveal the Release date. Ghost Of Tushima was only revealed at the very end of 2017, for that to get a release date  &  not Last Of Us 2 is baffling. @Thunderlips69  It really isn't. Sony specifically mentioned that they waited to reveal Ghost of Tsushima, because they wanted to decrease the time between reveal and release. They have gotten a bit of backlash after revealing some games way too early; we've had three E3's of Spider-Man for example. So it's understandable that they wanted to change that strategy. I think Ghost is coming sooner than people think. Sometime in 2019. That's still one-and-a-half years between reveal and release, but definitely shorter than 2 or 3+ years.  Tap here to load 55 comments Leave A Comment Hold on there, you need to  login  to post a comment... Red Dead Redemption 2 Gets Big PS4 Update that Adds a Load of Single-Player Content and Photo Mode Boah howdy Reaction: PlayStation's Most Ardent Fans Are Feeling Frustrated and Insecure The current state of play Guide: Best PS4 Co-Op Games The greatest couch co-op or online co-op on PlayStation 4 PS4 Firmware Update 7.01 Is Available to Download Now What does it do? PS4 Exclusive Ghost of Tsushima Has One of the Best Box Arts of This Generation Beauty in death  1 News Ex-Naughty Dog Animator Says Microsoft Will Have to Invest Long-Term in Acquired Studios to Match Sony's First-Party  4 News Artist's Rendition of PS5 Controller Is Our Best Look Yet at the DualShock 5  5 News Final Fantasy VII on PS4 Just Got Its Most Important Patch Four Years After Launch  1 News Call of Duty: Modern Warfare Season One Refresh Adds More Classic Maps Popular Right Now Guide: Best PS4 Racing Games 0s ago Guide: All PlayStation Now Games 0s ago Guide: PS4 Copying Update Files - Why Does It Take So Long? Yesterday, 4pm Artist's Rendition of PS5 Controller Is Our Best Look Yet... 0s ago Guide: All PS5 Games Confirmed or Rumoured Fri, 3:45am Final Fantasy VII on PS4 Just Got Its Most Important Patc... 0s ago Guide: All PS4 Games with Cross-Play Compatibility Mon 9th Dec 2019 Red Dead Redemption 2 Gets Big PS4 Update that Adds a Loa... Sat, 5:30am Sony's Biggest PlayStation Store Sale of the Year Is Just... 8am Newly Announced Back Button Attachment Turns Your DualSho... 6:45am Game of the Decade: Dark Souls Laid the Foundations for a... Sun, 10am PlayStation Now Subscribers Are Losing PS Store Purchases... Sun 8th Dec 2019 Show More  Join  293,622  people following  Push Square :  2019  Nlife Media , partner of  Gamer Network . Hosted by  44 Bytes . Guide: The Best Character Builds for Geralt in The W... Thu 10th Oct 2019 Guide: New PS4 Games Releasing in 2019 Sat 19th Oct 2019 Guide: All Free PS Plus Games in 2019 Sat 30th Nov 2019 Guide: How to Watch Virtual Reality Porn on PSVR Fri 4th Oct 2019 Guide: Spyro: Reignited Trilogy Cheats - All Cheat C... Thu 3rd Oct 2019 Guide: Red Dead Redemption 2 - How to Sell Valuables... Sun 3rd Nov 2019 Review: Professional Farmer 2017 (PS4) Tue 5th Jul 2016 Review: Dragon Ball XenoVerse (PlayStation 4) Tue 24th Feb 2015 Review: The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt (PlayStation 4) Tue 30th Aug 2016 DayZ - Far Too Little Far Too Late for the PS4's Wor... Wed 5th Jun 2019 Review: Yu-Gi-Oh! Legacy of the Duelist (PS4) Fri 7th Aug 2015 Review: Minecraft: PlayStation 3 Edition (PlayStatio... Tue 24th Dec 2013 Reaction: PlayStation's Most Ardent Fans Are Feeling... Tue 10th Dec 2019 Game of the Decade: Dark Souls Laid the Foundations ... 3 days ago Talking Point: Should Capcom Remake Resident Evil 4? 7 days ago Talking Point: What Free January 2020 PS Plus Games ... 16 hours ago Ghost of Tsushima PS4 Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice PS4 Titanfall 2 PS4 Sniper Elite VR PS4 Monster Energy Supercross: The Official Videogame PS4 Godfall PS5 FIFA 20/PES 2020 Career Mode Discussion [PlayStation 4 (PS4)] 1 replies |  9 mins ago The Pushsquare Football (Soccer) Thread [General Discussion] 1,155 replies |  18 mins ago The Movie Thread [General Discussion] 3,409 replies |  45 mins ago User Impressions/Reviews Thread [Retro  &  Other Gaming] 254 replies |  1 hour ago Your top 5 games released in 2019 [General Discussion] 35 replies |  1 hour ago Gaming Tat (...Return of the Tat!) [General Discussion] 265 replies |  2 hours ago The Chit Chat Thread [General Discussion] 3,765 replies |  2 hours ago Your Top 10 Games Of The Decade [General Discussion] 0 replies |  2 hours ago Playstation 4 Backloggery and most wanted! [PlayStation 4 (PS4)] 304 replies |  3 hours ago 