Contra Costa Mosquito  &  Vector Control In my 18 years as an entomologist here at the District, my lab staff and I have fielded hundreds of calls from residents who are sure their home is infested with brown recluse spiders, or swear that they know someone who was bitten by one. Many of them submitted specimens for identification, all of which had one thing in common—they were NOT brown recluses. In fact, every colleague I have spoken with throughout the state agrees that they have never seen any physical evidence that populations of brown recluse spiders even exist in California. Yet, many (perhaps most) Californians seem to believe (sometimes very strongly) that they are a serious threat. Hopefully this article will help to separate scientific fact from arachnophobia. The brown recluse spider ( Loxosceles reclusa ) is native to the south central states (Iowa to Texas, east to Tennessee and Georgia), where it is quite common and is often found inside homes. However, even where it is abundant, bites are extremely rare due to its shy and reclusive nature. Contrary to common belief, the bite of the brown recluse is not  deadly ; its venom has necrotizing (flesh-destroying) properties, and bites can cause open sores that are very slow to heal and may become secondarily infected.  Unfortunately, there are many other pathogens that can cause similar sores, including so-called  flesh-eating bacteria , and such wounds are frequently attributed to spider bites without any direct evidence that a spider was involved. Documented spider bites in general are actually quite rare since spiders have no reason to bite humans except in self-defense, and the majority of them are too small for their chelicerae (fangs) to penetrate human skin.  Established populations of  L. reclusa  have not been found outside their native range. Although there have been a few isolated incidents where individuals were accidentally transported from their homeland in moving vans or shipping crates, there is no evidence that they have ever  set up shop  here in California. We do have a related species ( Loxosceles deserta ) that s found mainly in the desert areas of southern California, but I have never heard a report of that species biting anyone. So why are so many Californians so sure they have seen or been bitten by a brown recluse? My opinion, shared with many of my colleagues, is that it s a combination of media hype combined with pre-existing arachnophobia (fear of spiders) and the desire to find a plausible explanation for unidentified sores or wounds. People often mention long legs, brown color or a  violin shaped mark  as evidence the spider they saw was a brown recluse; however, many common and harmless species of spiders share these characteristics. The first thing an entomologist looks at is the eyes; while most common spiders have eight eyes, the family to which the recluses belong have six, arranged in three pairs. Although admittedly, most people would prefer not to get close enough to determine this. The only local spider considered potentially dangerous to people is the black widow.  Unlike the brown recluse, its venom is neurotoxic (affects the nerves) and can cause severe pain, muscle spasms and cramps. Bites are rarely if ever fatal, and an effective antivenom is available for treatment. Fortunately, black widows, like most spiders, are also shy and reclusive and bites are extremely rare. If you are concerned about spiders in your home there are several options: physical control (squashing them), chemical control (spraying with a household insecticide labeled for spider control—remember to read and follow the label instructions), or my preferred method, simply capturing them in a jar and releasing them outside where they can help keep your garden free of pests. Sealing up potential entry points (exclusion) is the best way to prevent future uninvited guests.  June, 2013 