Rockstar didn ' t fix same cars everywhere! - GTA V - GTAForums Forgot your password? ByFrankTrevMike,  August 15, 2013  in  GTA V  Look at all four vehicles are the same! I thought rockstar was going to fix this unfortunately they didn't. This is what upset me the most about gta4 was everytime I got a nice ride everyone else ended up having the same ride. Now im worried that after we customize our cars and spend lots of time and money on them everyone in los santos all the way to blaine county is going to own your same custom vehicle, and it won't be that special anymore. Also there is only one person per vehicle, in LA there is almost always more then one person per vehicle because traffic is so bad and people need to carpool so they can go in the fast lane. Is the whole city going to be one person per car? That bothers me. People are saying it's console limitations but that's not true it's worse on the pc. Some how modders can fix it but rockstar didn't. Their coders are just being lazy. How come you can have tons of different cars on multiplayer but on single player it's mostly the same vehicles? It doesn't matter how much ram you have they could of fixed this problem! Don't get me wrong I love gta games there the best but that issue irks me because it can be fixed.  Here is the pc verson so you know the amount of ram has nothing to do with it And here is gta online the modders are able to code lots of different cars on one screen So why can't rockstar?   Boohoo....   Do you even know what the word "custom" means?   Do I care? Nope Does GTAF care? Nope   There's your answer..   That's hardware limitation, it can be fix on PC or next gen....   Whatever. I enjoy the map, everything else is extra   It's a memory issue on this generation of consoles that can't be fixed without beefing up the hardware. It was pretty clear that it wasn't getting fixed from the start.     Oh well.   Fix ? It's not a bug, it's a technical constraint.   50+ screenshots was shown. 3+ videos was shown.   One screenshot includes ''same car glitch'' and people automaticly suggest that ''omg that biggest problem ever in gaming histori is back''  somebody call the waaaahhhhhmbulance.    but seriously, this has been brought up and discussed countless times there's not a damn thing R* can do about it.  unless you want your game to run at 6 FPS.   Rockstar did that on purpose whats the problem    We won't be seeing other cars with our customisation s on them. Just the standard models plus a couple Different models, but not ours.   It'll most likely be present in any next gen GTAs too.   It's just like that.   Nobody thinks that this is normal ? It's in the Republican Video... and because it's over exaggerated, they show us a lot of people with 4x4s.   In Los Angeles, everyone wants to be by the time, and this is the result   Nobody is going to have your custom vehicle. They may end up driving the same model, but not with the modifications you've made.   GTA IV always had it worse is some places for some reason, like Bohan. So maybe this is just one area with the problem.   I was gonna bitch at OP for bitching about something new but that screen shot did make me laugh cause that's a little ridiculous.      Nothing that big of a deal but I'd notice it time to time in IV. It's just something due to limitations on the hardware.    GTA IV always had it worse is some places for some reason, like Bohan. So maybe this is just one area with the problem.   Are you sure? I think you might be dan houser! As long as they don't have the same license plates I'm good.   Oh no, there are same cars everywhere, now I will not buy GTAV. I don't give a f*ck if the same cars will spawn like in previous games. I'm playing GTA for the story and freedom.   Couldnt care less about that. It's because of hardware limitation.   I guess this is something they cannot fix on current gen consoles, sadly. It annoys me everytime, but well, you know how it is   They did re-use the same vehicles.   Part of me thinks that they have deliberately put these SUVs in the video to show off the stereotype of mums driving around in 4x4s dropping there kids off to school. Notice that all the people driving are women as well. Just a thought that I had.      That's a myth same thing happens on the most upgraded pc's. But for some reason modders can fix this problem. I just think they are to worried about other areas of the game to focus on same cars respawning everywhere. And no they didn't do it on purpose the 2 different suvs are the same color.    That's a myth same thing happens kn the most upgraded pc's. But for some reason modders can fix this problem. I just think they are to worried about other areas of the game to focus on same cars respawning everywhere.  It's not a f*cking myth. It IS hardware limitations. The consoles can't handle spawning different vehicles all the time, because of it's low RAM.   And as previous GTA's are ported to PC, the problem is the same. No matter how many gigabytes of RAM you got on your PC.  3+ videos was shown.   One screenshot includes ''same car glitch'' and people automaticly suggest that ''omg that biggest problem ever in gaming histori is back''  Exactly.   There's nothing the developers can do about this, it is a shame, but who really cares when you look at everything else they have done in GTAV and done superbly at that.   So im crazy right? I am the only gta fan that this bothers? Id rather have less traffic and look like a dead city then a city full of the same vehicle over and over again.    It bothers us all. But it is what it is, right? The game is made for old consoles. And actually I would rather want the opposite of yours. A dead city would be a nightmare to play in.   I am more worried why there is only one person per vehicle.  It bothers us all. But it is what it is, right? The game is made for old consoles. And actually I would rather want the opposite of yours. A dead city would be a nightmare to play in.   No, you're crazy NOT to think it doesn't bother us. But what the hell can we do about it?   And yh, what sort of fun would you do in an empty city?    I agree with you! In GTA IV (PC version) there where the cab problem. In every corner you only saw cabs or police cars. It happened in ps3 too but not so much as in pc version.   Image source:  GTAForums © GrandTheftAuto.net 2001-2019. All Rights Reserved. Powered by Invision Community By using GTAForums.com, you agree to our  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy . 