Kate Adam   Platinum Point Platinum Point An invitation-only business networking group One size fits all?  Wrong!  Every client I work with is unique, and I create unique and creative marketing solutions to solve your business problems. For me it all starts with a plan – most of our clients prefer it on one page for ease of reference and sharing. Whether it is increasing revenue, generating positive PR, or activating your team to get out and get more business, I’ll work with you to make it happen.  l listen to what clients want to achieve, create an integrated marketing strategy which not only aligns with your business strategy but will deliver success. I’m particularly passionate about delivering a significant marketing return on investment. Online and offline, we bring all the pieces of the marketing jigsaw together, online and offline.  A fresh pair of eyes to help you drive your business to the next level, we are passionate, enthusiastic and practical.    I also specialise in Business Awards. Over 90% of my clients reach finals, and between them 60% have won awards locally, regionally, nationally and even international level.   Particular highlights with two Herts businesses have been seeing them winning national awards with the British Chambers of Commerce, one for Entrepreneur of the Year, and my particular favourite, for Marketing Campaign of the Year!  Marketing isn’t a one-off. Done well and done consistently it will bring you fantastic results for your business. Outside of work:  Apart from joining various PP’ers for quiz nights and the odd glass of Pinot, I’m a trustee for the Red Rubber Ball Foundation – in January of this year 14 of us raised over £35,000 to take 15 young Kenyans with us to climb Mt Kilimanjaro! Amazing experience.   I also love the challenge of learning, having qualified as a helicopter pilot, become an NLP Master Practitioner and speak Spanish fluently.  EP: k ate@meredithmarketing.co.uk T: 07970 280084 Li:  http://uk.linkedin.com/in/kateadam  Tw:  http://twitter.com/marketingkate 