Alice Lara - President  &  CEO - The SADS Foundation | LinkedIn Shared by  Alice Lara Liked by  Alice Lara Liked by  Alice Lara Jun 2001   –  Present 18 years 7 months Alice Lara, the SADS Foundation’s President and CEO, has been with the Foundation since 2001.  She brings several decades of experience in health care delivery, non-profit management, program implementation and volunteer coordination—as well as over ten years experience in nursing and nursing education.  Under her leadership, the Foundation has implemented four International conferences, multiple seminars around the country and initiated many new programs. The Foundation has expanded its funding base and programming reach and more than doubled its budget since 2001. As the only medical professional on staff at the SADS Foundation, Ms. Lara has developed SADS educational materials and programs and is directly responsible for developing and implementing SADS’s Goals to: Enhance Patient and Family Support  Expand Education to Health Professionals Increase Advocacy for Research, Screening (Diagnosis) and Medical Treatment Increase Awareness of SADS and SADS Warning Signs Some of the projects she has developed include a national Physician Referral service; the publication of an in-depth web site concerning unexplained sudden death in the young; an informational newsletter  &  an E-Newsletter; a quarterly Literature Review that includes the dissemination of recent genetic and clinical findings; a national networking support program for individuals and families; family and medical professional seminars held locally across the country and programs for youth. Ms. Lara is a member of the Pediatric and Congenital Eletrophysiology Society, a founder and member of the working group of the Sudden Cardiac Arrest Coalition, and has been a speaker at numerous medical and lay seminars, including the Sudden Cardiac Arrest in the Young conference at the Heart Rhythm Society’s annual Scientific Sessions in 2007, the National Association of Genetic Counselors Annual Sessions in 2008 and the Genetic Alliance Annual Conference in 2009. Alice Lara, the SADS Foundation’s President and CEO, has been with the Foundation since 2001.  She brings several decades of experience in health care delivery, non-profit management, program implementation and volunteer coordination—as well as over ten years experience in nursing and nursing education.  Under her leadership, the Foundation has implemented four International conferences, multiple seminars around the country and initiated many new programs. The Foundation has expanded its... Alice Lara, the SADS Foundation’s President and CEO, has been with the Foundation since 2001.  She brings several decades of experience in health care delivery, non-profit management, program implementation and volunteer coordination—as well as over ten years experience in nursing and nursing education.  Under her leadership, the Foundation has implemented four International conferences, multiple seminars around the country and initiated many new programs. The Foundation has expanded its funding base and programming reach and more than doubled its budget since 2001. As the only medical professional on staff at the SADS Foundation, Ms. Lara has developed SADS educational materials and programs and is directly responsible for developing and implementing SADS’s Goals to: Enhance Patient and Family Support  Expand Education to Health Professionals Increase Advocacy for Research, Screening (Diagnosis) and Medical Treatment Increase Awareness of SADS and SADS Warning Signs Some of the projects she has developed include a national Physician Referral service; the publication of an in-depth web site concerning unexplained sudden death in the young; an informational newsletter  &  an E-Newsletter; a quarterly Literature Review that includes the dissemination of recent genetic and clinical findings; a national networking support program for individuals and families; family and medical professional seminars held locally across the country and programs for youth. Ms. Lara is a member of the Pediatric and Congenital Eletrophysiology Society, a founder and member of the working group of the Sudden Cardiac Arrest Coalition, and has been a speaker at numerous medical and lay seminars, including the Sudden Cardiac Arrest in the Young conference at the Heart Rhythm Society’s annual Scientific Sessions in 2007, the National Association of Genetic Counselors Annual Sessions in 2008 and the Genetic Alliance Annual Conference in 2009. 2001   –   2001 less than a year Developed and managed a special fundraising event. Developed and managed a special fundraising event. 1999   –   2001 2 years Part of the 3-person management team. In charge of finance, development (fundraising), volunteer services, administrative services. Part of the 3-person management team. In charge of finance, development (fundraising), volunteer services, administrative services. 1990   –   1998 8 years 1979   –   1983 4 years Ms. Lara worked as a Registered Nurse for over eight years—primarily in the medical intensive care and cardiac intensive care units. She was in nursing administration for two years –developing curricula and teaching continuing education courses for registered nurses, developing and supervising a multidisciplinary audit program, developing several patient education programs and acting as the nurse practitioner for a large medical unit. As a nurse educator, Ms. Lara developed the curriculum and taught senior nursing students for the new registered nurse program at the College of Nursing, Mid-Michigan Community College. She also developed patient education programs and worked as a Nurse Practitioner with an Endocrinologist (M.D.) in San Jose, CA and owned and administered an Emergency Medical Clinic with her husband, an emergency physician. Ms. Lara worked as a Registered Nurse for over eight years—primarily in the medical intensive care and cardiac intensive care units. She was in nursing administration for two years –developing curricula and teaching continuing education courses for registered nurses, developing and supervising a multidisciplinary audit program, developing several patient education programs and acting as the nurse practitioner for a large medical unit. As a nurse educator, Ms. Lara developed the... Ms. Lara worked as a Registered Nurse for over eight years—primarily in the medical intensive care and cardiac intensive care units. She was in nursing administration for two years –developing curricula and teaching continuing education courses for registered nurses, developing and supervising a multidisciplinary audit program, developing several patient education programs and acting as the nurse practitioner for a large medical unit. As a nurse educator, Ms. Lara developed the curriculum and taught senior nursing students for the new registered nurse program at the College of Nursing, Mid-Michigan Community College. She also developed patient education programs and worked as a Nurse Practitioner with an Endocrinologist (M.D.) in San Jose, CA and owned and administered an Emergency Medical Clinic with her husband, an emergency physician. 1974   –   1976 Join to view Alice’s full profile Phoenix, Arizona Area São Paulo Area, Brazil Dallas/Fort Worth Area United States 32 others named Alice Lara are on LinkedIn 