Swartz Creek Dragons Monogram | Swartz creek, Sports logo, Dragon The best features of a Cricut Explore. Most people think the Cricut Explore is for cutting paper and vinyl. Here are 100 Cricut Explore materials and a few things you can make with them. What Can I Make with My Cricut? Are you wondering what you can make with your Cricut? Check out these fabulous Cricut projects. How to Write with Cricut Explore Air, Address envelopes, as well as some creative Cricut pen projects! It &# x27;s been a goal of mine to dive into the different Looking to craft with a Cricut Explore Air, but don &# x27;t know where to start? I &# x27;ve listed the MOST Useful Cricut accessories and supplies so you can start creating! I &# x27;ll guide you through how to use the Cricut Explore Air 2. I have a few easy projects for beginners that I &# x27;ll walk you through to show you its most common and useful features. In this tutorial, you will learn how to cut balsa wood and basswood with your Cricut Machine! For the past little while, I have been experimenting with Hi Daydreamer! Today you will learn, from start to finish, how to make custom T-shirts Put your Cricut Explore to work—have it address Christmas cards! Using the pen tool, the Cricut Explore can beautifully  " hand letter "  your Christmas cards. The perfect step-by-step help and free Cricut Explore Air 2 Getting Started Guide perfect for beginners who feel intimidated or unsure where to begin! Looking for cricut tips for beginners? This post is the perfect place to start - it has everything you need to know to get started with Cricutting. Best Dollar Store Products to Use for Cricut Projects So, it &# x27;s no secret that I love Cricut and the Dollar Tree. Right? Well, right. So it was really only I have discovered yet another thing I can do with my Cricut Explore Air 2. Did you know that you can do glass etching with the help of your Cricut? I didn’t even know that was a thing! Using your Cricut, make a stencil, apply the stencil to some glass, put on some etching cream, ... Read More about How to do Glass Etching With the Help of Your Cricut One question I &# x27;m frequently asked is where can I buy Cricut supplies? You &# x27;ll find my favorite Cricut Craft Supplies from the Dollar Tree in this list! Here are 10 Cricut Explore Air Tips  &  Tricks that will help you love your machine even more. Get a list of recommended suppliers for tee shirts to use in your Silhouette Cameo or Cricut small business. Disclosure: Companies may have provided me with products in this post. However, opinions expressed are my own. If you purchase... 