BTS New Album ‘Love Yourself: Tear’ Update: V Mesmerizes Netizens In Solo Track ‘Singularity’ Music Video : K-WAVE : koreaportal EDITION  : English / Korean Korean boy band BTS dropped a new teaser for their third album  Love Yourself: Tear, and it featured group member V. The "Singularity" MV is said to be  Tear 's "comeback trailer" and offers a glimpse of what fans can expect from the upcoming LP. BTS fans all over the world were stunned when the band released a teaser for "Singularity," off from their upcoming album Love Yourself: Tear. The solo track was sung by V. The BTS member captivates fans with his smooth R & B and jazz vocals, groovy outfit, and sensual moves. V, along with a team of back up dancers, also provided perfectly choreographed dance routines. The "Singularity" MV begins with V dancing with a faceless coat with a moving arm and hand hanging on a rack. The idol is also seen singing and slow dancing alone or with back-up. At one point, he is surrounded by white masks that are floating around him. The video ends when V puts on a white mask while a black teardrop slides down from one eye. Fans quickly shared their reviews of V's music video. Unsurprisingly, all were impressed by the trailer. "OH S**T!!!! This was so mature and sexy and seductive OMG!!!﻿" one fan commented on YouTube. "Taehyung's honey deep ocean voice that can make you feel thousands of emotions, the holy trinity. I love you so much V. #Singularity," another wrote. Ahead of the  Tear  release, the band previously dropped a short film, titled  Euphoria: Theme of Love Yourself: Wonder . They also released a diary entry of Jungkook as part of the band's "The Most Beautiful Moment in Life" storyline. Tear  is a follow-up to  Love Yourself: Her , which was released in September 2017.  Love Yourself: Tear is set to drop on May 18, but it already broke the pre-sale record. The LP smashed BTS' own record for the most pre-sold album among the K-pop acts when it garnered over 1.4 million pre-orders last month. This record also makes BTS as the first K-pop group to have multiple albums that exceeded the one million mark in pre-order sales. Meanwhile, BTS has yet to release the tracklist for  Love Yourself: Tear . Earlier reports indicate that the K-pop group will sing "Fake Love" when they visit  The Ellen DeGeneres Show on May 25. The song is believed to be the title track of the new album. BTS' agency Big Hit Entertainment confirmed the band's appearance at the American show. However, it refused to confirm if the Bangtan Boys will sing the new LP's title track. The company appealed to fans to wait for their official announcement about  Tear 's tracklist and its lead single. Moreover, V, along with bandmates RM, Jin, Suga, J-Hope, Jimin, and Jungkook, is also set to perform their new single on the live broadcast of the  2018 Billboard Music Awards  in Las Vegas on May 20. The band is also nominated for BMAs' Top Social Artist award, their second consecutive nod from the award-giving body. 6 h  - Kayla Dodge 3 d  - Kayla Dodge 4 d  - Kayla Dodge Subscribe to our Newsletter 1 2 3 4 5 6 K-WAVE   -  4 d  - Kayla Dodge K-PEOPLE   -  6 d  - Kayla Dodge K-WAVE   -  3 d  - Kayla Dodge K-WAVE   -  6 d  - Kayla Dodge © Koreaportal.com  /  All Rights Reserved. 