2015 America ' s Classics: Beaumont Inn | James Beard Foundation Stories  /  Awards May 04, 2015 Beaumont Inn 638 Beaumont Inn Drive, Harrodsburg, KY Owners: Elizabeth and Dixon Dedman, and Helen and Chuck Dedman Founded by Glave Goddard and Annie Bell Goddard in 1917, the Beaumont Inn, which opened for business in 1919, is still operated by their descendants. Set in a former women s college built in 1845, the Beaumont main house is columned and formal. And the menu is deeply rooted in Kentucky. The Dedman family, now at the helm, serves Kentucky products with pride, including Weisenberger meal, Meacham hams, and bourbons from the best distillers in the state. Recipes for dishes like corn pudding and fried chicken, handed down through five generations, form the core of the menu. As their forebears did, the Dedmans serve two-year-old country ham, which they bring to maturation in their own aging house. Little has changed since the days when the pioneering critic Duncan Hines was a regular.  Now write this down for the people in Kentucky,  he told a reporter back in 1949.  [Say] I ll be happy to get home and eat two-year-old ham, cornbread, beaten biscuits, pound cake, yellow-leg fried chicken, and corn pudding. And you can say what I think is the best eating place in Kentucky: Beaumont Inn at Harrodsburg. The America ' s Classic award is given to restaurants with timeless appeal, each beloved in its region for quality food that reflects the character of its community. Establishments must have been in existence for at least ten years and be locally owned. Awards Watch: Broadcast Media Entries Due January 6 The 2020 James Beard Awards 5 Dishes You Won ' t Want to Miss in December 3 Ways to Thank the People Behind Your Holiday Meals Support the James Beard Foundation Aerobanquets RMX Beard House Gift Certificates The James Beard Foundation’s mission is to celebrate, nurture, and honor chefs and other leaders making America's food culture more delicious, diverse, and sustainable for everyone. 167 West 12th Street, New York, NY 10011 212.627.2308 Copyright  2019 James Beard Foundation. All rights reserved. 