Apple MacBook 12 ' '  256 GB Rose Gold Laptop - MMGL2LL/A for sale online | eBay 5 4 3 2 1 Would recommend Good value Good quality It ' s the average selling price of an item over the last 90 days. When you were looking at a particular item or comparing items, you may have selected  See more  or   See more like this. There may be more ways to buy this item, such as placing a bid or making an offer. Select  See details  to view any other purchasing options. Ratings and reviews only apply to products. If you ' d like to learn more about a particular seller, check their feedback profile to see how others have rated them. We show similar products that might interest you. For example, you may be able to save on a previous model, or you may want to upgrade to a newer model. To help you compare options and find the best deal, we ' ve grouped items by condition—for example, brand new, nearly new, and pre-owned. It ' s the average selling price of an item over the last 90 days. When you were looking at a particular item or comparing items, you may have selected  See more  or   See more like this. There may be more ways to buy this item, such as placing a bid or making an offer. Select  See details  to view any other purchasing options. Ratings and reviews only apply to products. If you ' d like to learn more about a particular seller, check their feedback profile to see how others have rated them. We show similar products that might interest you. For example, you may be able to save on a previous model, or you may want to upgrade to a newer model. To help you compare options and find the best deal, we ' ve grouped items by condition—for example, brand new, nearly new, and pre-owned. Current slide 1 of 4- Best-selling in Apple Laptops Trending price is based on prices over last 90 days. Current slide 1 of 1- Save on Apple Laptops Current slide 1 of 2- You may also like 5 4 3 2 1 Would recommend Good value Good quality LOVE This Little Marvel I'm typing my response from my new computer! Love it. Fits in a shoulder bag! Saved me from lugging around a much larger laptop, which also saved my back. I figured it was cheaper to get a new computer than back surgery. The computer is fast, responsive, and quality made, as with any Apple product. The keyboard is full-sized and very easy to type on. Also, it's pretty easy to hook up peripherals, thanks to an adapter box I picked up from OWC. I had my doubts about USB-C, looking at all the hard-drives, flash-drives, and other peripherals I use, but I haven't had a problem yet. Everything just works. The Retina display is a dream come true, since I must do all my reading on a computer. Connecting to an HDMI or VGA display is a snap, thanks to the adapter box (which weighs next to nothing).  Can't recommend this computer enough. Thank you, thank you, thank you, Apple. Read full review Verified purchase:  Yes  |  Condition:  Refurbished Doesn’t match description I’ve noticed that the screen will glitch like an old tv with no satellite. It happens when I open it and then it’ll go away. I should’ve been notified on this issue before buying. Other than that I haven’t ran into any other problems YET. The battery is good and last me a while during college classes and the sound quality is great! Verified purchase:  Yes  |  Condition:  Pre-owned Perfect condition even better than described! The laptop is beautiful! Absolutely perfect condition, does not look used/ refurbished in any way! Looks brand new out of the box, no scratches, marks, dings, and comes in perfect packaging! The computer is full functioning and works extremely well! Would not be able to tell a difference between this computer and a brand new one bought directly from Apple. Very impressed! Verified purchase:  Yes  |  Condition:  Refurbished I recommend this thing. I probably can't say anything about the Apple Macbook that hasn't been said already.  I really like the thing. I like the lightness, thinness, full-size keyboard, backlit keyboard; it is very adequate for my needs. The butterfly keyboard is no big deal; you adapt fast to it. It is fast and can handle many open windows just fine.  My only beef is the single USB C port. Verified purchase:  Yes  |  Condition:  Pre-owned Great little laptop that is efficient Great battery life and screen quality. This is such a light computer that is lighter than my iPad. I love it thus far, just hope it lasts for a long time. :) Verified purchase:  Yes  |  Condition:  Pre-owned 