Opinions on Roger McGuinn of the Byrds? : Guitar As a fan of quite a bit of music from the 60 &# x27;s, The Byrds have always been one of those bands I always liked but never studied. Roger McGuinn was a folk musician who played in clubs in Chicago and New York before moving to L.A. where he formed the Byrds. He was inspired by Folk musicians such as Pete Seeger and Bob Dylan, but was fascinated by the Beatles as well, a group that was dismissed by many folk purists as  " teenybopper music " . McGuinn on the other hand had the idea of combining the Beatles sound with folk songs. After going to see A Hard Day &# x27;s Night with his fellow bandmates, they studied the instruments the Beatles were playing and took a 5000 dollar loan to buy their own instruments and equipment. One of these was the Rickenbacker 370/12 string guitar, similar to George Harrison &# x27;s 12 string used in the movie. He created a sound which redefined rock music and gave it a more mature quality, such as the Bach inspired intro and introspective lyricism of Bob Dylan on the Byrd &# x27;s first single  " Mr.Tambourine Man " . Then their next hit  " Turn Turn Turn " , a Pete Seeger cover, showed McGuinn &# x27;s skill in using Banjo picking effectively to create the trademark tone of the Byrds. I think their most innovative song is  " Eight Miles High " . Who else would try to combine John Coltrane and Ravi Shankar to create a riff? This song is one of the first in the Psychedelic Rock genre. Overall, he is a cool guy and a great musician, check him out on Youtube! the Beatles as well, a group that was dismissed by many folk purists as  " teenybopper music " . This always amuses me when I see interviews with folkies from the early  &# x27;60s. For a group that crusaded for equal rights and open minds, a lot of them were incredibly snobbish about music. Fortunately, many of the big names in folk eventually embraced popular music to some degree. One of these was the Rickenbacker 370/12 string guitar, similar to George Harrison &# x27;s 12 string used in the movie. Actually, his first Rick was a 360/12. That was stolen a couple of years later and he replaced it with a 370/12 and eventually a  light show model . The original 360/12 was found decades later and he was offered it back, but he told the current owner to keep it since he had a hundred others by then. Who else would try to combine John Coltrane and Ravi Shankar to create a riff? With all due credit to McGuinn, much of the Byrds &# x27; jazz and Indian influence came through Crosby and Hillman. Hillman came up with the chord structure to  " Have You Seen Her Face "  after jamming with some Indian musicians for the first time. Overall, he is a cool guy and a great musician I &# x27;ve heard that he has an ego the size of the solar system, but so did everyone else in that band - and many other people whose music I admire. As a musician, he &# x27;s second to none; I do a lot of fingerpicking, and I &# x27;m still consistently impressed by how easy he makes it all sound. As a final note, his solo career was rather uneven but I recommend that any fan of his check out the album  Cardiff Rose . In my opinion, it &# x27;s the one point in his later career where he equaled the best of the Byrds. I appreciate your thorough reply and thank you for the correction on which model Rickenbacker he had. I guess for someone who has so much talent, it would be hard to remain humble. This always amuses me when I see interviews with folkies from the early  &# x27;60s Not all folkies were like that: both Fairport and the Incredible String Band were quite down-to-earth. But it seemed to be a feature of many of the Greenwich Village folkies.The best thing about Dylan going electric was that in doing so, he nearly killed off that elitist, snooty, twee scene. Purists are the worst. Criminally underrated guitarist.  I also fucking love his voice.   His vocals on  " My Back Pages "  are phenomenal.  Especially during an acid trip.  Huge influence in many areas of music.   Going to a solo show of his on the 25th of this month.   Going to be a great show. He &# x27;s awesome. The jangle sound of many indie bands today can be traced back to him and his Ric. My favorite Byrds album is Sweetheart of the Rodeo though, which doesn &# x27;t have any jangle. The jangle sound of many indie bands today can be traced back to him and his Ric. Though often filtered through Peter Buck. you ain &# x27;t going nowhere! I sing that while I push carts at the grocery store all day! Honestly never gave a TON of thought to Roger McGuinn. I &# x27;ll have to dig in a bit more, give him a harder listen. Love me some Clarence White, though! The good die young! I own a 360/12 and I have nothing but respect for McGuinn.  It &# x27;s almost like learning a new instrument but he makes it look so easy and sound so good. Rick necks are narrow to start with, but double the strings and you really gain a new perspective on fret hand technique. Being Left Handed and a senior in highschool, I &# x27;m jealous of your Rickenbacker. Thanks for the reply, I love the sound too and McGuinn is quite the musician. Did you write this for some sort of coursework? no i just write formal posts when it comes to music I think I &# x27;m going to have a stroke. Official Instagram post. EDIT: Link to the official IG post: https://www.instagram.com/p/B6G0L3OHVe8/?utm_source=ig_web_options_share_sheet Long story short, I ordered a new guitar and accessories from Sweetwater.  They were delivered, then promptly stolen off my porch (we already have video surveillance, yada yada, but we have beefed up our package security now).  I filed a police report and sent it to Sweetwater. Without missing a beat they decided to reorder me the same gear for free, even before I could get any video to them.  They were really easy to get a hold of and were very sympathetic. Just want to say if anyone is trying to decide who to order from, Sweetwater &# x27;s customer service has blown me away!  I &# x27;m really thankful for how this company treats their customers. Shameless appreciation post, I guess! Cheers, daedalus000 Edit: I want to give credit where it &# x27;s due: Josh Hacker is the man, was my rep for the whole process, and got to work quickly in helping me resolve this.  Thank you! No, I am not a representative of the company.  Just a first-time guitar owner here who is excited to still be receiving new gear! So just wanted to share something I came up with, been obsessing over how to make it for a while  &  finally figured it out so im pretty proud. https://gfycat.com/imaginarycompetentborderterrier   -  turn on sound Basically a knob where you can drop a stop at any rolled back position, so it will click into place when you rotate past that spot; the spot can be moved / disengaged completely *overwhelmed by all the love, appreciate it It’s a Epiphone Dot Deluxed Aquamarine  https://imgur.com/gallery/zGQpblR UPDATE: Just finished playing the gig. I just took my phone off do not disturb and I am surprised this post blew up like this lol I took the gig and I spent every second from after I wrote this post to go over every single song and write a chart with Roman numerals. I went over a verse and a chorus and right into the next tune. I would say I felt confident with about 85% of the set list. I tried to learn every single piece of memorable melody or riff but the rest was all improvisation over the chord progression. Improvising off the vocal melody part over interludes or solos was a crowd pleaser. So yeah I finished it, had some bleeps here and there but nothing anyone could notice. People enjoyed it, the band liked my work and everyone left happy (we happened to play that song  :D ) I would take questions but I have to do this all over again tomorrow with a different set 😅. Perhaps Sunday i ll have time to answer some of comments. Original post: I got offered a gig tomorrow and i have to play lead on ~40 songs. Most of them i dont know. I can read charts but its a lot. Is it expected in gigs to play the same exact leads/solo as the songs? Some insight would be great appreciated Thanks Hey all, here we go again with fade to Black at #24. Scale runs and licks. Just the way I like to play. Very similar to my own style of play. Was pretty cool learning this one because I could anticipate nearly everything he was doing in this solo before I even got there. It &# x27;s kind of the way that I play after all. Just a great classic Metallica solo. One of Kirk &# x27;s more melodic from early in their career. I break down the different scales and modes used in this one after the fact if you wish to stick around. That &# x27;s it for this week. Thanks as always for supporting my project and all the kind and encouraging words. Means a lot to an old bedroom player. Cheers, K https://youtu.be/qKduV2bdZ-g  Worth a shot I guess. EDIT: Wow thanks everyone. Entries to the fender competition close in a few hours I encourage everyone to enter. Im sure you &# x27;re all awesome players. EDIT 2 Tabs for anyone interested  http://imgur.com/gallery/vmeAzqw Every time you woodshed a new original riff to perfection, you &# x27;re the ONLY player in the world who can play it perfectly at that moment. So keep on keepin &# x27; on motherfucker, even Eric Johnson would be stumped if asked to play the bridge to  " horse brain encephalitic "  that you came up with in a haze of pot smoke and gas station burrito farts. YOU &# x27;RE one of a kind! :) I understand that there are plenty of great guitars in the $500-$750 price range, but this  Chapman ML-3 traditional  is a one-of-a-kind.  It was built as a test prototype and the wood grain is slightly visible thru the finish.  I have no idea why because I ' m not as knowledgeable about pickups, but it has a stacked single coil in the bridge that just screams.  There ' s a push pull pot that ' s supposed to split the coil(s) but I don ' t know how a single coil can be split...so maybe it ' s tapping half coil out.  Either way, at full resistance the thing can handle loads of gain and I have no idea how. Whenever I want to try and learn to play jazz guitar I get intimidated by the chord structure, phrasing and theory. Even when I slow it down I feel lost. When it comes to Christmas songs the melody is already built into my mind. When I ' m playing I can hear if im playing it right or wrong almost immediateily and that grows confidence quickly. I can learn all these new chords and phrases and  see how they make sense contextually. I think generally its easier to play songs you know the melody to without having to learn the songs by ear. For a lot of us Christmas music is engrained into us a kids and its in my opinion a fun way to learn jazz guitar. A little cover I made from one of my favourite games. I ' m quite happy with how it turned out and I think it sounds nice on guitar. Would love to hear your thoughts. Minecraft Main Theme (Guitar Cover)  517k Guitarists 1.5k Not practicing as they should May 28, 2008 Cake Day 