Uganda: President's Office Staff List Out - allAfrica.com Kampala   THE Office of the President has released a list of all its employees. The parliamentary public accounts committee demanded the list last week to check the regional distribution of jobs  " because of allegations that most jobs in the President's Office were occupied by people from the western region, President Museveni's home area " . " This does not represent the nation's character, "  said Reagan Okumu (FDC Aswa). Last month the committee on statutory authorities also demanded a list of all employees of the Uganda Revenue Authority over similar allegations. Officials from the office yesterday submitted the list to the committee. It shows the names of the employees, the salary scale, position, date of birth, date of appointment, posting station and qualifications. According to the list, there are 648 posts in the President's office; 203 of which are still vacant. It also indicates 20 senior presidential advisers, 21 presidential advisers and 25 special assistants, most of whom share roles, especially on political affairs. But their qualifications are not shown. However, the head of public service and secretary to the cabinet, John Mitala, and the undersecretary finance and administration, Yunus Kakande, are the only two members of staff indicated as holding master's degrees. Most of the staff hold O' and A' Level certificates and diplomas. The resident district commissioners (RDCs) are 80 with 59 deputies and 80 office attendants based in different parts of the country. The ministry for the presidency has 117 approved posts for drivers but the filled slots are 58. Although some of the posts were indicated as filled, there were no corresponding names. The post of director management and information is shown as vacant, but Nicholas Abola, who was appointed on August 18, 2006, appears as the substantive job holder. The committee had also asked State House to produce the list of its employees. However by press time, it had not yet been submitted despite the deadline of 5:00pm on Tuesday. AllAfrica publishes around 700 reports a day from more than  140 news organizations  and over  500 other institutions and individuals , representing a diversity of positions on every topic. We publish news and views ranging from vigorous opponents of governments to government publications and spokespersons. Publishers named above each report are responsible for their own content, which AllAfrica does not have the legal right to edit or correct. Articles and commentaries that identify allAfrica.com as the publisher are  produced or commissioned by AllAfrica . To address comments or complaints, please  Contact us . AllAfrica is a voice of, by and about Africa - aggregating, producing and distributing 700 news and information items daily from over 140 African news organizations and our own reporters to an African and global public. We operate from Cape Town, Dakar, Abuja, Monrovia, Nairobi and Washington DC. 