Traditional Tea ceremony - Review of Tea Ceremony Koto, Kyoto, Japan - TripAdvisor Of my whole trip in Kyoto, I love this most. I get to speak to a local who opens her door to share the traditional tea ceremony - meaning and process. Most importantly, I get to try to make green tea with her guidance. Thanks! Thank you so much for your message!  >I'm glad to hear that you enjoyed this session!<br >Since I'm offering the traditional tea ceremony using the best utensils for each season here, you can learn Japanese culture much deeply. This was the highlight of our trip to Kyoto. The real deal! It was a wonderful experience and so clearly and patiently explained. The host has excellent English and really understands the Tea Ceremony and the history and culture behind it. You get to learn about the tea ceremony and even have a go yourself. I'd recommend the full package where you can wear the traditional costume too.  >The location is also excellent, right outside the Golden pavilion. So you can do a tour of the pavilion then attend the tea ceremony.< p> Date of experience:  September 2016 Ask Anna B about Tea Ceremony Koto Thank Anna B  This review is the subjective opinion of a TripAdvisor member and not of TripAdvisor LLC 873riek, Owner at Tea Ceremony Koto, responded to this review Responded 16 September 2016 Thank you very much for your message!  >Kimono really suited you. <br >Yes, you can understand Japanese culture more deeply if you wear kimono. >I'm happy to hear that you liked this experience ＼(^o^)／< p> Report response as inappropriate Thank you. We appreciate your input. This response is the subjective opinion of the management representative and not of TripAdvisor LLC jaephu 3 Reviewed 15 September 2016  via mobile  What an experience! This is an excellent Intro to the tea ceremony. First, it starts with an overview of the ceremony and this includes what you should do and say throughout the ceremony. After this, you will get to be a guest at the tea ceremony and then learn to make your own tea.  ><br >Now that I know how, I will try to make this at home. I love matcha! Thank you very much for coming yesterday! >I'm glad to hear that you love matcha. It's not only delicious but also good for your health (*^o^*)< p> Report response as inappropriate Thank you. We appreciate your input. This response is the subjective opinion of the management representative and not of TripAdvisor LLC erikr114 Woking, United Kingdom 5 1 Reviewed 25 August 2016  via mobile  Koto tea ceremony  We (family of three: mum, dad and 8yr old daughter) visited Koto Tea Ceremony after a trip to the Golden Pavilion. We went for the full package, so 45min tea ceremony dressed in beautiful traditional Japanese attire. We enjoyed all of it very much, also our 8 year old thought it was great. The host Rie Kuranaka explains the ceremony perfectly and in very good English. We wholeheartedly recommend the experience and would definitely say to include the traditional Japanese outfit to finish it off. Thank you very much for your message! >I'm glad to hear that your daughter also liked kimono &amp; tea ceremony experience. It looks very nice on you all.< p> Report response as inappropriate Thank you. We appreciate your input. This response is the subjective opinion of the management representative and not of TripAdvisor LLC Derek K Brooklyn, New York 2 Reviewed 10 August 2016  Tea Ceremony Koto is a Fantastic and Unique Opportunity in Kyoto Tea Ceremony Koto was a wonderful experience, and I highly recommend it to those visiting Japan. For one thing, it is right across the street from Kinkakuji (the Gold Pavilion) in Kyoto, so coupling these two things together for a morning or afternoon is easy, convenient, and really gives you a nice rounded experience. Kinkakuji is a huge magnet for tourists, and can easily be overrun - balancing that with the serene, quiet atmosphere of Koto is refreshing.  ><br >Rie, who leads the tea ceremony, is a tea master. I have been fortunate enough to see a few tea ceremonies in my time in Japan (I lived there for 3 years) and I can safely say that the experience with Rie was the best. Because her English is so good, she was able to explain, in great detail, the meaning of the rituals to my wife, who does not speak Japanese. We opted for the solo tea ceremony (again, it was nice to get away from the madness of the 'shrine and temple' tourist rush in Kyoto), where Rie explains not only the meaning of the rituals, but also what we as participants should do. After the explanation, she performs the ceremony for real. It was such a special experience - and one that we will treasure forever. ><br >Plus, we got to do it in kimonos, which was awesome! It was a fantastic photo op. Overall, this was one of the highlights of our trip, and I recommend it to anyone looking to have a wonderful, unique experience in Japan.  Thank you very much for your graceful and detail message! I really appreciate it. >I wish you both happiness forever!!< p> Report response as inappropriate Thank you. We appreciate your input. This response is the subjective opinion of the management representative and not of TripAdvisor LLC Vacationer632921 Paradiso, Switzerland 1 Reviewed 1 August 2016  via mobile  Very interesting experience that fitted well in our zen day The tea ceremony is a very important element of the zen culture and as such it made perfect sense to attend one between visiting Daitoku-ji and Ryoan-ji. The experience we lived was exactly what we were looking for. We were nicely introduced to the basics of tea ceremony and we got involved into it without asking too much from our side. The teacher was very kind, spoke very good english, answered all our questions...and made a very good tea ! If you have an open mind and are ready to enlarge it even further, this experience is for you.  Thank you so much for your message! I'm glad to hear that you liked matcha tea! >Please enjoy making powered green tea at home, too.<br >And I hope you remember the experience in Koto sometimes. This site uses cookies to improve your experience, to enhance site security and to show you personalised advertising.  Click here  to learn more or  control your settings . By clicking on or navigating the site, you agree to our use of cookies. 