Blade Scimitar 170 FPV Racing RTF Quadcopter Drone [BLH02200] | Drones - AMain Hobbies The Blade Scimitar 170 FPV Racing RTF Quadcopter Drone brings a combination of convenience and performance to a 4" racer, that makes it perfect for backyard cruising or racing with friends. Feature-rich and ready to go, the Scimitar 170 includes everything you need to be flying right out of the box. The 4S power system consists of 1407-3000Kv motors for remarkable response and power and 20A 4-in-1 ESC with BLHeli-S and Dhot 600 compatibility. An F3 flight controller efficiently handles the quad, while relaying the user-configurable data to the on-screen display via the Betaflight OSD. A 600TVL CMOS camera with 2.1mm lens transmits video through the Spektrum™ variable power video transmitter to an included Spektrum DVR monitor. Additionally, you can change your frequency and channel directly from your Spektrum radio and choose between 25, 200, and 600mW power modes. Everything is contained in an impact-resistant pod. All the vital electronics are protected and you still have easy access to the USB port and video transmitter. Additionally, optional propeller guards to help protect your propellers, motors, and frame in the event of a crash (not capable with included transmitter). Don’t want the added weight? Simply remove them from the new interlocking motor bolts with a twist, no tools required. The Scimitar 170 RTF is ready for backyards and battling for first place. Simply charge the included batteries and turn your weekend into a racing party. HorizonHobbyProducts 58K subscribers Subscribe Blade® Scimitar™ 170 FPV RTF and BNF Basic Info Shopping Tap to unmute More videos Full screen is unavailable.  Learn More Your browser does not currently recognize any of the video formats available.  Click here to visit our frequently asked questions about HTML5 video. More videos on YouTube Share Include playlist An error occurred while retrieving sharing information. Please try again later. Watch later Share Switch camera 0:00 0:00 0:00  /  1:47 Live An error occurred. Try watching this video on www.youtube.com , or enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser. Features: This product is expected to arrive on Thursday, December 19 2019 