Fisherman  &  Hawkins feat. Sir Adrian - Never The Same | TranceFixxed Having cemented themselves as an established piece of the Coldharbour Recordings furniture, Fisherman  &  Hawkins  trailblazing journey continues into 2016 with a new adventure, making a foray into the world of vocal trance, and aided by one of its finest exponents. Ever since chiseled anthem Apache broke barriers, the Dutch duo of Isaac Vissers  &  Rob Koopmans has impressed worldwide attendants with the approach of melodic power and panache; becoming staple performers of the ascending Coldharbour Nights. Following a string of successful instrumentals, their desire to work with a vocalist was ignited after remixing iconic songstress Jes, with the requirements for a deep and mysterious toned voice to accompany their dark toned grooves. The answer sees a return to Coldharbour of another Dutchman, and indeed a familiar voice to fans of the label, notably starring on owner Markus Schulz s fabled Away, from Do You Dream fame. The signature tone of Sir Adrian provides the catalyst for Never the Same to become an immediate attraction in the playlists of many top-tier DJs. With a tour spanning Asia and North America in the early months of the year, the momentum of Fisherman  &  Hawkins will accelerate. With Never the Same, they have the fuel to match.  Coldharbour Recordings Ever since chiseled anthem  Apache  broke barriers, the Dutch duo of Isaac Vissers  &  Rob Koopmans have impressed worldwide attendants with the approach of melodic power and panache; becoming staple performers of the ascending Coldharbour Nights. Never The Same  starts off with the familiar 131 bpm of a Fisherman  &  Hawkins produced track along with nice slow hard-hitting mids that start to pick up with the trademark dark tuned sound that has come to be synonymous with their name. When the breakdown of the song is reached we are in for a surprise with original vocal lyrics provided by Sir Adrian. Who lends a haunting voice that will be etched in minds for years to come as he leads the song back into a head bobbing, energy filled melody to round out the track. The one word used to sum this song up would be  Shattering  in the way it has combined the sound of Fisherman  &  Hawkins with original lyrics that has me waiting on the edge of my seat for the next lyrical track Isaac  &  Rob will crank out. We will without a doubt be hearing plenty of this song in the coming year in many of Coldharbour DJ sets, that will have us singing along. This site uses Akismet to reduce spam.  Learn how your comment data is processed . Subscribe to our mailing list for email updates: Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Subject Your Message 