Shropshire livestock and arable farm sold for £1.75m | Shropshire Star  We value your privacy   We and our partners use technologies, such as cookies, and process personal data, such as IP addresses and cookie identifiers, to personalise ads and content based on your interests, measure the performance of ads and content, and derive insights about the audiences who saw ads and content. Click below to consent to the use of this technology and the processing of your personal data for these purposes. You can change your mind and change your consent choices at any time by returning to this site.   Powered by  Advertising Mid Wales  |  News  | Published:  Feb 14, 2014 A 165-acre livestock and arable farm in Shropshire has been sold for £1.75 million. The sale of Rowe Farm at Welshampton, near Ellesmere, has been completed by Halls.  The farm was originally marketed as part of the nearby Park Hall Farm Estate, which had a total guide price of £8.25 million.  But Rowe Farm and the £5 million Park Hall Farm have now been sold separately.  Rowe Farm was run as a commercial dairy farm until 2010 and was used as a satellite unit for young stock from Park Hall Farm, which lies three miles away.  It features a five-bedroom period farmhouse with adjoining gardens, 45,000 sq ft of farm buildings and 165 acres of livestock and arable land. Park Hill Farm Estate features a dairy enterprise, 11 luxury log cabins, two farmhouses and 680 acres of land.  Both sales were handled by Linder Myers Solicitors in Shropshire on behalf of owner, Tedsmore Hall Services Ltd. Halls' director Allen Gittins said: "We are delighted that the sale of Rowe Farm has now been completed. The farm was part of one of the most important agricultural estates to become available in Shropshire for many years.  "The market for farms and agricultural land in Shropshire and Mid Wales remains extremely buoyant and any farmer thinking of selling in the current market would be pleasantly surprised by the level of interest their property would generate." Anna James, partner at Linder Myers Solicitors, said: "We are pleased to complete on the sale of Rowe Farm on behalf of long term client Tedsmore Hall Services Ltd which follows the sale of its Park Hall Farm in December.  "The value of agricultural land continues to increase and we anticipate a significant amount of activity during 2014 following a busy 12 months in the region." Advertising Browse the businesses in your area and find what is perfect for you. Browse directory If you are searching for a job around your local area, use our online system. Job portal Advertising Sorry, we are not accepting comments on this article. Advertising Advertising Advertising Advertising Advertising Back to top  © 2019 MNA. All rights reserved {{ message }} 