Web Browser Compatibility To view  Southwest.com  or  Swabiz.com  and purchase travel online, we recommend you use a web browser equivalent to Microsoft Internet Explorer 11.0+, Safari 7.0+, Firefox 43+, and Chrome 48+. The browser you use must support Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) encryption and JavaScript. Disabling any of these features or using older non-compatible browsers may reduce site functionality. Effective June 2016, browsers that do not support or have proper SSL/TLS v1.2 encryption configurations will be unable to access  Southwest.com ,  Swabiz.com , or  Mobile.Southwest.com .   To determine which browser you are running, click  Help  at the top of the browser and select the  About  menu item that describes your browser. Please note that any \"Beta\" or \"Preview\" version of a browser may not properly work with these pages. Southwest.com  ensures the highest level of security of our Customers  credit card information by complying with the rules established by the PCI Security Standards Council. Effective June 2016, we will disable connections from browsers using any Transport Layer Security (TLS) less than v1.2. Any Customer who hasn t updated their browser or is not using TLS v1.2 could see an error message when trying to access  Southwest.com  or  Swabiz.com . Yes. Windows XP and Windows Vista are only capable of upgrading up to Internet Explorer version 8. By default, users of these operating systems using Internet Explorer as their browser will not be able to connect to our sites. However, they may have the option of loading the latest version of another browser such as Chrome, Safari, or Firefox. Share knowledge and learn from travelers just like you. We’re a click away. To view  Southwest.com  or  Swabiz.com  and purchase travel online, we recommend you use a web browser equivalent to Microsoft Internet Explorer 11.0+, Safari 7.0+, Firefox 43+, and Chrome 48+. The browser you use must support Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) encryption and JavaScript. Disabling any of these features or using older non-compatible browsers may reduce site functionality. Effective June 2016, browsers that do not support or have proper SSL/TLS v1.2 encryption configurations will be unable to access  Southwest.com ,  Swabiz.com , or  Mobile.Southwest.com .   To determine which browser you are running, click  Help  at the top of the browser and select the  About  menu item that describes your browser. Please note that any "Beta" or "Preview" version of a browser may not properly work with these pages. Southwest.com  ensures the highest level of security of our Customers  credit card information by complying with the rules established by the PCI Security Standards Council. Effective June 2016, we will disable connections from browsers using any Transport Layer Security (TLS) less than v1.2. Any Customer who hasn t updated their browser or is not using TLS v1.2 could see an error message when trying to access  Southwest.com  or  Swabiz.com . Yes. Windows XP and Windows Vista are only capable of upgrading up to Internet Explorer version 8. By default, users of these operating systems using Internet Explorer as their browser will not be able to connect to our sites. However, they may have the option of loading the latest version of another browser such as Chrome, Safari, or Firefox. Customer Service  |  FAQ [data-class="swa-g-screen-reader-only"] {    border: 0;    clip: rect(0,0,0,0);    height: 1px;    margin: -1px;    overflow: hidden;    padding: 0;    position: absolute;    width: 1px;}.system-message--link {    padding-left: 4px;} Save big on travel each week.  Sign up Discussion Forum and Stories Indicates external site which may or may not meet accessibility guidelines  2019  [data-class="swa-g-screen-reader-only"] {    border: 0;    clip: rect(0,0,0,0);    height: 1px;    margin: -1px;    overflow: hidden;    padding: 0;    position: absolute;    width: 1px;}     Southwest Airlines Co. All Rights Reserved. Use of the Southwest websites and our Company Information constitutes acceptance of our  Terms and Conditions .  Privacy Policy 