The Negotiation Book | The Gap Partnership The Negotiation Book is an indispensable and practical guide for anyone who wants to improve their negotiation capability. Most people believe they are good negotiators. The Negotiation Book sets out to challenge that perception. Denial, ego, experience, and familiarity with others are the more obvious barriers to thinking differently about how to build sustainable agreements. From his own practical experience in negotiating with some of the world s largest corporations, Steve Gates   Founder and CEO of The Gap Partnership - helps readers to understand what good negotiation looks like, and what it will take for you to perform as a complete skilled negotiator. BUY THE NEGOTIATION BOOK An unputdownable step-by-step guide to successful negotiations. Essential for business professionals, it offers universally acceptable  around the clock  negotiation methods supported heavily by easy-to-understand case studies. Very practical. The concepts and framework presented within this book are invaluable in helping you prepare and execute your negotiation strategy. This negotiation  blueprint  will ensure that readers have every opportunity to secure long term sustainable agreeements with their trade partners. The Negotiation Book s collaborative method of negotiation helps in gaining agreement that not only results in value for all parties but also enhances relationships. It emphasizes the psychological and behavioural aspects of the negotiation, which is one of the single most important factors in a successful negotiation. We will aim to call you back within 2 hours alternatively you can specify a time you prefer The Gap Partnership specializes exclusively in negotiation. We influence the profitability and market value of over 600 global companies across the world s largest economies. Through our negotiation consulting and negotiation training we provide tailored solutions to support their commercial negotiation needs and live negotiation challenges. Together with our clients we optimize the commercial opportunities they have created. 