Getting Mach to see inputs from parallel port Getting Mach to see inputs from parallel port (1/2)  > > > scotttin : I am using a Dell Dimension 4600 with the parallel port on the mother board; my break out board is a C10 from cnc4pc. I can control my step motors (they move) and my parallel port monitor  " sees "  the signal from mach3 to the BOB and then to the Gecko 203v. I cannot get an input signal from my home switches or estop back to mach3. The parallel port monitor confirms the signal is not getting to Mach3. I have confirmed the switches work and that I have 5v at terminal #10 (homing switches) I have tried the original driver and special driver in Mach3 folder. I think parallel port is configured correctly in Mach3 since it does drive the motors.  Is there a setting I am overlooking?  Right now I suspect the parallel port on the mother board of the Dell computer. Any suggestions? Thank You, Scott Overloaded : Scott, is the pin configured correctly/enabled in Ports and Pins ? Attach your XML file ... someone will have a look. It ' s in your Mach3 folder.  scotttin : I think that my ports and pins are set correctly. I do not have a switch on my Z axis yet, just my X,Y I have a 5v signal to pin #10 wired in series through my homing/limit switches. Since I am still building this machine Mach3 is currently the DEMO version. If I need to purchase the licience to receive help or get the inputs to work then I totally understand. I wanted to see if I could get this to work before I did. Thanks, Scott Hood : Looks ok with maybe the exception of the active state but that may depend if you BOB inverts the signal. Have a look on the diagnostics page and see if M1 and M2 Home LEDs are lit when you activate the switches. If they are lit without pressing one of the switches then the active state is the wrong way. Hood scotttin : They are not lit. And do not light when the switches are cycled. Changing the active state will make them light in the diagnostics screen but cycling the switch will not turn them off. Also, a parmon parallel port monitor does not show any activity for inputs. But it does show activity for my outputs (step and dir). At my break out board I have 5v feeding the homing switch circuit. The switches are wired N.C. and in series. I can monitor the voltage droping to 0v with a DMM when I cycle the switch, so there should be an input signal for mach3 to see. I want to check the voltage at pin#10 at the parralel port cable where it plugs into the computer. If the input signal is getting this far, then the computer is at fault (either the port itself or the driver).  It is  a Dell Dimension 4600, the parralel port is on the motherboard. And I have read on other posts where the parallel ports may have been the cause of trouble. If I see voltage all the way to the computer, then I guess I will buy a PCI card with a parallel port.  Thanks for the help!!! Scott Navigation [0]  Message Index [#]  Next page 