Trunk Club Introduces Premium Shirts by Eton - Mocha Man Style Fashion November 20, 2015 Frederick J. Goodall Men should have a few staple pieces in their wardrobes. These include a gray suit, navy blazer, brown wingtips, and a variety of well-made shirts. When we speak of shirts, we re not talking about the department store garments wrapped in plastic and stuck with enough pins to make you think they were the victims of a tailor who practiced Voodoo. We re talking about premium, well-crafted shirts like the ones made by  Eton . Since 1928, Eton has innovated fine shirting. Most dress shirts take four days to make. Eton shirts take four weeks and are made from the finest cotton in the world. Through their innovative design process, Eton s wrinkle-resistant dress shirts have fewer chemicals than a cup of Earl Grey. Best of all, Eton shirts look great, fit perfectly, and are washable. Eton has partnered with  Trunk Club  to offer an exclusive collection of dress shirts, ties, and pocket squares. These items will amp up your workweek wardrobe and help you get the most out of any suit or sport coat in your regular lineup. Visit  Trunk Club  and enhance your wardrobe with a few Eton shirts. They are perfect for the busy business traveler or the guy who simply wants to look his best. Tweet us @mochamanstyle  or leave a comment on our  Facebook Page  to share your thoughts on this article.  Subscribe to Mocha Man Style on Feedio  for daily updates in your inbox. You ' ll Love These Posts  Free Shipping and Free Returns on Men ' s Dress Shirts at Nordstrom  What to Wear to Work  Father ' s Day Gift Guide - Fashion  &  Fashion Accessories  Holiday Gift Guide - Fashion and Fashion Accessories  Mocha Man Style ' s Best Christmas Gifts for Men - Fashion  2016 Father’s Day Gift Guide – Fashion More Interesting Posts  Top 10 Moustaches in African American History  Comedian Marcus D. Wiley Credits Success to Hustle and Faith  Visit MochaDad.com  African American Cosplayers at the 2019 Texas Renaissance Festival  Can ' t Tell Us Nothing  " Male Companionship "  Episode with Mocha Man Style Founder, Frederick Goodall  Wear The Force on Your Feet with the adidas Star Wars Collection Frederick J. Goodall is the Editor-in-Chief of Mocha Man Style, media spokesperson, event host, photographer, and a top social media influencer in Houston, TX. He enjoys traveling, listening to live bands, and spending time with his kids. 