Victoria Holly Interiors Award-Winning Los Angeles interior designer Victoria Holly creates beautiful residential and commercial interiors. Serves Los Angeles, Beverly Hills, Santa Monica, Westwood, Pacific Palisades, Hidden Hills, Calabasas, Hollywood, West Hollywood, Encino, and more.  INFO@VICTORIAHOLLY.COM Award-Winning Los Angeles interior designer Victoria Holly creates beautiful residential and commercial interiors. Serves Los Angeles, Beverly Hills, Santa Monica, Westwood, Pacific Palisades, Hidden Hills, Calabasas, Hollywood, West Hollywood, Encino, and more.  INFO@VICTORIAHOLLY.COM A CALI- VIBES KITCHEN REMODEL Andrea and Chris purchased a condo that was in need of a renovation including completely opening up the kitchen! TWO ELEGANT BATHROOMS Carmit wanted to update her master and kids bathrooms to be functional and elegant. A MASCULINE PRE-WAR RENOVATION Trenton and Jason purchased a pre-war apartment that was in desperate need of a gut remodel. A FRESH TAKE ON AN OUTDATED KITCHEN Trisha and Adam were over their all-wood and granite kitchen and wanted something light, bright and modern. A TRENDY UPDATE FOR A TINY HOME Patrick loved his tiny apartment, but there were some challenges, like a kitchen underneath a staircase! A DREAM BATHROOM TRANSFORMATION Danielle and Andrew wanted to transform their bathroom and take it from drab to fab. years of experience successful projects design awards published projects We hired Victoria to help us renovate our condo that we had just purchased. It was a 1970s condo with parquet floors and a horrible ranch-style kitchen. We didn’t live in the unit at the time and Victoria was essential at managing the project when we couldn’t be there. We ended up having some issues with our contractor and Victoria came in to save the day several times. Most of the time we deferred to her because her recommendations were so beautiful! The renovation ended up really beautiful - such a calming space. We are so happy we worked with Victoria on this project! We were starting completely from scratch, with no existing furniture or decor for the rooms. It was a large task, but Victoria's process has been organized and consistent, allowing us to make steady progress without feeling overwhelmed. My husband and I have vastly different style preferences. I lean toward a cozy, traditional design and he likes things to be super modern. Victoria has been able to bridge the gap for us and help us find pieces that we both love. We've been able to create spaces that feel cozy and comfortable for me, with clean lines and modern shapes for him. She's also been great about finding quality fabrics and materials that work with our lifestyle (and dogs!). Thank you Victoria for all your hard work! Miracle-worker Victoria completely overhauled my apartment. I am beyond thrilled with the final product. I feel like it ended up as a true reflection of myself. It couldn't be anymore perfect. If anyone is looking for an interior designer, get in touch with her! It was such a fun experience working with Victoria with plenty of laughter! We woke up this morning both saying how much we liked our new home. Thank you again for helping us make it feel like a home. We are so so happy with how everything turned out. It finally feels ours. I was so lucky to have found Victoria! I recently moved into a new condo and wanted a more modern and chic look. Victoria completely exceeded my expectations! Victoria listened and understood the look I wanted to achieve and she executed flawlessly. Victoria did a great job keeping with my time expectations and followed up with me to makes sure all my questions were answered. She came with amazing recommendations and ideas that helped me achieve the look for the space I was going for within my budget. I would highly recommend Victoria to any of my friends (and have)! When I decided to hire someone to decorate my home, it was because I had no time to do it myself and no clue how to. Fortunately I found Victoria. She was able to plan from start to finish what I needed for my home to be my own. From the first day she was efficient, professional, and intuitive. The design captures exactly what I was looking for. Victoria's knowledge and grasp for design has proven to be invaluable. Victoria Holly Interiors 8306 Wilshire Boulevard Suite 272 Beverly Hills, California 90211 info@victoriaholly.com 