Directory of energy efficiency programs leveraging ENERGY STAR® | | ENERGY STAR ENERGY STAR products are independently certified to save energy without sacrificing features or functionality. Saving energy helps prevent climate change. Look for the ENERGY STAR label to save money on your energy bills and help protect our environment. Improving your home's energy efficiency with ENERGY STAR can help to lower high energy bills, improve comfort and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Learn about the many ways to save in your home and track your progress with "My ENERGY STAR" - your new dashboard to savings. A new home or apartment that has earned the ENERGY STAR label has undergone a process of inspections, testing, and verification to meet strict requirements set by the US EPA. ENERGY STAR certified homes and apartments use significantly less energy than typical new homes and apartments while delivering better comfort, quality, and durability. Improve financial performance and reduce carbon emissions with EPA's strategic energy management approach. <  Back to search results Use this directory to find Energy Efficiency Program Administrators who run regional or sector-based programs to promote energy efficiency. The directory lists programs and organizations that provide incentives, expert help, and benchmarking assistance, plus those that offer Portfolio Manager web services. The directory can help you identify organizations in your state that sponsor energy efficiency programs that leverage ENERGY STAR. These offerings can include financial and technical assistance to improve the energy efficiency of your business. The directory is now provided in PDF format and provides a quick way to find out which programs sponsors are offering services that will help you improve the energy performance of your commercial buildings using ENERGY STAR. Program sponsor partners include regulated utilities, publicly owned utilities, and energy delivery companies; national, regional, state, or local government entities; and other organizations involved in coordinating or administering energy efficiency or environmental education programs that promote ENERGY STAR. 