Review of Shakespeare’s Othello (directed by Richard Twyman for Shakespeare at the Tobacco Factory and Tobacco Factory Theatres) at the Tobacco Factory, Raleigh Road, Bristol, 21 February 2017; and Othello (directed by Ellen McDougall for Shakespeare’s Globe) at the Sam Wanamaker Playhouse, New Globe Walk, London, 8 April 2017: Shakespeare: Vol 13, No 4 In the programme for the 2017 Shakespeare at the Tobacco Factory production of  Othello , Abdul-Rehman Malik asks, “How would our view of Othello change if we knew he were a Muslim?” Othello was an uneasy convert in Richard Twyman’s production, his gauche, outsized cross large enough to convince others that he was indeed a Christian. The question Malik poses is difficult to answer, partly because the text does not contain much, if any, evidence for Othello being or having been Muslim, and partly because the sympathy audiences feel for a man forced to conceal his religious beliefs exists uncomfortably alongside the sympathy they feel for Desdemona, the crumpled heap discarded on a yoga mat at the end of Twyman’s production. The real question this rich but inconsistent retelling of Shakespeare’s play asks us is whether we can claim that the grotesque violence that concludes  Othello  is justified or mitigated by the fact that its titular character is forced to assimilate to a culture that, by methods in turn subtle and crude, associates difference with barbarity. This production is symptomatic of a new way of approaching Shakespeare’s play, which, according to Jerry Brotton, speaking in a recent episode of  Front Row  on Radio 4, has been popularly interpreted in the “post 9/11, post 7/7 world” as a play about religious division. Thus we saw in the opening moments of this performance of  Othello  an Islamic wedding ritual, in which Desdemona (Norah Lopez Holden) and Othello (Abraham Popoola) lovingly bound their hands together. Upon learning of Iago’s villainy at the conclusion of the play, Othello chose to break the cross he had been wearing around his neck and slit his throat with it, in a moment that illustrated the occasionally crass approach to religious difference in this production. A directorial decision was made to emphasise those aspects of the text which speak to modern politics. Broad brushstrokes reminded us that we live in a world of “alternative facts”, in which appearance frequently belies reality and in which prejudice is more subtly exerted through cultural systems than outward actions. Rather than retreating offstage when not performing, actors sat like audience members around the square stage, starkly illuminated with strip lighting, observing each other fastidiously. Iago, played with sinister mediocrity by Mark Lockyer, was reimagined as Nigel Farage, a man undergoing a middle-aged crisis and enjoying the boost to his ego provided by his manipulations. Brian Lonsdale was particularly funny as Roderigo, a character who, in this production, was a representative of the manipulated populace, unable to understand that his actions were self-destructive. In tragic parallel to Roderigo, Othello became another political puppet, convinced by degrees that Desdemona was not what she seemed, and unable to see beyond a vision of her deceit cultivated through the mere appearance of things. Desdemona, accordingly, became a victim of sexist hate crime. This interpretation contrasted problematically with the reinterpretation of Othello as a politically astute actor who, like Iago, was able to manipulate his own appearance and conceal aspects of his identity for the sake of public performance. If, as it appeared to be, the production was attempting to liberate the character of Othello from the shackles of a text which names him “Moor” yet does not allow him to perform as such, the decision to cast him halfway through the play as a gullible puppet and a perpetrator of hateful falsity reversed these intentions. In this production, the world of “alternative facts” coexisted, uncomfortably, with a liberal world in which Othello and Desdemona, played by two young actors fresh out of RADA, could love purely, freely and equally. Desdemona wrapped her legs lovingly around Othello at one moment and they frolicked in childish and unrestrained glee around the stage at the next. The outstanding acting of the two leads created a convincing picture of romantic and sexual love and next to this, the categories assigned to them – Muslim, Moor, woman – were presented as less significant. The production tried to make political points while ultimately undermining the need to frame the play within such limiting categories. Othello  has been subject to another reworking in 2017. At the Sam Wanamaker Playhouse, Ellen McDougall chose to address another difficult aspect of the play: its brutality towards women. Silenced women littered the stage in this production, bound and abused. The decision to cast Joanna Horton as Michelle Cassio brought a new dynamic to the play, in that she became another discarded female figure on the stage in the concluding scene. The intimacy of the stage at the Sam Wanamaker theatre forced audience members to gaze at the eventual tableau of despair, composed as a tragic triptych of broken female bodies: Bianca slumped, gagged, in one corner of the stage, Cassio was thrown into the other and Desdemona lay, unaware and innocent, on the central bed. Through the changing of Cassio’s sex, the disgust felt by characters about interracial relationships became conflated with the mixture of revulsion and titillation expressed in reaction to homosexual relationships. This production deliberately provoked in its use of female bodies onstage but was nevertheless erotically dry, with Kurt Egyiawan’s Othello turning his face from his wife’s desperate kisses. His eventual acts of murder and suicide were prompted more by a sense of masculine pride than sexual jealousy. Whereas the Tobacco Factory stage was starkly lit with strip lighting, the Sam Wanamaker Playhouse benefited from the possibilities candles gave to cast shadows. McDougall’s production was particularly shadowy in its presentation of race. Unlike Twyman’s production, it chose not to fill in the gaps of Othello’s character but instead portrayed him as illegible and unmovable. The decision to replace the word “circumcised” with “black, black” (5.2.364) in Othello’s speech about the “malignant” and “turbaned Turk” (5.2.362) he killed in Aleppo demonstrated an unexplained refusal to engage with the racial connotations of this scene. Gender was the focus in this production, as two very different performances of sexual violence were displayed by Natalie Klamar’s Desdemona, who fought her husband fiercely and strongly, and Thalissa Teixeira’s Emilia, who was killed with a single, sharp, break of the neck. Oddly, the production chose to cut the willow song, one of the most touching and important moments of female communion in the play, and extended tenderly in Twyman’s version. Laurence Danson states of  Othello  that “any assumption of stable difference between self and other, insider and outsider, Christian and Muslim, white and black is threatened by the omnipresence of subversive third parties” (4). The London production presented women as the subversive third parties; Bristol chose to focus on Othello as both insider and outsider. Both productions in 2017 so far have treated the binaries in  Othello  as problems, and both have attempted to address and resolve these divisions through fleshing out abused characters, whether Othello, Cassio, Emilia or Desdemona. In doing so, both productions raise fresh problems to consider. Rather than creating a visual focus on the death of Desdemona, the Bristol production chose to distract our gaze from this tragic scene towards the long-term, insinuating causes for Othello’s mistake. If the act is motivated by the damage caused to a man forced to conceal his faith, it is unclear as to why he should murder one of the only people in front of whom such cultural performance is unnecessary. If, alternatively, this act of uxoricide is a result of Iago’s manipulations, then the reinterpretation of Othello as a politically astute actor is contradicted and he is rendered passive by the play’s conclusion. The London production gave us female characters who were able to fight, both professionally and to protect their lives from violent men, but voyeuristically littered the stage with sexualised female bodies. McDougall’s production staged an act of female revenge against male aggressors at its conclusion, as Cassio and Emilia ripped apart the bed on which Desdemona was murdered in a bizarre inversion of the post-performance jig. No matter how illuminating the characterisation in both productions, Desdemona’s death still happens and the bare fact of violence against women remains. This problem cannot be solved. Registered in England  &  Wales No. 3099067 >5 Howick Place | London | SW1P 1WG< p> Accept We use cookies to improve your website experience.  To learn about our use of cookies and how you can manage your cookie settings, please see our  Cookie Policy.   By closing this message, you are consenting to our use of cookies. 