The Atlantic Seaboard Cycle Route - Bicycle South One of Cape Town’s most scenic road rides and a popular route among the city’s road cyclists and tourists alike! Riding the Atlantic Seaboard Route is definitely on a cyclists must do list especially for the stunning vistas of ocean and mountain, lazy winding roads and challenging climbs. The route can be cycled in either direction (or both) and follows the Atlantic Seaboard from Cape Town’s CBD, via Sea Point and Camps Bay to Hout Bay. Here you have the option of cycling the majestic Chapmans Peak and heading down into Noordhoek where you will find some great restaurants where you can refuel with delicious farm food and coffee. VIEW GPS MAP  &  CYCLE ROUTES DESCRIPTIONS Chapman’s Peak Drive on the Atlantic Coast between Hout Bay and Noordhoek in the Cape Peninsula is one of the most spectacular marine drives in the world. Chapman’s Peak Drive is affectionately known as “Chappies” and is a must for anyone who is passionate about the majestic scenery of Cape… Similar post Distance - 123 KMS  |  Ascent - 1612 M  |  Days - 1 - 3 Created by Cape Cycle Routes, the Cycle Tour 364 starts and finishes at Cape Town’s historic V & A Waterfront, along sections of the iconic Cape Town Cycle Tour route. You’ll ride past the gate of the… Similar post Housed in a 120 year old farmhouse in the heart of Hout Bay, Delish is a serene, relaxed restaurant where you can escape from the rush and bustle of daily life. We strive to create a serviced home away from home. Our restaurant is fully licensed, serving gourmet food that… Similar post Your email address will not be published.  Required fields are marked  * Your Review Name  * Email  * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Title of your review: Inspiring two-wheeled adventure and everyday cycling in South Africa by promoting a network of bike friendly destinations and sharing the routes, stories and events that make our bike-loving community thrive. #mc_embed_signup{clear:left; font:14px Helvetica,Arial,sans-serif; width:100%;} /* Add your own Mailchimp form style overrides in your site stylesheet or in this style block.   We recommend moving this block and the preceding CSS link to the HEAD of your HTML file. */ Username or Email Address * Password * Remember me Lost your password? Log In Username or Email Get New Password Cancel 