‘The epidemic in this country has the face of a woman’: Gender and HIV/AIDS in South Africa: African Journal of AIDS Research: Vol 10, No sup1 1 Nomfundu Eland, chairperson of the South African National AIDS Council (SANAC) women's sector, who was addressing the ‘HIV Prevention for Women and Girls summit’ in Johannesburg (see Magamdela, 2009). 2 Part of this article is based on Gilbert  &  Selikow (2010), reproduced with permission of Palgrave. Epidemiological data clearly show that the highest levels of HIV prevalence occur in sub-Saharan Africa. Less visible, however, is the complex combination of forces that fuel HIV epidemics in this region — these have been dubbed 'the lethal cocktail.' It is this 'cocktail' that creates an enabling environment for the spread of HIV. The HIV epidemic in the region is increasingly 'feminised' as a growing proportion of new infections occurs among and affects women. The gendered pattern of distribution of HIV in South Africa reflects a similar pattern. The aim of this article is to interrogate the contextual factors underlying the differential vulnerabilities of men and women, and the implications for HIV prevention, treatment and care. The analysis, based on a review of documents and applicable literature, reveals that a perilous mix of biomedical, political, economic, and cultural forces shapes the gendered dynamic of the HIV epidemic in South Africa. The article identifies a theoretical framework to decode the most common components of this mix, namely: lack of access to material resources, cultural norms wherein women are subservient to men and masculinity is partly defined in terms of multiple sexual partners and intergenerational sex, combined with high levels of violence against women. We conclude by offering a framework for gendered interventions for HIV prevention, treatment and care. 1 Nomfundu Eland, chairperson of the South African National AIDS Council (SANAC) women's sector, who was addressing the ‘HIV Prevention for Women and Girls summit’ in Johannesburg (see Magamdela, 2009). 2 Part of this article is based on Gilbert  &  Selikow (2010), reproduced with permission of Palgrave. Registered in England  &  Wales No. 3099067 5 Howick Place | London | SW1P 1WG We use cookies to improve your website experience. To learn about our use of cookies and how you can manage your cookie settings, please see our  Cookie Policy.  By closing this message, you are consenting to our use of cookies. 