Man shot, killed in 7-Eleven parking lot in Fort Myers USA TODAY NETWORK presents VRtually There, a weekly virtual reality series that delivers amazing adventures, extreme nature, sports fantasies and the world's most fascinating people. We don't just tell incredible stories, we let you live the experience in fully immersive environments. Use your VR headset, laptop or smart phone to experience in 360\u00b0 video and virtual reality. Download the USA TODAY app, now with virtual reality and subscribe to our  YouTube page . Three new thrilling VR experiences each week. Immerse yourself. Have an existing account? Already have a subscription? Don't have an account? Get the news Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about Store employees say there was some type of altercation, then shots were fired. A link has been sent to your friend's email address. A link has been posted to your Facebook feed.  The 7-Eleven at U.S. 41 and Boy Scout Drive. (Photo: news-press.com) A shooting that left a man dead Sunday morning in Fort Myers is the ninth in Lee County since midweek last week and the 12th overall in Lee County in September. Fort Myers police reported that a man was shot in the chest and killed in the parking lot of the 7-Eleven at 5324 S. Cleveland Ave., shortly before 2 a.m. Store employees say there was some type of altercation, then shots were fired. WINK News was told the victim was shot in the chest and paramedics performed CPR, but he was pronounced dead at a hospital emergency room. A spokesman for the Fort Myers Police Department said the identity of the man shot would not be released until next of kin had been notified. As of Sunday night, that had not occurred. THE NEWS-PRESS Shooting in North Fort Myers injures one The site of the shooting is at the corner of South Cleveland Avenue and Boy Scout Drive across from Page Field. Behind the store is a small plaza with Suggars, a restaurant and night spot, and several specialty stores. Anyone with information is asked to call Detective Emily Destefanis of the Fort Myers Police Department at  321-7700 , or Crime Stoppers at  800-780-TIPS  or text message C-R-I-M-E-S (274637) Keyword FMPD. Tipsters can remain anonymous. The shooting Sunday morning was the ninth in Lee County since Wednesday and the 12th overall in September. At least four of those shootings resulted in fatalities. Seven people were injured in four shooting incidents in the Dunbar community in Fort Myers on Wednesday afternoon and evening. None of those shootings were fatal although many of those hurt, including a 5-year-old child, had to be treated for their wounds at Lee Memorial Hospital. Police officials said gang retaliation was at the center of some of the shootings Wednesday. Scene of Fort Myers shooting (Photo: Michael Braun/news-press.com) Another shooting was reported Saturday around 3:30 p.m. near West Mariana Avenue and Piney Road in North Fort Myers. Witnesses said one man was taken away in an ambulance from an apartment complex there. Lt. Jeffery Dektas of the Lee County Sheriff's Office said the shooting is being investigated as a robbery with one person shot. He said the shooting appears to be an isolated incident. Officials from the Fort Myers Police Department and the Lee County Sheriff's Office are planning to meet in the coming days to discuss efforts to stomp out the rash of violent crime. The Fort Myers City Council  voted 6-0 to establish an emergency task force  Thursday spurred by the rash of shootings Wednesday. In an  open letter to the Dunbar community  on violence and community responsibility on Saturday, Sheriff Mike Scott outlined some of the actions that are in the works "In the coming days, weeks, and months; the LCSO will partner with the FMPD on a wide variety of initiatives to include stepped up enforcement, community outreach, and civic engagement. We want and need your help," the sheriff's post said. THE NEWS-PRESS Seven people shot in Fort Myers in seven hours Furthermore, Scott stressed, "The silent and/or don’t snitch posture that has been the norm for far too long in Dunbar has to change. ... Chief Dennis Eads and I are committed and you should be too. It is my hope and prayer that our enhanced efforts are received with appreciation and cooperation as opposed to protest." The sheriff also talked about an  upcoming event in Dunbar  involving a basketball game between local law enforcement officers and others as a community involvement opportunity. Connect with this reporter: MichaelBraunNP (Facebook) @MichaelBraunNP (Twitter) 