Sophie Grégoire Trudeau talks breastfeeding and motherhood with Katie Couric Ahead of  Justin Trudeau 's meeting with  President Barack Obama  in Washington on Mar. 10, his wife  Sophie Grégoire Trudeau  sat down with  Yahoo 's Katie Couric to discuss what life is like with her famous husband and their three children Xavier, 8, Ella-Grace, 7, and two-year-old Hadrien. "My daily life is mostly spent with my three kids and raising them,” she told the seasoned journalist about her fairly simplistic home life in Ottawa. And when questioned about her  recent comments to Chatelaine magazine  about breastfeeding her youngest child, the mother of three didn't shy away from elaborating on where she stands on the subject. "I think it’s a woman’s choice. I breastfed my three babies. I also gave them formula,” she said. “I think it’s a beautiful bond, and I encourage it, but I don’t judge.” The 40-year-old also clarified to Katie that while Canada doesn't use the term "first lady" she's more than just the prime minister's wife. “We could be a little more progressive," she notes about the title, adding "please call me Sophie." Read More:  Justin and Sophie's love story in photos In the interview, which was filmed in Toronto, the former TV personality is as charismatic as she is confident and candid as she answers questions on everything from the U.S. election to her struggle with an eating disorder. "Eating disorders are like any other compulsion or mental illness. I had to use my voice to make a difference," she told Katie.  Sophie admits her life in Ottawa revolves around her three children. She is also quick to defend her husband against critics who claim he is too young for Canada's top job. “He’s not a ‘yes’ man. He likes to be surrounded by people who challenge him in his views.” And should America find its first female president in Hillary Clinton, Sophie insists it will be a giant stepping stone for women in politics. "The thought of having a woman president anywhere in this world is amazing. It’s happening. The more we get women involved in the political process, the more we will foster greater democracy.” Sign up to our free newsletters! This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies.  Find out more here. This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies.  Find out more here. 