Whisky Advent 2017 Day #17: Talisker 10 Year Old - Master of Malt Blog Cookie Notice Oh, hello there.  It’s 2019 so obviously cookies are a thing, and, like basically everyone these days, we use them.  You can find out more in our  Cookie Policy .  By clicking “continue” or continuing to use the site you’re confirming you’re cool with cookies. Your Privacy Strictly Necessary Cookies Performance Cookies Functional Cookies Targeting Cookies More Information Privacy Preference Centre Active Always Active Cancel As #WhiskyAdvent enters its final week,  Drinks by the Dram’s Whisky Advent Calendar  ramps up the spoils with a tasty Scotch that’s high-in-the-sky(e)  (That was rubbish, come back to me) The final week of #WhiskyAdvent has begun, and I think it’s an appropriate time to remember why Christmas is so important, so cherished and so utterly wonderful. I think we all know what I’m talking about here: drams. We all knew that was exactly where I was going with that. With such a blessing, we can now crack on with #WhiskyAdvent and see what’s behind window #17  A dram of  Talisker 10 Year Old ! From the oldest working distillery on the Isle of Skye, this single malt Scotch whisky reflects the remote, island beauty with a distinctive, peaty, coastal character. Nose:  A strikingly clean nose reveals volcanic sulphur and coastal air brimming with salinity. Lemon peel, stinging nettles, brine, dry barley and drops of wildflower honey bring assured balance. Palate:  Delicately sweet, the honey appears again, with some brown sugar. The palate develops and becomes meatier, with smoked mackerel, as brine, squeezes of lime juice and peppery oak appear. A heavy, but composed peat oversees proceedings. Finish:  Sumptuously long, trickles of brine, burnt sugar and toasty malt linger and fade, while ashy peat remains prominent. Overall:  A beautifully composed dram that avoids the trap of becoming an peated powerhouse with sweet, fruity refinement. And don t forget – you can save a tenner on  Talisker 10 Year Old ,  and  be in with the chance of winning a trip to the distillery if you pick up a bottle before Christmas! From one Scotch whisky to another, we take a peek inside the  Scotch Whisky Advent Calendar  today as an additional Christmas treat. What lies behind window #17? It s  Bowmore 15 Year Old Darkest ! Nose:  Dark and punchy. Sherry notes, juicy Corinth raisins. Spices. Creamy, mochaccino, sweet dates. Palate:  Rich, woody, pine oil. Syrupy. Creamy toffee and malt. Smoky. Finish:  Spicy, toffee, sherry, barley. A double peaty treat for today! We re not sure what we re going to do with ourselves once Advent is over This wasn’t in our calendar, very disappointed. We had another Aisla Bay instead! Your email address will not be published.  Required fields are marked  * Comment Name  * Email  * Website Type on the field below and hit Enter/Return to search 