my refrigerator door was left open for 8 hours, can I still eat the food inside? | Yahoo Answers the door  was only open slightly, (the light was off).  Most food felt cold to the touch, but the orange juice was not cold to drink.... it tasted more like room temp.  we closed the door and didn &# x27;t test the temperature of any of the food.  But all day long, I &# x27;ve been worried about what to do, I don &# x27;t want to waste the food and I don &# x27;t want anyone to get sick, either.  what should I do? I &# x27;ve had a similar experience in the past so I just did some checking and am copying a snippet of what I found:  A temperature of 40 °F should be maintained in the refrigerator. In contrast to freezer storage, perishable foods will gradually spoil in the refrigerator. Spoilage bacteria will make themselves known in a variety of ways. The food may develop an uncharacteristic odor, color and/or become sticky or slimy. Molds may also grow and become visible. Bacteria capable of causing foodborne illness either don &# x27;t grow or grow very slowly at refrigerator temperatures.  I think your fruit  &  veggies should be fine (celery and some others might go limp).  Throw away your eggs, mayonnaise or salad dressings containing it, meats, leftovers, salsa sauce, milk or cream, sour cream, cottage cheese, other dairy or non diary alternatives.  Cheese is fine at room temp, oily salad dressings without dairy ingredients should be fine - smell test works.  The lifespan of the rest of the fridge contents will be shortened. Hope that helps! Fridge Door Left Open The food in the back of the refrigerator is probably fine, since it was still running. I would visually inspect and smell the stuff in the front of it (like on the door). Probably throw the OJ out well, since refrigeration is only a retardation of the rotting/fermenting/spoiling process, anything that wouldn &# x27;t spoil in eight hours of room temperature sould be just fine. certain things should probably be cooked, i.e. meats, and others things might be best thrown away, i.e. milk. But beyond that, the other food should still be okay I would probably throw it out.  I am very particular with food.  Actually, I throw away very little but am afraid to eat or feed any food to my family that might be suspect.  Better safe than sorry.  Good luck whatever you decide. I wouldn &# x27;t eat anything preishable - meat, eggs, poultry, fish, dairy etc. As well as the likes of pasta salads, mayonnaise or whatever. Fruits, veges, most sauces, butter and other things should be alright, as well as any chocolates, dessert food etc. Better to be safe then sorry; best of luck. Hi Princess, I would SCREAM and go get My gun..With the high price of food,i wouldn &# x27;t care who she was!!! No one and i mean No one is going to steal My food from My Family and get away with it!!! Besides that,Oprah needs to drop at least 70lbs if not more.. Your Friend, poppy1 You should smell acouple of things Like the ham or meats! The food should be good still! try something to eat well if its things that can get a little warm it should be fine but it its like...umm.... meat that can rot then i wouldn &# x27;t eat it sorry i dont really know how warm the food was, so thats the best i can do. :/ 