South Okanagan Minor Hockey Association   TeamSnap Template Sites site Leading minor hockey association Reminder  - RiS Parent was made mandatory in the 2018-2019 season. Committed to creating a positive hockey experience for all, the South Okanagan Minor Hockey Association implemented the Respect in Sport - Parent Program requirement for the 2018-2019 season. We are committed to the positive impact this program will have on our game and last season voted to implement the  mandatory  completion of the RIS - Parent course by one parent or legal guardian from each family, before any player is permitted to participate in any SOMHA sanctioned activities, including try-outs and conditioning camp. All new families will be required to complete the course, prior to the 2019-2020 season. To register for the course, visit the  Respect In Sport - Parent Program. A educational program launched in partnership with the Vancouver Canucks encourages positive behaviour by hockey parents in the rink. The game of hockey is for kids. Kids play the game because they love it and because it is fun. As parents we must realize, that for kids, positive participation is always more important than excellence. The personal and social development that comes from being part of a team is one of the most enriching experiences offered by the game. Being a hockey parent is no easy task. Hockey parents often fill not only the role of parent, but also the role of an essential hockey volunteer. Parents may be coaches, evaluators, directors, etc. Balancing these roles can be challenging. That is why BC Hockey and Hockey Canada provide resources and programs to assist parents in ensuring that their children’s hockey experiences are positive. Trevor Linden talks about the program  here . See more from BC Hockey  here . Show your support with your own SOMHA gear! The Association is a member of the Okanagan Mainline Amateur Hockey Association as well as the BC Hockey Association. BC Hockey is a member of Hockey Canada. As a member in good standing with these affiliated bodies, SOMHA is governed by their rules in addition to SOMHA’s By-­­laws. It is the vision of South Okanagan Minor Hockey Association to see that our minor hockey program is enriching the lives of its players, its volunteers and its communities. The mission of South Okanagan Minor Hockey Association is to secure and maintain a positive role for minor hockey in the community. info.somha@gmail.com 