Beatrice Viscountess Samuel : London Remembers, Aiming to capture all memorials in London Credit for this entry to: >Alan Patient of www.plaquesoflondon.co.uk< p> Plaque: Beatrice Viscountess Samuel Erection date: 1992 Inscription This garden is dedicated to Beatrice Viscountess Samuel who was born, lived and died in this neighbourhood, 1871 - 1959. {A second plaque on the same wall reads:} This garden was refurbished by Westminster City Council in consultation with the residents of Bayswater, January 1992. W2, Corner of Inverness Terrace and Porchester Gardens Another plaque on the wall, in the same style as the Viscountess's, reads: "This garden was refurbished by Westminster City Council in consultation with the Residents of Bayswater, January 1992." Go to map of other memorials in this area This section lists the subjects commemorated on the memorial on this page: >      <strong>Beatrice Viscountess Samuel< strong> Born Beatrice Miriam Franklin. Wife of Herbert Louis Samuel (1st Viscount Sam... Read More This section lists the other memorials at the same location as the memorial on this page: >      <strong>Beatrice Viscountess Samuel< strong> The unveiling took place on the 100th anniversary of Albanian independence. Read More This section lists some other interesting  Plaques {Beneath a Maltese cross:}Manorial CrossNear here once stood one of the four ... Read More Sir Edward Elgar lived in a house on this site, 1911 - 1921.  & nbsp;Here he co... Read More Tony Hancock, 1924 - 1968, comedian.Comic Heritage & nbsp; Read More This plaque is placed here by the governors and friends of the Lady Eleanor H... Read More Lindsey House, built 1674 by Robert Bertie 3rd Earl of Lindsey, incorporates ... Read More Register to receive email updates whenever we publish new memorials. Click here Now available: The London Remembers iPhone app. Click here 12,210 brave WW1 seamen remembered on the monument at Tower Hill. Click here 23,831 brave WW2 seamen remembered on the monument at Tower Hill. Click here 