Sweet Pea Plants | Unwins Seeds This website uses cookies We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. This includes cookies from third party social media websites if you visit a page which contains embedded content from social media. Such third party cookies may track your use of the Unwins website. If you continue without changing your settings, we ' ll assume that you ' re happy to receive all cookies on the Unwins website. However, you can change your cookie settings at any time. "The best seed varieties to inspire all levels of gardener" "The best seed varieties to inspire all levels of gardener" "The best seed varieties to inspire all levels of gardener" "The best seed varieties to inspire all levels of gardener" You have  0  items in your basket 19 .99 14 .99 12 .99 12 .99 12 .99 Grow the very best Sweet Peas. Nemasys Vine Weevil Killer Information Applying Nemaslug Slug Killer Nematodes The Unwins name is synonymous with Sweet Peas and our Sweet Pea Plants are bursting with vigour and are ready to plant out into your garden! They are supplied in multi-sown modules each containing at least 6 strong seedlings and will grow on to give you earlier flowers on strong sturdy plants. There are very few absolutely essential plants but sweet peas are arguably indispensable! Beautiful, fragrant, and useful their flowers are magnets for pollinating insects earning them a place in the vegetable plot as well as the ornamental garden.They are also excellent cut flowers, the more you pick the more flowers they produce. Whether you grow stems of huge-ruffled flowers for exhibition or simply want to enjoy their fabulous scent and cottage garden appeal there ' s bound to be a sweet pea that captures your heart. Windowsill Propagator Kit Versatile Windowsill Propagator Kit! ...  More Pack Quantity: 1x Windowsill Propagator Kit Keith Hammett Sweet Pea Plants Selection -Bubblegum Mix A wonderful mix of Bubblegum colours. ...  More Pack Quantity: 9 Multi-Sown Modules Total 45 Plants Sweet Pea Flower Plants  - Flower Arranger's Blend Large flowers and long stems make these a firm favourite. ...  More Pack Quantity: 45x Sweet Pea Plants, 9x Multi-Sown Modules Sweet Pea Plants - Apple and Blackberry Mix Light and dark contrast! ...  More Pack Quantity: 9x Multi-Sown Modules, 45x Sweet Pea Plants Sweet Pea flower plants -  Midnight Eclipse Mix Dark is beautiful! ...  More Pack Quantity: 9x Multi-Sown Modules, 45x Sweet Pea Plants Sweet Pea Plants - Cherub Northern Lights x24 Exclusive ! first ever 'bedding' variety ...  More Pack Quantity: 24 plug plants Sweet Pea Plants - Cherub Mix x24 Unique carpet-forming sweet-pea! ...  More Pack Quantity: 24x Large Plug Plants Sweet Pea Plants - Pink Ladies High fragrance! ...  More Pack Quantity: 45x Sweet Pea Plants, 9x Multi-Sown Modules Sweet Pea flower plants -  More Scent mix - x9 probably the strongest scent of them all ...  More Pack Quantity: 45x Sweet Pea Plants, 9x Multi-Sown Modules Sweet Pea Plants - Summerlong Mix Big on colour, big on fragrance ...  More Pack Quantity: 9x Multi-Sown Modules, 45x Sweet Pea Plants Sweet Pea Plants - Peach Melba Multi-sown plants for dozens of flowers in summer ...  More Pack Quantity: 9x Multi-Sown Modules, 45x Sweet Pea Plants Sweet Pea Plants - Blushing Bride Total of 25-40 flowering plants and reusable module ...  More Pack Quantity: 9x Multi-Sown Modules, 45x Sweet Pea Plants Pea and Bean Net ideal for supporting beans and peas ...  More Pack Quantity: 1x 22sqm Net Concentrated Pre-Planting  Sweet Pea Fertiliser For quality Sweet Peas! ...  More Pack Quantity: 1x 900g Tub Rootrainers - 32 Cells Perfect for Developing Strong Root Systems ...  More Pack Quantity: 1x Pack, 8x 4 Cell Trainers, Tray  &  Propagation Lid Sweet Pea Ring The Perfect Support for Climbing Plants! ...  More Pack Quantity: 1x Sweet Pea Ring Sweet Pea Plants - Super Fragrant Collection Highly scented varieties with glorious colours! ...  More Pack Quantity: 45x Sweet Pea Plants, 9x Multi-Sown Modules By submitting your email address in the box below, you agree that Unwins may send you special offers about their products and services by email in the future Title:  Select Mr Mrs Miss Ms Dr Sir Rev Lord Lady Prof First name:  Surname:  Email:  Confirm Email:  This website uses cookies We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. This includes cookies from third party social media websites if you visit a page which contains embedded content from social media. Such third party cookies may track your use of the Unwins website. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you're happy to receive all cookies on the Unwins website. However, you can change your cookie settings at any time. These cookies are required for basic site functionality and allow us to improve functionality by tracking usage and are therefore always enabled. These include cookies that allow you to be remembered as you explore our sites within a single session or, if you request, from session to session. They help make the shopping cart and checkout process possible as well as assist in security issues and conforming to regulations. Refusing these cookies may result in poorly-tailored recommendations and slow site performance. Social media cookies offer the possibility to connect you to your social networks and share content from our site through social media.  Advertising cookies (of third parties) collect information to help better tailor advertising to your interests, both within and beyond our site. In some cases, these cookies involve the processing of your personal data. Refusing these cookies may result in seeing advertising that is not as relevant to you or you not being able to link effectively with Facebook, Twitter, or other social networks and/or not allowing you to share content on social media. You can always change your preference by visiting the " Cookie Settings " at the bottom of each page of our Sites. Subscribe to our special offer emails and receive 10% off your first order Fields marked with  *  must be filled in.  This offer applies to new customers only. 