Grass causing rash - BabyCenter  I haven’t been on here in awhile, but this was where I thought I could get some answers. Yesterday we were playing outside at our cousins ball game. She had on a dress because of how hot it was. Everywhere the grass touched her was red and looked like the grass had scratched her. Is this normal since she isn’t used to the grass or could she be allergic? It really freaked me out. My mom tried to keep me out of the grass... I now wish she didn't. I missed a ton of fun due to a non-life threatening allergy solved by a bath, or knee high socks. As long as the rash goes away quickly without incident, I say be cautious, but let her play with the other kids. If it really really worries you maybe only go play in the early morning or evening when pants/leggings aren't too hot yet.  I get an itchy rash of I sit in the grass with shorts on. Pants or a blanket when sitting on grass should help.  www.verywellhealth.com/treatments-f...  this article had a lot of good info: >< p> Definitely agree it is a slight allergy. I get it horribly to the point of it burning. DD  (dear daughter)  on the other hand doesn't seem to be phased by the rash and it's almost always gone by the next morning. Make sure to give LO  (little one)  a bath or wash off with a wash cloth after contact  BabyCenter is committed to providing  the most helpful and trustworthy pregnancy and parenting information  in the world. Our content is  doctor approved  and  evidence based , and our community is moderated, lively, and welcoming. With thousands of  award-winning articles  and  community groups , you can track your pregnancy and baby's growth, get answers to your toughest questions, and connect with moms, dads, and expectant parents just like you. This product is matched to user comments in this post. BabyCenter aims to share products and services we hope you ' ll find interesting and helpful. Just so you know, we may earn a commission if you buy something we ' ve linked to here. 