Tbuy.in: True Sleeper Online | Memory Foam Matress | Shop online at best price in India : Telebuy Free delivery to your doorstep. No minimum purchase value required.Hassle-free returns. Many products and brands exclusively available only with us. 100% original and new products sold , with brand or manufacturer's warranty, wherever applicable !! Option to pay using cash. Multiple payment options including EMIs available. Wherever you are in India, chances are that we can deliver to you reliably. Your shopping cart is empty! 044 40515296 +91 99620 99272 Size Actual bed size True sleeper Single 36*75 inches 39*78 inches  ( Density 1.75 inches) Superior Quality The mattress is made of top quality foam that is highly visco-elastic in nature. When placed on top of your existing mattress, you can see an instant change in the sleeping surface. The memory foam was first designed for the airplane seats of NASA during the mid-1960s. Made of visco-elastic substance, the foam is soft in texture and is energy absorbent. The foam in the true sleeper is based on this memory foam quality and is made of two layers. Excellent Function The main function of the memory foam is to respond to the energy exuded by the body. The pressure and heat from the body is absorbed by the foam and it responds favourably by distributing the entire body weight in an even manner. The foam molds itself to the body shape, and returns to its original shape when the pressure is taken off. Benefits of the Sleeper The true sleeper is a revolutionary product that is created to conform to your body contour easily. The mattress gives you various benefits. The mattress contours are designed perfectly and it springs to its original position when the pressure is released. Ultramodern Convenience  This mattress is very convenient to use. You need not replace your existing mattress. The true sleeper with its 2” memory foam can be placed over your existing mattress, as it adapts to any space easily. Its surface is designed to match to the body shape, thus relieving pressure on the points that make you uncomfortable. With the true sleeper on your mattress, you can change your existing mattress into a high level sleep area that is well within your budget. The major problem with ordinary mattresses is that they are too solid and pressurize your body unduly. This creates circulatory difficulties and pain, disrupting your sleep. With true sleeper, you can forget the sleepless nights completely. Buying it is the best investment you can make for your body. Available in Single and Queen size super cool bed for sleeping with ease great quality... super nice material sleeping comfortable on it... great on my hostel room good size for single person. use. Bought for my hostel room...fits nice and super cool very happy with the purchase Tags: true , sleeper , home appliances , specification , online , price , buy , review , discount , memory foam matress single , garden This memory foam is a revolutionary mattress topper best for people who suffer from disturbed sle.. Rs.12,995 Bamboo Pillow is a new pillow that will help you sleep better and improve the quality of sleep from .. Rs.2,495 Bamboo Pillow is a new pillow that will help you sleep better and improve the quality of sleep from .. Rs.3,495 Telebuy is a leading destination for online shopping in India, offering some of the best prices and a completely hassle-free experience with options of paying through Cash on Delivery, Debit Card, Credit Card and Net Banking processed through secure and trusted gateways. Now shop for your favourite Table mate 2, Orbitrek Elite,Ervamatin,Super Ladder . Browse through our cool lifestyle accessories, fashion and health brands featured on our site with expert assistance to help you arrive at the right buying decision. Telebuy also offers free home delivery for many of our products along with easy EMI options. Get the best prices and the best online shopping experience every time, guaranteed. We deliver reliably to Mumbai, Delhi, Bangalore, Hyderabad, Ahmedabad, Chennai, Kolkata, Surat, Pune, Jaipur, Lucknow, Kanpur, Nagpur, Indore, Thane, Bhopal, Visakhapatnam, Pimpri-ChinchwadPUNE, Patna, Vadodara, Ghaziabad, Ludhiana, Agra, Nashik, Faridabad, Meerut, Rajkot, Kalyan-Dombivali, vasai-Virar, Varanasi, Srinagar, Aurangabad, Dhanbad, Amritsar, Navi umbai, Allahabad, Ranchi, Howrah, Coimbatore, Jabalpur, Gwalior, Vijayawada, Jodhpur, Madurai, Raipur, Kota, Guwahati, Chandigarh, Solapur, Hubballi-Dharwad, Bareilly, Moradabad, Mysore, Gurgaon, Aligarh, Jalandhar, Tiruchirappalli, Bhubaneswar, Salem, Mira-Bhayandar, Thiruvananthapuram, Bhiwandi, Saharanpur, Gorakhpur, Guntur, Bikaner, Amravati, Noida, Jamshedpur, Bhilai, Warangal, Cuttack, Firozabad, Kochi, Bhavnagar, Dehradun, DurgapurAsansol, Nanded, Kolhapur, Ajmer, Gulbarga, Jamnagar, Ujjain, Loni, Siliguri, Jhansi, Ulhasnagar, Nellore, Jammu, Sangli-Miraj  &  Kupwad, Belgaum, Mangalore, Ambattur, Tirunelveli, Malegaon, Gaya, Jalgaon, Udaipur, Maheshtala, Tirupur, Davanagere, Kozhikode, Akola, Kurnool, Rajpur Sonarpur, Bokaro, South Dumdum, Bellary, Patiala, Gopalpur, Agartala, Bhagalpur, Muzaffarnagar, Bhatpara, Panihati, Latur, Dhule, Rohtak, Korba, Bhilwara, Brahmapur, Muzaffarpur, Ahmednagar, Mathura, Kollam, Avadi, Rajahmundry, Kadapa, Kamarhati, Bilaspur, Shahjahanur, Bijapur, Rampur, Shimog, Chandrapur, Junagadh, Thrissur, Alwar, Bardhaman, Kulti, Kakinada, Nizamabad, Parbhani, Tumkur, Hisar, Ozhukarai, Bihar Sharif, Panipat, Darbhanga, Bally, Aizawl, Dewas, Ichalkaranji, Tirupati, Karnal, Bathinda, Jalna, Barasat, Kirari Suleman Nagar, Purnia, Satna, Mau, Sonipat, Farrukhabad, Sagar, Rourkela, Durg, Imphal, Ratlam, Hapur, Anantapur, Arrah, Karimnagar, Etawah, Ambernath, North Dumdum, Bharatpur, Begusarai, New Delhi, Gandhidham, Baranagar, Tiruvottiyur, Puducherry, Sikar, Thoothukudi, Rewa, Mirzapur, Raichur, Pali, Ramagundam, Vizianagaram, Katihar, Haridwar, Sri Ganganagar, Karawal Nagar, Nagercoil, Mango, Bulandshahr, Thanjavur, Durgapur, Asansol. Note* :  This website is best viewed using Microsoft Internet Explorer 9 or higher, and/or latest version of Google Chrome and Mozila Firefox browsers. 