ESC2017   ESC CONGRESS Barcelona 2017 Beware of unauthorised or fraudulent hotel agencies!   If you are contacted by any other company or agency offering housing for ESC in Barcelona, please note that these companies are not authorised to represent the ESC in any way, nor do they have access to the officially contracted ESC room blocks or rates. Please be aware that an ever increasing number of fraudulent companies are offering hotel rooms to congress attendees. Companies calling themselves Exhibition Housing Management and Convention Hotel Services have been contacting exhibitors and companies supporting ESC 2017 in Barcelona. If you are contacted by any such agency or have any questions regarding their legitimacy please don’t hesitate to contact us at  esc2017@barcelocongresos.com . These groups promote attractive deals with local accommodation providers, but once payment has been received, the company disappears and can no longer be contacted by phone or email. Once the attendee contacts the hotel directly about their room, they realise the hotel has no record of them or their stay. Not only is their money gone, they must then scramble to find last-minute accommodation, which is rarely convenient to the venue. Please be aware that an ever increasing number of fraudulent companies are offering hotel rooms to congress attendees. Companies calling themselves Exhibition Housing Management and Convention Hotel Services have been contacting exhibitors and companies supporting ESC 2017 in Barcelona. If you do need to book a room, please ensure it is through a reliable source to avoid scams and credit card theft. Beware of unauthorised or fraudulent hotel agencies!   If you are contacted by any other company or agency offering housing for ESC in Barcelona, please note that these companies are not authorised to represent the ESC in any way, nor do they have access to the officially contracted ESC room blocks or rates. Please be aware that an ever increasing number of fraudulent companies are offering hotel rooms to congress attendees. Companies calling themselves Exhibition Housing Management and Convention Hotel Services have been contacting exhibitors and companies supporting ESC 2017 in Barcelona. If you are contacted by any such agency or have any questions regarding their legitimacy please don’t hesitate to contact us at  esc2017@barcelocongresos.com . These groups promote attractive deals with local accommodation providers, but once payment has been received, the company disappears and can no longer be contacted by phone or email. Once the attendee contacts the hotel directly about their room, they realise the hotel has no record of them or their stay. Not only is their money gone, they must then scramble to find last-minute accommodation, which is rarely convenient to the venue. * check individual conditions * check individual conditions Rates include breakfast and 10% Vat. City tax not included. This bright, modern hotel offers free Wi-Fi, free sauna and hot tub, and a convenient location on the A-2 motorway, just 8 km from central Barcelona in the suburb of Sant Just Desvern. The NH Porta Barcelona is linked to the centre of the Catalan capital by road and tram, with journeys taking between 10 and 30 minutes. The hotel is also well located for those visiting the legendary Camp Nou football stadium – home to FC Barcelona. The hotel’s Mediterranean restaurant offers breakfast from Mondays to Sundays, and dinner from Mondays to Fridays. This property is also rated for the best value in Sant Just Desvern! Guests are getting more for their money when compared to other properties in this city. Services and facilities A deposit of 2 nights will be charged as booking confirmation. The rest of the stay should be paid at the hotel when check out. Payments can be done by credit card (Visa, MasterCard, American Express).   Any change or cancellation of the hotel reservation must be sent in writing by email to Barceló Congresos  esc2017@barcelocongresos.com . In case of cancellation, the following cancellation fees will be applied: *please take note that any refund for the cancelations, will be made after the congress and with a handling charge of 2%.     The Barcelona City Tax should be paid directly at the hotel and applies as follows:     City tax chargeable up to a maximum of 7 nights, children under 17 years old are exempt. Rates include breakfast and 10% Vat. City tax not included. NH Barcelona La Maquinista is ideally located next to the La Maquinista Shopping Centre in Barcelona’s Sant Andreu District. Plaza de Catalunya is just a 15-minute Metro journey away. The Maquinista’s bright rooms have air conditioning and flat-screen TV. All rooms have a work desk and safe. Free Wi-Fi is available throughout the hotel. The hotel restaurant serves a buffet breakfast and Mediterranean cuisine for lunch and dinner. The neighbouring Maquinista Shopping Centre has a selection of cinemas, a bowling alley, as well as cafés and bars. The NH Barcelona La Maquinista is 500 m from Barcelona’s ring road, the B10 Ronda del Litoral, connecting guests to the beach in 10 minutes. Sant Andreu Metro and Railway Station is just a 10-minute walk from this NH and has direct trains to Passeig de Gràcia and to El Prat Airport. Plaza Catalunya and Las Ramblas are 8 Metro stops away. Services and Facilities A deposit of 2 nights will be charged as booking confirmation. The rest of the stay should be paid at the hotel when check out. Payments can be done by credit card (Visa, MasterCard, American Express).   Any change or cancellation of the hotel reservation must be sent in writing by email to Barceló Congresos  esc2017@barcelocongresos.com . In case of cancellation, the following cancellation fees will be applied: *please take note that any refund for the cancelations, will be made after the congress and with a handling charge of 2%.     The Barcelona City Tax should be paid directly at the hotel and applies as follows:     City tax chargeable up to a maximum of 7 nights, children under 17 years old are exempt. A deposit of 2 nights will be charged as booking confirmation. The rest of the stay should be paid at the hotel when check out. Payments can be done by credit card (Visa, MasterCard, American Express).   Any change or cancellation of the hotel reservation must be sent in writing by email to Barceló Congresos  esc2017@barcelocongresos.com . In case of cancellation, the following cancellation fees will be applied: *please take note that any refund for the cancelations, will be made after the congress and with a handling charge of 2%.     The Barcelona City Tax should be paid directly at the hotel and applies as follows:     City tax chargeable up to a maximum of 7 nights, children under 17 years old are exempt. Pl. Europa, 17-19 1st Floor 08908 L' Hospitalet del Llobregat - Barcelona - Spain       Tel.:  +34 93 882 38 78       esc2017@barcelocongresos.com Pl. Europa, 17-19 1st Floor 08908 L' Hospitalet del Llobregat - Barcelona - Spain Tel.: +34 93 882 38 78 esc2017@barcelocongresos.com © Barceló Congresos 