PKT Rotax EVO Jet Holder " Please forward my thanks to Raymond and the Owners of Acceleration Karting. You truly stand by the products you sell, which I am grateful for. Thank you for replacing the defective battery with a new one. I will make sure the Racers here " " I wanted to take the opportunity for thanking you for shipping out my order so quickly, it certainly was not expected but much appreciated. Keep up the great work and I will certainly keep you guys in mind for future purchases!! " "I’m surprised how fast you process all the orders. I have ordered items from you 4 times and every single time you’re as fast as the previous order... You’re amazing!" Christian ~ 03/2019 "I ordered a CRG Kid Kart earlier this week, with Holden. I really want to pass on how great the experience was. We were in a slight time crunch, not to mention that I really wanted to get the best equipment possible. So we got the kart on time, completely put together, and ready for the track. This was completely unexpected, and a great surprise. Not to mention, Holden found a way to save me money (which in this sport, every dime saved is a bonus). So we got the kart, my kid slipped in the seat and he fit perfectly. Seat size and location was ideal. Holden always exhibited the highest level of professionalism. Next year, I have to buy 2 cadet karts. Bottom line, unless something magical happens, I will be dealing with Holden next year buying my 2 cadet karts. Thank you and your staff for making this a fantastic experience." Steve ~ 10/2018 "I'm new to karting, this site is working well for me. You always seem to have time to answer my questions, even tech related questions, more so than some local dealers. Money goes where it is treated best." Dan ~8/2018 "You Guys are so good and so fast. Way above the rest. Thanks." John~7/2018 "Just wanted to send a quick shout out to the entire AKR team. I’ve ordered all of our parts and a helmet exclusively from AKR this off season for my sons new kart. Everything is always shipped so quickly and without any issues. Thank you for that and can’t wait to finally get it on the track out here in NY to see it all come together." Bryan~3/2018 "A HUGE thanks to your team for helping to answer all my questions and getting my order shipped out overnight for the owner. They were awesome.We will definitely use you again and refer friends." Dawn~3/2018 “Thank you Shop AKR for being our number one go to for parts! You guys have never let us down and have impeccable customer service.” Natalie~1/2018 "You guys are the only people I order from and I appreciate all your help the last year, especially from Holden and Curtis. I went from a newbie last year with a 20 year old kart to now being able to hit podiums on the local levels on a newer and much more competitive CR125; you guys have been instrumental in helping me with my progression and journey. I appreciate it and you'll always be my first choice for any product I need and my number one recommendation to others." Dan~12/2017  "Hi, I just placed my 3rd order and I would just like to say, I am self employed and have dealt with a lot of companies in the past. It is a great pleasure to find a company like your's that value customer service. The few times I called in, the experience was great. The orders I placed were filled and shipped the same day. You have gained a customer for life, I will always order my karting supplies from you. Thanks again." Dennis~6/2017 "You guys are awesome, you do great work for a good price." Travis~7/2017 "Please forward my thanks to Raymond and the Owners of Acceleration Karting. You truly stand by the products you sell, which I am grateful for. Thank you for replacing the defective battery with a new one. I will make sure the Racers here " "I wanted to take the opportunity for thanking you for shipping out my order so quickly, it certainly was not expected but much appreciated. Keep up the great work and I will certainly keep you guys in mind for future purchases!!" "Awesome. Seriously, thanks again for all the help and info, I really do appreciate. Wrecking my kart a few weeks ago I was really bummed. So getting a new rolling chassis is pretty exciting. You've been a ton of help and patient with me." "I called earlier today and spoke with Holden about Zamp Helmets, specifically the RZ-42 Honeycomb. He was amazing and provided all the information that I needed to make the decision to purchase the helmet. I could not fault his service one" "As always guys thank you so much for having an incredible shop and keeping us running up front and being there to answer any questions we have." "I just want to thank you all for getting my order filled and delivered on time. And everything fits perfectly! Be sure to thank all involved for me please." "Thank you so much for helping me in every way possible! Raymond has answered so many of my questions in a world I know nothing about! Great company! Top Notch Customer Service! Thanks, Paul" "Please forward my thanks to Raymond and the Owners of Acceleration Karting. You truly stand by the products you sell, which I am grateful for. Thank you for replacing the defective battery with a new one. I will make sure the Racers here" "I wanted to take the opportunity for thanking you for shipping out my order so quickly, it certainly was not expected but much appreciated. Keep up the great work and I will certainly keep you guys in mind for future purchases!!" " I’m surprised how fast you process all the orders. I have ordered items from you 4 times and every single time you’re as fast as the previous order... You’re amazing! "  Christian ~ 03/2019 " I ordered a CRG Kid Kart earlier this week, with Holden. I really want to pass on how great the experience was. We were in a slight time crunch, not to mention that I really wanted to get the best equipment possible. So we got the kart on time, completely put together, and ready for the track. This was completely unexpected, and a great surprise. Not to mention, Holden found a way to save me money (which in this sport, every dime saved is a bonus). So we got the kart, my kid slipped in the seat and he fit perfectly. Seat size and location was ideal. Holden always exhibited the highest level of professionalism. Next year, I have to buy 2 cadet karts. Bottom line, unless something magical happens, I will be dealing with Holden next year buying my 2 cadet karts. Thank you and your staff for making this a fantastic experience. "  Steve ~ 10/2018 