BBC - Surrey - Surrey's Hollywood film locations I have, what could possibly be described as a strange circle of friends. Lovely but decidedly odd. Among my chums I can list a Roman gladiator, a trainee wizard and a serving soldier in the Sheriff of Nottingham's army.  But this is nothing unusual in these parts, as Surrey is a very popular location for movie makers.  And when Hollywood comes a'calling, local people often sign up to be extras on the big screen.  Sir Ridley Scott's new version of Robin Hood starring Russell Crowe, is the latest blockbuster to be filmed in Surrey.  And when it hits the cinemas this week, you may be able to spot local people who were extras in the scenes filmed in Bourne Woods near Farnham.  But even if you don't know anyone who took part, you will almost certainly recognise the woods.  They have been the location for many feature films, including another Russell Crowe epic - Gladiator.  Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince was filmed here too, as was the 2007 fantasy adventure film, The Golden Compass, starring Nicole Kidman.  Bourne Woods are not the only location near Farnham which have featured on film.  Frensham Ponds, with Surrey's only sandy 'beach' has been used in the past to portray both Spanish and American coastlines, in Carry On films.  In 1963, Carry on Jack, which starred Bernard Cribbins as Albert Poop-Decker and was the eighth film in the spoof series, was filmed here.  The team were back in 1992, when they filmed the 31st, and last, Carry On film - Carry on Columbus with Jim Dale, on the beauty spot's 'shoreline'.  For a county with no coast, Surrey does pretty well on water based cinema action!  The lake at Virginia Water near Egham, was taken over by cast and crew of Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire when they filmed scenes between Harry and the Hippogriff.  Hippie Hippie Shake starring Sienna Miller, which is also due out this month, features another of Surrey's waterways.  Ms Miller was filmed frolicking 'au naturel' in the 'l'eau naturelle' of the River Wey at Albury, near Guildford, in the story based on the life of the Editor of 1960s satirical magazine Oz.  Her real life on-off suitor Jude Law is no stranger to filming in our fair county either.  He joined a host of stars including Cameron Diaz and Kate Winslet in the Nancy Myers 2006 romantic comedy The Holiday.  The tiny village of Shere featured heavily as a backdrop in the film, as did the village of Wonersh and the nearby market town of Godalming.  The quaint village has often been used as a film location, with its Norman church of St James, already starring in Bridget Jones: The Edge of Reason in 2003.  In fact, the church was the subject of a 1993 film, The Anchoress, which was based on the life of Shere resident Christine Carpenter who lived in the church as a hermit.  Surrey's ecclesiastical buildings have often proved popular with Hollywood film makers.  In 1994, St Michaels in Betchworth was the scene for the 'Somerset' wedding of characters Angus and Laura, in hit comedy Four Weddings and a Funeral.  And Guildford Cathedral was immortalised in horror film history when it featured in 1976 cult film, The Omen.  MORE SURREY FILM LOCATIONS Accident : Filmed at Norwood Farm Hall, Cobham  An American Werewolf in London : Filmed at The Black Swan, Martyr's Green. In fact, the pub was used as the interior of The Slaughtered Lamb.  Basic Instinct 2 : Filmed at the Royal Holloway and Bedford New College, Egham  Casino Royale : Filmed at Dunsfold Park Aerodrome  The Da Vinci Code : Filmed at the Fairfield Hall, Croydon  Dorian Gray : Filmed at Painshill Park in Cobham  The Duchess : Filmed at Clandon Park near Guildford  Elizabeth: the Golden Age : Filmed at Waverley Abbey  Finding Neverland : Filmed at the Richmond Theatre  Goldeneye : Filmed at Queen's Stand, Epsom Racecourse  Green Zone : Filmed at Sandown Park, Esher  Howards End : Filmed at the Royal Holloway and Bedford New College, Egham  Lawrence of Arabia : Filmed at Chobham Common  Layer Cake : Filmed at St Georges Hill, Weybridge  Love Actually : Filmed at Queen's Stand, Epsom Racecourse and Sandown Park, Esher  Maybe Baby : Filmed at Queen's Stand, Epsom Racecourse  The Omen : Filmed at Guildord Cathedral, Pyrford Court, Pyrford and Brookwood Cemetery, Woking  The Ruling Class : Filmed at Shere  Sex and Drugs and Rock 'n' Roll:  Filmed at Brunel University, Runnymede Campus, Englefield Green  Shooting Dogs : Filmed at Charterhouse School, Godalming  Topsy Turvy : Filmed at the Richmond Theatre  Vera Drake : Filmed at County Hall, Kingston-upon-Thames  The Wedding Date : Filmed in Shere  The World Is Not Enough : Filmed at Hankley Common, Tilford  The Young Victoria : Filmed at Hampton Court, East Molesey  I would like to highlight St Mary Magdalene Church, Littleton (near Shepperton and next to the eponymous Studios). The Church has featured in The Da Vinci Code (very briefly!), The Jigsaw Man and Company of Wolves.  The churchyard was famously crept around at night by the Dad's Army gang in the 1971 movie of the television series and it apparently featured in Reunion at Fairborough as well, although I haven't located the scene yet.  If anyone knows of any other films that featured the Church, I should be very glad to know about them.   Revd Alison Waters, St Mary Magdalene Church When I worked for the MOD Est. by Chobham common I remember that part of a Superman film was made on the common. There was a mock up of a small American town with a tarmac road, shops, a car lot, I think a jail, and a church in the distance which in fact was only the size of a shed but looking the right size from the town.  There was also a filming done of a WW2 fighter plane coming low across the common for some film. Also in the fifties or sixties a complete Italian prison of war camp was built on the common and a large amount of filming done.  I also remember going home from work one day and seeing an inn had been built by the side of the road during the day. On a closer look it was just the walls nearest the road with scaffolding behind and it was gone the next day.  Mike Hazell Albert R.N. A true WW2 prison camp film about naval prisoners was filmed entirely on Headley Heath using buildings left behind by Canadian troops.  David The Omen, although it [Staines] wasn't in Surrey at the time, The Omen scenes with the church was filmed at St Peters Church Laleham Road in Staines.  Louisa I believe the old Stoughton Barracks in Guildford was the location for 'Carry On Sergeant', and part of Wonersh was used in an episode of 'Foyle's War'.  Helen Foyle Some of 'The Legacy' was filmed at Loseley House (between Guildford and Godalming).  I remember visiting after filming was over, to inspect some of the doors where the scene lighting has caused the varnish to melt.  Outside on top of a large and ancient garden wall were plaster busts, left behind by the film company, suspended by ropes from adjacent trees. This was in the late '70s.  Chris Guest Teddington lock was used in one of the scenes from the 1958 film Dunkirk, starring John Mills.  John Stevens When I was a lad growing up on Box Hill, there were many filming days we enjoyed, including cars being driven over the chalk cliff side into the Betchworth quarries, for James Bond films, Sexton Blake, Man From Uncle, etc. Also, there is a scene in Chitty Chitty Bang Bang where they drive along the zig-zag road, Box Hill. Other days including filming for Catweazle, and Blue Peter doing a western scene on Headley Heath when John Noakes fell off and broke his arm.  Simon Cresswell As a past Police Constable serving at Shere I carried out duties at locations at two further films at Shere. Four Weddings and a Funeral was filmed partly at Albury Park and the old church in the grounds where one of the weddings took place. I also remember Robert Mitchum in the Renunion of Fairborough that was also partly filmed around The White Horse in Shere.  Jonathan Smith I live in USA now but I remember watching the filming of Albert R.N. with Anthony Steele and Paul Carpenter on Headley Heath near Leatherhead about 55 or 60 years ago.  Fred Taylor Superman II used Chobham Common for about 6 weeks to replicate a town where the super villains land on earth.  Peter Canin Some of Dr. Who: Daleks Invasion Earth 2150 A.D. was filmed in Nutfield ><br > Steve Hammond Guy Ritchie film  " Snatch "  - Gipsy camp scenes were filmed in Warlingham, Surrey. Brad Pitt caused a bit of a stir by all accounts!! From a Warlingham resident and Pitt fan who missed the action!!!  Bridget Maher YouTube: Russell Crowe's Robin Hood Film Set  YouTube: Filming of the 2010 Robin Hood Surrey settings for Robin Hood blockbuster Forestry Commission: Bourne Woods Hampton Estate Visit Surrey Four weddings and windmill Movie Locations 