Kauai Accommodations: Guide to Hotels, Vacation Rentals, Inns  &  More | Go Hawaii By clicking OK in this banner, you agree to the use of cookies. By clicking OK in this banner, you agree to the use of cookies. Scroll to Continue An oceanfront hideaway nestled on a curve of golden beach in Haena on Kauai’s lush north shore, offering 48 deluxe two-bedroom suites with fully equipped kitchens. The secluded location and peaceful, laid-back ambiance set amidst stunning natural beauty provide a one-of-a-kind getaway for travelers. This resort beckons with 50 oceanfront acres of exquisite beauty.  Celebrate the sun in a water wonderland with an adult pool, river-pools, a waterslide and saltwater lagoon, golf at Poipu Bay, savor delicious island flavors at resort restaurants, refresh at Anara Spa in a tropical garden setting. Ocean front resort, centrally located, 15 minutes east of the Lihue Airport.  Within walking distance to shopping, restaurants and supermarkets.  Delivering hospitality, creating value, every customer, every time. Relax in comfortable two bedroom suites offering convenient living amenities, including a fully equipped kitchen, complimentary WiFi and washer/dryer. This resort offers the oceanfront tropical views that exemplify the spirit of Kauai. A tropical paradise resort located on beautiful Kalapaki Beach.  Enjoy spacious guestrooms, 1-, and 2-bedroom villas featuring living and dining areas with kitchenettes. The resort offers a 26,000-square-foot swimming pool, golf, spa, and more. Alekona Kauai's oceanfront homes, condos, and five-star luxury concierge services offer the discerning traveler a Kauai unlike anything they have previously experienced. From creating custom itineraries to private chef dinners, our staff is dedicated to ensure you experience the best of Kauai. Fabulous new townhouses with spacious, split-level design, offer lush golf course and dramatic mountain views. Come enjoy the Aloha Spirit on Kauai's north shore! You could just dream of Paradise or, this time, you can come and live in it! Koloa Landing Resort offers the islands largest and newest luxury accommodations; ranging from deluxe studios to multi-bedroom villas. The property is also home to a 350,000-gallon pool, celebrity chef poolside bar  &  grill collaboration, full-service day spa, and many more world-class amenities. Plantation Hale Suites invites you to experience an unforgettable Kauai vacation. Located on the scenic Royal Coconut Coast in the heart of Kauai,steps away from Waipouli Beach, you couldn't picture a more beautiful place to spend a Hawaii vacation. Located on a bluff in the beautiful North Shore of Kauai, The Cliffs at Princeville offers both ocean and island views. Spacious units, fully-equipped kitchens and two full baths make a comfortable and upscale environment for your special vacation. Note:  Apartments, condominiums and homes are eligible to operate as short-term rentals if they are located in areas zoned for such use and/or they have obtained the required authorization(s) from the State of Hawaii and/or the relevant County. It is recommended that before booking a property, you confirm with the owner or manager that the property is operating in compliance with all applicable laws. Back to Top Receive occasional relevant email communications Receive occasional relevant email communications Receive occasional relevant email communications Receive occasional relevant email communications 