Portland TX Roll Off Dumpster Dawson Is a locally owned and operated company located in Gregory, Texas. We offer prompt and dependable service.  We will deliver and dispose of your  roll off dumpster  for you. Family owned and operated for nearly 20 years, Dawson has become one of the most trusted names in the ferrous and non-ferrous materials recycling industry and trash disposal in the Coastal Bend area. Our friendly staff and fair prices have kept people coming back to us for years. We buy from the public as well as businesses and dealers, so come on out and bring your scrap. We'll take care of you! Dawson Recycling is the right place to find your roll off dumpster. We are fully insured and bonded, and provide professional, dependable service. Deliveries  &  pickups are made within 24 hours Dawson Recycling offers multiple dumpster sizes to meet your needs. Roll off dumpster sizes are measured in cubic yards. Typical roll off dumpster sizes are measured in cubic yards. Typical roll off  sizes offered are 10, 20, 30, and 40 yard dumpsters. We've included dumpster dimensions for each of these roll off dumpster sizes below. 10 Yard Dumpster A 10 yard dumpster can hold 10 cubic yards of waste. Common dumpster dimensions for a 10 yard dumpster are: 12 ft. long by 8 ft. wide by 4 ft. high (dumpster sizes and dimensions may vary for your local dumpster service). There's no perfect way to choose dumpster sizes, but a 10 yard dumpster may be appropriate for a small basement or garage cleanout; removing a 250 sq. ft deck; removing 1500 sq. ft. of single layer roof shingles; yard debris cleanup, or a small kitchen  &  bath remodeling job. Rent Now 20 Yard Dumpster A 20 yard dumpster holds 20 cubic yards of waste. Common dumpster dimensions for a 20 yard dumpster are: 22 ft. long by 8 ft. wide by 4.5 ft. high. A 20 yard dumpster may be the right dumpster size for a large basement, attic, or garage cleanup; flooring and carpet removal for a large house; 300 to 400 square feet of deck removal; or 2500 to 3000 sq. ft. of single layer roof shingle removal. Rent Now 30 Yard Dumpster A 30 yard dumpster holds 30 cubic yards of waste. Common dumpster dimensions for a 30 yard dumpster are: 22 ft. long by 8 ft. wide by 6 ft. high (remember, dumpster sizes can vary, so ask your local roll off dumpster service). A 30 yard dumpster may be the right dumpster size for a major home addition; construction of a new home; demolition of a garage; or entire house window or siding replacement for a small to medium size home. Rent Now 40 Yard Dumpster A 40 yard dumpster holds 40 cubic yards of waste. Again, dumpster sizes and dumpster dimensions are not standardized, but common dumpster dimensions for a 40 yard dumpster are: 22 ft. long by 8 ft. wide by 8 ft. high. A 40 yard dumpster may be appropriate for window or siding replacement for a large home; commercial roof tear off; commercial cleanout; new construction or major addition; large amount of trash, paper, or cardboard. Rent Now Dawson Recycling offers multiple dumpster sizes to meet your needs. Roll off dumpster sizes are measured in cubic yards. Typical dumpster sizes offered are 20, 30,  &  40 yards.  We can handle any size project that you can. Dawson Recycling and Disposal, Inc. provides integrated, non-hazardous solid waste collection, recycling  &  disposal services to residential, commercial, industrial, and construction customers across South Texas. Dawson Recycling has successfully performed numerous facility structure demolition projects across the state of Texas for a diverse client base. We complete projects on time and within budget while remaining complient. Thank You For Choosing Dawson's Recycling  &  Disposal, Inc. Service Areas 