Mulk Trailer Out: Rishi Kapoor and Tapsee Pannu s Courtroom Drama Will Leave You Intrigued | India.com The standard of the film Mulk starring Tapsee Pannu and  Rishi Kapoor  was too high after the makers  dropped the teaser was released on June 29 . It left the viewers wanting more and finally, the trailer has been released today. Apart from Rishi and Tapsee, the film also stars  Prateik Babbar , Ashutosh Rana, Manoj Pahwa and Rajat Kapoor in pivotal roles. Rishi plays the role of Murad Ali Mohammed. Tapsee is a lawyer in the film. The film is said to be based on a series of true events. The trailer starts with a news reporter speaking about a terrorist attack on a bus. Right after, the suspect is shown as Prateik. Rishi is the head of the Babbar s family and along with the other members, tries to convince Babbar to return home. To this, the actor replies, “Mai wapas nahi aa sakta. Mai ladai pe nikla hun majhab ki.” Tapsee is introduced when the police come to take Manoj to the court and Tapsee runs behind them. Watch the trailer below: Zee Music Company 46M subscribers Subscribe Mulk - Official Trailer | Rishi Kapoor  &  Taapsee Pannu | Anubhav Sinha | 3rd Aug 2018 Info Shopping Tap to unmute More videos Your browser does not currently recognize any of the video formats available.  Click here to visit our frequently asked questions about HTML5 video. More videos on YouTube Share Include playlist An error occurred while retrieving sharing information. Please try again later. Watch later Share Switch camera 0:00 0:00 0:00  /  2:41 Live An error occurred. Try watching this video on www.youtube.com , or enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser. This is not the first time we will see Tapsee in a courtroom since we have earlier seen her in Pink. Prosecution lawyer, Ashutosh blames Rishi s whole family responsible for the whole terrorist act. Tapsee objects to this and says that not even one charge has been proven. The rest of the trailer shows how Rishi s family being Muslim has been  othered.  To prove that they have been a loyal family, they then approached a court. Towards the end, Rishi with aggression delivers a strong dialogue and says, “Ye ghar mera bhi utna hi hai jitna aapka hai. Aur agar aap meri daadhi aur Osama Bin Laden ki daadhi mein fark nahi kar sakte to bhi mujhe haq hai meri sunnat nibhaane ka!” Throughout the trailer, Rishi s strong dialogue delivery will give you goosebumps. After such a heavy trailer, fans are now looking forward to the release of the film on August 3, 2018. For breaking news and live news updates, like us on  Facebook  or follow us on  Twitter  and  Instagram . Read more on  Entertainment  Latest News  on  India.com .  Taapsee Pannu Expresses Her Opinion on Social Issues Through Films Mulk Trailer: Rishi Kapoor Raises Questions on Patriotism and Religion Tapsee Pannu and Rishi Kapoor   s Mulk Teaser is Out and is every bit Intriguing     Watch Teaser Published Date: July 9, 2018 6:22 PM IST Copyright © 2019. Zee Entertainment Enterprises Limited. All Rights Reserved. 