Gold Country Auto Restoration - CLOSED - Auto Repair - 11383 Prospect Dr, Jackson, CA - Phone Number - Yelp B5F422B6-2841-451D-8211-E654F05FB4F0 983D32A5-B53B-4C94-B0B6-3BB182D302B5 Dry Cleaning 75F1C7B3-4EB1-45C7-9AB2-3B85056AD057 95480CCA-F789-463A-A151-F361DF41D8CF 33F72862-A428-4961-9771-2D8C98AA8991 Phone Repair 9909D94D-E6E7-4A75-8527-2F3DA3645DE1 ABA0AF40-9092-4CD7-A494-353900831A8F 7CD4FC26-3330-473B-BF3A-7FC0AF3B1E39 It ' s important to start by letting you know that I have a 1931 Ford that my wife and I enjoy very much. Neither she nor I are  " car people " .  We don ' t do car shows or have a warehouse full of cars.  We just have the one old car, and we simply enjoy being together in it.  It was fully restored a little over 10 years ago, and I do (almost) all the maintenance.Although I like to do as much work on the car myself as possible, there are just those times when you need some professional help.  When an engine problem developed and I spent weeks trying to figure it out but getting nowhere, I knew it was that time.  Had sought out some other shops and people, but got a bad feeling from each.  Even the Ford dealer in Stockton wouldn ' t touch a Ford built in 1931.  Something about the age of the car creates problems.  A car is a car, right?  Apparently not.I learned of Gold Country Auto Restoration through one of the Model A clubs.  I called and spoke to the General Manager, Doug.  That phone conversation was an eye opener, and not only did they know about Model A ' s, they had 5 of them in there right now in various stages of restoration.  Doug told me they could take my car in a week, and that my laundry list of things I wanted done wasn ' t a big deal.A week later, on Wednesday morning, I loaded the car on a trailer and brought it to Gold Country Auto Restoration.  They helped me unload it and showed me around the shop.  Most garages won ' t let you anywhere NEAR the shop, but Gold Country Auto Restoration technicians appeared very excited to have my car there and showed me some of the projects they had going on.  Some of the cars being repaired or restored were really big money cars like a Rolls Royce, 57 T-Bird, 60 ' s Corvettes, you name it.  A Model T and some other  " horseless carriage "  looking cars were also around, so I didn ' t feel bad leaving a 1931 with them.  Steve was the mechanic that started on my car the moment I drove it into the garage.  He was eager, knowledgeable, and just all around a nice guy.  Maybe he could tell I was nervous about leaving the car there, or maybe he ' s just so nice all the time.  Steve listened to everything I said, never tried to rush me off, and gave me a good feeling about this.  The personal tour of the shop was really something I will remember too.Fast forward 2.1 weeks; I called Gold Country Auto Restoration and asked about my car.  Was told that it would be ready Thursday.  Scheduled time and a ride to go get the car.  Arrived around 3:15 PM and the car was indeed ready, and even washed!  Doug and Steve showed me some things they did and explained what they had to do to fix the motor and the steering and a couple small things.  Brakes were checked and adjusted, bearings lubed, everything.  All road ready!  Excellent.  Steve even helped with a small metal plate that had come loose on the floorboard before wife and I took it for a spin to check it out, just to make sure we were safe and happy with it.  Took the car for a short spin, and it drove excellent.  Honestly, the best it has ever been.  Came back and settled the paperwork.Price was a little over double the  " not to exceed "  I had set, but I did ask for some more things to be done, so I ' m not griping at all.  Gold Country Auto Restoration is naturally going to be more expensive than your typical corner mechanic, you just have to assume that, mostly because of the specialty of working on classic and collector cars.  But what you get for your money is knowing your classic car will be cared for (despite their humorous confession that they ran the car out of gas once while playing with it), and that they know old cars.  They obviously knew enough about mine that they checked things I had not even considered.I was given Mitch ' s cellphone number and was told to call him if we have any mishaps on the way home or need to be towed back.  The trip home was fairly uneventful.  The car drove just perfectly.  Mitch as a business owner made sure I was happy before I left, and had his team go out of their way to fulfill my little requests like more air in the spare and an extra screw for that plate I mentioned earlier.  Everyone at Gold Country Auto Restoration really seems to care.  Mitch even told me that if I did break down he would come out with their enclosed car hauler trailer and get me.  If you have a classic car and want to bring it to Gold Country Auto Restoration for work, I seriously suggest you get Mitch ' s cellphone number and follow up with him because Doug (the manager) simply does not return 9 out of 10 phone calls.  If you show up in person, they will bend over backwards to help you, and that says a lot.  So, if you live close enough to Gold Country Auto Restoration to show up in person for updates, etc., then you ' ll love the place.  If you ' re too far away to stop in yourself and will have to rely on telephone contact for things, you ' ll get very frustrated. RUN FOR YOUR CARS LIFE!HIDE YOUR CAR, WOMEN  &  CHILDREN.My name is Stuart Pressman, I was on the committee for The Pebble Beach Concours for 15 years. I ran the show field except the movement of the cars  the ramp show. My favorite job there was Running The Tour d ' Elegance on Thursday before the show. Yes I started on the very first one and by year 3 or 4, I was the Tour committee chairman, I had hats like Security  &  volunteer committee chairman. I met my friend Mitch Alba 10 to 15 years ago, we ' ve stayed at each others houses, gone to shows together. You are not going to believe what you read here.in 2009 my brother, a  " watch maker "  decided to do a show quality frame off on his car of 1955 Chevrolet 150  " Gasser " . This car was spectacular, from the motor a DZ302 stroked, the Auto Gear M22. The vintage Koni built for the car shock absorbers. I can go on.He replaced every bolt he could with stainless steel, hand turned each bolt down on a metal lathe. You get the idea. He made all the tubing out of stainless. Under the hood looked like jewelry.He being a watchmaker and someone that had refinished many sets of vintage gages for many a car that made it to the Pebble Show field, imaging how his own stock and vintage gauges were in this car?OUR FB Page.Goldcountry AutorestorationsscrewedmeThe car went there in October 2011 because of me  &  my friendship with Mitch.The car needed all body work, paint, wheel wells  &  the front seat upholsteryThe lack of care from the disassembly to the reassembly is a joke. The headliner was on the shop floor with employees walking on it. Right now we wish it was a bad paint job, that would be a dream. Each panel has been painted so many times from mistakes, tape lines, painted after chrome was assembled Chrome scratchedTHERE IS SO MUCH BONDO ON THIS METAL WORK THEY DID A MAGENT WILL NOT STICK ON ANY PANNEL. NOWHERE.Not one panel fits The doors don ' t open  &  close without a fight. The tilt forward front end That looks like a crack addict or methamphetamine user put it together With all the repainted panels etc. They did mot mask the car correctly They have sprayed clear all over the interior, the gauges, the wheels, I am getting sick writing this.Go to Earl Scheib or Miracle auto painting, they take better care of your car. Two months after they started at Gold Country Auto Restoration, I could see that Doug would look you in the face tell you something, get paid and do nothing. I sent Mitch Alba an email,  " PLEASE TAKE OVER " ,  " this is not working " .When I took over the job, I just went to GCAR at 7am and waited until they got Mitch down there. I paid them and extra $1,500.00 to fix their own mistakes, to get this job started and out of there.Well Mitch kept saying we ' ll get it right, then the phone calls? I found a flaw I can ' t deliver, my crew chipped the paint, I cant deliver.I finally screamed at Mitch  &  my brother,  " this is over " , bring us the car.Mitch personally cut up the front seat mounts It is bolted unsafely to the floor, nobody can reach the pedals. They sliced up $2,000.00 leather seat? Plus tore it during the final install.We had an appointment to go watch the car loading, the night before, with no notification.At 8pm there was a knock on the door, a young mechanic from Mitch Alba ' s shop. He walked to the corner and pointed down the street? They dumped this car, no registration or plates, no charged battery a block away in the middle of the street.Mitch Alba, you are unqualified to run that business. Mitch is never at work even when you ask for help.Doug Gonzales, if he opens his mouth? looks at your car?  RUN AS FAST AS YOU CAN.In the time our car was there, they fired their best and longtime employees? Doug fires them and Mitch acts like gee? I didn ' t know?One last story, in a meeting at their shop, my friend Mitch and Doug started saying to me, we have only received $7,300.00 and we need you to bring this current. I said have your gal send me what you have and I ' ll address it.Our bill was paid in full. $20,000.00 plus $5,000.00 in parts and the $1,500.00 I paid them to try to fix their mistakes.We found Mitch ' s bookkeeper, Marie, Marie was fired, my brother found here otherwise Mitch  &  Doug would keep saying pay up? She remember that the bill was paid in full. $9,391.16 in three checks.$10,608.84 paid in cash in front of Marie, she watched Mitch  &  Doug split up the cash.Marie and two other employees, longtime employees are happy to talk to us.Last week we had the first outside third party inspector - adjuster look at the car. It needs a complete frame off to correct all the damage their crew did by lack of care.I am happy to talk to anyone.At facebook     Goldcountry AutorestorationsscrewedmeStay away. Just a suggestion from two guys that brought a show quality  " FRAME OFF "  to Gold Country Auto Restoration ONLY TO BE TOATLED. Should be negative stars. I ' ve seen the work they did after promising perfection and it is horrible. They should not be in business!!! The incompetent and actually dangerous work this shop did to a car that had great historical value and was in perfect running order is despicable. DO NOT TAKE ANYTHING YOU VALUE TO THESE PEOPLE!!! Yelpers report this location has closed. Find a  similar spot . 3 reviews 11383 Prospect Dr Jackson, CA 95642 Add business hours Your trust is our top concern,  so businesses can't pay to alter or remove their reviews.  Learn more. × Eek! Methinks not. Meh. I &# x27;ve experienced better. A-OK. Yay! I &# x27;m a fan. Woohoo! As good as it gets! Share review Embed review First to Review It ' s important to start by letting you know that I have a 1931 Ford that my wife and I enjoy very much. Neither she nor I are  " car people " .  We don ' t do car shows or have a warehouse full of cars.  We just have the one old car, and we simply enjoy being together in it.  It was fully restored a little over 10 years ago, and I do (almost) all the maintenance. Although I like to do as much work on the car myself as possible, there are just those times when you need some professional help.  When an engine problem developed and I spent weeks trying to figure it out but getting nowhere, I knew it was that time.  Had sought out some other shops and people, but got a bad feeling from each.  Even the Ford dealer in Stockton wouldn ' t touch a Ford built in 1931.  Something about the age of the car creates problems.  A car is a car, right?  Apparently not. I learned of Gold Country Auto Restoration through one of the Model A clubs.  I called and spoke to the General Manager, Doug.  That phone conversation was an eye opener, and not only did they know about Model A ' s, they had 5 of them in there right now in various stages of restoration.  Doug told me they could take my car in a week, and that my laundry list of things I wanted done wasn ' t a big deal. A week later, on Wednesday morning, I loaded the car on a trailer and brought it to Gold Country Auto Restoration.  They helped me unload it and showed me around the shop.  Most garages won ' t let you anywhere NEAR the shop, but Gold Country Auto Restoration technicians appeared very excited to have my car there and showed me some of the projects they had going on.  Some of the cars being repaired or restored were really big money cars like a Rolls Royce, 57 T-Bird, 60 ' s Corvettes, you name it.  A Model T and some other  " horseless carriage "  looking cars were also around, so I didn ' t feel bad leaving a 1931 with them.   Steve was the mechanic that started on my car the moment I drove it into the garage.  He was eager, knowledgeable, and just all around a nice guy.  Maybe he could tell I was nervous about leaving the car there, or maybe he ' s just so nice all the time.  Steve listened to everything I said, never tried to rush me off, and gave me a good feeling about this.  The personal tour of the shop was really something I will remember too. Fast forward 2.1 weeks; I called Gold Country Auto Restoration and asked about my car.  Was told that it would be ready Thursday.  Scheduled time and a ride to go get the car.  Arrived around 3:15 PM and the car was indeed ready, and even washed!  Doug and Steve showed me some things they did and explained what they had to do to fix the motor and the steering and a couple small things.  Brakes were checked and adjusted, bearings lubed, everything.  All road ready!  Excellent.  Steve even helped with a small metal plate that had come loose on the floorboard before wife and I took it for a spin to check it out, just to make sure we were safe and happy with it.  Took the car for a short spin, and it drove excellent.  Honestly, the best it has ever been.  Came back and settled the paperwork. Price was a little over double the  " not to exceed "  I had set, but I did ask for some more things to be done, so I ' m not griping at all.  Gold Country Auto Restoration is naturally going to be more expensive than your typical corner mechanic, you just have to assume that, mostly because of the specialty of working on classic and collector cars.  But what you get for your money is knowing your classic car will be cared for (despite their humorous confession that they ran the car out of gas once while playing with it), and that they know old cars.  They obviously knew enough about mine that they checked things I had not even considered. I was given Mitch ' s cellphone number and was told to call him if we have any mishaps on the way home or need to be towed back.  The trip home was fairly uneventful.  The car drove just perfectly.  Mitch as a business owner made sure I was happy before I left, and had his team go out of their way to fulfill my little requests like more air in the spare and an extra screw for that plate I mentioned earlier.  Everyone at Gold Country Auto Restoration really seems to care.  Mitch even told me that if I did break down he would come out with their enclosed car hauler trailer and get me.   If you have a classic car and want to bring it to Gold Country Auto Restoration for work, I seriously suggest you get Mitch ' s cellphone number and follow up with him because Doug (the manager) simply does not return 9 out of 10 phone calls.  If you show up in person, they will bend over backwards to help you, and that says a lot.  So, if you live close enough to Gold Country Auto Restoration to show up in person for updates, etc., then you ' ll love the place.  If you ' re too far away to stop in yourself and will have to rely on telephone contact for things, you ' ll get very frustrated. Report review Share review Embed review RUN FOR YOUR CARS LIFE! HIDE YOUR CAR, WOMEN  &  CHILDREN. My name is Stuart Pressman, I was on the committee for The Pebble Beach Concours for 15 years. I ran the show field except the movement of the cars  the ramp show. My favorite job there was Running The Tour d ' Elegance on Thursday before the show. Yes I started on the very first one and by year 3 or 4, I was the Tour committee chairman, I had hats like Security  &  volunteer committee chairman.  I met my friend Mitch Alba 10 to 15 years ago, we ' ve stayed at each others houses, gone to shows together. You are not going to believe what you read here. in 2009 my brother, a  " watch maker "  decided to do a show quality frame off on his car of 1955 Chevrolet 150  " Gasser " . This car was spectacular, from the motor a DZ302 stroked, the Auto Gear M22. The vintage Koni built for the car shock absorbers. I can go on. He replaced every bolt he could with stainless steel, hand turned each bolt down on a metal lathe. You get the idea. He made all the tubing out of stainless. Under the hood looked like jewelry. He being a watchmaker and someone that had refinished many sets of vintage gages for many a car that made it to the Pebble Show field, imaging how his own stock and vintage gauges were in this car? OUR FB Page. Goldcountry Autorestorationsscrewedme The car went there in October 2011 because of me  &  my friendship with Mitch. The car needed all body work, paint, wheel wells  &  the front seat upholstery The lack of care from the disassembly to the reassembly is a joke. The headliner was on the shop floor with employees walking on it.  Right now we wish it was a bad paint job, that would be a dream.  Each panel has been painted so many times from mistakes, tape lines, painted after chrome was assembled Chrome scratched THERE IS SO MUCH BONDO ON THIS METAL WORK THEY DID A MAGENT WILL NOT STICK ON ANY PANNEL. NOWHERE. Not one panel fits The doors don ' t open  &  close without a fight. The tilt forward front end That looks like a crack addict or methamphetamine user put it together  With all the repainted panels etc. They did mot mask the car correctly They have sprayed clear all over the interior, the gauges, the wheels, I am getting sick writing this. Go to Earl Scheib or Miracle auto painting, they take better care of your car.  Two months after they started at Gold Country Auto Restoration, I could see that Doug would look you in the face tell you something, get paid and do nothing.  I sent Mitch Alba an email,  " PLEASE TAKE OVER " ,  " this is not working " . When I took over the job, I just went to GCAR at 7am and waited until they got Mitch down there. I paid them and extra $1,500.00 to fix their own mistakes, to get this job started and out of there. Well Mitch kept saying we ' ll get it right, then the phone calls? I found a flaw I can ' t deliver, my crew chipped the paint, I cant deliver. I finally screamed at Mitch  &  my brother,  " this is over " , bring us the car. Mitch personally cut up the front seat mounts It is bolted unsafely to the floor, nobody can reach the pedals. They sliced up $2,000.00 leather seat? Plus tore it during the final install. We had an appointment to go watch the car loading, the night before, with no notification. At 8pm there was a knock on the door, a young mechanic from Mitch Alba ' s shop. He walked to the corner and pointed down the street? They dumped this car, no registration or plates, no charged battery a block away in the middle of the street. Mitch Alba, you are unqualified to run that business. Mitch is never at work even when you ask for help. Doug Gonzales, if he opens his mouth? looks at your car?  RUN AS FAST AS YOU CAN. In the time our car was there, they fired their best and longtime employees? Doug fires them and Mitch acts like gee? I didn ' t know? One last story, in a meeting at their shop, my friend Mitch and Doug started saying to me, we have only received $7,300.00 and we need you to bring this current. I said have your gal send me what you have and I ' ll address it. Our bill was paid in full. $20,000.00 plus $5,000.00 in parts and the $1,500.00 I paid them to try to fix their mistakes. We found Mitch ' s bookkeeper, Marie, Marie was fired, my brother found here otherwise Mitch  &  Doug would keep saying pay up? She remember that the bill was paid in full. $9,391.16 in three checks. $10,608.84 paid in cash in front of Marie, she watched Mitch  &  Doug split up the cash. Marie and two other employees, longtime employees are happy to talk to us. Last week we had the first outside third party inspector - adjuster look at the car. It needs a complete frame off to correct all the damage their crew did by lack of care. I am happy to talk to anyone. At facebook     Goldcountry Autorestorationsscrewedme Stay away. Just a suggestion from two guys that brought a show quality  " FRAME OFF "  to Gold Country Auto Restoration ONLY TO BE TOATLED. Report review Share review Embed review Should be negative stars. I ' ve seen the work they did after promising perfection and it is horrible. They should not be in business!!! The incompetent and actually dangerous work this shop did to a car that had great historical value and was in perfect running order is despicable. DO NOT TAKE ANYTHING YOU VALUE TO THESE PEOPLE!!! Report review 2 other reviews that are not currently recommended Phone number (209) 257-0900 11383 Prospect Dr Jackson, CA 95642 Restaurants Nightlife Shopping Show all Car Alignment Classic Car Parts Headlight Replacement Smog Check Find more Auto Repair near Gold Country Auto Restoration Auto Repair Cost Guide Car Mechanics Near Me Copyright © 2004–2019 Yelp Inc. Yelp, ,  and related marks are registered trademarks of Yelp. 