25 Incredible Cars From Jay Leno &# x27;s Car Collection | Complex This site uses cookies. By using this site, you agree to our:  Cookie Policy ,  Privacy Policy  and  Terms of Service . Assistant Editor. Mizzou Journalism. Indiana. Hip-Hop. Ice cream. Cars. Bulls/Packers/Hawks/Cubs. There is no other celebrity in the world that comes close to matching the car collection that famed talk show host Jay Leno has gathered. When we put together a list of the best celebrity car collectors, it was a no-brainer, as he ' s got his own mechanics, he has his own web TV show dedicated to his garage, and car manufacturers even collaborate with him to build unique concepts. We were originally going to try to narrow down his more than 100 cars and 50 motorcycles into a  " 25 Best "  list, but the idea of that is entirely ridiculous. The variety of cars, each of which have its own individual importance, makes definining  " the best "  theoretically impossible. Instead, we ' ve gone through the list and picked out some of his and some of our favorites. Take a journey through automotive history with these  25 Incredible Cars From Jay Leno ' s Car Collection .  What was originally going to be called the baby Dusenberg, the Cord is an automobile that ' s one of the most revolutionary and most beautiful of all time. It ' s the first car to ever have enclosed headlights, the first car to have the gas cap hidden under a door, and the first car to have a horn ring, just to name a few. This is one of our personal favorites.  The product of the 1935 Type 57 Competition Coupe  " Aerolithe, "  named after the Greek word for  " meteor, "  the Atlantic was named after a friend who passed away while trying to cross that ocean. Only four of these were built, and it ' s largely considered one of the most beautiful cars of all time.  This car is named after one of Argentina ' s fastest race horses. It ' s got a 21.7L six-cylinder aero engine, one of the first of its kind and one of the fastest vehicles of its time.  Another Aero-engined vehicle, the Hispano-Suiza  How ' s this for rare? Approximately 1,000 Dusenbergs were built total for the entire company. Only 13 of these Model Xs were built in the world, and Jay ' s got the 13th one built. He literally has the last of a dying breed, and he picked it up as an old garage find. Yes, many believe that these models are where the phrase,  " that ' s a dusey "  came from. 