Can somebody please tell me how to get gems really fast...because I really need another EX : pokemonduel Playing through the story- MAKE SURE you read through the cutscenes. Saying nice things to the characters nets you nifty rewards here and there. Training mode Story Quest objectives- You get 1 gem for every objective you fulfil. It &# x27;s slow, but it adds up. There are currently 270(?) quest objectives. That &# x27;s almost enough for one 6-pull. Training mode has its own set of objectives too. Buy them- can get expensive fast, but if you want gems RIGHT NOW without any work, that &# x27;s what you have to do. You &# x27;ll also get Materials which you can use to craft your own EXs If I &# x27;m missing anything, please reply to this and say what it is. SAY NICE THINGS? Ahhh I should not have acted like a dick to get funny reactions... Wait how far into the story do you start getting things? I got a booster from that guy &# x27;s sister but that was near the beginning. What else can you get? How far r u into the story? How many gems if u gotten from reading the story? I skipped most of it n wondeer how many gems I lost haha started today. can &# x27;t find the story mode... Just keep playing my friend. Take advantage of all the rewards you can through questing, and log in rewards. It takes some time, but you will surely get there. The game is new and you will be ahead of plenty of people because you are starting now. So take some time to understand the game and have fun dueling. Eventually you &# x27;ll have so much fun you won &# x27;t even realize how many gems you have. This is all theoretical and best case scenario. But yeah. Challenges   missions mate, now I know about room matches I &# x27;m going to be rolling in special  challenges ,  missions I just got 30 gems for winning 3 matches in a row, 30 more and i get my 3rd sextuplet booster, all I need is better plates really, I also want a Mankey real bad What are challenges? What challenges? How do you get gems in training mode? 2019 has been quite a year for the Pokemon Duel community. We saw the introduction of the Player Pass, the announcement of the end of service, tons of free figures for long time players, and the birth of lots of fun community created games. To celebrate this, the mod team is holding a contest to reflect on all the awesome things our community has experienced this year. Take this opportunity to look all the way back to January 2019, and to remember all the great things out sub has seen. Across a variety of categories, we are looking for the community to submit the best comments and posts from our sub this year. Awards will be given out to the originators of the best content in Reddit Gold, Silver, or Platinum. So without further ado... Best Guide Post This can be a written guide, an infographic guide, or any other way that a community member helped teach us something new Best Fluff or Meme post Self explanatory, the best lighthearted posts that made us laugh, cry, or lifted our spirits Best Community Creation This should be a community designed project, though it doesn &# x27;t necessarily have to be complete to be submitted. Card games, video projects, online games, anything the community has created to help carry Pokemon Duel into the future Best Overall Post No requirements other than that it is a post you think is the best piece of content submitted to the sub this year. You can submit to this category as well as one of the above, but the post can only win a single group. Best Overall Comment(s) Rather than do separate breakdowns here, we are leaving best comment submissions open to user interpretation. These categories were less popular last year, but we know that sometimes the best thing about a post is a really stellar comment someone made on it, so we want to have space to recognize those. If there was a comment you felt was really impactful this year, maybe something so great you had to save it, feel free to submit it here! The number of winners for this category will depend on the number, variety, and quality of submissions. These are not about a specific post or comment, but about the game itself. Please argue your case in the comments for why your submission is the best in this area. Best Individual Figure released in 2019 This isn &# x27;t necessarily the most powerful figure (though it could be). Submit and argue for whatever you think  " best figure "  means to you, whether that is aesthetics, power, abilities, balance, inventive design, etc Best Figure Buff 2019 Which figure change made the biggest difference in your opinion? Once again doesn &# x27;t have to be strictly about power, thought it can be Best Banner of 2019/Monthly Pass of 2019 This is about banners as they were released with new figures, taking into account figures released in the shop and ones exclusive to player pass point rewards. Which banner as a whole was the best to you? Best Event (Gym, Team Match, etc) of 2019 This can be based on anything. The rewards, the free figure, the mask, the gameplay experience, etc I will comment below with each category. To submit content, reply to the appropriate category with your submission. Your submission MUST include a direct link to the relevant post or comment. For the Honorary categories there is no link, so instead state your submission and argue your case. If you have a long argument for why something deserves to win the honorary categories, feel free to make a separate post and link it here! The sub would love the content, and we want to take this opportunity to reflect, discuss, and appreciate all the fun we had with Pokemon Duel this year. Hi all, I &# x27;ve never been active here but I played PoDu from International release and mourned it &# x27;s loss this past Halloween. Like most of you, I &# x27;ve searched for similar games and hoped for a showdown-style version of duel. Unfortunately, there aren &# x27;t any games too similar and, while I support the efforts, it &# x27;s clear that a version similar to the mobile app is quite a ways away. So I &# x27;ll cut to the chase: I &# x27;ve picked up a ton of different games and hobbies and I think other like-minded people (i.e. PoDu fans) would enjoy them too. I &# x27;ve put games into 3 categories as they relate to pokemon duel: reminiscent, similar, and unlike. Here &# x27;s my list: Reminiscent of Pokemon Duel Final fantasy tactics - an undeniable classic. Like duel, it &# x27;s a turn based board game with lots of strategy and synergy involved. Classes have rock/paper/scissor dynamics. The story is genuinely good too.  An updated version (original was released in the 90s) is on the ios/google store for $10-15, depending on where you live. Tactics Ogre: Let us cling together - Same company as final fantasy tactics. In terms of difficulty and general feel, if final fantasy is skyrim, this is dark souls. I say that because tactics ogre only provides you with a handful of tools at a time and presents a lot of unfair challenges early on (e.g. you have to beat a mage on top of a giant hill when you have mostly melee classes). That being said, I really enjoy these challenges. You can &# x27;t go wrong with either game. Polytopia - Really polished  " build an empire "  game. I originally wanted to stay away from the genre but the gameplay is too good. It &# x27;s turn-based on a board with a talent tree, so lots of strategy involved. My only issue is that in order to play PvP, you have to set up a hame on discord since there isn &# x27;t a matchmaking feature. However, playing against the computer is worthwhile. Similar to Duel to certain ways Harvest Town - I &# x27;ve only played a bit of this but it &# x27;s clear that I could sink 300+ hours into it. Very detailed and lots of different ways to play. Brawl Stars - Supercell annoys me, but the game is pretty solid. Lot &# x27;s of different modes and genuine strategy is required. Pokemon Masters - Well, this probably invalidates this whole post. It &# x27;s really not a great game, but it &# x27;s got Pokemon and a turn-based battling system, so it could be worse. The devs seem to actually listen to the community so that &# x27;s a plus. Nothing like duel, but great nonetheless Pocket Tanks - You &# x27;ve probably played this at some point in your life and I gotta say, it &# x27;s aged well. The base game is free and the entire set of weapon packs is pretty cheap. If you &# x27;re completely bored right now and wanted to pick up a fun, easy to intuit game, give this a try. Cod Mobile - Nothing like duel but definitely gives the rush of beating someone in PvP the way duel did. However, be warned that (like duel) you &# x27;ll play mostly bots early on. Yoyo - I had to throw this on the list since it &# x27;s what I &# x27;ve spent most of my time doing since duel left. I realized that any mobile game I can get into can be taken away at any point, so why not pick up a hobby I can keep forever? This may be a stretch, but I also don &# x27;t think playing yoyo is completely unlike duel: it &# x27;s complex, there &# x27;s lots of strategy, and there are synergies between tricks (e.g. some tricks can naturally lead into others). Yoyoing might be a great outlet for people like R3iko and tarvold and others who enjoyed making decks around niche strategies. If the complexity of duel is what kept you interested, consider finding your old duncan butterfly and give it a try. That &# x27;s all I got folks, thanks for reading and good luck to all the devs working hard on a reboot! 13.5k Members 13 Online Jan 24, 2017 Cake Day 