Indo Pharma - Manufacturer from Mumbai, India | About Us is a Verified member of IndiaMART Following details of the company have been verified IndiaMART InterMESH Ltd. 7th Floor, Advant-Navis Business Park, Plot No-7, Sector-142, Noida, UP Find answers to your queries Join Now Secure  &  hassle-free payments Home > Agriculture  &  Farming > Bird Food, Poultry  &  Animal Food | GST  27ADIPT6284G1Z0 | Verified Supplier Established in the year  2007  in  Mumbai (Maharashtra, India) , we  Indo Pharma  are engaged in  manufacturing, trading,  exporting and  supplying  an array of  Choline Chloride, Choline Compounds, Iodine Compounds, Vitamins Products, Amino Acids, APIs, Minerals, Nutraceuticals, APIs Products  and  APIs Pharma Products . The offered products are processed using high quality chemical compounds which are procured from trustworthy vendor of the industry. These products are acclaimed by the valued patrons for their features like accurate composition, long shelf life, effectiveness, hygienically packed, balanced pH value and safe usage. Our professionals also use cutting-edge technology in the formulation process of the products. In tune with clients' variegated demands, we provide the entire range in a wide range of packaging options to choose from. Apart from this, we offer these products to our clients at market price. Backed by a well established infrastructure, we have become competent to provide our clients with premium quality products. This infrastructure unit is further divided into various departments namely manufacturing, quality control, sales  &  marketing, etc. Our infrastructure is the backbone of our firm that helps us to meet the diversified requirements of the clients within the predefined time frame. All these departments are facilitated with all the latest machinery and technology that help us to meet bulk orders of clients within the predefined time frame. Supported by the superlative expertise of dexterous professionals, we have been successful in creating a mark in the industry. We have hired these professionals on the basis of their experience and expertise. Our smart work has helped us to achieve a prestigious position in the market. Apart from this, to inflate their skills and knowledge of our professionals, we conduct continuous training sessions and workshops at our firm. As an esteemed name in the relevant industry, we are offering a quality assured array of products. The offered products are processed using finest quality chemical compounds and latest techniques as per the set industrial standards. We procure the chemical compounds from the certified and trustworthy vendors of the market. The products offered by us are inspected thoroughly on a series of quality tests to seek any possible defect from the product. Being client-centric organization, we strive hard to provide world-class products to our customers in order to attain their maximum level of satisfaction. We also provide these products in various packing options as per the requirements of our clients. Owing to our transparent dealings, ethical business policies, client centric approach, wide distribution network and cost-effective price, we have successfully attained the zenith in the industry among our competitors. In order to ensure the highest level of client satisfaction, we accept payment through various modes like cash, Cheque, DD, etc. Under the guidance of our highly respected Proprietor,  Mr. Kartik Turakhia , we have achieved a leading position in the market. He has many years of experience in the respective industry. Basic Information Statutory Profile Packaging/Payment and Shipment Details With our focused professional approach and well-developed manufacturing unit, we are engaged in offering an exclusive array of products. Our entire infrastructure unit is well segregated into various departments such as production department, quality testing department, administrative department and many more. Our infrastructure unit also helps us in meeting the bulk requirements of our valuable clients within the stipulated time frame. These are handled by our experienced professionals, who are recruited keeping in mind their knowledge and skills in their respective domains. With sincerity and hard work of our professionals, we have carved a niche for ourselves in this domain by offering products. Our team of professionals is hired by our management on the basis of their knowledge related to the domain. We are continuously supported by a team of professionals, who work in close-synchronization with each other in order to provide all the products within in committed time frame. We organize various workshops and training sessions to upgrade their knowledge and skills. Our Company Reach Us  Indo Pharma No. 6, Sambhaji Compound, Near Diwali Darshan Building M.G. Road, Borivali East,  Mumbai-400066, Maharashtra, India Kartik  Turakhia (Proprietor) View Mobile Number 20%  Call Response Rate 