Customer Success Recruitment Agency For Software  &  SaaS Since 2008 we have helped Software vendors with all their Customer Success recruitment agency needs. As expert SaaS customer engagement recruiters we find candidates with the right balance of technical expertise and customer-facing experience to suit your requirements. As one of the England’s leading Customer Success recruitment partners, we recruit talent for software companies in the UK, Europe and Middle East.  Our expert team of Customer Success Manager recruiters ensure the process is effective and hassle free. We can shortlist suitable candidates for various Customer Engagement, Account Management and Renewals Management roles. We ensure that the shortlist has both the right skill set for the role and is a good cultural fit. The typical type of Customer Success recruitment we undertake includes: As specialists in Customer Success recruitment in the Software sector, our  expert Saas customer success manager recruiters  can identify, attract, engage and secure hard to find candidates that are best suited for the role. So to find out how we can help with your Customer Success recruitment requirements call us on +44 (0)203 995 2007 or fill in the quick  contact  form and we will be in touch. Delighted to recommend Harvey Thomas as an effective Customer Success Manager recruiter. The quality of candidates was excellent   pleased with the whole process     VP responsible for Customer Success Recruitment, London We were struggling with our renewals manager recruitment until Harvey Thomas stepped in to help. With no fuss they presented a shortlist of candidates that fitted the bill perfectly. Thanks Jon!    EMEA Sales Director, Birmingham I just wanted to express my appreciation for all the hard work you have put in for this client services manager recruitment assignment. I will definitely be using your organisation again.’   BPM Vendor, UK Finding candidates with the right balance of technical expertise and customer-facing experience can be challenging. As expert Saas Account Management recruiters here are 3 useful pointers to help an account manager recruiter succeed: To get in touch please feel free to call, complete the form below, Facebook facebook Google+ gplus LinkedIn linkedin Twitter twitter Harvey Thomas Ltd  86-90 Paul Street  London, United Kingdom  EC2A 4NE Tel: +44 (0)203 995 2007 Facebook facebook Google+ gplus LinkedIn linkedin Twitter twitter Copyright © 2019 ,  Privacy Policy 