Slauson ' s top 10 NFL beards With NHL players set to begin growing their playoff beards, Bears guard and facial hair expert Matt Slauson ranks the NFL's top 10 beards. Slauson comment: I'm just throwing myself in the top 10 for good measure. Hopefully I move up the ranks soon. Maybe you beard/football fans can be the judge. Slauson comment: Great detail for all the many styles. Could definitely move up if he thickened up his lip broom. Slauson's comment: It's great that his hair is brown and the beard is red. Could use some mustache work but he's still young. Great commitment from this youngster. Slauson's comment: The one and only reason this guys isn't No. 1 or 2 is because he's a quarterback. Otherwise, great thickness, coloring and a great dedication to the mustache. Slauson comment: This man proves to be very dynamic with the beard. Pulls off every style from handlebar to trucker to mountain man. Great respect for his face duster and his game. Slauson comment: Great respect when a DB rocks the face forest and he does it well. Slauson comment: This luscious bush of a beard makes me wonder if he was born with that foliage. Slauson comment: Respect the great length and commitment. Also dynamic color change around the chin is pleasant. Slauson comment: Viking meets duck dynasty. Thickness and length is great. Respect that he's rocking the upper lip caterpillar to match. Slauson comment: Gold standard for pro beards. Something to aspire to. Can't say enough about this masterpiece. Senior writer Larry Mayer ranks his top 10 favorite photos from the Bears-Packers rivalry. Bears Chairman George H. McCaskey ranks the top 10 Bears, both current and from the past, that he would invite to a Thanksgiving dinner. With the Bears honoring the 1960s and the teams led by hall of famers Dick Butkus and Gale Sayers at this Sunday’s home game, senior writer Layer Mayer ranks his top 10th dynamic duos in Bears history. With the Bears set to play in Los Angeles Sunday for the first time since 1994, senior writer Larry Mayer ranks his top 10 celebrity Bears fans. With the 20th anniversary of Walter Payton’s passing on Friday, we asked Jarrett Payton to rank his father’s 10 most memorable moments with the Bears. Senior writer Larry Mayer ranks the top 10 characters in Bears history. Senior writer Larry Mayer ranks the Bears’ top 10 catches of the season through their first five games. Senior writer Larry Mayer ranks the 10 takeaways the Bears have generated so far this season. With Mitchell Trubisky throwing three touchdown passes to Taylor Gabriel in the second quarter of Monday night’s win over the Redskins, senior writer Larry Mayer ranks the top 10 best performances by a Bears player in a single quarter since 1991. On the heels of last Sunday’s thrilling win over the Broncos, senior writer Larry Mayer ranks the Bears’ top 10 most fantastic finishes he’s witnessed. With the temperature in Denver expected to be about 90 degrees Sunday, senior writer Larry Mayer ranks the top 10 Bears games since 1991 played with a kickoff temperature of at least 80. Senior writer Larry Mayer ranks the top 10 individual Bears records most unlikely to be broken:  Chicago Bears. All rights reserved.   