India National Cricket Team News, Updates, Schedules  &  Squad For Faster Reading Experience Download Sportskeeda App! Full Name India National Cricket Team Nick Name Men in Blue, Team India Founded 1926 Ground Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association Stadium Dharamshala Team Owner(s) Board of Control of Cricket in India Prominent Players M S Dhoni, Virat Kohli, Jasprit Bumrah, Rohit Sharma, Hardik Pandya  Head coach -  Ravi Shastri Assistant coach -  Bharat Arun Representing -  India Team colour -  Blue Sponsorship -  Nike, Byju s The Indian cricket team represents the whole of India in international fixtures including bilateral series against other nations or any of the global events organized by the International Cricket Council (ICC) like the ICC ODI World Cup, ICC Champions Trophy, ICC T20 World Cup and the  ICC World Test Championship . The Indian team was an integral part of international cricket events since they played their first-ever Test match way back in 1932. They have participated in every multi-nation tournament organized by the ICC over the years. Team India participated in all World Cups since the inaugural edition in 1975. They have won the Championship twice, in 1983 and 2011 under  Kapil Dev  and MS Dhoni respectively. They were finalists in the 2003 edition in South Africa. They have co-hosted the World Cup in 1987, 1996 and 2011. India s performance in ICC  Cricket World Cup : *Last updated in Sept 2019 The Indians kick started their T20 World Cup campaign with a win in the inaugural edition of the tournament held in South Africa. They later played another Final in the 2014 World T20 when they lost to  Sri Lanka cricket team . The 2016 edition of the tournament was conducted in India. India s performance in ICC T20 World Cup: *Last updated in Sept 2019 The  ICC Champions Trophy  (earlier known as ICC Knockout Trophy) is the most successful tournament for the subcontinent team as they won it twice (once shared) and finished as Runners Up twice. They lost to New Zealand in the second edition in 2000 that was conducted in Kenya. They shared the trophy with Sri Lanka in the next edition in 2002 as the Final could not be completed due to persistent rain even on the reserve day. Later, they became single champions for the first time in 2013 in England and Wales. However, they lost the Final against  Pakistan cricket team  in the 2017 edition in the same nation. India has hosted the Champions Trophy in 2006. Team India s performance in ICC Champions Trophy: *Last updated in Sept 2019 The Asian Cricket Council (ACC) conducts the Asia Cup, which is primarily a 50-over competition among Asian nations. Only the 2016 edition of the  Asia Cup  was a T20 tournament. The Indian team has won the title 7 times including the T20 edition and finished as Runners up thrice. India has participated in every edition of the Asia Cup since the inaugural edition in 1984 except the one in 1986. Team India s performance in Asia Cup: *Last updated in Sept 2019 The Board of Control for Cricket in India ( BCCI ) governs the Indian cricket team since the year 1929. It is responsible for managing team India s tour and kit sponsors along with accommodations and other facilities that the Indian contracted cricketers get. The BCCI has its headquarters at the Wankhede Stadium in Mumbai. The Indian limited-overs jerseys have always been primarily blue. The jerseys have been made in different shades of blue. It has also had a few short designs in either white or orange colours. The players wore an away jersey only once against  England cricket team  in the World Cup 2019 that took place in England. It was primarily a dark blue jersey with an outline of orange. *Updated after IND v SA 1st T20I 15 Sep 2019 *HS -  Highest score in an innings *LS -  Lowest score in an innings *Last updated in Sept 2019 The Indian cricket team has the benefit of having a fan-base that crosses the billion-mark in the home country. This leads to the fact that no stadium in the nation has a vacant seat left when the Indian team is playing. The passion for the game among Indians is huge and can be compared to the passion among Europeans for football. The crowd support always benefits the home side and this is one team that has crowd support almost anywhere in the world. They have more than half of the crowd cheering for them in any country they visit. Let alone the cricket-playing nations like the SENA countries (South Africa, England, New Zealand and Australia) but also in the United States where they played a couple of T20I series against the West Indies. The BCCI has close to 10 million followers on Twitter, over 10.5 million followers on Instagram and 3 million followers on Facebook. The Indian cricketers have a huge impact on the fan base on social media. 