The Sims 3: World Adventures Cheats  &  Codes for PC - CheatCodes.com Get the latest The Sims 3: World Adventures cheats, codes, unlockables, hints, Easter eggs, glitches, tips, tricks, hacks, downloads, achievements, guides, FAQs, walkthroughs, and more for PC (PC). CheatCodes.com has all you need to win every game you play! Use the above links or scroll down see all to the PC cheats we have available for The Sims 3: World Adventures. We have no tips for The Sims 3: World Adventures yet. If you have any unlockables please  submit them . First you have to press SHIFT+CTRL+C then type exactly like shown TestingCheatsEnabled true Then hit enter.Then you have to again press SHIFT+CTRL+C then type exactly as shown buyDebug on Then enter not go in to the buy mode and you should see a? Question mark in the lower right side of the buying tools. You can place any type of fish in your pond you can add any type of plane in your garden, you can add bugs and butterflies in your yard. And you can place gems in your yard. And you can add all of the vacation objects in your house or on your lot. This is the coolest cheat I found playing around with the game your Sim will advance quickly adding these objects in your Sims house and on your Sims lot. Have fun. Open the console window (type [Ctrl] + [Shift] + C or [Ctrl] + [Windows] + [Shift] + C). With the console open, enter one of the following codes: We have no unlockables for The Sims 3: World Adventures yet. If you have any unlockables please  submit them . We have no easter eggs for The Sims 3: World Adventures yet. If you have any unlockables please  submit them . We have no glitches for The Sims 3: World Adventures yet. If you have any unlockables please  submit them . We have no guides or FAQs for The Sims 3: World Adventures yet. If you have any unlockables please  submit them . We have no achievements or trophies for The Sims 3: World Adventures yet. If you have any unlockables please  submit them . Since 1996, CheatCodes.com has been the world's #1 source for game cheats, codes, guides, hints, news, and tips for Playstation 4 (PS4), Xbox One (X1), Wii U, PlayStation 3 (PS3), Xbox 360 (X360), Windows PC, iPhone, Android, Facebook games, and more. To find all the latest cheats, guides, hints and tips, visit CheatCodes.com first! 