Iritis - What You Need to Know This material must not be used for commercial purposes, or in any hospital or medical facility. Failure to comply may result in legal action. Medically reviewed  by Drugs.com.  Last updated on Sep 24, 2019.  Iritis is inflammation of your iris. The iris is the colored part of your eye. Viruses, bacteria, and fungi are common causes of iritis. An eye injury or certain medicines may cause inflammation. You may develop iritis if you have an autoimmune disease, such as inflammatory bowel disease or psoriatic arthritis. Your healthcare provider will ask about your symptoms and when they started. You may also need any of the following tests: Iritis may go away on its own. If it continues, you may need any of the following: © Copyright IBM Corporation 2019 Information is for End User's use only and may not be sold, redistributed or otherwise used for commercial purposes. All illustrations and images included in CareNotes® are the copyrighted property of A.D.A.M., Inc. or IBM Watson Health Always consult your healthcare provider to ensure the information displayed on this page applies to your personal circumstances. Medical Disclaimer The easiest way to lookup drug information, identify pills, check interactions and set up your own personal medication records. Available for Android and iOS devices. Subscribe  to Drugs.com newsletters for the latest medication news, alerts, new drug approvals and more. Drugs.com  provides accurate and independent information on more than 24,000 prescription drugs, over-the-counter medicines and natural products. This material is provided for educational purposes only and is not intended for medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Data sources include IBM Watson Micromedex (updated 2 Dec 2019), Cerner Multum  (updated 2 Dec 2019), Wolters Kluwer  (updated 30 Nov 2019) and  others. Third Party Advertising We comply with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information -  verify here Copyright   2000-2019 Drugs.com.  All rights reserved. 