Same-sex marriage now legal in Vietnam, but without government recognition / LGBTQ Nation HANOI, Vietnam   Same-sex marriage is now legal in Vietnam under a revised law which went into effect New Year s Day, abolishing regulations that  prohibit marriage between people of the same sex. But while same-sex marriages can now take place, the government still does not recognize them or provide legal protections in cases of disputes. Thee revised law, however, places the Communist country at the forefront of countries in Asia becoming more accepting of gay people. The National Assembly s move is expected to attract more LGBT travelers and boost Vietnam s $9 billion tourism industry,  reports Bloomberg . No other country in Southeast Asia has taken as big a step toward accepting same-sex marriage as Vietnam,  said Phil Robertson, Human Rights Watch deputy director in Asia. Article continues below They say the society in Vietnam needs some time to accept gay and lesbians in general,  he said, adding that the revision in the law signals to the country that  same-sex marriage is not harmful to society. In 2013, Vietnam, which has a population of about 90 million, abolished fines imposed on same-sex weddings. Tim Wildmon has said that transgender-inclusive bathroom policies are  exactly how sexual predators get access to their victims. He said that police weren t much help. They tried to get their gay brother to carry a bomb on a plane. But their plan didn t work and they were just convicted.  The couple says that their honeymoon  has turned out to be a nightmare.  They re still stuck on the ship. She says homosexuality offends God,  so I’m entitled to accommodations.  The state says they doubt she can be impartial. The War on Christmas has been abandoned for the War on Commerce. No disciplinary action was taken. Sheraton apologized. Hilton made it better. Farmers started punching LGBTQ people and shouting anti-gay slurs and  Burn it! Burn it! Twitter Facebook Email LinkedIn WhatsApp Flipboard AddThis 