Microsoft India - Wikipedia Microsoft India Private Limited  is a subsidiary of American software company  Microsoft Corporation , headquartered in  Hyderabad, India . The company first entered the  Indian market  in 1990 and has since worked closely with the  Indian government , the  IT industry , academia and the local developer community to usher in some of the early successes in the IT market. Microsoft currently has offices in the 9 cities of  Ahmedabad ,  Bangalore ,  Chennai ,  Hyderabad ,  Kochi ,  Kolkata ,  Mumbai , the  NCR  ( New Delhi  and  Gurgaon ) and  Pune . [ 2 ]  Increasingly, the company has become a key IT partner of the Indian government and industry, supporting and fueling the growth of the local IT industry through its partner enablement programs. Since its entry into India, Microsoft has focused on three key objectives: Microsoft in India employs about 6,500 people and has six business units representing the complete Microsoft product portfolio.  Bhaskar Pramanik , Chairman of Microsoft India, announced that  Microsoft  intends to provide free internet connectivity across  India . [ 3 ] Microsoft India increased  maternity leave  for their female employees in 1 February 2016 from 3 months to 6 months (if the child was born from the woman), and for mothers of adopted children to eight calendar weeks. [ 4 ] Microsoft India operates the following six business units in India. [ 5 ] < rilgd > Located in Hyderabad, the Microsoft India Development Center (MSIDC) is Microsoft’s largest software development center outside of their headquarters in  Redmond, Washington . The MSIDC teams focus on strategic and IP sensitive software product development.Microsoft takes mega city office space in Bangalore Microsoft India Development Center in Bangalore is located in the heart of the city’s business district, near prominent landmarks. The engineering teams work in an open office layout in a building that reflects both ethnic Indian architecture and modern structural material. The design also includes features that provide easy access and convenient movement for differently able people. The space hosts facilities and services catering to the varied requirements of our cross-functional, cross-cultural family of employees. Hot filter coffee is available in all facilities. As a city, Bangalore is very cosmopolitan combining a rich cultural heritage with a wide range of industrial and technological achievements. Traditional art forms are represented proudly along with the perks that come with the reputation as the nation’s IT capital. All these positive attributes help the city’s resident’s love life, enjoy work and strive to accomplish the tasks put in front of them.Microsoft is close to signing a nine-year lease deal with Prestige Group for a 600,000 sq ft office space in Bangalore, three people aware of the development said. "The deal is in the final stage of closure," they said, adding that the lease is renewable every three years. The Redmond-based technology company , which currently operates out of Embassy Golf Link in the city, is looking for more office space as part of chief executive Satya Nadella's plan to tap the local market and its engineering talent. A spokesperson for Microsoft did not confirm the talks but said: "We have a large employee base in Bangalore and they work out of different offices in the city. We regularly undertake a strategic assessment of our real estate portfolio in Bangalore to ensure that we have the right long-term plan in place to support our business growth. We will share more details as we finalize our plans." One of the persons quoted earlier said: "The company is looking to move its employees by the first half of this year. It is expected to merge many of its India operations and serve as a base for further expansion." The new campus will seat 6,000 employees, he said. Earlier, Microsoft was scouting for 1.1 million sq ft of space in Bangalore for a built-to-suit campus. The company, which has offices in 10 locations across India, had planned to invest $1billion in the campus over five years. In anticipation of a growth in business, many companies have committed to acquiring office space in Bangalore, the country's technology hub, reducing the pool of available space in the city. Recently, Apple leased over 40,000 sq ft of office space in the city where it intends to set up a development center, three people familiar with the matter said. In 2015, US-based Google had taken 100,000 sq ft of office space on lease in Bangalore’s Bagmane World Technology Centre. It is also setting up a 7acre campus in Hyderabad, which will be its biggest outside the US. Last year, India's office market segment saw deals for over 43 million sq ft of space, touching an all-time high with a 9% year-on year growth, said a CBRE India report. Bangalore and the National Capital Region dominate leasing on an annual basis with 47% share. ITITeS firms continue to lead office transaction activity, accounting for about 50% of the transaction activity during the last quarter. However, corporate occupiers are likely to remain cost-sensitive, consider adoption of workplace strategies for efficient space-utilization. [ 6 ] 