Kurt Mang - SDE II - Microsoft | LinkedIn Passionate software developer. Every project better than the last. Never use the same technology stack twice. The best tools and newest techniques. No compromise. Happy, happy users. Liked by  Kurt Mang Sep 2018   –  Present 1 year 3 months Vancouver, Canada Area Doing DevOps at The Coalition studios in beautiful Yaletown Vancouver for the Gears of War franchise. We design, build and maintain scalable, secure Azure services to keep a AAA video game running smoothly. After contracting with Microsoft for about 3.5 years, we decided to tie the knot in the fall of '18. Always lots to learn and experiment with at The Coalition, the best darn video game studio on Beatty Street :-) Doing DevOps at The Coalition studios in beautiful Yaletown Vancouver for the Gears of War franchise. We design, build and maintain scalable, secure Azure services to keep a AAA video game running smoothly. After contracting with Microsoft for about 3.5 years, we decided to tie the knot in the fall of '18. Always lots to learn and experiment with at The Coalition, the best darn video game studio on Beatty Street :-) Aug 2011   –   Sep 2018 7 years 2 months North Vancouver, BC Research. Design. Architect. Develop. Test. Deploy. Enhance. And whatever else needs doing. Research. Design. Architect. Develop. Test. Deploy. Enhance. And whatever else needs doing. Mar 2009   –   Jun 2011 2 years 4 months WCF; Silverlight; ASP.NET MVC; T4 Templating  &  code generation; CMS applications; jQuery; mentoring of junior programmers. And whatever else needed to get done! WCF; Silverlight; ASP.NET MVC; T4 Templating  &  code generation; CMS applications; jQuery; mentoring of junior programmers. And whatever else needed to get done! 2009   –   Jun 2011 2 years Sep 2001   –   Mar 2009 7 years 7 months Stayed super busy during the Great Tech Bubble Crash of the early '00s. Learned everything I could about building web sites quickly, correctly and efficiently. Stayed super busy during the Great Tech Bubble Crash of the early '00s. Learned everything I could about building web sites quickly, correctly and efficiently. Jun 2007   –   Jan 2008 8 months 1996   –   1997 1990   –   1993 Custom web application to manage kids camps - allows admins to create camps, allocate spaces to various skill levels, set publication dates, manage minimum ages for camps, report on registrations, set prices and schedules and more. E-commerce component allows customers to register multiple children for camps and purchase camp-related products from the consumer site (Orchard CMS implementation consuming WebAPI). Administrators can also purchase on behalf of customers through the back end website. All communications are protected by SSL. The entire project is deployed on Windows Azure. ASP.NET MVC; WebAPI; Orchard 1.7; Azure Web Sites, Databases, Storage, Caching Service; jQuery; Knockout; SQL Azure; Custom web application to manage kids camps - allows admins to create camps, allocate spaces to various skill levels, set publication dates, manage minimum ages for camps, report on registrations, set prices and schedules and more. E-commerce component allows customers to register multiple children for camps and purchase camp-related products from the consumer site (Orchard CMS implementation consuming WebAPI). Administrators can also purchase on behalf of customers through the back end... Custom web application to manage kids camps - allows admins to create camps, allocate spaces to various skill levels, set publication dates, manage minimum ages for camps, report on registrations, set prices and schedules and more. E-commerce component allows customers to register multiple children for camps and purchase camp-related products from the consumer site (Orchard CMS implementation consuming WebAPI). Administrators can also purchase on behalf of customers through the back end website. All communications are protected by SSL. The entire project is deployed on Windows Azure. ASP.NET MVC; WebAPI; Orchard 1.7; Azure Web Sites, Databases, Storage, Caching Service; jQuery; Knockout; SQL Azure; - Shipped Gears of War 4 Oct 2016. - Shipped Gears of War Ultimate Edition August 25th 2015. Working with a group of super smart, crazy talented developers at The Coalition (Microsoft game studio) building next generation video game web technologies! We use: Microsoft Azure, C# like crazy, Orleans framework, Service Fabric, whatever else we need because our next game is going to be even more kick ass than our last game. - Shipped Gears of War 4 Oct 2016. - Shipped Gears of War Ultimate Edition August 25th 2015. Working with a group of super smart, crazy talented developers at The Coalition (Microsoft game studio) building next generation video game web technologies! We use: Microsoft Azure, C# like crazy, Orleans framework, Service Fabric, whatever else we need because our next game is going to be even more kick ass than our last game. The task was to re-write / re architect an existing PHP / Postgres website on ASP.NET MVC. The catch was, the legacy database had to be kept intact and backwards compatible with an existing legacy PHP admin site. So on the one hand, the freedom of a rewirite; on the other, a suboptimal database on which to do it. This was a fun and rewarding project, as I got to implement NHibernate as the ORM on PostGres - never done that before (though as an Orchard developer NHibernate is somewhat familiar). This project wrapped up at the end of 2015, and the website is being rolled out first as a mobile-only service and then as the full-fledged replacement to the current site. Plenty Of Fish is a great place to work and I met some very smart and creative people there. Hopefully they'll have me back at some point! Technologies: - ASP.NET MVC 4 - NHibernate 3.x - PostGres SQL - jQuery / KnockoutJS, other JS libraries - Ninject The task was to re-write / re architect an existing PHP / Postgres website on ASP.NET MVC. The catch was, the legacy database had to be kept intact and backwards compatible with an existing legacy PHP admin site. So on the one hand, the freedom of a rewirite; on the other, a suboptimal database on which to do it. This was a fun and rewarding project, as I got to implement NHibernate as the ORM on PostGres - never done that before (though as an Orchard developer NHibernate is somewhat... The task was to re-write / re architect an existing PHP / Postgres website on ASP.NET MVC. The catch was, the legacy database had to be kept intact and backwards compatible with an existing legacy PHP admin site. So on the one hand, the freedom of a rewirite; on the other, a suboptimal database on which to do it. This was a fun and rewarding project, as I got to implement NHibernate as the ORM on PostGres - never done that before (though as an Orchard developer NHibernate is somewhat familiar). This project wrapped up at the end of 2015, and the website is being rolled out first as a mobile-only service and then as the full-fledged replacement to the current site. Plenty Of Fish is a great place to work and I met some very smart and creative people there. Hopefully they'll have me back at some point! Technologies: - ASP.NET MVC 4 - NHibernate 3.x - PostGres SQL - jQuery / KnockoutJS, other JS libraries - Ninject Pearson brought me in to perform maintenance and build enhancements for their SchoolNet product. There was also a mandate to introduce better unit testing into the code base and organisation, something I am passionate about. Objectives were to meet all deliverable objectives, on time; fix backlog of defects; introduce more modern, up-to-date solutions to deal with ongoing issues with the application. Tasks: Worked on 2 scrum teams, performing maintenance and enhancements on a highly complex and undocumented system. Modernized / upgraded many areas of the application. This was a SQL Server 2012 / ASP.NET / jQuery project, very mature product with a sprawling code base. You can't always work on "greenfield" projects, and it's good to fix / figure out / navigate through legacy code sometimes. Pearson brought me in to perform maintenance and build enhancements for their SchoolNet product. There was also a mandate to introduce better unit testing into the code base and organisation, something I am passionate about. Objectives were to meet all deliverable objectives, on time; fix backlog of defects; introduce more modern, up-to-date solutions to deal with ongoing issues with the application. Tasks: Worked on 2 scrum teams, performing maintenance and enhancements on a... Pearson brought me in to perform maintenance and build enhancements for their SchoolNet product. There was also a mandate to introduce better unit testing into the code base and organisation, something I am passionate about. Objectives were to meet all deliverable objectives, on time; fix backlog of defects; introduce more modern, up-to-date solutions to deal with ongoing issues with the application. Tasks: Worked on 2 scrum teams, performing maintenance and enhancements on a highly complex and undocumented system. Modernized / upgraded many areas of the application. This was a SQL Server 2012 / ASP.NET / jQuery project, very mature product with a sprawling code base. You can't always work on "greenfield" projects, and it's good to fix / figure out / navigate through legacy code sometimes. Custom application allowing Metro Vancouver staff to maintain an inventory of safety related compliance tasks. Provides an upcoming calendar of safety tasks, ability to complete (or delegate) tasks and track compliance in the organisation. A hierarchical org structure allows fine-grained reporting within departments and provides a high level overview of safety task completion performance at any time interval. Internal for Metro Vancouver only, so sorry no URL. ASP.NET MVC / Entity Framework / Knockout / jQuery / SQL 2008. Open-source scheduling library (ScheduleWidget). Integration with Outlook. Pretty cool stuff! Custom application allowing Metro Vancouver staff to maintain an inventory of safety related compliance tasks. Provides an upcoming calendar of safety tasks, ability to complete (or delegate) tasks and track compliance in the organisation. A hierarchical org structure allows fine-grained reporting within departments and provides a high level overview of safety task completion performance at any time interval. Internal for Metro Vancouver only, so sorry no URL. ASP.NET MVC / Entity... Custom application allowing Metro Vancouver staff to maintain an inventory of safety related compliance tasks. Provides an upcoming calendar of safety tasks, ability to complete (or delegate) tasks and track compliance in the organisation. A hierarchical org structure allows fine-grained reporting within departments and provides a high level overview of safety task completion performance at any time interval. Internal for Metro Vancouver only, so sorry no URL. ASP.NET MVC / Entity Framework / Knockout / jQuery / SQL 2008. Open-source scheduling library (ScheduleWidget). Integration with Outlook. Pretty cool stuff! ASP.NET MVC site providing access to financial account data, e-statements and the like. WCF backend, lots of jQuery, cool cutting edge MVC stuff. Finished on time, on budget with no serious issues post-launch. A successful and enjoyable project. ASP.NET MVC site providing access to financial account data, e-statements and the like. WCF backend, lots of jQuery, cool cutting edge MVC stuff. Finished on time, on budget with no serious issues post-launch. A successful and enjoyable project. A preview of what LinkedIn members have to say about Kurt: 6 people have recommended Kurt Join now to view Buffalo/Niagara, New York Area Buffalo/Niagara, New York Area 2 others named Kurt Mang are on LinkedIn Include this LinkedIn profile on other websites Backend Services Developer, The Coalition Studios SDE II at Microsoft Queen ' s University 