How to Find the Best Dress for Your Body Type | InStyle.com InStyle InStyle Close Down Triangle Previous Close InStyle InStyle Previous Next Next Next Previous Previous Previous Previous Previous Previous Previous Down Triangle Previous ellipsis Mail iphone Image zoom When it comes to figuring out what to wear, slipping on a dress might just be the easiest  fashion  solution out there. What ' s trickier, though, is knowing which dress is the most flattering for your body. We compiled a cheat sheet that will not only point you in the direction of which styles will showcase your shape best, but will also cut your try-on time in half. That ' s not to say that you can ' t experiment with other dress styles &# x2014;you can! &# x2014;but consider this as our helpful shopping guide for anytime you ' re at a loss. Image zoom The goal : To accentuate your waist. What you should look for:  Semi-fitted styles that softly follow your curves and show off your waistline, including wraps, fit-and-flared numbers, sheaths, belted shirtdresses, and full dresses. Choose medium-weight knits and soft fabrics that drape well. Opt for a more open neckline for a slimming effect. Image zoom The goal : To encourage curves. What you should look for:  High necklines to boost your bust, and midriff-defining details (like belts, draping, and ruching) and body-skimming bias cuts to create curves. Not concerned with curves? A-lines and shifts are equally chic options. RELATED: How to Dress to Look Taller, According to Celebrity Stylist Erin Walsh Image zoom The goal : To pull focus away from your midsection. What you should look for:  Dresses that do not accent the waistline, like shifts and subtle A-lines. Basically, boxy, generous shapes are your best bet. Do hike up the hemlines to show off your legs. Image zoom The goal : To balance proportions. What you should look for:  Offset a heavier bottom with strapless or cut-out styles that broaden your shoulders. Wraps glide over full hips nicely too. &# xA0; Close Previous Next Previous Next Close InStyle Close Close 