Top 10 Yoga Classes For Advanced in New York | ClassPass Share this list at  Daya Yoga Studio Prior Yoga experience required. This class is perfect for those looking to deepen their practice and bring it to the next level. You will build confidence by practicing inversions and handstands against the wall. A constant… read more Carlos is amazing! I ' m not as advanced as a lot of the class is, but after class finished, he helped me with my arm balances and I learned a lot!  at  Yoga Agora This class is designed for experienced practitioners.  We will find challenging variations of familiar poses.  You do not need to master every pose.  The important thing is that you are familiar with the names and basic alignment… read more Simple space; not fancy. They ' re there for one thing. Yoga. Love the big open windows; the breeze flowing in during the spring-fall days are lovely!. The teachers are very knowledgeable… read more at  Pure Yoga Using body weight and heavy resistance, larger muscle groups are worked in controlled intervals resulting in a lean body with a bonus of maximum calorie burn.  Attention to technique, efficiency and recovery are the science… read more Such an amazing class. The instructor is incredible so friendly and she knows what she’s doing. she’s is definitely a talented instructor and knows how to teach a good class .… read more at  Pure Yoga Takes our premium Figure 4 Barre class and cranks up the intensity level by several notches. This non-stop workout targets every muscle repetitively and maximizes results by adding in a heart pumping, calorie blasting, cardio… read more Nina is great. Always. The studio overlooks this class and then there is not enough equipment to do the exercises she has thoughtfully planned. It is not fair to Nina or to the… read more at  Bend  &  Bloom Yoga A dynamic, flowing class that integrates core strengthening sequences as well as options for arm balances and inversion sequences. This class is for students who feel completely comfortable in our Open level offerings and… read more Lindsay always brings it. I walked into the class with a sweatshirt and socks on, because my body was cold. Thank goodness I brought a towel too cause I was sweating!!! Always… read more at  WOOM CENTER A longer version of our signature experiential vinyasa yoga practice, which borrows elements from sound therapy, such as vocal meditation and use of overtone-emitting instruments. Super WOOM will give you a bit more of each… read more Amazing! Mutli-sensory yoga experience. Probably my new favorite yoga studio/class in nyc! at  Yogamaya New York You’re a Level 2 or a Level 3 student, or somewhere in between. This is a mixed level class that gives you a challenge when you want one. Variations and modifications offered by the teacher will allow you to practice at your… read more Bridgettes instructions and cues err on the side of vague, which can be tough for those without a ton of yoga experience. She always leads a guaranteed interesting class, unique… read more at  Aerial Arts NYC For students who are comfortable with splits and back bends. This class will improve and build upon the skills of the individual students in attendance. Ages 14 and up. Amazing. The most expensive class I took on classpass (since the modification of the credit limitation) but it was totally worth it !!! We were only two in the class so it was… read more at  The Yoga Room NO RESERVATIONS NEEDED FOR THIS CLASS! Hot Vinyasa is an all levels class that will inspire the beginner and challenge those with an established practice. Be prepared to sweat, move and adventure into a deeper relationship… read more Victor is an awesome instructor! Great playlist and tough class. The community here is a little weird, though. The woman next to me moved my stuff when I got up to use the restroom… read more at  YogaWorks Perhaps the most popular style practiced in the West, these classes keep you moving! You’ll flow continuously through strong sequences of traditional Sun Salutations and standing postures, linking breath with movement and… read more This was a surprisingly small, intimate class for Yogaworks, so the instructor was able to give more personalized attention. We covered some more advanced twists, binds, and arm… read more This list is based on ClassPass reviews and popularity. Top classes and studios are updated frequently. Did we mention... Join our list and we’ll send you a guide to the best fitness studios nearby. 