Dropping or Withdrawing From Classes : Eastfield College Want to add or drop a     continuing education  class? See     Adding or Dropping Continuing Education Classes . Are you taking     classes for college credit ? If you cannot complete a credit class or classes, you are responsible for withdrawing formally from the class or classes. Visit the     Admissions/Registrar’s Office  and complete a drop/withdrawal form. Print this     drop form (PDF - 28KB) , fill it out and mail or fax it to the     Admissions/Registrar’s Office .     You must give at least one reason  why you are dropping for each class. Forms that are mailed or faxed must be postmarked or date-stamped on a date prior to or on the last day to drop the class. Be sure to include a legible copy of a     photo ID  with your form. Questions?  Contact the     Admissions/Registrar’s Office . Students must officially withdraw from classes to be eligible for a refund.  Refunds for flexible-entry classes are prorated based on the number of weeks each class spans. Saturdays are included in the count of class days. Refund periods for fall, spring and some summer semesters are the following : Fall and Spring (16-week semesters) Summer (5-week semesters)* 100% Prior to the 1st class day of the semester Prior to the 1st class day of the semester 70% During the first 15 class days of the semester During the first 5 class days of the semester 25% During the 16th-20th class days of the semester During the 6th class day of the semester None After the 20th class day of the semester After the 6th class day of the semester *Some summer semesters are 6-week semesters and will have different refund dates.  The amount of refund may be reduced for federal financial aid recipients who have not completed 60% of the enrollment period for which they have received aid.  The  " 1st class day "  is the day the institution's term officially begins; it may precede the first day a student's class actually meets.  Refunds are based on net charges for classes dropped and added if occurring prior to the date the college must report official enrollment. 