Gerald D. Raymond | Attorney at Law | Tully Rinckey PLLC (888) 529-4543 Managing Partner (315) 666-1148  Email Download Contact As a Managing Partner with Tully Rinckey PLLC, Gerald is part of the criminal, civil litigation and real estate practice groups. He brings with him a wide range of experience from his days as both a private practitioner and public defender. He offers legal counsel in the areas of business law, landlord representation, residential and commercial real estate, family court, criminal defense, vehicular and traffic law including DWI, trusts and estate planning. Gerald had been working with Peter A. Baum since 2012 – first as an associate in Baum’s Chittenango, N.Y. office, and then as a managing partner in the firm beginning in 2015. He offered legal counsel in a wide range of services, including real estate law, family law, criminal defense, estate planning and business formation. While serving as managing partner of Baum and Raymond Law Office, Gerald also worked for the Madison County Public Defender’s Office as an Assistant Public Defender, representing criminal defendants in misdemeanor and felony cases. Gerald began his legal career as a solo practitioner in Onondaga and Madison counties, focusing on family law and criminal defense. He then became a senior attorney for the Oneida Indian Nation’s legal department, where he represented Nation members in a wide range of legal matters, counseled Nation businesses and assisted with code and ordinance development for the Nation court. Teaching has also been a part of Gerald’s career. He started as a high school and middle school English teacher in the Watertown and Syracuse City school districts before becoming an attorney. After joining the legal world, he continued to teach as an adjunct professor at several colleges, including Onondaga Community College, the Utica School of Commerce and Bryant and Stratton College. Gerald earned his bachelor’s degree from SUNY Brockport, his master’s degree from the Syracuse University School of Education and his juris doctorate from the Syracuse University College of Law. He has served on the Madison County Bar Association Board since 2014 and was elected President of the organization for the 2017-18 term. He is also an alternate member of the Syracuse Executives Association. Articles and Publications Court  &  Bar Admissions Education Accreditations / Awards Recent Articles New York State’s new mandatory vaccination law leaves some parents seeking answers Read more Why Did Convicted Rapist Not Receive Jail Time? Read more Man in Chili s Double Murder to Face Death Penalty Read more Contact us  today  to schedule your consultation. Get Started © 2019 Tully Rinckey PLLC, Attorneys  &  Counselors at Law   Attorney Advertising  