Be a pineapple - Printable Inspiration - Charming Chestnuts Bloglovin bloglovin Email email Facebook facebook Instagram instagram Pinterest pinterest Twitter twitter Charming Chestnuts Wedding Stationery | Prints and more October 9, 2017 I m going to do things a little bit differently this week. This journey of blogging and entrepreneurship has opened so many new experiences for my life and I ve met some amazing people along the way   be it in person or only virtually. And so every now and then I want to share some of these wonderful people with you and hope they inspire you, the way they inspire me. First up is Haley from  LiveLikeAPineapple.com    beautiful young soul inside and out who I have the pleasure of working with on a daily basis. Head on over and give her young blog some love and learn all about her Pineapple-lifestyle. We ve collaborated on this post for you, where Haley will share her thoughts and your printable will still come from yours truly to match. So without further ado . Take it away Haley: “Be a pineapple. Stand tall, wear a crown and be sweet on the inside.” To me, this is more than just a quote. It is my mantra that I am evolving into a lifestyle.  I can’t remember the first time I heard this quote. Nor do I know who was the first to say it…what I do know is that this quote isn’t just about a delicious fruit. There is a powerful message between each phrase that I believe is important for everyone to hear  &  take to heart.  To me when I hear the words  stand tall , it is encouraging you to be confident. When I read  wear a crown , it is a reminder to love yourself. When I say the words  be sweet on the inside , it is telling me no matter what, be kind.  During both our professional and personal lives, we can often find ourselves faced with difficulties. Those difficulties can come in many shapes and sizes. Think of something you are going through right now.  Are you planning a wedding that has been beyond stressful? Are you in a job where you are not being utilized to your full potential. Whatever the challenge may be, look to the quote.  Be a pineapple. Wear your crown and show yourself the love the you deserve by always standing tall and having confidence in yourself. Above all else, always remember to be kind be sweet on the inside. It may seem silly at first.  Haley, how can one quote, essentially about a fruit, have such a powerful message for me to think about it during my day-to-day? I hear you, but when you tell yourself…today I am going to start my pineapple journey. Today I am going to stand tall with confidence, I am going to wear my crown and I am going to be kind…It can really change your perspective.  So next time you are faced with a challenging situation…embrace the pineapple journey. To download your free printable, please fill out the form below. You’ll be subscribed to my newsletter and get the next printable and other news directly to your inbox – easy peasy.  Thanks for sharing your thoughts this week Haley   you rock. And for this week and always, I hope you all embrace your inner pineapples. Be the queens you were meant to be, don t be afraid to stand out   but always be kind Happy Monday people! Pinterest  ||  Facebook  ||  Instagram  ||  ETSY Follow my blog with Bloglovin The story goes like this: I loved the original Beauty and the Beast cartoon so much, that when I was a girl my VHS tape (totally not aging myself here) ripped because it got rewound and played so much. Something about a small town girl knowing there ' s more out there… In  " Printables " Hello June! Welcome Summer! Hello second year of entrepreneurship! As I look out on the perfect blue southern summer skies I am scratching my head of how it ' s June already? Half of 2017 is over....crazy... This time last year I was just starting this blog. And now? Well, now I ' ve been… In  " Printables " A few years ago a friend of mine asked me to create print for her. She was going through a tough time and wanted some artwork to remind her of her own strength and give her hope. That is the first time I came across this quote and it has… In  " Printables " By:  Natasha   Filed Under:  Printables  Tagged:  Be a pineapple ,  Charming Chestnuts ,  creative life ,  free printable ,  guest blogger ,  inspirational quote ,  Printables Hi, I'm Natasha, a Graphic Designer, blogger and mummy to two beautiful boys and wife to my loving husband. I love typography, clean designs and color and I hope to brighten up spaces and occasions with beautiful designs. I was very excited this week. Among all the hustle and bustle in my personal life I almost missed 2 crucial business milestones. I met both my Amount of sales and my revenue goal for the year   the latter being more than triple of what I had last year. And we still have the Bloglovin bloglovin Email email Facebook facebook Instagram instagram Pinterest pinterest Twitter twitter Error: No connected account. Please go to the Instagram Feed settings page to connect an account. Copyright   2019   Charming Chestnuts   Wedding Stationery | Prints and more  Hello You Designs 