Judges 5:17 | re-Ver(sing) Verses Gilead stayed beyond the Jordan.      And Dan, why did he linger by the ships? Asher remained on the coast      and stayed in his coves. Judges 5:17  |  NIV  |  Other Versions  |  Context Brief In Judges 5 we are introduced to the song of Deborah, one of the few notable judges during the dark period of time for the Israelites. After the death of Joshua, there was no clear prominent successor like he was to Moses. Instead, God raised judges to lead and save the Israelites time and time again, yet after the death of each judge, the Israelites would spiral into a cycle of forgetting and turning back against God, before suffering comes and another judge saves them again. In her song, which can be regarded as a victory hymn after the defeat of the Canaanites, Deborah listed out the deeds of the various tribes of Israel when she rallied for help. 6 tribes participated   Ephraim, Benjamin, Makir (son of Manasseh, Joseph s firstborn), Zebulun, Issachar and Naphtali. Gilead, Dan, Reuben and Asher were the four tribes that did not. In this study, using the context of the Israelites then, we will examine the actions and decisions of the three tribes mentioned in this verse and learn what we can apply from them in our modern lives today. Analysis Gilead stayed beyond the Jordan  First, Gilead   by and large understood to be descendants of Manasseh, who resided east of the Jordan River. Having stayed on the other side of the river, over time they became distant from the fellowship of Israel. We see many examples of this over the course of history, when a river is signficant enough that it forms a natural territorial marker and a nationalistic divide between the two lands. While Gilead was in name still a part of Israel, they certainly had a spiritual disconnect, manifested through the physical marker   the Jordan River. So when it was time to rise up, they couldn t. And Dan, why did he linger by the ships?  All their lives, they took the easy way out. Numerically, though Dan was the second largest tribe after Judah according to the first Census, the territory allocated them wasn t very large, and was often under threat by the Philistine. To negate the territorial pressure from the Philistine, they went further and further away. In fact, they went so far north away from the Promised land given unto them because they got tired of the hard life with the other tribes. Dan was also the tribe most known for their idolatry and pagan practices. We know that they actually went so far away from God s plans that they went right out of it. In  Revelations 7:4-8 , Dan was the only tribe out of the original 12 not listed amongst the tribes of Israel that were sealed. Asher remained on the coast and stayed in his coves  Asher had always been a prosperous tribe   the land they were given was along the coast and had regular rainfall, and thus was the most fertile   the blessing of Jacob to Asher was  Asher s food will be rich; he will provide delicacies fit for a king  [ Gen 49:20 ]. They were also known to be connected to the markets of Phoenica   a state known to have ruled the coasts, where the tribe of Asher was by. Yet historically, they were known to be seldom embroiled in the political or territorial affairs of Israel. They had no spiritual, or to modern  Asherites , Biblical, vision of life. They could not say goodbye to their materialistic life, and placed greater importance in their own distractions and their prosperity than the matters of the Lord. When the time comes for God to issue his challenge, they couldn t respond. Conclusion For a variety of different reasons, we see a common theme between the three tribes discussed (the tribe of Reuben was quite a different case)   one of the main factors why they did not respond to Deborah s rally was because they were too far removed from the fellowship of the Israelites. For Gilead, it was a physical boundary that extended to their spiritual distance. For Dan, it was their lethargy and their attitude of taking the easy way out   hence taking things into their own hands. It is the reverse   their spiritual distance manifested in a physical distance. For Asher, while they were never physically distant, they were always emotionally and spiritually distant, with a self-centredness and a sense of materialism. Away from the fellowship of the Israelites for so long, they couldn t respond to the call. How could they? There was no connection, they didn t see a need, it wouldn t benefit them. And hence they walked not in the will of the Lord. A solitary Christian life is a myth. It cannot be believed. Christians have a responsibility of building each other up   helping each other, encouraging each other. When we lead a solitary Christian life for an extended period of time, we tend to fall away. Let us learn to embrace the Christian fellowship with our fellow Christians, so when the time comes for the Lord s call, we will be aware, and we will be able to respond to it. God bless, Z. Judges 16:28 - Then Samson prayed to the Lord,“Sovereign Lord, remember me. Please, God, strengthen me just once more, and let me with one blow get revenge on the Philistines for my two eyes.” In this study, we will focus on the phrase -  ' just once more ' , and how the… In  " Judges " Judges 2:10 - After that whole generation had been gathered to their ancestors, another generation grew up who knew neither the Lord nor what he had done for Israel. In this study we will examine why it was so easy for the Israelites to forget the Lord, and the role… In  " Judges " Deuteronomy 33:6 - Let Reuben live and not die, nor his people be few. In this study we will look at the tribe of Reuben beginning from the story of Reuben, the firstborn of Jacob, and how important it is to weed out spiritual instability in our lives. In  " Deuteronomy " Your email address will not be published.  Required fields are marked  * Comment Name  * Email  * Website Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email. Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.  WPExplorer. 