RAHUL THAKUR's campaign to build the best student formula racecar. by VISHWAKARMA INSTITUTE OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY | Fueladream | Crowdfunding India To contribute any amount without rewards. TEAM VISHWARACERS is a formula student team from VIIT Pune. We are a group of engineering students from the Mechanical and Electronics domains working on a formula style race car. We design manufacture and test our own formula style race car with our innovative inputs to participate in various design competitions like SUPRA, FORMULA BHARAT and aspire to participate in formula student international events. We are working on things which are not part of the university curriculum, hence we study the necessary subjects in addition to university subjects and implement things practically. OUR CAR IN ACTION ON THE TRACK The team started participating in formula student events from 2012 and till now we have manufactured 5 unique formula style cars. What is heartening being the improvement we have made year-on-year. Last season was the best season for us as we stood 15th among 126 teams across India. We were expecting to be in the Top 5 but a small glitch in the last round cost us. But that learning has motivated us and we are ready to overcome our shortcomings and build the best formula style race car in India. Crowdfunding FuelADream 70 subscribers Subscribe VIIT PUNE - Race Car Info Shopping Tap to unmute More videos Your browser does not currently recognize any of the video formats available.  Click here to visit our frequently asked questions about HTML5 video. More videos on YouTube Share Include playlist An error occurred while retrieving sharing information. Please try again later. Watch later Share An error occurred. Try watching this video on www.youtube.com , or enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser. Just a good idea doesn t make a plan successful as it needs proper implementation. To implement things capital is the most important variable but difficult to generate. We are doing this crowdfunding campaign on FuelADream as we are sure it will help us generate the necessary funds. We are in the last stage of manufacturing the car and we are falling short of funds. We have imported slicks, rims and dampers from the UK for better performance and aerospace grade Aluminum for weight reduction. We need your support to keep progressing up the ladder as engineers. My name is Rahul Thakur and I am a 21-year-old aspiring engineer, studying in the 2nd year at the VIIT college of Engineering at Pune. I love music, books, friends and yes cars.I am a part of the "VISHWARACERS Formula racing" team and it's our dream and vision to build the best formula student race-car in India. Being part of this team has been one of the most exciting moments of my life.This campaign is very important for me and my team members as the funds will enable us to build a much better car and move up the rankings at the next competition. I am raising an amount of INR 9000. The more funds we get does obviously help, as we can then build a superior car. Pl fund my campaign generously. The overall objective is to raise 2.30 INR There are 3 heads of cost The first event we will take part in will be the Formula Bharat 2019. The competition shall take place at the Kari Motor Speedway at Coimbatore from Jan 23 to 27, 2019. We have to pay registration fees of the same by 24 June. We are a team of 25 enthusiasts. Fueladream charges 2% for the payment for the payment gateway and 10% as crowdfunding charges. With GST the total comes to 14.16%. There is also an initial fee of 3000 INR which is being waived for us. Crowdfunding in India is a relatively new concept  &  is growing very quickly. It s a concept that allows a large number of funders (like you) to fund an Idea or a cause or event by giving small amounts of money online. Fueladream is a crowdfunding site and platform in India that allows for such a pooling of funds. You can fund innovations  &  ideas on FuelADream and be the first to get these products or make them come true. You can also do a good turn by funding charities and causes through crowdfunding. When you fund a charity it s more like a donation  &  you get small innovative rewards like a shout-out on a FB page or a thank you email from the beneficiaries. Enter message title 