Anyone had a  ' leaking kidney '  in pregnancy? | Mumsnet Top talk topics: Useful tools: Grasp the next rung of the career ladder Find jobs that fit your skills  &  your home life with Mumsnet Jobs. Latest reviews: Save big! Save money on clothes, holidays, days out, pregnancy and baby gear, homeware, garden furniture and more with exclusive deals! Popular searches: Top talk topics: Useful tools: Grasp the next rung of the career ladder Find jobs that fit your skills  &  your home life with Mumsnet Jobs. Latest reviews: Save big! Save money on clothes, holidays, days out, pregnancy and baby gear, homeware, garden furniture and more with exclusive deals! Popular searches: Get updates on how your baby develops, your body changes, and what you can expect during each week of your pregnancy by signing up to the  Mumsnet Pregnancy Newsletters . 08/10/2010 22:34  lennon80 Hi just wondering if anyone can shed any light on this for me. I have been having protein and glucose come back in all of my urine samples (past six) and my doctor says this could be why (either that or diabetes for which I have the tolerance test in a couple of weeks). I am currently 33 weeks pregnant. Any insight would be greatly appreciated. 09/10/2010 07:58  rubybambini Hello there Not exactly, but I did have something similar-ish diagnosed back in May, for which I ' m still receiving treatment.  It ' s a kidney disease called Minimal Change, which has all sorts of symptoms (generally lumped under the name Nephrotic Syndrome), including: leaking protein (13.5g), high cholesterol and swollen feet, ankles, legs, including pitting edemas.  Steroids fixed the leak very quickly (in two weeks), and I ' m still on them, and will stay on them at a lower dose for the duration of my pregnancy, as there ' s a slight risk the disease might return if the dose drops too low. I hasten to add it would be  very  unlikely that you have this, as it ' s rare in adults (and treatable BTW  (by the way) !), and more commonly affects children - but it ' s not beyond the realms, so ask your GP rule it out =) Advertisement 09/10/2010 09:48  Haggisfish MOST WOMEN, APPARENTLY! sorry for caps lock there. yes, apparently the hormones released in pregnancy make the kidneys a bit leaky. i hope they will be checking your blood pressure regularly and hope the gd test comesback ok. try not to worry. 09/10/2010 09:53  mamaloco Yes I had it with both PG  (pregnant) , leaking mainly glucose. diabetes negative. No other cause was found, both me and babies are healthy. Are they checking for an UTI for the proteins as well? 09/10/2010 10:56  lennon80 Hi thanks ladies for your replies. Everything I can find on the subject is suggestive of some sort of renal faliure in early stages which all sounds rather scary. So I am guessing it is somehting which resolves itself after the baby is born and doesnt leave lasting damage?  Mamaloco yes they are checking for UTI too and have given me another course of anitbiotics  ' just in case '  but as I have SPD  (symphisis pubis dysfunction)  I keep thinking this is the cause of my pain when its turned out to be a UTI. Advertisement Join the discussion Registering is free, quick, and means you can join in the discussion, watch threads, get discounts, win prizes and lots more. You need to sign in or register before you can begin bookmarking on a thread. Get Mumsnet direct to your inbox Join us Download the Talk app 