The Apprentice: The 5 Most successful Contestants   Daily Entertain No one wants to be on the wrong end of a  Lord Sugar  rant and his famous  You re Fired , but whether they managed to charm him or not, some of the contestants from past editions of  The Apprentice  have used the show as a springboard to pursue their own dreams. Here s a shortlist of those who changed their lives for the better thanks to this famous TV show: Simon won Series Three in 2007   also thanks to his breakdancing skills -and went on to work at Amsprop, Lord Sugar s property company, whilst training to become a chartered surveyor. Simon was probably The Apprentice s cleverest contestant: at the age of 13 he became a member of Mensa with a measured IQ score of 174. Now Simon is a property developer, runs an event company and has invested in a restaurant. He won the show by beating the infamous Katie Hopkins, among the others. Katie s never hidden the fact that she wasn t interested in working for Lord Sugar and she was on The Apprentice just to become famous. Undeniably she has sort of succeeded: she s one of the country s most hated public figures due to her views on class and what people should name their children. She went on to appear on  I m a Celebrity  Get Me Out of Here ! and political talk shows like  Question Time  and  10 O Clock Live . Katie is now a columnist for  The Sun  and every now and again you can see her on the telly spitting venom at the poor. She s probably The Apprentice contestant with the biggest media exposure. Tim won the first series of The Apprentice in 2005. Two years later he left his job at Lord Sugar s company Amstrad to found  Bright Ideas Trust : a social enterprise trust which helps young people from disadvantaged backgrounds to start up their own business. In 2007 he became a Social Enterprise Ambassador as part of a new governmental initiative which aims at resolving social and ecological issues in an entrepreneurial way. In 2012 he was made an  MBE  for his Services to Enterprise Culture and he now works in property, seeking prime locations for High Net Worth Individuals and organisations. Michelle won Series Two thanks to her skills at organising a corporate piss-up inside Tower Bridge. She s the only other contestant   apart from Stella English who reported Lord Sugar to an employment tribunal   to quit the job she had  won  before the end of the 12-month contract. Michelle is now a motivational speaker who goes by the motto  Anything is Possible  which is also the title of her autobiography. She is also a magazine columnist and a TV pundit for  Sky  and in 2010 she launched her bargain deals website  DailyChic  followed by  LikeBees , a social buying site aimed at families. The runner-up in the 2009 series, Kate Walsh went on to become a TV personality and presenter. After The Apprentice, she co-hosted the Channel 5 entertainment show:  Live from Studio Five  until 2011. She was then a presenter for  OK! TV , another entertainment show on Channel 5 and most recently she was a panelist on  Big Brother s Bit on the Side . She s now vice president of  PANDORA , the designer jewellery manufacturer and retailer. We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in  settings . PLEASE READ THE PRIVACY POLICY BEFORE USING OUR WEBSITES. USING OUR WEBSITE (OTHER THAN JUST TO READ OUR PRIVACY POLICY FOR THE FIRST TIME), YOU ARE AGREEING TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF OUR PRIVACY POLICY. Introduction This Privacy Policy informs of the types of information we collect when you use our “Sites”, how we use that information, and the instances in which we will share your information. The term “personal data” means any information which you share that identifies you or which allows you to be identified. Our Privacy Policy clarifies the practices regarding the collection, use, and disclosure of certain information, including any personal information. This Privacy Policy applies to the website www.dailyentertain.com (the “Website”), and the tools made available through the ‘Website” plus the Sponsored Content-sharing platform (the “Services”) There are 3 categories of users for our Services: “Affiliates/Publishers” - the operators or publishers of websites and apps. “Advertisers” - who have agreed to display their content across our platform  &  our "Partners" platforms. “Users” - individuals that use our Websites, platform  &  our "Partners" platforms. When using our Website along with any other services offered and submitting any personal and non-personal information to us, you are agreeing to and granting us the right to use your Information in accordance with this Privacy Policy. Our Services, and other similar fully approved websites can display content on behalf of and agreed upon by our advertisers (the “Sponsored Content”). This content displayed is labelled “Sponsored” or “Paid Content”. Who are we? GingerDash Limited ("Us", "We", "Our" includes our collection of “Sites” and those websites operated by our "Partners". GingerDash Limited take the privacy rights of our users to the website (www.dailyentertain.com ) the “Website” and those websites operated by us and our "Partners" very seriously and are committed to protecting and respecting your privacy. We are committed to protecting the privacy of our users and our Privacy Policy is intended to inform how we collect, use and disclose your information and your options for managing your preferences. This Privacy Policy applies to the collection of and the use of information for this website (www.dailyentertain.com ) and our group of Owned and Operated Websites plus those websites operated by our "Partners". Any Personal Information you provide to us is held by GngerDash Limited, a company registered in UK with company number 09508822, whose registered office is situated at 5 Hamilton Road Mews, London, SW19 1BF. What information do we collect and where from? Personal Information  – this is data about you that is personally identifiable such as your name, address, email address, telephone number, or any other information that might be considered as private. When you submit inquiries, request information or contact us in relation to this Website or you register as a Publisher or User of GingerDash Limited, we will generally ask you for the required personal information in order to continue with such request. From time to time we also may ask you to provide other information concerning to your request. We indicate where the provision of Personal Information is optional. If you choose not to provide such Personal Information, you may find that some services or use of features on the Website are unavailable to you. Non-Personal Information -  this information is gathered by us and/or our partners regardless of whether you sign up for an account or provide us with Personal Information. Non-Personal Information is completely anonymous and includes IP address, browser information, date and time of visit, duration of visit, domain type, and other related activity collected through cookies (Please see our  Cookie Policy  for more details) web beacons and similar technologies, device identifiers etc. Please be assured that none of this information, under any circumstances, can be traced back to a specific individual. If we do combine non-personal information with personal information, and only in this instance, then this combined information will be treated by us as Personal Information. How do we use your information? Personal Information  – We may use the Personal Information that you voluntarily give to us (i) to process your registration, your payments, and to communicate with you on these and other topics (ii) to inform or communicate with you on important information regarding the Website, any policy updates and/or other administrative information (iii) To tailor the content we display to you (iv) to provide you with communications, both commercially and non-commercially which we feel may be of interest to you ( v) for business purpose such as data analysis, record keeping, audit, launching new products, upgrading our Site (vi) to measure the Site performance and the effectiveness of any communications (vii) to provide /upgrade/customise our services and products to you (viii) to share information you provide to us with selected approved third parties that provide services to us. We provide personal information to our publishers and other approved and trusted businesses or persons to process it for us, based on our instructions and in compliance with our Privacy Policy and any other appropriate confidentiality and security measures. Non-Personal Information  – data we obtain from your use of our Site, may be processed as follows: The IP Addresses for purposes such as calculating Site usage levels, helping diagnose server problems, and the administering of our Site. We may also use and disclose IP Addresses for the purposes for which we use and disclose Personal Information and geo-location. The browser for collecting information such as your Media Access Control (MAC) address, computer type (Windows or Macintosh), screen resolution, time stamp and user agent string, click stream information, date and time you viewed and visited websites visited prior to your visit on our Website, operating system version and Internet browser type, language and version and Cookies: (Please see our Cookie Policy for more details). We may enable Publishers to use all or some of this information through the Platform for analytics purposes and we also use this information for customising Content to you. Data aggregation, analytics and profile creation -  We may use information received from you to provide us and our third party partners with a more detailed picture of you. We may also analyse your personal information to help to create a profile about your personal preferences and behaviours. We may then use such data to verify other personal information about you (e.g., confirm your contact details) and for the other purposes described in this Policy. This information may be collected by cookies, web beacons or other technology for example which collects information from your web browser. The information may tell us about your activity on our sites in order to improve our service and/or to help create a profile of you in order to deliver personalised advertising. Personalised Advertising Served by us -  We may use your information (including profile data) to serve you with advertising, which we feel is relevant to you, in different domains and applications on our website, plus our other Owned and Operated sites and the websites of third parties. Served by third parties on our websites -  Advertisers or other third parties using our Website (www.dailyentertain.com )and other sites owned by us may also deliver Personal Advertising and use cookies and web beacons in the manner described above. We do not have control over these advertisers or other parties' use of cookies or web beacons or what they do with the information they collect. (Please see our Cookie Policy for more details). Served by third parties on third party websites –  When consent given we may provide your information (including profile data) to third parties who may then use it in combination with personal information that they have collected from you to serve you with relevant advertising on third party websites. Sharing of your Information -  Disclosure of your Information shall be subject to the below: To any third-party service providers who are associated with us and who provide services such as Website hosting, data analysis, infrastructure provision, IT services, customer service, email delivery services, credit card processing, auditing services and other similar services to enable them to provide services to us. To identify you to anyone you send a message to through the Site via message boards, chat, profile pages, blogs and other services to which you can post information and materials. Please note any information you do post or disclose through these services will become public information, and may be available to visitors to the Site and to the public. Therefore it is your sole responsibility to maintain caution when deciding to disclose your personal information, or any other information in such way. To a third party in the event of any reorganisation, merger, sale, joint venture, assignment, transfer or other disposition of all or any portion of our business, assets or stock (including about any bankruptcy or similar proceedings). As we believe to be necessary or appropriate: (a) under applicable law; (b) to comply with legal process; (c) to respond to requests from public and government authorities including public and government authorities outside your country of residence; (d) to enforce our terms and conditions; (e) to protect our operations or those of any of our partners; (f) to protect our rights, privacy, safety or property, and/or that of our partners. Third Party Websites We may receive your personal information from third parties who operate websites and/or provide services that you use on such third-party websites, where permission was granted to collect and share your personal information. Personal information is collected by such third parties and is shared by them with us in accordance with such third parties' privacy policies and practices. This Privacy Policy does not address, and we are not responsible for the privacy, information or other practices of any third parties, including any third party operating any site to which this Site contains a link. Your interaction on any other website or your dealings with other third party service providers, is subject to that website's or third party service provider's own rules and policies. The inclusion of a link on the Website does not suggest any endorsement by us of the linked site or by our partners or publishers/affiliates. This Privacy Policy only applies to the Website (www.dailyentertain.com ) and the GingerDash Limited Owned and Operated group of sites so when you access links to other third parties via our Sites you should read their privacy policies. We do not monitor, control, or endorse the information collection or privacy practices of such third parties. We recommend that you always read the privacy policies or statements of other third party websites that you may visit. Cookies and similar technologies  We automatically receive and store certain types of information whenever you use our Sites by using “cookies” and analogous technology. “Cookies” are small files that we place on your computer or your Web browser memory to enable our systems to recognise your browser or device. We work with third parties, including website analysis firms, who will use cookies to collect information about you when you visit our Sites. This information, collected through cookies, is used typically to conduct website analysis and to assist in delivering you a better tailored experience on our site and our third parties sites. You may be able to direct your internet browser not to allow cookies and you can delete existing cookies from your computer. (Please see our Cookie Policy for more details). Updating accessing and control of your information  If you want to update amend or control the information which we hold about you, require us to stop using your data, want to access the Information we hold about you, don’t want to receive any marketing information from us or you simply want to delete your account, then please email us at contact@gingerdash.com. We may reject appeals that require disproportionate technical effort (for example, developing a new system or fundamentally changing an existing practice), risk the privacy of others, or would be extremely impractical (for instance, requests concerning information residing on backup systems). However, do remember, that even if you delete your account, we may retain information in order to comply with laws, resolve disputes, prevent fraud etc . There may also be the need for information that remains within our databases, access logs, and other records. In the event we have disclosed information as permitted under this Policy to any third party, then we shall not be responsible for the update or removal of such information. Can I find out what Personal Information you hold about me? You have the right to request a copy of the personal information that we hold about you. You can contact us at contact@gingerdash.com. Where We Store Your Information The information that we collect from you may be transferred to and stored at a destination outside the European Economic Area. Your information may also be processed by staff operating outside the EEA who work for us or for one of our suppliers. By submitting your personal information to us, you agree to this transfer, storing or processing. We will take all steps reasonably necessary to ensure that your personal information is treated securely and in accordance with this Policy and applicable law. Security of your Personal Information Your personal information security is of the upmost importance to us and we follow all the appropriate security procedures in the storage and disclosure of your personal information in order to prevent unauthorised access by third parties. We also insist those parties with whom we transfer personal information to comply with the same. However, unfortunately, the transmission of information via the Internet is not completely secure. So, we cannot ensure the security of your personal information transmitted via the internet. Any such transmission is at your own risk and you acknowledge and agree that we shall not be responsible for any unauthorised use, distribution, damage or destruction of your personal information, except to the extent we are required to accept such responsibility by law. How long do we store your information? The information we collect about you when you access our Webites (including referring URL, page visits, browser and/or device type, time and date) or the third parties collect on our behalf for purposes of website performance and analytics is deleted after 24 months. The information you provide to us when you contact us by email is stored for a period of up to 5 years. Changes to this Privacy Policy  We reserve the right to make changes to this Privacy Policy from time to time without prior warning. Any changes will become effective when we post the revised Privacy Policy on the Site. Contact US  If you have any questions or concerns about our Privacy Policy and/or our processing of your personal data, please contact us at contact@gingerdash.com Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings. If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This means that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cookies again. What is a Cookie and why do we use them? Cookies are small often encrypted text files, made up of letters and numbers located in browser directories that many internet sites automatically download to a user’s computer, phone or tablet’s hard drive. Cookies are primarily used in helping web sites recognise a user who has previously visited that website and by doing so helps simplify the logging in process for registered users. Cookies can be temporary (e.g. session cookies) or permanent (e.g. persistent cookies). They can also be first party (e.g. placed by us) or third party (e.g. placed by a third party advertiser or advertisements server). Cookies can store account and password information. Our Site uses cookies so that we can better service your return to the website/application/services/platform (collectively the “Site”) owned and operated by GingerDash Limited. Cookies are used to distinguish you from other users to a website. Our site(s) use cookies to help us to provide you with a good experience when you are browsing our website and also allows us to improve our site and its user experience. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies. What cookies will the site use and for what purposes? Strictly necessary cookies -  These are cookies that are required for the operation of our website and interface. They include, for example, cookies that enable you to log into a secure areas of our website, access your personal data via a secure area and for example view any numerical data such as daily revenue . Analytical/performance cookies  - They allow us to recognise you as a user and count the number of visitors and to see how visitors move around our website when using it. This helps us to improve the way our website works. Functionality cookies  - These are used to recognise you when you return to our website. This enables us to personalise our content for you, such as greet you by name, and remember your preferences for example, your choice of language or region. Targeting cookies  - These cookies record your visit to our website, the pages you have visited and the links you have followed. We will use this information to make our website(s) and the advertising displayed on it more targeted to your interests and in turn allow for a more targeted experience whilst visiting our site. We may also share this information with third parties for this purpose. How long will the cookies remain on my computer? Cookies will remain in the cookies file of your browser after closing the site and/or the browser, and will become active again when the site is reopened, until removed. The cookie(s) can be deleted at any time by you. The cookie(s) will not collect any information when you are not accessing the site.  Third party cookies  Please note that third parties (including and not limited to, for example, other advertising networks and providers of external services like web traffic analysis services) may also use cookies, of which we have no control. These cookies are likely to be analytical/performance cookies or targeting cookies. Blocking Cookies Accepting cookies in not compulsory however, if you choose not to accept cookies, then you may experience a reduced Site functionality and or may be prevented from using the site.  Changes and Updates We may update our Cookie Policy from time to time. We encourage you to periodically review our Cookie Policy in order to stay informed about our use of such cookies, the information we collect via cookies, and any updates in relation to our cookies. Your continued use of the Site and the services stands as your agreement to this Cookie Policy and any updates we may process. Contact Us If you have questions about our Cookie Policy, please feel free to contact us at contact@gingerdash.com 