Ask The Bagaholicboy #80   Monogram Canvas Or Damier Ebene Neverfull? And Other Bits   BAGAHOLICBOY December 28, 2008 Q:  Hi there! I am an ardent fan of your blog. I read it almost every other time and I must admit, you re more of a bag person than me! I have a question which I hope you can help me with. I am thinking of getting a  Louis Vuitton Neverfull GM  but should I go for the one in  Monogram Canvas  or  Damier Ebene ? I heard the one in  Damier Ebene  is coming end 2009 (for Singapore), which is a bit too long for me to wait. Alternatively I can get it now (from resellers) but I have to spend like  SGD400  more. What say you? I also love the one in Fuchsia though, too bad Louis Vuitton in Singapore is not bringing them in. Appreciate your reply! Ms Hae A:  Dear Ms Hae, thanks for your email. I will need to break my reply into 3 parts, so bear with me. Firstly, choosing between the the ones in  Monogram Canvas  or  Damier Ebene r eally depends on your personal preference. I think both are equally good-looking, though I an slightly more biased towards the  Damier Ebene  version and its gorgeous interior in Red. Secondly rumour has it that Singapore will get the  Damier Ebene  Neverfull much later and getting it direct from either Japan or the States or paying more to local resellers here seems to be the more straightforward options. If I liked something enough, paying a little bit more would be reasonable if making the trip myself (or asking friends and colleagues) is out of the question. Lastly, by Fuchsia are you referring to the   Graffiti  Neverfull GM  (which also comes in Orange and Lime) ? It is coming to Singapore, with the release date set for 9 January 2009. Look out for it! Love, Bagaholicboy Images:  Louis Vuitton & Chuvaness And other bits: 1.  Crystal , from what I found out the  Monogram Roses  Neverfull only comes in MM, while the  Graffiti  Neverfull only in GM. 2.  Siew Kim , the 4 new colours for  Monogram Vernis   (Blue Galatic, Orange Sunset, Rose Pop and Vert Tonic ) will be launched in Singapore on 1 January 2009, with the displays at all boutiques going up on 31 December 2008. 3.  John , the  Muji Basque  collection is now going for 50% off. Check it out. 4.  Bella , I don t think the  Goyard Saint Louis GM  would be a good choice for carrying text books. The thin shoulder straps are not meant for so much abuse. You are better off with your 2nd choice, the  Longchamp Le Pliage Type Large  instead, which retails for  SGD185 . thank you for the detailed reply! now i know which to choose. 🙂 happy new year to you, hope 2009 will a much better year and looking forward to read more bag-updates! Ms Hae Leave a Reply The Mail Bag Get on the list and receive invites to exclusive events, contests and giveaways. Copyright   2019 BAGAHOLICBOY Pte Ltd — Singapore ' s Dedicated Online Magazine For Bags, Fashion  &  Luxury  All rights reserved 