Why do Some Men Use Violence Against Women and How Can We Prevent It? Quantitative Findings from the United Nations Multi-Country Study on Men and Violence in Asia and the Pacific, 2013 - Asian Pacific Institute on Gender Based Violence Website Report  /  Research Study This report shares findings from UN Multi-country Study on Men and Violence in Asia and the Pacific, undertaken by Partners for Prevention, a joint program of four United Nations agencies—the United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Population Fund, the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women and United Nations Volunteers. 10,000 men and 3,000 women participated in the study, making it the largest multi-country data set on men’s perpetration of violence against women conducted so far. Recommendations “include entry points for change” with specific policy and program strategies highlighted for a variety of sectors such as; education, health care, legal and justice and labor. Suggestions include activities that promote coal and gender norm transformation. “Sustainable development, peace and security can only be achieved when caring and respectful relations among women, men, boys and girls become the norm.” Erin Thomas, International Center for Advocates Against Discrimination (ICCAD) A community-needs assessment on gender-based violence in Niue based on a literature review and key interviews of Niueans.  The Asia Foundation presents a concise evidence-based overview of violence in 14 Asian countries, pointing to five emerging patterns, including how widespread gender-based violence is and the how significant its impacts.  This study curates worldwide data on lifetime and 12-month prevalence rates of violence against women. By UN Statistics Division. Chapter 6: Violence against women  The World Health Organization presents the first global systematic review of scientific data on the prevalence of intimate partner violence and non-partner sexual violence – followed by their impact on women’s health and guidelines for responses from the health sector.  By U.N. Women This literature review synthesizes material from the reports on violence against women in Pacific Island Countries and presents analysis of social contexts, challenges in addressing violence against women, the nature and extent of violence against women, accessing support services, access to justice for women and girls, and preventing violence against women.  This WHO study presents results based on evidence collected from over 24,000 women in 10 countries, culminating in 15 recommendations to strengthen national commitment and action on violence against women.  by Fulu E, Warner X, Miedema S, Jewkes R, Roselli T, and Lang J Partners for Prevention 2013 Receive the latest news and updates from API-GBV. Persons depicted are models and are used for illustrative purposes only. Copyright 2010-2017 Asian Pacific Institute on Gender-Based Violence.All Rights Reserved. Web design  &  development by Dayspring Technologies, Inc. 