News | OPM | The Open Porous Media Initiative A revised  reference manual  for OPM Flow is now available. Compared to the revision from June, this is an even more massive update. This time all Eclipse 100 keywords are present, including documentation of all the new functionality. Another huge thanks to David Baxendale for his relentless efforts keeping the manual in great shape! We are pleased to invite you to participate in the 2020 OPM Meeting on February 4-5, 2020! This time the event will be hosted by Dr. Blatt   HPC-Simulation-Software  &  Services in Eichstätt, Germany. For those arriving during the day, we will reserve tables to meetup in a restaurant/pub on Monday Feb 3. The next day will be full of talks (given by attendees) and end with a conference dinner in the evening. Wednesday will be more informal and developer centric with talks and discussion sessions and groups. For more information (including schedule, travel information) and registration, please visit the  registration page . Please register as early as possible to make planning more easy. We hope to welcome all of you in Eichstätt next year. We are happy to announce the 2019.10 release of OPM. Binary Packages for  Ubuntu 16.04 and 18.04  as well as  Redhat Enterprise Linux 6 and 7 . For further information please read the  installation instructions The former module ewoms of OPM has been renamed to opm-models in this release. Some of its directories have been renamed to reflect this (ewoms/blackoil - >  opm/models/blackoil, ewoms/common - >  opm/models/utils, ewoms/disc - >  opm/models/discretization, ewoms/io - >  opm/models/io, ewoms- > parallel - >  opm/models/parallel, ewoms/linear - >  opm/simulators/linalg). Further changes/improvements included in this release are: Special thanks goes to everybody in the community for testing and especially to Arne Morten Kvarving for preparing the binary  packages and discovering all mistakes by the release manager (Markus Blatt) in no time. An experimental foam module has been added to OPM Flow, and will be part of release 2019.10. With this it is possible to simulate certain types of surfactant injection. Such injection stimulates formation of foam to change mobility ratios, and give better reservoir sweep. The implemented foam model treats surfactant transported in the gas phase, and reduces the mobility of that phase depending on the surfactant concentration. In addition to mobility reduction, adsorption to the reservoir rock is included in the model. To test the foam module use the keywords, FOAM, FOAMADS, FOAMMOB, FOAMROCK and WFOAM. The model has not been tested on anything but artificial test cases so far, it is therefore likely to have omissions and bugs. If you try it out, please give us feedback by the mailinglist, github issues or direct email! A simple test case based on SPE1 has been added to the opm-tests repository, in the directory spe1_foam. A revised  reference manual  for OPM Flow is now available. Compared to the revision from January, this is a massive update. There is of course the relentless efforts of documenting all the new functionality. What makes this massive is however the inclusion of file format documentation on the output side. You will find EGRID, INIT and RESTART files documented in Appendix D. Another huge thanks to David Baxendale for his relentless efforts keeping the manual in great shape! Dear OPM community! We are happy to announce the 2019.04 release. Binary packages are available for Ubuntu Linux 16.04, 18.04 and 18.10 as well as Red Hat Enterprise 6 and 7. As for the last release, we have been forced to disable MPI for the Ubuntu 18.04 package. If you want to run Flow in parallel you must use another version of Ubuntu, or compile it yourself. The release manager for this release was Arne Morten Kvarving. Most of the presentations from the recent OPM Summit in Utrecht are now available on the  talks page . A  program for the OPM Summit  in Utrecht is now available. Dear OPM community, We would like to invite you to participate in the 2019 OPM Summit on January  24th and 25th  in The Netherlands!  This year the event will be hosted by TNO and we hope to welcome all of you in Utrecht. The details of the event are as follows: *   Location:            Princetonlaan 6, Utrecht, The Netherlands *   Dates/Time:      24th and 25th of January 2019.  Start: 10:00 on Thursday and end at 15:00 on Friday *   Fees:                   There are no fees for the meeting, Conference facilities and food will be provided by TNO Please let me, Rohith Nair ( rohith.nair@tno.nl ), or Frank Wilschut ( frank.wilschut@tno.nl ) know as early as possible if you are planning to join the summit, so that we can make the necessary arrangements. We plan to make Thursday (24th) more user centered and Friday (25th) more developer focused, however the agenda is flexible and you can participate on either or both days. The agenda and the presentation slots for the meeting are still open so you are welcome to propose items you would like to share with the rest of the OPM community. If you would like to make a presentation please make the same request to the organizers with a title, authors and a paragraph describing the talk, preferably before 15 January. The agenda will be published on the website and to the participants as soon as it has been set.  There will also be a conference dinner on the evening of the 24th (Thursday); in your reply please indicate if you would like to join the dinner. Travel/Accommodation: Participants must make their own arrangements. Our office is on the university campus, but we recommend hotels in the city center or near the central train station (e.g. the NH and Apollo hotels). From the city center, TNO is easily accessible by bus or taxi. Looking forward to seeing you here! The Organizers (Rohith Nair and Frank Wilschut) A revised  reference manual  for OPM Flow is now available. Compared to the revision from November, broken links are fixed and errors in the  Running Flow  section have been fixed. We would like to thank David Baxendale for his relentless efforts keeping the manual in great shape! Happy reading and happy new year! 