Valter Åberg - Developer, Digital Analytics - OP Financial Group | LinkedIn Liked by  Valter Åberg Liked by  Valter Åberg Liked by  Valter Åberg Dec 2019   –  Present 1 month Helsinki Area, Finland Aug 2019   –   Dec 2019 5 months Helsinki Area, Finland Sep 2017   –   Aug 2019 2 years Helsinki Area, Finland Worked for Nordic Morning Sweden until the end of 2017. Moved to Nordic Morning Finland in the beginning of 2018. Nordic Morning creates digital experiences that transform businesses. We are 320 passionate people driving change for the largest enterprises and brands in the Nordics by building and running their Digital Growth Engines. Our ways of working helps companies become customer-centric by combining our capabilities within business transformation, service design, technology, data driven marketing and content. Worked for Nordic Morning Sweden until the end of 2017. Moved to Nordic Morning Finland in the beginning of 2018. Nordic Morning creates digital experiences that transform businesses. We are 320 passionate people driving change for the largest enterprises and brands in the Nordics by building and running their Digital Growth Engines. Our ways of working helps companies become customer-centric by combining our capabilities within business transformation, service design,... Worked for Nordic Morning Sweden until the end of 2017. Moved to Nordic Morning Finland in the beginning of 2018. Nordic Morning creates digital experiences that transform businesses. We are 320 passionate people driving change for the largest enterprises and brands in the Nordics by building and running their Digital Growth Engines. Our ways of working helps companies become customer-centric by combining our capabilities within business transformation, service design, technology, data driven marketing and content. Feb 2017   –   Sep 2017 8 months Stockholm, Sweden (Nordic Morning Company)  (Nordic Morning Company)  May 2016   –   Aug 2016 4 months Helsinki Area, Finland 2014   –   2017 A preview of what LinkedIn members have to say about Valter: Valter is one of the truest best strategic consultant I have the honor to work with. He understands deeply the customers strategic goals and enables  them to build a great customer experience digitally and exceed the KPI’s the client has set. He played an important role at  Nordic Morning Finland and was our key driver to bring our Adobe knowledge to Nordic Morning! I have had the honor to work with him in many major cases and will truly miss his professionalism and knowledge! I hope one day we are able to work together again! Valter is one of the truest best strategic consultant I have the honor to work with. He understands deeply the customers strategic goals and enables  them to build a great customer experience digitally and exceed the KPI’s the client has set. He played an important role at  Nordic Morning Finland and was our key driver to bring our Adobe knowledge to Nordic Morning! I have had the honor to work with him in many major cases and will truly miss his professionalism and knowledge! I hope one day... Valter is one of the truest best strategic consultant I have the honor to work with. He understands deeply the customers strategic goals and enables  them to build a great customer experience digitally and exceed the KPI’s the client has set. He played an important role at  Nordic Morning Finland and was our key driver to bring our Adobe knowledge to Nordic Morning! I have had the honor to work with him in many major cases and will truly miss his professionalism and knowledge! I hope one day we are able to work together again! 1 person has recommended Valter Join now to view Join to view Valter’s full profile 