Mayfield calls radio show to confront NASCAR CEO Play Pause Sound On Sound Off Open Share Enter Full Screen Exit Full Screen An offseason NASCAR radio show took a bizarre turn Tuesday night when suspended driver Jeremy Mayfield called in to confront NASCAR CEO Brian France on the air. Mayfield, who spent more than three years fighting a NASCAR-imposed suspension after he tested positive for methamphetamines, placed a call to the Motor Racing Network's NASCAR Live show as France made a guest appearance. LISTEN: Jeremy Mayfield calls into NASCAR Live The driver, who said he was  considering a plea deal this week over multiple felony charges , got his call put through to France and host Eli Gold, who welcomed him to the show. "Next up is Jeremy Mayfield," said Gold, who was the radio voice of Alabama's national championship victory just 24 hours earlier. "I thought I would just call in and see how you guys were doing, Brian, Eli," Mayfield said. "Haven't been around much to talk to you guys lately, and just wanted to ask Brian if he's willing to accept the fact I'd like to come back racing and if we could sit down and talk about it and figure out what we need to do to make that work." What. The. Heck? France, despite the curveball, handled himself well and sounded quite calm. It could have been a disastrous PR moment for France (which is perhaps what Mayfield hoped). "Well, Jeremy, you know the path back for you — it's the path back for anybody," he said. "I've always hoped you would choose the right path and not litigation and a bunch of other things, but that's up to you and you have a welcome mat out anytime you want. "There's a stated process that AJ Allmendinger just went through and we welcomed him back, and it's terrific. That's up to you." In July, Allmendinger became the first Sprint Cup driver to be suspended for violating NASCAR's substance abuse policy since Mayfield in May 2009. But after he completed the sanctioning body's "Road to Recovery" program, Allmendinger was back in a car by October. Mayfield chose another path, denying his drug use and suing NASCAR until he and his wife ran out of money. He was later  charged with felonies in two North Carolina counties  for possession of stolen goods and larceny. Anyway, Mayfield quickly got off the air after France's response. "OK, well, I appreciate that," Mayfield said. "I didn't mean to bother you on the show, but it's the only way I could get ahold of you and I figured it would be a great opportunity to do that." Mayfield might have thought he was sticking it to France by calling in – who knows what he was thinking, really? – but the whole incident just came across as weird more than anything.  France, by the way, supposedly knew Mayfield was on the line  and agreed to let the call go through. If you're wondering whether the whole thing was some sort of joke or a Mayfield impersonator, the driver's wife seemed to confirm it was legit. Shana Mayfield  tweeted: Gotta love it..if you want to know the answer, just go straight to the source and make them answer u!  #cantignoreanymore — shana mayfield ( @shanamayfield ) Follow Jeff Gluck on Twitter  @jeff_gluck 