general subordination INSTRUCTION SHEET– DO NOT RECORD (DETACH THIS PAGE) This document contains  Fill-In  and/or  Merge fields  and may also contain document  Comments .  To use this feature, press the F11 key to navigate to the next Fill-in or Merge Field and type in the required information; optionally, you may Press F9 to display a dialog box containing the prompt for each Fill-in. (For merge codes, F9 will display the code in the body of the document). Users may also display or hide all fields at once by pressing ALT + F9. The Center in Fresno has provided documents with Fill-In Fields since 1997.  Our lending partners have appreciated the convenience that these codes provide. TIP:  When a document is ready to be printed, change  View  to  Normal  or click Markup on the  View  menu to hide comments for printing.  CDC:  This document may be executed by you if you hold a special delegation of authority or power of attorney to do so. Pursuant to SBA SOP 50-50-4, Chapter 5, paragraph 6.c.(2), a Subordination Agreement must be prepared for execution by the borrower, third party lender and SBA. Documents are to be recorded and returned to you, whereupon you should retain a copy and the original should be mailed to the SBA as follows: Little Rock Commercial Loan Servicing Center Attn:  Collateral Cashier 2120 Riverfront Drive, Suite 100 Little Rock, Arkansas 72202 Name: THIS SUBORDINATION AGREEMENT is made this August 30, 2007 by and between the  U.S. SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION,  (hereinafter  " Beneficiary " );   TRUSTEE,  (hereinafter  " Trustee " );  (hereinafter  " Lender " ); and  (hereinafter  " Borrower " ). W I T N E S S E T H: WHEREAS, by certain Deed of Trust dated August 30, 2007 and recorded among the  County, Virginia land records as Instrument Number , (the  " Deed of Trust " ) the Borrower did grant and convey unto  , Trustees, the property described in the Deed of Trust to secure the payments of indebtedness in the original principal sum of $ for the benefit of (hereinafter  ); and WHEREAS,  assigned its rights in the Deed of Trust to the Beneficiary by assignment recorded as Instrument Number  in the aforesaid land records; and  WHEREAS, the Beneficiary is the Note holder; and WHEREAS, by instrument recorded immediately prior hereto the Note holder has substituted as Trustee in the place and stead of ; and  WHEREAS, the Deed of Trust is subordinate to a Deed of Trust and an Assignment of Lease and Rents securing a Note in the amount of $ payable to  (the “ Note”); and WHEREAS, the Deed of Trust securing the  Note is recorded in Deed Book  at Page , in the aforesaid land records (the “ Deed of Trust”); and WHEREAS, the Borrower desires to payoff the  Note with a loan from the Lender in the principal sum of $; and WHEREAS, the Borrower and Lender have  requested the Beneficiary subordinate the lien of the Deed of Trust to the lien of the Lender’s Deed of Trust (the “Lender’s Deed of Trust”) recorded simultaneously herewith among the  County, Virginia land records from Borrower securing Lender's note in the principal sum of $ (the  " Lender’s Note " ).  WHEREAS, subject to the payoff of the  Note and the release of the  Deed of Trust securing the repayment of the  Note, the Note holder consents to the subordination of the lien of the Deed of Trust to the Lender’s Deed of Trust and directs the Trustee to execute this instrument as evidenced by the Note holder's signature hereto. NOW, THEREFORE, IN THE CONSIDERATION of the premises, the payment in full of the  Note, the release of the  Deed of Trust, and the sum of Five ($5.00) Dollars receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto covenant and agree as follows: 1. Upon the payoff of the  Note and release of the  Deed of Trust, the lien of the Deed of Trust is hereby made subordinate and secondary to the lien of the Lender’s Deed of Trust recorded simultaneously herewith among the , Virginia land records from Borrower securing the Lender’s Note insofar as the same affects all that certain property situate, lying and being in the County of  Virginia as more particularly described in the Deed of Trust. (2) Except as expressly provided herein, this agreement shall not operate or be construed to alter the priority of the SBA Deed of Trust with regard to any legal or equitable interest in the property.  Owner and Lender shall hold SBA harmless from any impairment of its lien (with regard to any third party) which is occasioned by this subordination. (3) All proceeds of Lender’s loan shall be applied to satisfy debt secured by a lien(s) presently superior to the lien of the SBA Deed of Trust, the following described uses, if any, __________ plus customary closing costs.  Any other use of proceeds not described herein shall void this agreement.  (4) This Subordination Agreement is void if not duly executed by Owner, Lender, SBA, the SBA Borrower(s) and all Guarantors of the SBA loan. (5) Compliance with 504 Loan Program Requirements .  Lender confirms that the note evidencing the Lender Loan, any lien instruments securing the Lender Loan, and all other documents executed in connection with the Lender Loan (“Lender’s Loan Documents”) (a) have no open-ended features and allow reasonable future advances only for the costs of collection the obligor is liable for under the Lender’s Loan Documents, maintaining collateral, and/or protecting the lien(s) securing the Lender Loan, (b) are not cross-collateralized with any other financing now or hereafter to be provided by Lender, (c) have no early call features, (d) are not payable on demand unless the Lender Loan is in default, (e) have a term that at least equals, and do not require a balloon payment prior to, the term of the previous Third Party Lender Loan unless SBA has approved a shorter term, (f) have a reasonable interest rate that does not, and will not, exceed the maximum interest rate for a Third Party Loan as published by SBA and in effect as of the date of this Agreement, and (g) do not establish a preference in favor of Lender, as compared to CDC and SBA, related to making, servicing, or liquidating the Lender Loan (including but not limited to, with respect to repayment, collateral, guarantees, control, maintenance of a compensating balance, purchase of a certificate of deposit, or acceptance of a separate or companion loan) other than Lender's senior lien position(s) on the Collateral.  Lender agrees that if Lender’s Loan Documents or any provision therein does not comply with these requirements, then Lender waives its right to enforce any such non-complying document or provision unless Lender has obtained the prior written consent of CDC and/or SBA permitting such enforcement. (6) Subordination of Default Charges .  “Default Charges” mean any prepayment penalties, fees, or charges incurred in prepaying the Lender Loan, in whole or in part, prior to the stated maturity; any late fees or charges due in connection with the Lender Loan; any escalated, increased, or default interest charged in excess of the rate of interest in Lender’s note absent a default, event of default, or other delinquency; and any other default charges, penalties, or fees of any nature whatsoever due because of a default, event of default, or other delinquency in connection with the Lender Loan.  Lender hereby subordinates the collection of any Default Charges to the collection by CDC and/or SBA of the 504 Loan and, to the extent that Lender’s Loan Documents secure any Default Charges, Lender hereby subordinates such lien(s) to the lien(s) securing the 504 Loan. (7) Notice of Default Under the Lender Loan.  If any default, event of default or delinquency, upon which Lender intends to take action, occurs under the Lender’s Loan Documents, then Lender agrees to give CDC and SBA written notice of such default, event of default or delinquency and the opportunity to cure the default, event of default, or delinquency and bring the Lender Loan current or to purchase Lender's note, provided that the amount to bring the Lender Loan current or to purchase Lender’s note will be net of all amounts attributable to Default Charges.  Lender further agrees that if Lender receives from CDC or SBA any amounts attributable to Default Charges, then Lender will immediately remit such amounts to SBA. Notice hereunder must be given within thirty (30) days after the default, event of default or delinquency upon which Lender intends to take action and at least sixty (60) days prior to the date of any proposed sale of Collateral and Lender will not sell all or any portion of the Collateral without giving CDC and the SBA such notice.  A default in the obligation secured by the Lender’s Mortgage may be cured (including purchase of the property at foreclosure sale) by the SBA via cash, certified funds, or a United States Treasury check, at the option of the SBA.  Notice under this Agreement shall be deemed to have been given when sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, addressed, as the case may be, to  (CDC) at , Attention:  Servicing, and also to the SBA at 2120 Riverfront Drive, Suite 100, Little Rock, Arkansas 72202. (8) Collection and Liquidation .  In the event that either the Lender Loan or the 504 Loan is declared in default; Lender, CDC and SBA agree to cooperate in liquidating and/or selling the Collateral. Lender agrees (a) to accept cash, certified funds or a U.S. Treasury check(s) in connection with any purchase of Lender’s note or any foreclosure or liquidation bid by CDC or SBA; (b) to provide CDC and SBA with the loan payment status, loan payment history, and an itemized payoff statement of the Lender Loan; (c) to provide CDC and SBA with copies of any appraisals, environmental investigations, or title examinations or searches of the Collateral conducted by or for Lender; and (d) to provide any other information about Borrower or the Lender Loan requested by CDC and/or SBA in writing.  (9) No Implied Third Party Beneficiaries .  Except to the extent stated in this Agreement, this Agreement does not modify or affect otherwise any other agreement that either party may have with third parties, including but not limited to, Borrower.  This Agreement also does not grant any right, benefit, priority, or interest to any third parties, including but not limited to, Borrower.  (10) Successors and Assigns.  This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and bind the respective parties to this Agreement and their respective heirs, successors and assigns, including any party acquiring the Lender Loan or Lender’s Loan Documents by sale, assignment, or other transfer. (11) Federal Law. When SBA is the holder of the note evidencing the 504 Loan, this Agreement and all documents evidencing or securing the 504 Loan will be construed in accordance with federal law.  CDC or SBA may use local or state procedures for purposes such as filing papers, recording documents, giving notice, foreclosing liens, and other purposes.  By using these procedures, SBA does not waive any federal immunity from local or state control, penalty, tax, or liability.  No Borrower or guarantor of the 504 Loan may claim or assert against SBA any local or state law to deny any obligation of Borrower, or defeat any claim of SBA with respect to the 504 Loan. (12) Counterparts.  This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which will be deemed an original, and all of which together constitute one and the same instrument. U.S. SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION BY , its Attorney-In-Fact By:  ----------------------------------------------------------- Insert enforceable signature block for  Borrower(s) Insert Acknowledgement/Notary Block for Borrower for state where Subordination Agreement will be recorded ---------------------------------------------------------- Insert enforceable signature block for  New Third Party Lender Insert Acknowledgment/Notary Block for New Third Party Lender for state where Subordination Agreement will be recorded. ---------------------------------------------------------- The undersigned Guarantor(s)/Borrower(s) hereby consent to all terms above and acknowledge their liability for the above referenced SBA loan is in no manner diminished by this agreement. If Guarantors also sign, then: Insert enforceable signature block for  each Guarantor  and Insert Acknowledgment/Notary block for each Guarantor for state where Subordination Agreement will be recorded. SubordinationAgreement.VA-02.2007.doc 