How does everyone feel about the Pathways program? : Toastmasters I &# x27;ve been a Toastmaster for about a decade but have slowly lost interest in it to the point where I &# x27;m not active at the moment. It recently dawned on me why: I  cannot stand  the Pathways/Base-Camp program, and this is coming from a software engineer that practically lives on the internet. It &# x27;s clunky, uninspiring, overcomplicated. Toastmasters had such an incredible program with the paper manuals—simple, straightforward, everyone understood them. I &# x27;m half venting and half just want to strike up a discussion on it. How does everyone else feel about Pathways? I &# x27;d like to distinguish Pathways (the educational program and how it &# x27;s structured) from Base Camp (the online interface to access the educational content). I generally like the Pathways educational content, but Base Camp is beyond terrible. I &# x27;m also a software engineer, and I find Base Camp unnecessarily overcomplicated too. I like the new paths a lot, and I think they are much more aligned with what our members want out of Toastmasters. I just absolutely despise Base Camp. I &# x27;ve been in some form of software or web development related field for almost 20 years and Base Camp would have been harshly criticized if it were released 10 years ago let alone today. Pop ups? Not mobile optimized? Our Pathways guide encouraged us to bring LAPTOPS to meetings so we could record our feedback during speeches. Really should be mobile optimized so we can do that on a phone or tablet for several reasons, one of which that as a speaker trying to make eye contact I don &# x27;t really want to present to a room full of heads behind computer screens. This is a classic example of a technology ignorant organization hiring an outside firm to build a high-tech product. They should have hired a CTO at TI that had a background in software development (preferably SaaS) to guide them through this transition. They got hosed. Thank you for pointing out that distinction—I forgot that Pathways is the educational program and Base Camp is the platform. I &# x27;ve only got through a few projects of Pathways, not enough to form a solid opinion on it. It &# x27;s mainly Base Camp I have a hard time swallowing. I will agree that Pathways is not terrible, but the online interface is beyond awful. Our club has lost members and new members don &# x27;t stay as long, which is a shame. They  " fixed "  a problem that did not exist and replaced it with an actual problem. I hope that this is rectified, as I too am losing interest in the program. I love technology, but in this case, having paper manuals was much better. Even if the software interface wasn &# x27;t so incredibly bad, this just is not the proper use of technology. I agree with your sentiment. I liked the tactile feel. The older members don’t follow it, don’t know what to do next and quit. The new people stop after an ice breaker or 2nd speech. It’s killing my club. As an area director I’m supposed to get people on pathways... yet I hate it. It is absolutely stupid system and not intuitive. Whoever designed Basecamp needs a public flogging (I &# x27;d accept a telling off;) The initial questionnaire isn &# x27;t very accurate, so we told members to take it with a pinch of salt. Our club has a separate officer who &# x27;s in charge of who mentors who (VP of mentoring), they &# x27;ve taken on the added responsibility of being the Pathways champion. He ensures all new members can navigate through Basecamp. We &# x27;re in the process of producing a new members welcome pack, this will now also include a Pathways cheat sheet. The self-evaluations before and after the test were not intuitive to me. Evaluation is the heart of Toastmasters, and if i can basically accomplish all the Evaluations by myself, it sort of defeats the purpose. I would prefer they have a pre-project delivery evaluation, but leave the  " after-presentation evaluation "  to another member to accomplish. I feel it tries to be too much to too many. Like some Baby Boomer at Toastmasters International wanted to appeal to Millennials, they probably would have been more successful another way and without alienating the core demographic. eel it tries to be too much to too many. Like some Baby Boomer at Toastmasters International wanted to appeal to Millennials, they probably would have been more successful another way and without alienating the core demographic. No They want to extract as much information as possible. It feels like they had a vision of bringing all club members across the globe into some sort of educational program.  But TM was a network of clubs with a minor role for headquarters. They try to increase their influence and it fails Pretty much everyone on this sub hates Base Camp (myself included, also a computer guy). I have found a workaround though: Level 1 is exactly the same for all paths. So I just downloaded all my projects in PDF, printed and put them on a table for anyone to take. That &# x27;ll keep us going for the near future, then they can just log their progress online at their leisure. We still have some old members whom I &# x27;ve encouraged to fill the meeting roles to complete their CL, and the rest are mostly just doing speeches. I &# x27;ve also created a PowerPoint template that has a progress bar on each slide to make the timer &# x27;s job easier. I also got rid of the Hark Master and combined the grammarian and ah-counter roles so we &# x27;re mostly focused on speeches and evaluations. What &# x27;s a Hark master? Sounds great. Would you mind sharing this? Of course I &# x27;ll credit you and your club. I too feel that Pathways is a cumbersome and uninspiring program. Toastmasters is supposed to be an organization that encourages person to person communication and with Pathways they have us all scurrying back to our computers and laptops. Most of us already spend more than enough time at our computer screens. The attrition rate is very evident in the club I attend. New members come for two or three meetings and then disappear,  some of the ‘old’ members have left. I have seen charts that show every district in North America has lost members. Personally I think Pathways has torn a piece of the heart out of Toastmasters. As a member of TM it is not my responsibility to make a ‘bad’ program workable. Send an email or to Toastmasters International outlining your concerns about Pathways. The result will be you will be ignored and receive no reply. >< p> The bottom line to me is: “It just ain &# x27;t that much fun anymore.” As a member of TM it is not my responsibility to make a ‘bad’ program workable ^ This.. So many members are bending over backwards trying to make this poorly designed failure work. It is an user end product you should not have to tear it apart and out it back together to make it work. Pathways should of never made it out of beta testing. Pathways is ok.  Base Camp is atrocious.  I &# x27;m the VP of Education for my club and feel like an idiot since even I can barely navigate that garbage website.  I shouldn &# x27;t have to have members log in in front of me in order to view their curriculum and detailed progress. If a project has three 4 speeches, have me verify each of them as they are done.  Not all 4 at once, months after the first one was done. I agree with your comments on base camp. What also irks me: all the dishonest testimonials that came out with pathways rollout; the incessant tutorials  that cross reference each other; the time wasted trying to navigate base camp. Why should we  need  " ambassadors "  to show us how to find speech projects and then get credit for completing them? Why should we need special training to follow 3 or 4 steps in a process? We need to stop wasting our time with this garbage, and stop perpetuating its continuation. Toastmasters International needs to leave the CC/CL program in place to keep members participating. Pathways is a very bad failure. Many new members are doing 2-3 speeches and leaving the program when I look at the club progress page the amount of pathways achievements is basically nothing. People are not accepting it Pathways is a failure and getting toxic for the entire organization. The biggest issue is Toastmasters intentional will not admit it is a failure they are just blaming the end users for not accepting change, being old, etc. I like the concept tbh. But yes their website sucks. I was a programmer too and now a techno-functional. But i joined tm not bec of of their website or basecamp but to develop my public speaking and leadership skills. I was cruising along, sure to knock out all of the requirements for my DTM. Then along came this beast. I honestly lost all interest and felt like I had worked hard for nothing. It was disheartening. I was told that if I jumped on it I could still get the DTM. But I had lost my momentum and my passion. I attend meetings and do my best, but I don &# x27;t know if I care any longer. Exactly right. I enjoy speaking. It &# x27;s fun. That &# x27;s why I &# x27;m here. I &# x27;m not looking to develop my skills to apply them anywhere else. I &# x27;m not a salesman. I generally hate  " inspirational "  speeches, which are usually a lot of fluff with no substance. I like telling stories about interesting people from history, or giving educational speeches on little-known facts (physics and linguistics trivia are my go-to subjects, but I do have others). Pathways seems to be very corporate-focused. It &# x27;s all about developing skills I have no interest in developing. It &# x27;s far less open than the old CC, with projects like  " use visual aids "  or  " structure your speech " , where the choice of subject was completely open. I don &# x27;t want to give a speech on mentoring. Here is the announcement I am posting hopefully others can reuse to advertise their club.  Maybe others will post too so I can use theirs when I am too busy to develop my own. TOASTMASTERS CLUB @ XXXXX Do you want to practice public speaking, improve your communication and build leadership skills? With Toastmasters, you can break barriers Come find out more at one of our meetings. The XXXXX Speakers invite you to sit in during one of our meetings and see what all the  " chatter "  is about.  We have regularly scheduled meetings the 1st Thursday and 3rd Monday of every month.  Please contact YYYYY for additional information.  Next Club Meeting Thursday, Jan 9th, 11:45am-12:45pm, Toastmasters can help you: ·        Become a better leader and speaker ·        Communicate with confidence ·        Listen effectively I joined TM in May 2018 and embarked on the Pathways program without ever seeing for myself how the legacy program worked.  Our VPE mentioned when I joined that Pathways was part of the overdue modernisation of delivery and content.  I’m curious however in the opinions of people who have been involved with TM for longer than me whether the legacy program needed fixing? I sometimes wonder if TM had moved the legacy program to online delivery (ie modernise the delivery but not change the content) whether there would be less resistance to the change? Does your club advertise every week in a newspaper, online or some news articles? We advertise every week in our employee newsletter.  I suggest we share postings with each other so we can help make this task easier and hopefully grow our clubs. I will post my announcement for the new year later today. Any interest? Hello fellow TMs, I &# x27;m a new toastmaster and I joined a week ago. I was super motivated, started looking things up on our website and discovered the agenda sign ups. I don &# x27;t really mind that I don &# x27;t have a mentor yet because I can learn things just by researching but I discovered that this is the way you sign up for speeches. Our agenda is open for 6 months. Every. Single. Speech. Was signed up for. I literally can &# x27;t even do my ice breaker until June. I messaged one of the officers and apparently they are working on addressing the issue because there is the same guy that signed up almost every single week. Being the new person, I didn &# x27;t even have a fair shot. Did I join the wrong club? What have some other clubs done to prevent this? I fear for any other new members that sign up just like me. Is this an issue the president should have addressed when opening the agenda up? I &# x27;m looking for a good NYC area Toastmasters club (Brooklyn is preferable) to improve my public speaking. I have no experience with TA and little experience speaking publicly, but it &# x27;s an area I want to improve upon. Any leads would be appreciated. TIA. 6.4k Members 1 Online Nov 21, 2010 Cake Day 