Rating  ' American Gods '  Season 1: Odin exposed, a crazy leprechaun and a dead wife Photo Acquired Courtesy of Starz/ American Gods Photo Acquired Courtesy of Starz/ American Gods Watching  American Gods  first season was interesting because of the non-traditional storytelling. A number of episodes began with the telling of an old god s story and, usually, in how they arrived in America (which was also in the book). Sometimes, we followed Wednesday and Shadow s journey. Other times, we took a break to either showcase a character s backstory. Yet, it didn t feel like it was enough. Perhaps that s not a terrible place to be, but wanting more after this season finale actually left me disappointed. Let s take a look at what worked and what didn t in the first season of  American Gods . Fantastic Acting The acting on  American Gods  was top-notch. From Gillian Anderson s terrific portrayals of four different iconic figures to Ian McShane s confusing and mysterious rendition of Wednesday (or better known as the god Odin), the acting was phenomenal. You also can t forget about Pablo Schreiber s Mad Sweeney, the rambunctious leprechaun filled with guilt, or Emily Browning, who plays a great  dead wife. The actors have made what is a little bit of confusing world, fun and intriguing. With the type of ensemble cast that American Gods employs, it could be difficult to get lost in the mix, but each god has managed to make their time on-screen memorable. Departing from the Novel American Gods  is not exact when it comes to adapting Gaiman s novel   and it works. The show s writers have added new characters and filled in bigger back stories. Considering the novel was told from Shadow s point of view, it s been great to step outside of that window to get characters fleshed out. There have been some characters that we only meet for a moment in the novel, but play a bigger role on the show. So far, it has worked. Vulcan was new, but poignant, giving us something tangible in relation to the American gun culture. His death was also used to manipulate Easter (Ostara) into fighting for the old god s. The additions/subtractions made a positive impact. Photo Acquired Courtesy of Starz/ American Gods Unsatisfied Ending We spent a full season   eight episodes   talking about a war between new and old gods. A war is brewing, but we never get to see it. In fact, Wednesday and Shadow have yet to make it to Wisconsin where the battle is supposed to take place. You couldn t really even call the ending a cliffhanger. Instead, it felt like there were supposed to be more episodes on the way. But we have to wait about a year to for Season 2,  according to Deadline  but at least we are getting a Season 2. Uneven Storytelling The first season was a bit uneven. We were introduced to characters only to never hear from them again   perhaps they ll make an appearance for the war in Season 2. There was a lot going on in Season 1, sometimes a bit too much. I am not sure if the season needed more or less episodes, but eight didn t feel like the right number. While Wednesday and Shadow spent much of the time traveling and meeting gods, not much actually happened. Hopefully, this means that next season will be filled with a bit more action and less of Wednesday having to convince other gods to join his side. Let us know what you think about the first season of  American Gods  in the comments. by Sooz by Nivea Serrao by Disha Mashelkar by Sooz 