Inmate Funds | Tippecanoe County, IN This website is AudioEye enabled and is being optimized for accessibility. The AudioEye Toolbar contains the following The AudioEye Help Desk to report accessibility and usability related issues. The AudioEye Certification Statement to explain the ongoing web accessibility and usability enhancements for this website. Create an Account - Increase your productivity, customize your experience, and engage in information you care about.  Search autocomplete is currently not responding. Please try again later. 2.  Deposits may be made on the internet at JailATM.com using a debit or credit card . There will be a fee of approximately 10% of the amount of the deposit charged to the card for each transaction. ​ ​​3. Money orders in increments of $50.00 or less may be mailed. Money orders must be made out to the inmate’s name and all fields on the front of the money order must be filled out completely. Money orders over $50.00 or not completely filled out will be mailed back to the remitter. ​​Personal checks and payroll checks will not be accepted and will be mailed back to the sender.​ ​ ​ JAIL STAFF CANNOT DISCUSS AN INMATE’S ACCOUNT WITH OTHERS . ​ ​ Property Release Times and Information - Property releases for inmates currently incarcerated at the Tippecanoe County Jail are Monday through Friday from 8:30 am to 11:15 am.  - It is the inmate’s responsibility to inform his/her designees to pick up the property.  Jail and lobby staff cannot give information about a particular release to anyone other than the inmate. There is no need to call ahead as property will not be pulled until the designee arrives and checks in with lobby staff.  ​ ​ -The designee must bring a valid photo ID to the jail lobby at the appropriate time Property releases for inmates transferred to DOC, are on Mondays from 12:30 pm to 4:30 pm and on Fridays from 12:30 pm to 3:30 pm. ​ ​ -The inmate must complete and sign a property release form as they are leaving this facility or they must mail a notarized letter to the Commissary Officer with the name/names of their designee/s.  It is the inmate’s responsibility to inform his/her designee to pick the property up.  Jail and lobby staff cannot give information about a particular release to anyone other than the inmate. ​ ​- Property of transferred inmates is only stored for 90 Days.  Commissary orders are only stored for 30 days.  Property or commissary will be disposed if it is left longer. ​ ​ -There is no need to call ahead as property will not be pulled until the designee arrives and checks in with lobby staff. ​ ​ - The designee must bring a valid photo ID to the jail lobby at the appropriate time Arrow Left Arrow Right Slideshow Left Arrow Slideshow Right Arrow Previous transfer transfer close carousel 