· Our Machinery In today’s post, I will dive a bit deeper into the  Creation Graphsystem  that I covered back in April, morespecifically how they work compared to typical game engine assets such as textures and materials.This will be a short and rather high-level post but nevertheless, I think it’s very important tograsp since it’s one of the core concepts to take into consideration when structuring the datalayout of your projects. Defining your company culture and laying down the foundations for it before hiring are crucial. Wealways keep in mind the type of company we want to become, the type of talent we want to bring in,and how those people are treated during their time with us. The main idea is that we have a diversegroup of people and that our atmosphere is inclusive so our employees can feel creative, empowered,and thriving. This blog will get a bit personal with my experience, because I want to show you why Iam passionate of achieving this type of culture. Our hopes are that if we obtain this type ofculture within our workspace, it will also trickle into the community that will be using TheMachinery. We want a diverse developer atmosphere and an inclusive space for people to rely on. Thiswill also help iron out The Machinery and give us different perspectives on making a better product. Welcome to part 3 in this series covering all the data structures you  really  need (kind of). Last summer I wrote a blog about the  System’sconcept  of the shader systemthat we have in The Machinery. Most of what was described in that post is still intact with what wehave today, except the anticipated variation selection rewrite that is nowadays handled using thementioned bitmask approach. Ever since we started Our Machinery, we ve explored different avenues to figure out what directionwe want to go with our technology — The Machinery. We think we ve finally figured out what we wantto do. Unfortunately, this is not an announcement blog (I wish!) but I want to just go through whatwe are doing to prepare for announcing and building the company. My WaSaBi (We are Starting aBusiness, ideally) blog will be an 8-parter, stepping you through what we are thinking,constructing, doing on making Our Machinery open for business. 