Furnished Apartments For Rent in Fuquay Varina NC | Zillow Enter a valid number Enter a valid number Enter a valid number Enter a valid number Save this home Save this home Save this home Save this home Save this home Are you moving to  Fuquay Varina, NC ?  Are you on a time crunch to find a new apartment? Whether you are relocating across country and don &# x27;t have the time to hunt for apartments you &# x27;re simply looking for an apartment for your extended stay, we have   furnished apartments for rent in Fuquay Varina, NC . Choose from short-term or long-term stay leases. A furnished apartment should feel like a home away from home, including all the conveniences for you to feel at settled. Every furnished apartment comes with furniture. Some furnished apartments may only consist of bare necessities such as a bed, dresser, couch, television, dining table and chairs, basic cookware and a lamp. Luxury furnished apartments contain additional amenities including a shower curtain, towels, sheets, dishes, silverware, electronics, decorative artwork, and more. When shopping for move-in-ready apartments, expect upscale furniture and furnishings in pricier rentals. When deciding between furnished apartments, ask the landlord specifics about which furniture is included to avoid surprises. Narrow down your search by specifying location and the number of bedrooms to find the perfect furnished rental that fits your budget. Depending on the amenities you’re looking for, your rent can range between  0  to  0 . Use Zillow to find your next perfect rental in  Fuquay Varina . You can even find  Fuquay Varina luxury apartments   or a  rental for you and your pet .  If you need some help deciding how much to spend on your next apartment or house, our  rent affordability calculator  can show you rentals that may fit your  budget in  Fuquay Varina . You can filter  Fuquay Varina   rentals by price, bedroom size, square footage,  cheapest price ,  furnished units ,  studio apartments   and more. You can also check our rental listings  in  Fuquay Varina   on the go by downloading Zillow &# x27;s  mobile app for rentals . Don &# x27;t let the perfect apartment, townhouse or house for rent  in  Fuquay Varina   get away. Looking to buy in  Fuquay Varina ? Search  homes for sale in  Fuquay Varina   by filtering home types, price and size. You can also filter with keyword searches such as  " waterfront "  homes in  Fuquay Varina . Disclaimer:  School attendance zone boundaries are supplied by Pitney Bowes and are subject to change. Check with the applicable school district prior to making a decision based on these boundaries. About the ratings:  GreatSchools ratings are based on a comparison of test results for all schools in the state. It is designed to be a starting point to help parents make baseline comparisons, not the only factor in selecting the right school for your family.  Learn more Coming Soon listings are homes that will soon be on the market. The listing agent for these homes has added a Coming Soon note to alert buyers in advance. Learn more about  coming soon listings . These properties are currently listed for sale. They are owned by a bank or a lender who took ownership through foreclosure proceedings. These are also known as bank-owned or real estate owned (REO). These properties are owned by a bank or a lender who took ownership through foreclosure proceedings. They may soon be listed for sale. These properties are not found on a multiple listing service (MLS). The lender initiated foreclosure proceedings on these properties because the owner(s) were in default on their loan obligations. Pre-foreclosures also include properties for which a foreclosure auction is scheduled. These properties are not found on a multiple listing service (MLS). Sellers of these homes have accepted a buyer ' s offer; however, the home has not closed. Find rentals with income restrictions. These homes have income caps that determine eligibility. 