Optimal treatment of Helicobacter pylori with ranitidine bismuth citrate (RBC): a randomized comparison between two 7-day triple therapies and a 14-day dual therapy - ScienceDirect ScienceDirect Objective:  We investigated two promising 1-wk RBC-triple therapies in comparison to the already well investigated 2-wk RBC dual therapy.  Methods:  We conducted two randomized, open, parallel group studies in 13 hospitals in the Netherlands.  H. pylori -positive patients without active ulceration were randomized to 14-day RBC 400 mg  b.i.d.  plus clarithromycin 500 mg  b.i.d.  (n = 56) or to either 7-day RBC 400 mg  b.i.d.  plus tetracycline 500 mg  q.i.d.  plus metronidazole 500 mg  t.i.d.  (n = 63) in study 1, or to 7-day RBC 400 mg  b.i.d.  plus amoxycillin 1000 mg  b.i.d.  plus clarithromycin 500 mg  b.i.d.  (n = 49) in study 2. At least 6 wk later patients were reendoscoped with antral and corpus biopsies for CLOtest, culture, and histology, and cure was assumed if all tests were negative.  Results:  Results from the studies were pooled. All regimens were well tolerated with only 1 drop-out because of side effects. Cure rates per protocol/intention to treat were 96%/95% for RBC-CLA dual therapy, 89%/86% for RBC-TET-MET triple therapy, and 93%/92% for RBC-AMO-CLA triple therapy. From 126 patients, a pretreatment antibiogram was available. Metronidazole resistance did not affect the performance of RBC-CLA or RBC-AMO-CLA. In the RBC-TET-MET group, 97% (32/33) with a metronidazole sensitive strain were cured  vs  57% (four of seven) with a resistant strain. Of three patients with a pretreatment clarithromycin resistant strain; one failed RBC-CLA dual therapy and two failed RBC-AMO-CLA triple therapy.  Conclusions:  All regimens were well tolerated and achieved comparable and very high cure rates. Statistical or clinical relevant differences were not detected. All three regimens can be used as initial anti- Helicobacter  therapy and can compete with 7-day PPI-triple therapies. More data are needed on the influence of antimicrobial resistance on the performance of individual triple therapies. The local prevalence of antimicrobial resistance will determine which regimen should be chosen for a certain geographical area. Infection with  Helicobacter pylori  is causally related to duodenal and gastric ulcer disease. There is general consensus that all ulcer patients need to be treated with antimicrobials aimed at curing this infection  1 ,  2 ,  3 ,  4 ,  5 ,  6 . The therapy is cost-effective and improves the quality of life  7 ,  8 . There is, however, far less consensus regarding the optimal treatment. Individual physicians try to find a balance between efficacy, complexity, and side effect profile and this results in a wide variety of treatment regimens used. Historically, bismuth has been the basis of many therapies  (9) . The compound shows synergy with the macrolides, tetracycline, and the imidazoles  10 ,  11 . A 14-day triple therapy of a bismuth compound, tetracycline, and metronidazole is inexpensive, highly effective, and still widely used  9 ,  12 . The addition of an H2 receptor antagonist or a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) (quadruple therapy) improves the cure rate of this regimen and allows a much shorter treatment duration  4 ,  12 ,  13 ,  14 ,  15 . Ranitidine bismuth citrate (RBC) is a novel salt combining the antisecretory properties of ranitidine with the actions of bismuth. The new molecule is highly soluble, which enables adequate penetration of the gastric mucous layer  (16) . The drug appears safe and is well tolerated  (17) . Previous studies have shown that RBC 400 mg combined with clarithromycin 500 mg for 14 days in a simple  b.i.d.  dosing schedule achieves high cure rates  18 ,  19 ,  20 ,  21 ,  22 ,  23 ,  24  that compete with the cure rates achieved by 7-day triple combinations of a PPI and two antibiotics  (12) . In randomized trials, RBC plus clarithromycin dual therapy is more effective than omeprazole plus amoxicillin  (22)  or omeprazole plus clarithromycin dual therapy  23 ,  24 . Scattered data are available regarding the use of 1-wk triple regimens of RBC combined with two antibiotics  18 ,  25 ,  26 ,  27 ,  28 ,  29 ,  30 ,  31 ,  32 . Because of the presence of bismuth, which might prevent occurrence of antimicrobial resistance, such a combination might even have theoretical advantages over the PPI-triple therapies. In the present randomized study we investigated two promising 1-wk RBC-triple therapies in comparison to the already well investigated 2-wk RBC dual therapy. The study is endoscopy-driven, which is an advantage over studies based on urea breath tests and results of antimicrobial resistance of the isolated strains before and after therapy were specifically sought. This multicenter clinical trial was conducted in 13 hospitals in the Netherlands. It was approved by the appropriate medical ethics committees in those hospitals. Patients with upper gastrointestinal symptoms referred for endoscopic examination and infected with  H. pylori  were randomized after written consent. Patients were excluded if they had concurrent severe reflux esophagitis; active duodenal, gastric, or pyloric ulcers at the index endoscopy; or had had previous gastric surgery; furthermore those patients were excluded who had taken a PPI, bismuth compounds, or antibiotics in the previous 30 days; those who needed treatment with gold, ulcerogenic drugs, or drugs that could potentially interact with the study drugs; those with abnormal liver or renal function or other serious disease; those with hypersensitivity to penicillin; those with mental impairment and inability to follow instructions; and pregnant women and lactating mothers. The study consisted of two randomized, open, parallel group studies. In the first study patients were randomized to a 7-day regimen consisting of RBC 400 mg  b.i.d.  with tetracycline 500 mg  q.i.d.  and metronidazole 500 mg  t.i.d.  (RBC-TET-MET) or a 14-day regimen consisting of RBC 400 mg  b.i.d.  with clarithromcyin 500 mg  b.i.d.  (RBC-CLA); in the second concurrent study, patients were randomized to a 7-day regimen consisting of RBC 400 mg  b.i.d.  with clarithromycin 500 mg  b.i.d.  and amoxycillin 1000 mg  b.i.d.  (RBC-AMO-CLA) or a 14-day regimen consisting of RBC 400 mg  b.i.d.  and clarithromcyin 500 mg  b.i.d.  RBC 400-mg tablets, clarithromycin 500-mg tablets, and amoxycillin 1000-mg (disper) tablets were taken after breakfast and after dinner, metronidazole 500 mg tablets were taken after breakfast, lunch, and dinner, two tetracycline 250 mg (disper) tablets were taken after breakfast, lunch, and dinner, and before bedtime. Treatment was started within 28 days of prestudy endoscopy; subjects were not allowed to use a PPI in the period between the prestudy endoscopy and start of treatment. All subjects were assessed after the end of treatment for drug safety (number of side effects), tolerability, and compliance. Compliance was assessed by counting unused medication. Six weeks after the end of treatment, endoscopy with  H. pylori  assessment was performed. During the follow-up period, patients were not allowed to use a PPI, bismuth compounds, or antibiotics. At each endoscopy, four mucosal biopsies of the antrum and four of the corpus were taken. One antral and one corpus biopsy were immersed in the two separate cups of a Duo-CLOtest (Delta West, Bentley, Australia). Two antral and 2 corpus biopsies were processed for histology using modified Giemsa stain, and one antral and one corpus biopsy were processed for culture. At inclusion,  H. pylori  infection was defined as a positive CLOtest, confirmed by histology or culture. Cure of  H. pylori  was defined as negative CLOtest, histology, and culture on both sites. If culture was positive for  H. pylori , subjects were tested for clarithromycin and metronidazole susceptibility using an epilometer agar diffusion gradient test (E-test; AB Biodisk, Solna, Sweden). It was called clarithromycin-resistant when the MIC value was  > 2 mg/ml and metronidazole-resistant when the MIC value was  > 8 mg/ml. For some patients who refused the follow-up endoscopy a  13 C-urea breath test (BSIA Ltd, Brentford, UK) was allowed, provided that the test was performed ≥12 wk after the end of treatment and the patient had not taken any PPI, bismuth, or antibiotics during the follow-up phase. Patients were considered cured if the excess delta  13 CO 2  was  < 3.5 per mil. In both studies, RBC 400 mg  b.i.d.  and clarithromycin 500 mg  b.i.d.  was used as a similar reference treatment and the ratio of the treatment groups was 2:1. Based on prestudy calculations, 105 patients (70 patients with 7-day triple therapy and 35 patients with 14-day dual therapy) were required in each study to detect a difference in  H. pylori  cure rates of 15% with 80% power in favor of triple therapies. An interim analysis was performed with 75 patients in each study. An exact logistical regression analysis determined that both the 14-day cure rates and the treatment effects (7-day  vs  14-day) were not significantly different between the two studies, justifying that both studies could be pooled. The results of the interim analysis showed that the null hypothesis could not be rejected and that it was impossible to accept the alternative hypothesis, even by extending the study to its proposed size. Hence it was decided to stop further recruitment of patients. The cure of  H. pylori  infection was measured by two analyses in the eligible patients who were  H. pylori -positive at inclusion. For the intention-to-treat (ITT) analysis, all randomized  H. pylori -positive patients who took at least one dose of study medication were included. Patients with no  H. pylori  status at follow-up were considered failures ( H. pylori -positive). The per-protocol (PP) analysis covered all patients who were  H. pylori -positive before the study; whose  H. pylori  status was evaluable at follow-up; who had not taken a PPI, bismuth compounds, or antibiotics during the posttreatment period; and who were known to have taken ≥80% of the study medication. For study 1, 94 patients and for study 2, 75 patients were randomized to one of the treatment regimens. One patient in study 1 did not give informed consent and did not take any study drugs; in study 2, two patients were  H. pylori -negative, leaving (respectively) 93 and 73 patients eligible for ITT analysis. Demographic variables and  H. pylori  status were well matched between both groups in each study (NS,  Table 1 and  Table 2 ). Follow-up was available in 89 and 72 patients, respectively. In study 1, a follow-up endoscopy was performed in 87 patients and a  13 C-urea breath test in two patients. In study 2, a follow-up endoscopy was performed in 72 patients and a  13 C-urea breath test in one patient. These patients were included in the ITT and the PP analysis. Four patients in study one and one patient in study 2 withdrew prematurely. Four patients in study 1 and two patients in study 2 were not compliant, as they took  < 80% of the study medication, leaving 85 and 70 patients for PP analysis. The six noncompliers, however, were all found to be cured. The progress of patients throughout the studies is described in a flowchart ( Fig. 1  and  Fig. 2 ).  Table 1 . Patient Characteristics in Study 1 Table 2 . Patient Characteristics in Study 2 Fig. 1 . Flow chart study 1. Fig. 2 . Flow chart study 2. We performed an exact logistical regression analysis, which determined that the results of the 14-day treatments in the two studies and the treatments effects (7-day  vs  14-day) did not differ. Therefore the two studies were pooled for the  H. pylori  efficacy parameters. In total,  H. pylori  assessment was performed in 161 patients, in 158 by endoscopy and in three patients by a  13 C-urea breath test. Follow-up  H. pylori  assessment was not available for five patients (four patients in study 1 and one patient in study 2). These patients were considered failures for ITT analysis and were excluded from PP analysis. ITT cure rates were 86% in the RBC-TET-MET group, 92% in the RBC-AMO-CLA group, and 95% in the RBC-CLA group; PP cure rates were 89%, 93%, and 96% respectively  (Table 3) . There were no statistical differences among the three groups. Table 3 . H. pylori  Cure Rates legend ,  legend PP, per-protocol analysis; ITT, intention-to-treat analysis. No significant differences. A total of 79 patients in study 1 and 70 patients in study 2 had positive  H. pylori  cultures at entry. At prestudy, an antibiogram of clarithromycin and metronidazole was available in 64 and 62 patients, respectively. In study 1, 17% (11 of 64) were metronidazole-resistant and none were clarithromycin-resistant. In study 2, 15% (nine of 60) were metronidazole-resistant and 5% (three of 62) were clarithromycin-resistant. In the RBC-TET-MET group, 97% (32 of 33) carrying a metronidazole-sensitive strain were cured,  versus  57% (four of seven) carrying a metronidazole resistant strain ( p  = 0.026). In the RBC-AMO-CLA group, 97% (35 of 36) carrying a clarithromycin-sensitive strain were cured, whereas both resistant strains were not cured ( p  = 0.009). In the pooled RBC-CLA group, 98% (43 of 44) carrying a clarithromycin-sensitive strain were cured; one clarithromycin resistant strain was not cured. This is shown in  Table 4 . The failure in the RBC-TET-MET group with a metronidazole-sensitive strain at entry was still sensitive at follow-up. The two failures, one in the RBC-AMO-CLA group and one in the RBC-CLA group with a clarithromycin-sensitive strain at entry, were still sensitive at follow-up. The patient in the RBC-AMO-CLA group, however, was found to be metronidazole-sensitive before treatment and metronidazole-resistant after treatment, although metronidazole was not present in the treatment. Table 4 . Cure Rates According to Antibiotic Susceptibility In the study period, a diagnosis of malignancy was made in three patients. One developed a secondary malignant neoplasm of bone, one a neoplasm of the testis, and one a gastric adenocarcinoma. The gastric malignancy was unexpected and was diagnosed at the prestudy endoscopy, but the patient had already started the study treatment when the biopsy results from a slightly irregular area became available. The early gastric cancer was surgically removed after the end of the treatment period, and follow-up by endoscopy showed no more signs of  H. pylori  infection. The most common side effects (reported by two or more patients per group) are summarized in  Table 5 . Side effects were comparable among the three treatment groups. Overall, 32% of patients in the RBC-TET-MET group, 18% of patients in the RBC-AMO-CLA group, and 23% of patients in the RBC-CLA group reported side effects during the trial period ( p  = 0.249). In 25%, 16%, and 16% of patients, respectively, the investigator attributed these as possibly, probably, or certainly drug-related. Table 5 . Side Effects of Treatments legend Data are given as numbers of patients, with percentages in parentheses. Exact  p  values (two sided). In this study, all three regimens achieved comparable and very high cure rates. No statistical or clinical relevant differences were detected among the regimens. All regimens met the efficacy requirements ( > 80% cure rate) set by a recent international meeting  (33) . The lower end of the 95% confidence interval was also  > 80% for the RBC-CLA and RBC-AMO-CLA regimens, and it was 78% for the RBC-TET-MET regimen. Follow-up was available from almost all patients, and differences between the per protocol and intention to treat cure rates were clinically insignificant. Therefore, all three regimens can be used as initial anti- Helicobacter  therapy. Dual therapy of a PPI with amoxicillin was popular before 1995  (12) ; at that time it competed with bismuth-based triple therapy, which was considered to be a complex, and not always well tolerated, regimen. The relatively easy dosing schedule and good tolerability of this dual therapy were highly applauded. It was, however, only moderately effective and it is therefore at present obsolete  (34) . The dual therapy of RBC with clarithromycin has all the advantages once ascribed to the PPI-dual therapy, but it combines these advantages with very high cure rates. These high cure rates, however, were all from European studies. Two American studies have reported slightly lower cure rates. In the study by Peterson  et al ., 14 of 17 (82%) were cured  (35) , and in the study by Perschy  et al ., 109 of 146 (75%) were cured (36) with this regimen. It is unclear why these American studies reached a lower cure rate, but this seemingly lower efficacy in the US is not unique for RBC-dual therapy. It has also been noted that the results for PPI-triple therapies are lower in the US as compared with studies performed in Europe  37 ,  38 . Primary resistance against clarithromycin is a potential threat to efficacy, but  in vitro  results suggested that RBC can overcome clarithromycin resistance  39 ,  40 . The American study by Perschy  et al .  (36) , however, showed low cure rates in resistant strains, but a recent European study by Megraud  et al .  (24)  reached opposite results. All of these studies raise the possibility that data from Europe may not be entirely applicable to American studies. In our study we had insufficient clarithromycin resistant strains to warrant an impression of efficacy; however, we failed eradication in all three resistant strains. In most countries the prevalence of primary clarithromycin resistance is  < 5%, as is the case in the Netherlands  (41) . Recent data from Belgium and Portugal, however, suggest that the prevalence of clarithromycin resistance is slowly increasing  42 ,  43  and if this trend is confirmed, it may eventually jeopardize the results of clarithromycin-based regimens. Presently, however, the regimen will reach a high overall cure rate in new patients in most populations, even when it is not effective in resistant strains. The easy dosing schedule and good tolerability combined with a high cure rate might result in the acceptance of 14-day RBC-CLA as a first-line therapy in general practice. Since 1995, the most popular anti- Helicobacter  therapies have combined a PPI with two antibiotics in a  b.i.d.  dosing schedule. These regimens are also well tolerated, relatively easy, and highly effective. These triple drug combinations have a treatment duration of 7 days, which is significantly shorter then the 14-day dual therapy. It appears attractive to replace the PPI by RBC in these regimens while the dosing schedule would remain unchanged. Both PPI and RBC have antisecretory actions but, although the acid-reducing potential of RBC might be less, the added actions of bismuth to the combination might be advantegeous. In this study we investigated two promising 7-day triple combinations. The combination of a PPI with amoxicillin 1 g  b.i.d.  and clarithromycin 500 mg  b.i.d.  is the most attractive triple drug combination and the one that reached the highest cure rate in the large comparative MACH 1 and MACH 2 study  44 ,  45 . It appears from our data that when the PPI is replaced by RBC, the efficacy remains equally high. Four recent randomized controlled trials (published in abstract form only) directly compared a triple drug combination with either omeprazole or RBC, and no significant differences were detected  25 ,  26 ,  27 ,  32 . Our data, in which RBC-AMO-CLA reached a 93% cure rate, also indicate that the PPI can safely be replaced by RBC with preservation of efficacy. A similar 95% cure rate (21 of 22) was reported in the interim analysis of an American study  (28) . The other 7-day triple combination we investigated combined RBC-TET-MET. It was inspired by the high efficacy that we have achieved previously with quadruple therapy  13 ,  14 ,  46 . Replacing two drugs (the PPI and the coloidal bismuth subcitrate) for one (RBC) would facilitate the dosing schedule. In an early pilot study, this combination cured 11 of 12 patients  (31) . The number of pills per day, however, is still more than with the other triple combination therapy, and the regimen appears to have slightly more side effects (although there were no drop-outs because of side effects). The cure rate was slightly but not significantly less. The efficacy was very high (32 of 33, 97%) in metronidazole-sensitive strains but was less so in metronidazole-resistant strains (four of seven, 57%). The number of resistant strains, however, is rather limited, and this regimen needs to be tested further in areas where metronidazole resistance is more common to get a better appreciation of the impact of resistance on its efficacy. Preliminary data from an American study show a 87% cure rate (20 of 23) for this combination, but culture was not performed  (28) . The strength of the present study is based on the fact that it is completely endoscopy-driven and that culture with susceptibility testing was performed  (47) . The definition of cure was based on three independent methods performed on biopsies from antrum as well as corpus. With this extensive biopsy protocol, long term recurrence in our experience is nonexistent  48 ,  49 . A study that employs only one method to test for cure may overestimate the actual cure rate because of false-negative test results, and this may lead to a high recurrence rate during follow-up. The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has shown that ulcer recurrence is less when more independent endoscopic tests are used together  (6) . Many studies today rely on only one urea breath test at 4 wk posttherapy. This may lead to an unacceptable high recurrence rate especially if, in the study protocol, concurrent use of PPIs or antibiotics for unrelated infections is not specifically forbidden. A large multicenter study recently reported a 1.4–3.6% false negative rate for a single  13 C-urea breath test at 4 wk  (50) , but values as high as 6%  (51)  and 7%  (52)  have also been reported. Usually, endoscopy-driven studies lose more patients to follow-up because patients who feel well after treatment are less likely to consent to a second endoscopy than to a second breath test. These observations give more weight to the present results as compared with similar cure rates in studies that rely only on breath testing at 4 wk. In conclusion, we have presented evidence that 14-day dual therapy of RBC plus clarithromycin, as well as 1-wk triple therapy of RBC plus amoxycillin plus clarithromycin, are well tolerated and highly effective regimens, which, because of their simplicity, can be applied as first line anti- Helicobacter  regimens. Only if primary clarithromycin resistance is increasing above 10–20% caution with these clarithromycin-based regimens is warranted. The 7-day triple therapy of RBC plus tetracycline plus metronidazole has slightly more side effects but is nevertheless well tolerated and was shown to be very effective in metronidazole-sensitive strains. More data are needed on its efficacy in metronidazole-resistant strains before it can be promoted. The local prevalence of antimicrobial resistance will determine which regimen should preferably be chosen in a certain geographical area  46 ,  47 . This research was conducted with the help and financial support of GlaxoWellcome B.V., the Netherlands. We thank the other participating physicians of study 1: S.Y. de Boer, C.P.M. Dekkers, R.J.X.M. van Etten, W.H. Ezendam, L.A. Noach, and P.H.T. Koch, and of study 2: D.J. Bac, A.A.M. Geraedts, P.R. Oosting, R.J.T. Ouwendijk, and B.D. Westerveld. Elsevier We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content and ads. By continuing you agree to the  use of cookies . Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. or its licensors or contributors. ScienceDirect ® is a registered trademark of Elsevier B.V. 