100 best places to live and launch - 56. Winston-Salem, N.C (56) - FORTUNE Small Business A decline in major industries and having once been dubbed one of the "worst places for singles" (by  Forbes , in 2001) might slow some cities down, but not this central Carolina town. Rolling with the changing times, Winston-Salem has shifted its economic focus from tobacco, textiles, and furniture to biotech, supply-chain logistics and product distribution. Entrepreneurship in these areas is fostered through organizations such as the  Piedmont Triad Entrepreneurial Network , the Winston-Salem Chamber of Commerce's Technology Council, and the city's small-business loan programs. Like its higher-profile neighbor to the East, the Raleigh-Durham region, Winston-Salem has  its own research park , which houses tech-based start-ups in six buildings and has ambitious expansion plans. Wake Forest University helps fuel local medical and tech innovation. Like its business climate, Winston-Salem's social reputation has undergone a change. The city has worked hard over the past 10 years to improve the quality of life it offers, largely by broadening and better promoting its culinary and arts scenes. Music venues and galleries are scattered throughout the city, and annual theatre and film festivals keep arts mavens happy. Outdoor enthusiasts can take advantage of the city's hiking trails or tour the wineries and vineyards in nearby Yadkin Valley wine country.  -Brandi Stewart Interactive map: Winston-Salem, N.C. Find homes for sale in Winston-Salem, N.C. NEXT: 57. Zionsville, Ind. Most stock quote data provided by BATS. Market indices are shown in real time, except for the DJIA, which is delayed by two minutes. All times are ET. Disclaimer. Morningstar: © 2018Morningstar, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. 2018. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile Association: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S & P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S & P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard  &  Poor &# x27;s and S & P are registered trademarks of Standard  &  Poor &# x27;s Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices © S & P Dow Jones Indices LLC 2018and/or its affiliates. © 2018Cable News Network. A WarnerMedia Company. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service is provided to you.  Privacy Policy. Do Not Sell 