Should you buy a new Sony projector on Amazon Prime Day? | What Hi-Fi? Audio Guide By Simon Lucas July 13, 2018 The Amazon Prime Day projector deals may look tempting, but do they represent real value? Or are you better off keeping your cash? Amazon Prime Day  (which this year lasts well over a day) is Amazon's attempt to establish a Black Friday of its very own. Not content with selling unimaginable quantities of stuff on Black Friday, Christmas and quite a few other days too, Amazon has set up a special day of sales. It's really all about getting ever-more people to  sign up for Prime membership  - you have to be a Prime member to take advantage of the deals, after all ( or do you? ). The day itself is next Tuesday, 17th July - but, inevitably, some deals are already available. The million-dollar question, though, is: are the Prime Day deals worth it? Ultimately we'll have to wait and find out - but based on previous years, we are ready to make some educated guesses. With projectors sure to be uppermost in the mind of any home cinema enthusiast, we thought we'd weigh up the pros and cons of taking the plunge on a new Sony projector this Prime Day. MORE:  View all the Prime Day deals on Amazon Have a look at  our archive of Sony projector reviews  and you'll see an unbroken run of five-star verdicts that goes back over four years. It's safe to say we rate Sony's prowess when it comes to this sort of technology. And Amazon has pretty much  already confirmed  it's ready to take as much as 30 per cent off some Sony projectors on Prime Day itself. Which makes buying a shiny new Sony projector a no-brainer, right? Well, yes and no. Mostly yes. Sony builds an excellent projector, as multiple five-star reviews and  What Hi-Fi?  Awards  confirms. What it doesn't do is build particularly affordable projectors - currently you're looking at  2000 or so  to bring a Sony projector into your life - and that doesn't buy you a  4K  model. If you want something at the  cutting edge of technology , a Sony projector will set you back  5000 at least - which is a considerable outlay in anyone's book. But, of course, a 30 per cent reduction of such a big number makes for a big discount. And if Amazon is standing by to carve almost a third off the price of any of the Sony projectors we've tested recently, it's going to make the deal difficult to ignore. We're on the edge of our collective seat for Monday lunchtime. MORE: Should you buy a new TV on Amazon Prime Day? The best Amazon Prime Day deals All our projector reviews Sign up below to get the latest from What Hi-Fi?, plus exclusive special offers, direct to your inbox! What Hi-Fi? is part of Future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher.  Visit our corporate site . Future Publishing Limited Quay House, The Ambury,BathBA1 1UA. All rights reserved. England and Wales company registration number 2008885.  