IELTS Writing Task 2 Sample 415 - Information can be accessed on electronic devices so print media are not important  You should spend about 40 minutes on this task.  To what extent do you agree or disagree with the above statement.   You should write at least 250 words. Sample Answer:  In the modern world, people want to get information about the every aspect of life easily and instantly. With the advancement in technology, an individual can access the information through electronic devices like computer, mobile phones, the internet etc. and thus the print media is losing its popularity. I agree with this statement that people should adopt the new technology and use electronic devices to get information rather than old ways of getting them.  Multifarious points are there to prove my view. Firstly, accessing information in a computer with internet connection is very fast and convenient. People just need to enter a keyword in the search engine such as Google and the information can be assessed instantly from various reliable sources with detailed references. Secondly, individual have the opportunity to get different views regarding one particular subject which help them to broaden their horizons. Thirdly, today everybody wants to live a comfortable lifestyle and they have no need to carry other things and no need to pay extra on print media. Finally, the information presented in a print media becomes outdated soon while the information on the internet gets updated regularly. So accessing information from electronic sources is more reliable and accurate.  On the other hand, some people ponder that magazines and newspapers play an essential role because elder people do not know the  ' ABC '  about electronic gadgets so they are unable to use them to access information. They also add the logic that, on the internet, English is a staple language but some part of the population is not familiar with English which is really tough to understand for them. Finally, they assert that newspapers, magazines and books are printed in each language which provides them with a comfortable way of accessing them.  In a nutshell, I would like to conclude that government should organise awareness program for elders how they can use electronic devices because we all need to live in a modern society. The old way of accessing information would not be feasible in near future and people would mainly rely on the electronic device to get them.  [by  Lakhwinder Sidhu ]  Copyright   2013 - 2019 IELTS Mentor. All rights reserved. This website uses cookies to ensure that you get the best user experience on our website. By using our website and services, you agree to our use of cookies. Learn more about our  Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy . 