Pin on Wedding Photography We haven’t featured a Coorg wedding on WeddingSutra nor have we attended one, so when photographer Mark Swaroop shared his work we were excited to see the photographs. Roshni and Narendra who live in the US, decided to host their wedding in their ancestral town. So the destination was chilly Coorg, just before Christmas. A... Mysore Wadiya Dynasty, Maharaja Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar married Trishika Kumari Singh, from Dungarpur Royal family, Rajasthan. This is exactly what we were waiting for. Roshni+Nari, December 2011 Professional Pre-Wedding photo session in New Zealand that is convenient, affordable and trusted by over international 500 couples every year. Book now to secure your date. It is always a breeze to talk to a fun-loving celebrity about her wedding! The lovely and gorgeous VJ Anjana is sharing the most awaited details from her wedding with us here. Our wedding was a very personal affair with close family friends and relatives. It was a temple wedding in Lalithambikai Temple, Thirumeeyachur, near Mayavaram. We had our Reception at Rina &# x27;s Venue, the Kerela house at ECR. Mehendi was not a very grand affair and it happened in our home. We wanted to keep it persona... Rituals - The Wedding Rituals! Photos, Punjabi Culture, Beige Color, Make Up, Bridal Makeup, Mangtika pictures, images, vendor credits - Calista Party Lawns, Bishan Singh Didar Singh Jewellers, Design Aqua, Chandni Singh Studio - 6603. Heyaa, This is Aishwarya aka Aish aka Aishu aka Ash hahaha! I’m basically a Civil Engineer, now pursuing my MBA. I have known my husband, Adhithya aka Adi, right from my college days. He was in the Mechanical Engineering department and I was in the Civil engineering department. It was always only a Hi and a Bye back then. We never thought we’d meet again after graduation. Like ever again. But, well, God had other plans and here we are, as Husband and Wife. So, Adi works ... Everything related to indian fashion; whether it be bridal or casual. (I do not own anything I post;... Studio A is a top best candid wedding photographer,candid wedding photography chennai 8 Likes, 0 Comments - Fab Occasions ™ (The Fab App) (@thefabapp) on Instagram: “Magical Pictures from @kaur_mavleen Wedding are something that we really don &# x27;t want to make our…” Celebrity wedding trends of 2019 are here. Check out your favorite wedding trends of 2018 only at ShaadiWish.com wedding planning website. Nimrat Kaur of Lunchbox and Airlift fame celebrated her sister &# x27;s wedding in Delhi. Here are all the details you need to know! This Deepika Wedding Inspired Beautiful Choker Set is for every bride to wear on own weddings to accentuate their beauty. Beautiful choker design with matching earrings perfect to wear at the wedding ceremony. “Mani Jassal Spring/Summer Bridal 2017 ” Jewelry makes a woman complete. It forms an integral part of a bride’s getup to give an exquisite look to her personality on their wedding day. Undoubtedly, bridal jewelry adds glam to the bride’s aura. And plus, it forms a significant part of their wedding trousseau. Eventznu.com - December 2, 2019 - After fun-filled sangeet and mehendi ceremony, adorable couple Dipika Kakar and Shoaib Ibrahim get married in a private ceremony as per Muslim traditions 