AECC gives Kevin Bridges a birthday to remember | Press and Journal  We value your privacy   We and our partners process your personal data, such as IP addresses and cookie identifiers, using technology such as cookies in order to personalise ads and content based on your interests, measure the performance of ads and content, and derive insights about the audiences who saw ads and content. Click below to consent or to choose which Partners process your data and for what Purposes. You can make changes to your settings at any time.   Powered by  2019 Press and Journal He might be one of the biggest names in UK comedy, but Kevin Bridges likes to celebrate his birthday just as much as the next person. And yesterday, on his 29th birthday, he was given a helping hand by the city s AECC venue, where he finished a run of nine sold out shows last night. The venue staff laid on balloons, a Walkers Crisps-themed cake, and er..inflatable sheep. And no birthday is complete without a card, which carried the message:  Tickets sold 42,000, beers consumed 17,000, sold-out shows 9, marriage proposals one. Experiencing Kevin Bridges live at the AECC priceless. The TV funnyman then took to Twitter to thank the Granite City for coming out, and the AECC team. Thank you Aberdeen and thanks to  @AECC_Aberdeen  for the birthday celebrations  pic.twitter.com/aTMEc5mUXH  Kevin Bridges (@kevinbridges86)  November 13, 2015 permanent  -  Season Pass for Mountain Biking  &  Snowsports, Food  &  Beverage Discounts and Discounts at Retailers. permanent permanent  -  From £9.94 per hour permanent  -  £22,000 to £25,000 per annum, Dependent on experience permanent  -  Salary scale pro rata permanent  -  Salary dependent on experience Permanent  -  £13.27 to £15.12 per hour, G11 permanent  -  £87.12 to £88.27 per day permanent  -  From £16,436 per annum permanent permanent  -  Season Pass for Mountain Biking  &  Snowsports, Food  &  Beverage Discounts and Discounts at Retailers. permanent permanent  -  From £9.94 per hour permanent  -  £22,000 to £25,000 per annum, Dependent on experience permanent  -  Salary scale pro rata permanent  -  Salary dependent on experience Permanent  -  £13.27 to £15.12 per hour, G11 permanent  -  £87.12 to £88.27 per day permanent  -  From £16,436 per annum permanent Plans are under way to build a development with more than 100 houses on the outskirts of the city. Energy company Cuadrilla has said it will work to  address concerns  over fracking so that the moratorium announced by the Government can be lifted. While low LNG spot prices have taken their toll, the Europe’s two major players in the sector, Total and Shell, performed strongly in the third quarter. The fund formerly run by under-fire manager Neil Woodford has slashed the value of its stake in a Brad Pitt-backed nuclear energy company. Hungarian oil firm Mol Group has confirmed today that it will buy up Chevron s mid-stream interests in Azerbaijan for more than £1.2 billion. Wind farm developers in Moray have donated £10,000 to a charity dedicated to helping emergency services after fire crews saved their turbines from a massive blaze. Kosmos Energy notched up $16 million in net income for the third quarter, while also celebrating a discovery offshore Equatorial Guinea. The Treasury has said it “remains committed” to changes to contractor pay rules by April, despite a delayed budget and the upcoming general election.  Aberdeen Journals Ltd 2019.  All Rights Reserved. 