Hiking routes | visitParikkala.com The lush green forests, clear waters and the landscape sculpted by the Ice Age offer magnificent views and experiences for the hikers and nature lovers. Altogether Parikkala offers 80 kilometres of hiking routes and nature trails. All trails are marked in the ground or trees in the forest, and there are rest areas alongside the trails. The versatile Finnish nature opens along the routes: ridges, thickets of spruces, forest ponds, quiet sand roads and lush wetlands will accompany you in Parikkala. The lakes offer great possibilities for canoeing, fishing and boating. In the winter, there are excellent opportunities for practicing cross-country skiing. Aate-Pekka Hiking Trail (length 3 km) runs in the neighbourhood of Oronmylly Conference and Recreation Centre. Starting point at Oronmylly. Viewing point at Suurvuori and several rest areas with lean-to shelters and fireplace sites along the hiking trail.   Rajojen Reitti hiking trail is part of the E10 long distance hiking route. It starts from the Pöröpeikko hiking trail in the southern parts of Parikkala and ends at Oronmylly. The length of the hiking trail (Pöröpeikon polku - Oronmylly) is 16 km. Along the Ice Age hiking trail you can explore the signs left to the scenery and nature by the Ice Ages. You can choose between two trails with lengths of 9 and 12 kilometres. Hiking trail with a length of 9.5 kilometres in the area nearby Oronmylly. Many interesting sights along the trail, for example potholes and the river Kyynärpäänjoki. There's also two lean-to shelters along the route. Mikkiksen Tarinapolku Hiking Trail offers two different routes, lengths 3 km and 13 km. The trails run through spruce forests and lush broad-leaved forests . Besides  Hiking Routes , there are many shorter nature trails and running trails in Parikkala. Pöröpeikon polku (approximately 3 km) hiking trail runs through all kinds of sceneries in a rugged terrain. The hills make the route demanding. There is a lean-to shelter and a rental sauna by the pond Pörölampi. This route connects the city centre of Parikkala, the beautiful lake views of the lake Simpelejärvi and the Sikoharju nature reserve. The network of trails runs near the Parikkala city centre. Easy route with easy access and partly suitable for the disabled.  