Olive Garden Locations  &  Hours Near Bay Shore, NY - YP.com What are you looking for? YP - The Real Yellow Pages SM  - helps you find the right local businesses to meet your specific needs. Search results are sorted by a combination of factors to give you a set of choices in response to your search criteria. These factors are similar to those you might use to determine which business to select from a local Yellow Pages directory, including proximity to where you are searching, expertise in the specific services or products you need, and comprehensive business information to help evaluate a business's suitability for you. “Preferred” listings, or those with featured website buttons, indicate YP advertisers who directly provide information about their businesses to help consumers make more informed buying decisions. YP advertisers receive higher placement in the default ordering of search results and may appear in sponsored listings on the top, side, or bottom of the search results page. 739 Commack Rd, Brentwood, NY 11717 From Business: Since its founding in Orlando in 1982, Olive Garden has been dedicated to providing a warm, welcoming dining experience and Italian hospitality to everyone who… we went here for the first time tonight very nice place nice looking outside  inside the food was good bathrrooms real clean and staff was real… Great service and food. The wait is a bit long on weekends but its worth the wait. Their food is delicious, tasty and worth the ost. There is usually a twenty minute wait if you go on a weekend for dinner, but that's expected. The… Excellent pizza the best in the area for quite some time. I go out of my way for it and the excellent service This place is amazing! The family owns Branchinelli’s, Coloseo‘s and Mario’s in East Setauket. Chicken cutlet and eggplant Parmesan are my two… I really like this place! Great Italian food and the service was amazing. I definitely will be going a lot more in the future. From Business: Home of the original XL NY Slice. Since 1956, Sbarro has been serving the XL NY Slice. Starting with made-daily hand stretched dough, San Marzano style sauce and… Just when we were ready to give up on dining out as an artistic experience, we discovered Tula Kitchen.  The menu is so diverse, and filled with… From Business: Slice of Bay Shore offers a variety of Italian comfort food utilizing the freshest ingredients. We can accommodate large groups for family celebrations in our… This place is great. I just stumbled upon it one day and have been hooked for 10 years now. From entree's to pizza everything Ive ever had was… Very good pizza. Food is great and so are the owners. Although the place is small the food is still very well made. First, let me say that I have made several trips to this place through the last few years I've lived in the area. When I first started going, I… This is the best pizza in the surrounding area. I don't go as often as I would like because I can never find parking on main st - but if the… El ceviche Papi.....es Buenazo.....y el pollito a la brasa..Omg...puta k Rico....la huancaina....la caga#@!!!@ ven aki...no te vas a… I thought their pizza was excellent. They always have customers.  The restuarant is very clean. I Found the service fast and efficient. We live near the pizzeria the staff is great , very nice. the food is great .... when im tired and don't want to cook there fast to diliver .oh and… One of the best hidden gems of the South Shore. A nice little restaurant tucked in a little strip mall just off of Sunrise Hwy. The staff was very… From Business: At The Slice we cater to everyone. We have everything from deep dish pizza to Specialty Pies!! Pizza rolls to zeppoles, pasta, and hero's, wraps, fried chicken… Didn't find what you were looking for?  Please help others by helping us do better. 739 Commack Rd, Brentwood, NY 11717 555 Route 111, Hauppauge, NY 11788 1049 Route 112, Port Jefferson Station, NY 11776 Route 25, Aquebogue, NY 11931  2019 Thryv, Inc. All rights reserved. YP, the YP logo and all other YP marks contained herein are trademarks of YP LLC and/or YP affiliated companies. All other marks contained herein are the property of their respective owners. 