What are some examples of trichotomy in everyday life? - Quora a nWDXF d ApdwE wWDI b D y BZUN kYP D TPQ u gf c fSm k eql D OYKmu u K c k k Soe G q o Pwyu Two common trichotomys come straight to mind. One is the example winning and losing. LOSE LOSE LOSE WIN WIN WIN This is something that is well known but very rare to see implemented. The quest is to find a common purpose. It was heavily promoted for both business and personal situations. The hard part was users did not realize that win win meant saying I really like you and your company. So let ' s wait for that deal that ' s just right. People felt like failures if they could not make a super deal. This was the best example of third choice being used to advantage although not necessarily obvious at f... Two common trichotomys come straight to mind. One is the example winning and losing. LOSE LOSE LOSE WIN WIN WIN This is something that is well known but very rare to see implemented. The quest is to find a common purpose. It was heavily promoted for both business and personal situations. The hard part was users did not realize that win win meant saying I really like you and your company. So let ' s wait for that deal that ' s just right. People felt like failures if they could not make a super deal. This was the best example of third choice being used to advantage although not necessarily obvious at first. Then there is also the well known method of explaining and improving communication Passive Aggressive Assertive Lunch bag figure 1 communication styles. Often you see the styles of communication are presented as a sliding scale low moderate and high but this is not true in principle. Really there are three clear choices and it is clean cut . You may flick between passive-aggressive but you are not on a sliding scale. There are three clear positions. I hope this helps. p fhN r c o S m ynN o bDjkT t RXc e l d E tBKO b gC y vfPvV Fu P TcCT o tmFZ l ioyE i DKI c JXkWo y Bdt g L e wJm n QEfJu i hQ u M s HbU 3,549 Views 11,129 Views 47,558 Views 15,944 Views 600 Views 4,271 Views 3,216 Views 1,909 Views 343 Views 5,942 Views 90,213 Views 697 Views 257 Views 64,882 Views 1,044 Views 