The 10 Best Concrete Contractors in Columbus, OH 2019 - Porch icon-pricing A professional will assist you with scope and estimates, but having a clear idea of what you want to accomplish will help communication. Do you want professionals to do everything, or do you have the time and skill to do some of the work? Many projects such as have a DIY component, such as painting or cleanup. First and foremost, protect yourself and make sure the contractor and any sub-contractors are licensed, bonded and insured. DO NOT TRUST THIS CONTRACTOR! HE TOOK 1500.00 DOWN PAYMENT AND MY COOPER SINK I PURCHASED FOR HIS SO CALLED CUT OUT FOR MY SINK. I FILED A POLICE REPORT TODAY BECAUSE HE WILL NOT RETURN CALLS OR MY MONEY. BEWARE OF ANY CONTACT WITH  TONY MICHAEL FRARY OR ...  Daniel resealed our driveway for a fair price and did an excellent job! Daniel printed me a writing proposal with all terms and condition, contract, and warranty letter right on the first visit I found that very nice, their crew were excellent fast and clean, every neighbor passed by to brag about their work, I sure recommend...  Had a new roof,patio covers,over,my porches and a,new door,installed. All the work was professionally installed. The men were wonderful and cleaned up everything. I would recommend them to anyone who needs home improvements. Plus they have great financing...  scammers! Mike L replaced the siding and windows to my house. Both projects turned out amazing and where done in less than 2 weeks.The siding was under an insurance claim for storm damage. The insurance was only wanting to repair half of the house. Mike personall...  I had Classic Exteriors come out to give me an estimate on some windows. The salesman pointed out that I could probably get new siding since I had some hail damage. I told him, sure, if you deal with the insurance company, have at it! So he got me new sid...  I put  " one star "  because I cannot put  " zero " . Everything that has been done with Layne Remodeling had to be redone. I had some framing work in my garage: each time, I had to ask to fix some issues (some lumbers were replaced but they were not in contact w...  Before anyone does business with this terrible company do your research.  Neil is a liar and a thief.  His company did damage to our home and he would not respond . Due to his irresponsible and cowardly actions we had to find a reputable company to finish...  we had Maxima Concrete come out to put a new driveway in plus an extra parking spot. The men were polite, worked hard to beak all concrete up in1 day, form it up the next and poured the driveway in 2 days. Excellent job and would recommend them for my fam...  BUCKEYE CEMENT CONTRACTORS, LLC IS OWNED BY SHAWN HASTINGS. HE WILL TAKE YOUR MONEY AND RUN. HE HAS OWNED LOTS OF OTHER COMPANIES HASTINGS  CONSTRUCTION LLC., COLUMBUS CEMENT LLC. HE HAS MANY LAWSUITES AND PEOPLE LOOKING FOR HIM....DO NOT USE HIM... Buckeye Cement Contractors is a 3 generation company.  Owned by the Pozz family. We highly support  &  recommend their services.  They are extremely nice  &  professional.  Over the years they replaced our driveway, walkway, extended our patio  &  just recently...  Does the concrete contractor I want to hire need to be licensed in Columbus? Before you start any project, it is crucial to learn about the certifications and licenses that you or your Concrete Contractor need to have. There are 1 concrete contractors in Columbus that are licensed. Here are the types of license(s) Concrete Contractors need to have to work on Concrete Services jobs in OH: Will Concrete Services work in Columbus require permits, inspections, special licenses, etc.? Whether you’re concrete contractor job is in Columbus or any other city, you're going to want to do a bit of research before hiring concrete contractors. Even small jobs may have certain regulations around them. Often, the concrete contractor performing the work will have any required permits, inspections, etc. under control, but not always. Short answer: Research yourself and double check with the concrete services folks that everything is in order.  How does invoicing/payment work for most Concrete Contractor projects in Columbus? Every project differs, but you should ask any concrete contractor for an estimate, before they do any work. In fact, ask for their general payment terms before any concrete services work is done. If the job is large and going to take longer than a day, it's common practice for concrete contractors to request a down payment. Usually, this will be around 25% so they can commence work on your concrete contractor project. If it's a quick job, you'll likely be given an invoice/bill when the job is complete. Then it's up to you and the concrete contractor to determine if you pay immediately or can send payment at a later date. 