Ohnan Town | Welcome to Japan! | TOKYO 2020 - PRE-GAMES TRAINING CAMPS ONLINE GUIDE TOKYO 2020 PRE-GAMES TRAINING CAMPS ONLINE GUIDE View List Tokyo 2020 Official Website Dangyokei Japanese giant salamander Obochi Basin Mizuho Highland Inaka illumination Contact the camp (English only) Ohnan Town is located at 132 degrees, 18 to 42 minutes east longitude, 34 degrees, 46 to 58 minutes north latitude. There are many basins, as is often the case with hilly and mountainous areas. In our town, you can experience changes in seasons, and feel compassion of the people. Ohnan is committed to encouraging people to permanently reside in our town based on a two-pronged policy: making a livable town for future generations (an initiative for the best village in Japan for raising a child), and giving one and only experience in Ohnan and with its first class gourmet. Results 1-1 of 1 Chugoku and Shikoku Regions / Shimane / Ohnan Town  This facility has a gymnasium and a training room in addition to a heated pool. Details Add to List View the facilities where training for all the selected sports can be conducted Tokyo 2020 Official Website TOKYO 2020 PRE-GAMES TRAINING CAMPS ONLINE GUIDE The information provided on sports facilities meets the technical requirements of the International Federation (IF) of each sport.  The sports facilities listed in this guide have been strictly selected from among those facilities approved as a suitable training environment by the National Federation (NF). The Tokyo Organising Committee of the Olympic and Paralympic Games The Tokyo Organising Committee of the Olympic and Paralympic Games. All rights reserved. The facility has been added to the List. To view the facilities you have saved, click "View List" at the top of this page.  Close The facility has been removed from the List. Close This facility cannot be added to the List. The List has reached its capacity of 10 facilities. To add a new facility, please remove unneeded facilities from the List. Close 