Real Tweets From Real People - Terry Bradshaw Awful Announcing search close Link to Twitter Link to Facebook Link to Instagram Link to RSS For Fox s preseason broadcast of Steelers/Eagles in Pittsburgh last night the network decided to place studio analyst Terry Bradshaw in the booth with the A Team of Joe Buck (still suffering the effects of his vocal cord illness) and Troy Aikman.  The result was  interesting, to say the least (I was watching reality TV for most of the night, so can t comment definitively either way  c mon it s preseason football!).   Some viewers apparently loved the different element TB added.  I have to say, if memory serves me correctly, Bradshaw did a Sugar Bowl in the booth with Howie Long when Fox had the college football package and did very well.  However, most viewers on Twitter thought TB sounded hammered, senile, or  something a bit more disturbing .  Whatever the case, people were talking about preseason football and Bradshaw s booth cameo.  A sign of things to come  or an elaborate ruse from Fox to distract America from its apathy towards Joe Buck.  If so, that  didn t seem to work .   As always, these are Real Tweets from Real People View  Real Tweets From Real People   Terry Bradshaw  on Storify Award winning sportswriter at The Comeback and Awful Announcing. The biggest cat in the whole wide world. Gaetz commented on the shootings on WEAR Friday, then offered further comments on the station Saturday. They broke into the AAC championship to show those comments. "There's been a lot of speculation this week; was this your last game coaching as the head coach for FAU?" "This is not about that. Today is about our team, our fans, our university, winning two championships in three years is awesome, so this is an awesome day for everyone." Bad take, Mike. This was the first time the game was broadcast on a national network. It seems like things didn't end well for the Peloton couple. Reed attempted to play the victim, suggesting a different camera angle would have totally exonerated him. Gaetz commented on the shootings on WEAR Friday, then offered further comments on the station Saturday. They broke into the AAC championship to show those comments. "There's been a lot of speculation this week; was this your last game coaching as the head coach for FAU?" "This is not about that. Today is about our team, our fans, our university, winning two championships in three years is awesome, so this is an awesome day for everyone." Bad take, Mike. This was the first time the game was broadcast on a national network. It seems like things didn't end well for the Peloton couple. Reed attempted to play the victim, suggesting a different camera angle would have totally exonerated him. Link to Twitter Link to Facebook Link to Instagram Link to RSS AwfulAnnouncing.com is a Sports fan web site and is in no way affiliated with any media organization, any professional sports league, team, organization, or its Properties. This site is for informational and entertainment purposes only. AwfulAnnouncing.com is not an official web site for any media organization, professional sports league, team, or organization.  Copyright © 2017 www.AwfulAnnouncing.com - All Rights Reserved - Trademarks used herein are property of their respective owners.  AwfulAnnouncing.com is part of the NESN digital network. arrow 