NJ Landscaper and NJ Landscape Architect Cording Landscape Design Cording Landscape Design is a full service design, construction, and maintenance firm. We pride ourselves on being involved from the initial design consultation, through the completion of construction, to continual detailed garden enhancements. We build professional relationships with our clients, establishing trust and confidence that allows for a stress-free experience. As a full-service landscape company, we specialize in managing entire projects from start to finish, coordinating all components of even the most complex projects with minimal disruption to the client. Over the years, we ve established a broad network of trusted inter-disciplinary professionals who share the same commitment to excellence and client satisfaction that we do. We are constantly upgrading our fleet of trucks, machines, and equipment because a job is completed most efficiently using the best equipment available. Each landscape is a shared vision   a collaboration between us, our client, and the environment. We work hand in hand with our crews to lead the industry by constantly looking to incorporate fresh and innovative ideas to achieve the most creative result. At Cording Landscape Design, we incorporate our long term goals for each property into a systematic approach that can be implemented over a period of years. This approach helps our clients not only phase the overall costs of their project, but creates a design plan that “grows” with their outdoor living wishes. The design process combines an artist’s sense of balance, texture, and color with our designers’ technical know-how. We work closely with our clients throughout the process to achieve an understanding of their goals and to express them in design. The work of Cording Landscape Design continues to be featured in many New Jersey publications, including Design New Jersey. Our work has won numerous awards, including the Governor’s Trophy for Best Garden in Show at the New Jersey Flower and Garden Show. We have also received the highest honor from the New Jersey Nursery and Landscape Association, the Grand Award, given only to a company whose work has achieved excellence in design and installation. With a modest beginning, Cording Landscape Design was started in 1978 by Ron Cording with a station wagon and a lawn mower. The business quickly took off and Ron found himself with a full maintenance route. Moving operations from his parents  basement in Palisades Park to a one acre site in Ramsey created the opportunity for the company to evolve. After 25 years in Ramsey, the office relocated to its current home in Towaco in 2003. The Morris County property now serves as our headquarters, housing our design office, extensive plant nursery, hardscape materials, and a retail garden gift shop. We are centrally located with the ability to travel from the shores of New Jersey to the mountains of New York. NJ HIC#13VH03157400 Many of our employees have been with the company since its inception, all of us growing together in both a formal and practical experience format. Our clients benefit from our knowledge and skills, and enjoy the experience of working with people that take each project personally. Cording Landscape Design, Inc. is committed to the continued success of our gardens. We are attentive to detail knowing that the technical aspects of the project, although invisible in the completed project, are critical to its success. We pride ourselves in “old world craftsmanship” making the quality of our work second to none. 