Nancy Kranich | NIFI Nancy Kranich teaches at the Rutgers University School of Communication and Information and conducts special projects for the Rutgers University Libraries. She served as President of the American Library Association in 2000-2001, focusing on the role of libraries in democracies. She has chaired and served on a number of ALA committees that deal with intellectual freedom, information policy, copyright, privacy, information commons and public engagement. In addition, Nancy founded and chairs the ALA Center for Civic Life and ALA’s Libraries Foster Community Engagement Membership Initiative Group, and was instrumental in launching ALA’s partnership with the Harwood Institute for Public Innovation. Most of Nancy’s library career was based at New York University, where, as Associate Dean of Libraries, she managed NYU’s libraries, archives, press, and media services. She also worked in public libraries in Bridgeport and Windsor, CT, and Madison, WI. After retiring from NYU, Nancy served as Senior Research Fellow at the Free Expression Policy Project in New York, where she authored The Information Commons: A Public Policy Report. Kranich has worked internationally to advance libraries and democracy in Eastern Europe and to promote universal service and information commons in France, China, Mexico and Taiwan. In 2011, she helped plan and lead the workshop, Beyond Books: News, Literacy and Democracy for America’s Libraries, which asked what’s possible when journalists and librarians come together. An active proponent and convener of dialogue, deliberation, and community engagement, she works closely with the Harwood Institute for Public Innovation, the National Coalition on Dialogue and Deliberation, and the Kettering Foundation, including participating in the Libraries and the Public Learning Exchange, serving on the board of its National Issues Forum Institute (NIFI), moderating and participating in the U.S./Russia Dartmouth Conference dialogues, and chairing the NIFI local affiliate in State College, PA. Kranich earned a master's degree and studied for her doctorate in Public Administration from NYU’s Wagner School of Public Service, and an M.A. in Library Science and a B.A. in Anthropology from the University of Wisconsin--Madison. ©2014 National Issues Forums Institute 