Yuri Budnitsky - Greater Boston Area | Professional Profile | LinkedIn Liked by  Yuri Budnitsky Liked by  Yuri Budnitsky Liked by  Yuri Budnitsky A preview of what LinkedIn members have to say about Yuri: Yuri is an excellent BSA who would be a strong asset in any organization. I worked very closely with Yuri on an extremely large and complex enterprise database build. Through that experience I witnessed his ability to pay great attention to detail, while also clearly understanding and considering the bigger picture and the implications of decisions.  In addition to this skillset and his qualifications Yuri is a wonderful team member. He ' s respected and well-liked by his peers and his management and is extremely successful on both a personal and professional level. He would quickly contribute to any new organization in both capacities! Yuri is an excellent BSA who would be a strong asset in any organization. I worked very closely with Yuri on an extremely large and complex enterprise database build. Through that experience I witnessed his ability to pay great attention to detail, while also clearly understanding and considering the bigger picture and the implications of decisions.  In addition to this skillset and his qualifications Yuri is a wonderful team member. He ' s respected and well-liked by his peers and his... Yuri is an excellent BSA who would be a strong asset in any organization. I worked very closely with Yuri on an extremely large and complex enterprise database build. Through that experience I witnessed his ability to pay great attention to detail, while also clearly understanding and considering the bigger picture and the implications of decisions.  In addition to this skillset and his qualifications Yuri is a wonderful team member. He ' s respected and well-liked by his peers and his management and is extremely successful on both a personal and professional level. He would quickly contribute to any new organization in both capacities! I had the pleasure of working with Yuri during discovery and build phase of the Enterprise Markateing Database for Toyota Motor Sales. Yuri is a very detailed oriented and thorough in his work. Yuri always strive to exceed expectations and he is not afraid of questioning status quo. Yuri would be a great asset to any employer striving for customer excellence. I had the pleasure of working with Yuri during discovery and build phase of the Enterprise Markateing Database for Toyota Motor Sales. Yuri is a very detailed oriented and thorough in his work. Yuri always strive to exceed expectations and he is not afraid of questioning status quo. Yuri would be a great asset to any employer striving for customer excellence. 2 people have recommended Yuri Join now to view Join to view Yuri’s full profile 