Welding Cart Upgrade   Fabrication   Blue Chip Machine Shop No products in the cart.  This is my old Snap-On mig welder, that has been in more or less constant service since the 1980s. My only gripe with the thing is it s wheels, that have bothered me from day one. Being that the band saw base was such a major improvement to usability, and I had a pile of salvaged 3X3 angle iron around, I thought I d make a cart for it and document the fabrication. Heres a pic showing the cantilevered wheels that allow the welder to tip when backing up.  The first step was to miter cut some 1/4  thick angle iron straight from the scrap bin. Most of this stuff has gussets welded to it, so grabbing it in the factory vice is a challenge. Big pieces of stock really show the small saws vices short comings. A better vice with a decent swivel base might be a future addition. With the new stand, the saw is at a much better work height, and has a much more solid feel.  Heres the base getting squared up, and tacked for final welding on my work bench. This is a piece of 1/4 steel with a drain trough I welded up for transmission work, but is about the best welding table around. Its dead flat, and you can just clamp the ground lead to the table if the metal is clean. This steel is primed, so I clamp right on the work. You can see some of the existing gussets here, which will work nice to add some support for the Argon bottle.  Nothing real earth-shaking here, just a shot of the finished welded  corner. The bottom will be ground flat for the casters.  Again, nothing life changing, just a shot of the finished product, with some paint on it.  Heres a shot of the existing gussets I used to add support the gas bottle at the rear of the stand. The way the welder was constructed, you d have thought I ordered these for the specific machine. Sometimes I get lucky.  This is the end result. I haven t fastened the welder to the cart yet, but had to try it out. It works great.  This is another thing around here that I ve been moaning about for years, and finally got straightened out. The welder not only moves easier, but has a more solid feel, and is more stable. You can t see it in this pic, but I ve been hanging my wire and ground leads on the gas regulator which is an accident waiting to happen, so I guess I ll hafta add some hangers somewhere on the cart. I m probably gonna add a handle on the front that I can use as a guide for the wire feed. The lead comes out the front, and tends to take a lot of abuse. I m sure one good hit would put enough of a kink in it to stop the wire from feeding. I ll update when I get that done. Please have a look at the   and let BlueChipMachineShop.com provide your special maintenance and tool needs.. You must be  logged in  to post a comment. No products in the cart. 