Which Colleges Have Fashion Degree Programs in the Fort Worth, TX Area? Learn about fashion degree programs in Fort Worth, TX. Get information about programs available and admission requirements to make an informed decision about your education.Schools offering Fashion Design degrees can also be found in these popular choices . If an education in fashion design is what you're looking for, there are associate's, bachelor's, and master's degree options in Fort Worth, TX to suit your needs. In and around Fort Worth, fashion-related programs are available in 2-year college and 4-year university settings. In 2 years, you might earn either an associate's degree in fashion design or fashion merchandising. On the other hand, you could pursue a 4-year bachelor's degree in fashion design or fashion merchandising and take part in an internship experience. As a graduate student, you have the option of a master's degree program in design with a concentration in fashion design.  A faculty evaluation and public exhibition are included in this 2-year program.  Keep reading to decide if one of these programs will meet your needs. El Centro College is part of the Dallas County Community College District. In the school's fashion degree program, you'll learn about fundamentals of fashion design, including sketching, sewing and draping. Other coursework covers women's tailoring, pattern drafting, color theory and public speaking. After completing the 35-credit hour core curriculum, you can select a specialty in pattern or apparel design. This program covers essential topics like design, textiles, manufacturing, wholesale buying and retail operations. You also can participate in field experiences, tours and events like the annual Career Day, which features design and merchandising competitions. As a fashion merchandising major at Texas Christian University (TCU), you'll learn about buying, developing and selling merchandise. Program coursework includes fashion drawing fundamentals, textile fundamentals, career development and global trade of textiles. TCU's Center for Merchandising Education and Research provides you with internships, travel programs, and industry seminars and conferences. You'll participate in a ten-week mandatory internship your senior year. Faculty members at the University of North Texas include fashion designers, fashion show jurors and members of professional organizations. You'll begin this program as a pre-major, completing core art courses, a first-year fashion design course and two portfolio reviews. While enrolled in the bachelor's program, you'll be instructed in flat patternmaking, sketching, industrial sewing and computer-aided design. This school also offers internship and co-operative opportunities. The master's degree program at the University of North Texas is intended for individuals looking to become managers, educators or design researchers. This program requires a research methods course and coursework in art history. Additionally, you'll complete coursework in both the major and your concentration. During graduate review, you'll be required to show the faculty your work for evaluation. You'll also have to work with your MFA committee to put together an exhibit to show the public. In conclusion, the University of North Texas offers bachelor's and master's programs in fashion design, Texas Christian University also offers a bachelor's program, and El Centro College and Tarrant County College both offer associate's degree level education in the Fort Worth, TX area. To continue researching, browse degree options below for course curriculum, prerequisites and financial aid information.Or, learn more about the subject by reading the related articles below:  What is your highest level of education completed? view more What is your highest level of education? What is your highest level of education completed? What is your age? This information is required so we can provide schools for which you are eligible.  Copyright 2003-2019 Learn.org. All rights reserved. 