Andy Reid College:  BYU Hometown:  Los Angeles, CA Experience:  15 years  Andy Reid enters his sixth season at the helm of the Chiefs in 2018. He was hired as the club’s 13th head coach in franchise history on January 7, 2013. Since his arrival in Kansas City, Reid’s teams have made it to the playoffs four out of five seasons, while tallying  53 wins, the highest combined win total of any head coach in franchise history in that timeframe. In 2017, Reid led the Chiefs to a 10-6 record en route to the club’s second consecutive AFC West title, the first time in franchise history the club has won the division in back-to-back years. Andy Reid enters his sixth season at the helm of the Chiefs in 2018. He was hired as the club’s 13th head coach in franchise history on January 7, 2013.  Since his arrival in Kansas City, Reid’s teams have made it to the playoffs four out of five seasons, while tallying  53 wins, the highest combined win total of any head coach in franchise history in that timeframe. In 2017, Reid led the Chiefs to a 10-6 record en route to the club’s second consecutive AFC West title, the first time in franchise history the club has won the division in back-to-back years.   In 2015, Reid’s Chiefs rattled off 10 consecutive regular season wins to finish 11-5 and earn a playoff berth. The Chiefs defeated the Houston Texans 30-0 in an AFC Wild Card game in Houston marking the team’s first playoff win in 22 years. Reid and company advanced to the AFC Divisional Round. The club’s 10 straight wins after starting just 1-5 marked the greatest turnaround in a single season in NFL history. Reid’s efforts earned him AFC Coach of the Year honors.  One of the most successful coaches in professional sports, Reid utilizes a passionate, yet workmanlike approach as an NFL head coach. A former offensive lineman at BYU, Reid still lives and works with those humble principles he learned during his time in the trenches. His vision, his dedication and his organizational skills have been impeccable during his coaching career. Reid joined Philadelphia as head coach in 1999 and remained in that role through the 2012 season, becoming one of just 11 first-time NFL head coaches to lead 12-or-more seasons with the same club. Reid assumed the additional role of Executive Vice President of Football Operations in 2001. The Eagles captured their sixth NFC East division title under Reid in 2010 as they set franchise records in points scored (439, 3rd in NFL), total net yards (6,230, 2nd in NFL) and yards per rushing attempt (5.4, 1st in NFL). Along the way, Reid played a vital role in the rebirth of QB Michael Vick, who earned Comeback Player of the Year honors as well as a Pro Bowl berth. Reid, himself, earned Coach of the Year honors from the Maxwell Football Club.  In 2006, the Eagles lost six of their first 11 games and two of their most explosive players in QB Donovan McNabb and DE Jevon Kearse, but Reid led a season-ending, five-game win streak to capture the NFC East division title.  In 2003, Philadelphia overcame an 0-2 start and a slew of injuries to post its second consecutive 12-win season. A year earlier, Reid was the overwhelming choice as the NFL’s Coach of the Year as the Eagles thrived without the services of McNabb to still capture home-field advantage in the playoffs. Throughout his time in the NFL, Reid has continuously evaluated what is best for the game of football, serving on the NFL Competition Committee’s Coaches Subcommittee. The subcommittee is instrumental in providing feedback to the NFL Competition Committee for potential rule changes and ways to improve the game. Reid was originally introduced as the head coach of the Philadelphia Eagles on Jan. 11, 1999, after spending seven seasons as an assistant coach with the Green Bay Packers under Head Coach Mike Holmgren. During his seven years with the Packers, Reid served as the tight ends coach and assistant offensive line coach (1992-96) and as quarterbacks coach (1997-98). In his span with the Packers, the team reached the playoffs six times and represented the NFC twice in back-to-back Super Bowls, defeating New England in Super Bowl XXXI and falling to Denver in Super Bowl XXXII. Prior to joining the NFL ranks, Reid’s final collegiate stop was in Columbia, Missouri, as he coached the offensive line at the University of Missouri (1989-91). Prior to his stint with the Tigers, Reid spent two years working with the offensive line at the University of Texas – El Paso, and before that, he held the same position with Northern Arizona. In 1983, Reid took the position of offensive coordinator and offensive line coach at San Francisco State, helping the Gators lead the nation in passing and total offense for three consecutive years (1983-85). A native of Los Angeles, Reid prepped at John Marshall High School in Los Angeles and went on to go to Glendale (Calif.) Junior College before attending BYU. In 2012, Reid was inducted into the Marshall High School Athletic Hall of Fame and was named to the Glendale Junior College Hall of Fame in 2003.  Education:  Brigham Young University (B.A. 1981). Born:  Los Angeles, Calif. Family:  Wife - Tammy; Children - Sons Spencer, Britt and the late Garrett, and daughters Drew Ann and Crosby. He has eight grandchildren, Maverick, Somers, Saylor, Blake, Reid, Canyon, Ryker and Rylen. Today, Chiefs head coach Andy Reid and linebackers Derrick Johnson and Dee Ford spoke to the media after Practice Nine at #ChiefsCamp     Copyright   2019 Kansas City Chiefs   