Events   Randy Smith Memorial Golf Classic It s Time to Sign up!  The 24th Annual RSMGC takes place at Chateau Elan again this year on Friday, October 5. There will be 4 different golfer flights again at this year s event.  That means 4 times as many chances to win. 42 spots left in Read More Save the Date! it s happening once again on October 5, 2018. That s right, the 24th Annual RSMGC will take place, once again, at Chateau Elan in Braselton, GA. Please be sure to mark your calendars and plan to participate, sponsor or volunteer once again for the most important Read More Save the Date! it s happening once again on October 5, 2018. That s right, the 24th Annual RSMGC will take place, once again, at Chateau Elan in Braselton, GA. Please be sure to mark your calendars and plan to participate, sponsor or volunteer once again for the most important Read More Presented by EACA, the EDPA Foundation, and ExhibitorLive, more than 75 exhibit industry professionals came together at the Painted Desert Golf Course on February 25 for the 4th Annual Las Vegas Randy to raise funds for trade show industry families in need. As in all RSMGC golf events, participants competed Read More Save the Date for the 2018 Las Vegas Randy The 4th Annual Las Vegas Randy takes place again this year, in conjunction with ExhibitorLive, on Sunday , February 25 at the Painted Desert Golf Course. The Las Vegas Randy Smith Memorial Golf Classic, like other RSMGC events, will benefit families Read More Live Podcast at RSMGC The newly formed Don and Mike Podcast Show will be recording live at the Randy Smith Memorial Golf Classic for 2017. Don Svehla, Owner and Publisher of Exhibit City News in Las Vegas, NV and Mike Morrison, National Sales Director of WS Display, Read More New Scoring System at This Year s RSMGC  In our never ending effort to make the RSMGC more fun and engaging we have hired the team from VPAR to provide on course scoring.      In addition to monitors at registration and on the course all players will be Read More The RSMGC is Good Community Family Fun The RSMGC is not only a fundraiser for our industry colleagues, and their families, in need, it s a celebration of the trade show industry family of professionals.   We play, we laugh, we hug, and we cry in support of a great Read More It s Time to Sign Up! The 23rd Annual RSMGC takes place at Chateau Elan again this year on Friday, October 13.      The rate to play golf is $250 per golfer until August 31.   The rate increases to $300 on September 1.  So don t delay Read More Share Your Favorite Randy Stories We d love to hear from you! Please forward your favorite stories, pictures and memories from past RSMGC events.     Your submissions can be heartwarming, poignant, or silly, like the picture we shared here.   With more than 22 years to pull from we know this Read More Chateau Elan in Braselton, GA October 4, 2019 Revere Golf Club in Henderson, NV March 29, 2020 Bowlmor Lanes in Atlanta, GA August 22, 2019 Username or email address  * Password  *  Remember me Lost your password? 