Pharrell, Kendrick Lamar on Mike Will Made-It Song: YouTube Music - Rolling Stone Get The Magazine The best in culture from a cultural icon. Subscribe now for more from the authority on music, entertainment, politics and pop culture. Plus, get a limited-edition tote FREE. Newsletter Signup Sign up for our newsletter and go inside the world of music, culture and entertainment. Each week, we share a playlist with the songs and artists who are making headlines Staff Writer Listen to this week s  YouTube Music playlist here. Mike Will Made-It featuring  Pharrell  and  Kendrick Lamar ,  The Mantra Sounds like:  A great way to cap off an excellent year for film soundtracks Perfect for:  Boxing the son of your father s nemesis Kendrick Lamar is quickly becoming the king of blockbuster soundtracks. Following his excellent work on the music for  Black Panther,  he teamed up with Mike Will Made-It for the understated  Mantra,  to be featured on  Creed II: The Album . With help from Pharrell, the song moves like the type of inner monologue that would run through Adonis Johnson s head while prepping for the fight of his life. Dido ,  Hurricanes Sounds like:  A refreshed return from an underrated pop writer Perfect for:  Facing the sound and the fury Time to put down your white flags: Dido has returned.  Hurricanes  teases a more electronic sound, with the singer-songwriter s signature, breathy vocals remaining a steady, grounding force above the stirring synths. She ll release her first album in five years,  Still on My Mind , in March and will follow it with her first tour in 15 years. Betty Who ,  Between You and Me Sounds like:  A brand new declaration of independence Perfect for:  Getting a little closer to a seemingly forbidden crush After parting ways with RCA, Betty Who s career as an independent artist is not only off to a promising start but also has pop star returning to her acousti-pop roots.  Between You and Me  has the Australian star cooing about the unrealized romantic tension between her and a friend over a finger-picked guitar. Her third album,  Betty , will be released in February. Chris Cornell ,  When Bad Does Good Sounds like:  A rock legend who never lost his creative spark Perfect for:  Reminding yourself how to balance life s negatives with the positives Last Friday, Chris Cornell s incredible musical legacy was honored with a career-spanning box. Alongside his work with Soundgarden, Audioslave and Temple of the Dog are a host of unreleased solo tracks from the iconic vocalist, including official single  When Bad Does Good.  Produced, written and mixed by Cornell, the power ballad opens up like a hymnal that builds into an earth-scorching, heaven-opening prayer.  Eric Church ,  Jukebox and a Bar Sounds like:  A tribute to the kind of coping mechanisms that don t change with time Perfect for:  Curing a broken heart We all have our coping mechanisms during heartbreak. For Eric Church, it seems there s nothing more reliable than a couple drinks and some good music. On the  Desperate Man  ballad  Jukebox and a Bar,  Church sings that for all of our technological wonders, very few effectively solve loneliness quite like this age-old method. Next time you put a dime in the jukebox when you re feeling low, test this cut out. In This Article: Betty Who , Chris Cornell , Dido , Eric Church , Kendrick Lamar , Mike WiLL Made It , Pharrell , This Week in Music Want more Rolling Stone?  Sign up for our newsletter. Newsletter Signup Have a Tip? Follow Us Alerts  &  Newsletters  2019 Penske Media Corporation RS Live Media Logo Arrow Calendar Path Shape Plus minus rs-charts-logo 