Jamie Dornan, Dakota Johnson Dating: Matthew Hitt’s Ex ‘Hurt’ By Amelia Warner, ‘Fifty Shades Freed’ Actor’s Happy Marriage? Actress Shares About Feelings : US : koreaportal EDITION  : English / Korean Jamie Dornan and Dakota Johnson dating rumors have not died down until now even after the "Fifty Shades Darker" stars debunked all the speculations. Now, new reports are claiming that the former girlfriend of Matthew Hitt is feeling broken inside. Blasting News  reported that Dakota Johnson is currently not in a good state as she feels anxious about her emotions. According to the news outlet, the leading lady of Jamie Dornan has admitted that she is afraid of getting hurt at all times. "I think I'm a little bit heartbroken all the time, even when I'm in a happy relationship," Dakota Johnson has divulged in an interview with Vogue Magazine. "I don't do casual very well, and my feelings, even the good ones, get so intense that they hurt," the rumored girlfriend of Jamie Dornan added on. Because of the statements of Matthew Hitt's former girlfriend, fans cannot help but speculate that Dakota Johnson must be sad that she cannot have Jamie Dornan, who is happily married with Amelia Warner. Speculations suggest that the "Fifty Shades Freed" actress had developed feelings for her leading man since they started working together for the erotic-themed movie series. As a matter of fact,  Korea Portal  has shared that there were reports stating that both Jamie Dornan and Dakota Johnson are enjoying their steamy love scenes together. There were even reports claiming that the husband of Amelia Warner and his leading lady have been requesting for more love scenes. In an interview with Glamour, the ex-girlfriend of Matthew Hitt shared that she asked the management to keep the set as private as possible when she is shooting bed scenes with Jamie Dornan. Fortunately, Dakota Johnson felt that her leading lady and the director supported her request. While it is not impossible for Jamie Dornan and Dakota Johnson to fall in love with each other, the two lead stars of the "Fifty Shades of Grey" movie series had previously emphasized that there is nothing romantic happening between them. The "How To Be Single" actress even acknowledged that her leading man is happily married and enjoys being a father to her kids.  Stay tuned for more Jamie Dornan and Dakota Johnson news and updates! 2 d  - Kayla Dodge 3 d  - Kayla Dodge 4 d  - Kayla Dodge Subscribe to our Newsletter 1 2 3 4 5 6 K-WAVE   -  3 d  - Kayla Dodge K-PEOPLE   -  5 d  - Kayla Dodge K-WAVE   -  6 d  - Kayla Dodge K-WAVE   -  5 d  - Kayla Dodge © Koreaportal.com  /  All Rights Reserved. 