Former Trojan Swimmer To Be Remembered Through Scholarship - USC Athletics March 8, 2000 LOS ANGELES, Ca. -  Family and friends of Lieutenant Mathew (Mat)Moneymaker kicked off a fundraising drive today to endow a memorialscholarship in his name for members of the swim team at the University ofSouthern California (USC). Moneymaker, a Navy pilot stationed aboard the aircraft carrier USS JOHN F.KENNEDY, died on Nov. 14, 1999 when his plane crashed into the northArabian Sea moments after takeoff. "Mat was the kind of person you wanted your own son to grow up to be,"said Commander William H. Valentine, Moneymaker's Commanding Officer in SeaControl Squadron 32 (VS-32). "His enthusiasm to live each day to thefullest was contagious and he enriched our lives in ways that makes each ofus a little better for having known him." The Mathew Moneymaker Memorial Scholarship will be awarded to a Trojanmale or female swimmer who best typifies the academic achievement, strongcharacter and team-leading spirit Mat personified while a member of the USCSwim Team from 1988 to 1992. Endowed scholarships require $350,000 incapital to create the annuity that funds the scholarship in perpetuity.Currently there are no endowed scholarships for USC swimmers. "Mat was a very special part of the swim team when he was here at USC,"said Mark Schubert, head coach of the University of Southern Californiamen's and women's swim teams and the 2000 U.S. men's Olympic swim team."His leadership and enthusiasm influenced everyone around him. His familyand friends hope to reward future swimmers who have a similar impact ontheir teammates through this scholarship drive." The inaugural Mathew Moneymaker Memorial Scholarship will be awarded to aUSC swimmer at the USC Athletic Awards Banquet (for the 2000-2001 academicyear) on April 15, 2000. Family and friends of Mat also plan a recognitionceremony during a USC football home game during the 2000 season. Born August 8,1970 in Meridian, Miss., Moneymaker was the son of adistinguished naval aviator, who in the course of his naval career was theFlight Leader of the world-famous Blue Angels. As a young child and teenager Moneymaker faced the challenges of Navylife, including living five years in Japan. He met these, as he did allchallenges, head-on. A 1988 graduate of Lemoore High School in California,he was an avid swimmer who broke numerous school records en route to USC,where he competed on the varsity for four years (1988-92). On one notableoccasion during a dual meet, Moneymaker was scheduled to swim the milefreestyle and chose to swim the butterfly just for the challenge. Hestudied mechanical engineering at USC and planned to enter the U.S. SpaceProgram for astronaut training later in his career. Moneymaker's interestsleaned toward the outdoors, including rock-climbing, piloting seaplanes andgliders, and competing in numerous triathlons and marathons. The lives of Moneymaker and Lieutenant Mike Meschke, his navigator,tragically were cut short when their S-3B Viking aircraft crashed momentsafter takeoff from the USS JOHN F. KENNEDY on November 14, 1999. TheKennedy Battle Group was steaming in the north Arabian Sea to enforceno-fly zone sanctions against Iraq at the time. Rescue helicoptersrecovered their bodies minutes after the crash. Moneymaker was laid to restat Ft. Rosecrans National Cemetery in San Diego, overlooking the PacificOcean. He is survived by his parents, Patrick and Carol Moneymaker of Poway, CA,three sisters, Kimberly of Sacramento, Sara of San Diego and Rebecca, andone brother, Jonathan. Rebecca and Jonathan currently attend USC.Moneymaker's fianc?e, Josephine Old, is from Severna Park, MD. A memorial web site has been established at www.remembermat.com.Information and updates on the Mathew Moneymaker Memorial Scholarshipfundraising will be posted at www.remembermat.com/scholarship.htm. Tax-deductible donations should be sent to the following address: Mathew Moneymaker Memorial Scholarship c/o  Ron Orr Heritage Hall, MC-0602 University of Southern California Los Angeles, CA 90089 