Federal Judge Orders Status Conference in Trump Rape Lawsuit Help Snopes.  Become a Founding Member! Proceedings in a federal  lawsuit  filed in New York, accusing Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump of repeatedly raping a 13-year-old girl over 20 years ago at several Upper East Side parties hosted by convicted sex offender and notorious billionaire investor Jeffrey Epstein, have been scheduled but will not take place until after the November 8 election date. Federal Judge Ronnie Abrams has ordered a status conference to be held at 11:30 AM on 16 December 2016 (more than a month after Election Day) at the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, calling for both sides to provide information that might assist the Court in advancing the case to either settlement or trial — including “a brief description of the nature of the actual and the principal defenses thereto, a brief explanation of why jurisdiction and venue lie in this court, a brief description of all contemplated and/or outstanding motions, a brief description of any discovery that has already taken place, and a brief description of prior settlement discussions”: Judge  Status Conference Order Jane Doe. V Trump  by  LawNewz  on Scribd Donald Trump has asserted that the charges referenced in the lawsuit are “not only categorically false, but disgusting at the highest level and clearly framed to solicit media attention or, perhaps, are simply politically motivated,” adding that “There is absolutely no merit to these allegations. Period.” We have big plans. We need your help. Two waves of social media posts cast doubt in the minds of some over the authenticity of a story that proved a major moment in the 2019 U.K. general election. Conspiracy theorists outdid themselves in October 2019 in response to the Ukraine scandal that threatened Donald Trump's presidency with impeachment. Hundreds of fake account admins and 1,929 Facebook advertising violations only begin to tell the story of the Epoch Times-linked, pro-Trump empire known as The BL. The Florida pastor used his online channel TruNews to launch a virulently anti-Semitic attack on leading congressional Democrats. Warnings to consumers about various products often accompany the holiday shopping season. If Facebook is dealing with the deceptive "The BL" network, it's not working. A routine review of content labeled satire. School district: "The incident began with a verbal altercation between two students that escalated when additional students became involved."  Rumors of the rapper's demise spread in December 2019 after posts on "prank" news websites. The prominent Labour Party MP appeared to have an unusual wardrobe malfunction in December 2019. More than a million people have signed a petition asking Netflix to remove "The First Temptation of Christ."  © 1995 - 2019 by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Your search did not yield any results. Your search terms may need to be revised, or we have not written an article on that topic. One of the best tips for locating articles on our site is to avoid the use of searches that are too lengthy or specific. Therefore, the optimal search strategy is to avoid pasting specific phrases from items (such as subject lines and opening sentences) into our search engine and instead focus on selecting a few distinctive words or names to use as search terms. If you still don't find the item you're looking for, please use our  Submission Form  to send it to us. We can't write about it if we don't know about it! You are viewing an article from a collection.  See the whole collection. 