Cheyenne Brando Biography – Facts, Childhood, Family  &  Death of Former Tahitian Model Cheyenne Brando was a Tahitian model best known as the daughter of legendary American actor Marlon Brando. Check out this biography to know about her childhood, family, personal life, etc. Birthday: February 20 ,  1970 Nationality: French Famous:  Models French Women Died At Age: 25 Sun Sign: Pisces Also Known As:  Tarita Cheyenne Brando Born in:  Tahiti Famous as:  Model Height: 5 ' 9 "  (175  cm ),  5 ' 9 "  Females father: Marlon Brando mother: Tarita Teriipaia siblings:  Angelique Brando,  Christian Brando , Dylan Brando, Lisa Brando, Maimiti Brando, Michael G. Gilman, Miko Brando, Myles Jonathan Brando, Ninna Priscilla Brando, Petra Brando-Corval, Raiatua Brando, Rebecca Brando, Simon Teihotu Brando, Stephen Blackehart, Timothy Gahan Brando, Warren Brando children:  Tuki Brando Died on: April 16 ,  1995 Cause of Death: Suicide Recommended For You  Cheyenne Brando was a Tahitian model who was best known as the daughter of legendary American actor Marlon Brando. She was born to Marlon’s third wife, who was a Tahitian actor. Cheyenne was born in 1970, and her parents separated in 1972. Cheyenne spent most of her childhood with her mother, in Tahiti. She was fascinated by her father during her childhood but as she grew up, she began hating him for abandoning her. She eventually started working as a model and also became a victim of uncontrolled drug abuse. In the late 1980s, a violent car accident brought an end to her modeling career and she slipped into depression. By that time, she had started dating Dag Drollet. The relationship ended in a tragedy. She claimed that Dag had abused her physically. Following this, her elder stepbrother, Christian, shot him dead. Cheyenne had become a mental patient by then, and her testimony was not accepted. In April 1995, Cheyenne hanged herself, bringing an end to her mental agony.  Recommended Lists: Recommended Lists: Quote Of The Day  |  Top 100 Quotes QUIZ: Which Avenger said it? 1/30 Who said:  " I understand that the council has made a decision, but given that it ' s a stupid-ass decision, I ' ve chosen to ignore it! " Iron Man Nick Fury Black Widow Thor QUIZ: Which Avenger said it? 2/30 Who said:  " S omeone peed my pants! Not sure if it was the baby-me or the old me. Or was it just me-me? How To Cite  People Also Viewed  Also Listed In  Famous People  All Rights Reserved 