Theater Review: Time alters reactions to ‘Other People’s Money’ at FST - Entertainment  &  Life - Sarasota Herald-Tribune - Sarasota, FL Some plays come in and out of fashion over time. In a new production at Florida Studio Theatre, Jerry Sterner's 1988 comic drama \"Other People's Money\" has the feel of vintage clothing that harkens back to times past, doesn't quite fit in with today's styles, but still has something to say. First seen in Sarasota in a vibrant production at Asolo Repertory Theatre in 1991, \"Other People's Money\" initially served as a warning about the dangers of regulations that allowed businessmen to take over and destroy fading but still operating companies and eliminate jobs along the way, all in the name of profit. But the message is a bit muted in the new production staged by Jason Cannon. Times have changed and the story doesn't have the punch it once did, partly because the whole nature of the business world, and our exposure to its darkest insides, has changed. Plot aspects don't seem as shocking as they once were. It's good to be reminded that there are still honorable businessmen like Andrew Jorgenson, who is trying to hold on to his New England Wire and Cable Company against the takeover attempts by Wall Street businessman Lawrence Garfinkle. He's known as Larry the Liquidator because of the way he buys stock in companies that he believes are worth more dead than alive. He makes his money by getting them at a low price and profiting on the sale of the parts, regardless of how many jobs are lost along the way. Nearly 30 years ago, the play built to a pitched battle between two contrasting attitudes about the future of the business. While some of us may still dream of the more noble goals of Jorgenson, there's really not much of a debate these days. That's due in large part to the lively performance of Sam Mossler as Larry. From the moment he first shows up at the Rhode Island factory, you know that Larry is in charge of everything that's about to happen and the company has little chance of deflecting his advances. Mossler exudes strength, power and confidence and you never doubt that he will do what he says. And in a perverse way, you want him to succeed. His opponents, more low-key and quaint in style, aren't up for the battle. Colin Lane plays Jorgenson as someone who should have retired some time ago because he hasn't kept up with the modern ways of the corporate world. He's human, which makes him passe. He is aided by Perry Gaffney as his loyal assistant, Bea, who will do anything to support the man she has loved since joining the company nearly 40 years ago, even if it meant ignoring her own husband. Bea calls on her daughter, Kate, a high-powered corporate attorney, to help defend the company. Kate is reluctant for a variety of personal reasons that don't amount to much in the play, but she does get turned on by the mind and power games as she faces off against Garfinkle. While there is supposed to be heat between Larry and Kate, you don't feel the physical chemistry between Mossler and Nehassaiu Degannes, who exudes her own confidence as Kate. Frequent FST actor Joe Ditmyer rounds out the cast as Bill Coles, the president of the company who is divided between his loyalty to Andrew and his own self-interests. Cannon and the cast mostly keep the story flowing across Isabel and Moriah Curley-Clay's set, which uses one space to depict two distinctly different offices. Susan Angermann's costumes fit the period and Micheal Foster's lighting keeps the focus where it needs to be. Sterner's script still contains some funny lines, though we react to many of them differently. Larry admits to being a sexist, uncaring pig, and it's harder to laugh that off in the era of the #MeToo movement. You almost expect to read news stories in the future about his past offensive actions against women. Mossler doesn't so much draw you in. He grabs you by the throat as a man you love to hate or hate to love, the kind of prominent businessman we have come to know so well in the years since \"Other People's Money\" first poked fun at the business world. 'Other People's Money' By Jerry Sterner, directed by Jason Cannon. Reviewed Friday, Florida Studio Theatre's Gompertz Theatre, 1247 First St., Sarasota. Through Aug. 19. 941-366-9000;  floridastudiotheatre.org . Jerry Sterner’s dark comedy closes Florida Studio Theatre’s summer season through Aug. 19 Some plays come in and out of fashion over time. In a new production at Florida Studio Theatre, Jerry Sterner &# x2019;s 1988 comic drama  &# x201c;Other People &# x2019;s Money &# x201d; has the feel of vintage clothing that harkens back to times past, doesn &# x2019;t quite fit in with today &# x2019;s styles, but still has something to say. First seen in Sarasota in a vibrant production at Asolo Repertory Theatre in 1991,  &# x201c;Other People &# x2019;s Money &# x201d; initially served as a warning about the dangers of regulations that allowed businessmen to take over and destroy fading but still operating companies and eliminate jobs along the way, all in the name of profit. But the message is a bit muted in the new production staged by Jason Cannon. Times have changed and the story doesn &# x2019;t have the punch it once did, partly because the whole nature of the business world, and our exposure to its darkest insides, has changed. Plot aspects don &# x2019;t seem as shocking as they once were. It &# x2019;s good to be reminded that there are still honorable businessmen like Andrew Jorgenson, who is trying to hold on to his New England Wire and Cable Company against the takeover attempts by Wall Street businessman Lawrence Garfinkle. He &# x2019;s known as Larry the Liquidator because of the way he buys stock in companies that he believes are worth more dead than alive. He makes his money by getting them at a low price and profiting on the sale of the parts, regardless of how many jobs are lost along the way. Nearly 30 years ago, the play built to a pitched battle between two contrasting attitudes about the future of the business. While some of us may still dream of the more noble goals of Jorgenson, there &# x2019;s really not much of a debate these days. That &# x2019;s due in large part to the lively performance of Sam Mossler as Larry. From the moment he first shows up at the Rhode Island factory, you know that Larry is in charge of everything that &# x2019;s about to happen and the company has little chance of deflecting his advances. Mossler exudes strength, power and confidence and you never doubt that he will do what he says. And in a perverse way, you want him to succeed. ‘Other People’s Money’ By Jerry Sterner, directed by Jason Cannon. Reviewed Friday, Florida Studio Theatre’s Gompertz Theatre, 1247 First St., Sarasota. Through Aug. 19. 941-366-9000;  floridastudiotheatre.org . His opponents, more low-key and quaint in style, aren &# x2019;t up for the battle. Colin Lane plays Jorgenson as someone who should have retired some time ago because he hasn &# x2019;t kept up with the modern ways of the corporate world. He &# x2019;s human, which makes him passe. He is aided by Perry Gaffney as his loyal assistant, Bea, who will do anything to support the man she has loved since joining the company nearly 40 years ago, even if it meant ignoring her own husband. Bea calls on her daughter, Kate, a high-powered corporate attorney, to help defend the company. Kate is reluctant for a variety of personal reasons that don &# x2019;t amount to much in the play, but she does get turned on by the mind and power games as she faces off against Garfinkle. While there is supposed to be heat between Larry and Kate, you don &# x2019;t feel the physical chemistry between Mossler and Nehassaiu Degannes, who exudes her own confidence as Kate. Frequent FST actor Joe Ditmyer rounds out the cast as Bill Coles, the president of the company who is divided between his loyalty to Andrew and his own self-interests. Cannon and the cast mostly keep the story flowing across Isabel and Moriah Curley-Clay &# x2019;s set, which uses one space to depict two distinctly different offices. Susan Angermann &# x2019;s costumes fit the period and Micheal Foster &# x2019;s lighting keeps the focus where it needs to be. Sterner &# x2019;s script still contains some funny lines, though we react to many of them differently. Larry admits to being a sexist, uncaring pig, and it &# x2019;s harder to laugh that off in the era of the #MeToo movement. You almost expect to read news stories in the future about his past offensive actions against women. Mossler doesn &# x2019;t so much draw you in. He grabs you by the throat as a man you love to hate or hate to love, the kind of prominent businessman we have come to know so well in the years since  &# x201c;Other People &# x2019;s Money &# x201d; first poked fun at the business world. The Venice Chorale invites you to join them to celebrate the holidays with song as they perform  " Holiday Pops with Brass " . The concert features their 120-voice chorale, with brass and percussion. Pianist Arthur Greene brings an engaging performance of Chopin favorites and almost-never-performed rarities, including a Chopin original edition of (arguably) the world ' s most beloved Nocturne. Playing Daily Jan 23rd- Feb 1st Under a Boutique Big Top.Book your seats in advance at https://www.mrswindles.com or by calling 941-445-7309 Welcome to your feed!  This is the home for all your notifications such as breaking news, or when someone replies to your posts. Choose the plan that’s right for you. Digital access or digital and print delivery.  Gannett Co., Inc. 2019. All rights reserved. Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted. Sarasota Herald-Tribune  ~ 1777 Main St., Sarasota, FL 34236  ~  Privacy Settings   ~  Cookie Policy  ~  Privacy Policy  ~  Terms Of Service Gannett | USA TODAY NETWORK Choose the plan that s right for you. Digital access or digital and print delivery. 