P3a, perceptual distinctiveness, and stimulus modality - ScienceDirect ScienceDirect A three-stimulus oddball paradigm (target, standard, nontarget) was employed in which subjects responded to an infrequent target, when its discrimination from the frequent standard was difficult. In separate auditory and visual modality conditions, the stimulus characteristics of an infrequent nontarget were manipulated such that its perceptual distinctiveness from the target was varied systematically. For both the low and high distinctiveness conditions, target stimulus P300 amplitude was larger than the nontarget only at the parietal electrode. In contrast, nontarget P3a amplitude was larger and earlier than the target P300 over the frontal/central electrode sites. The distinctiveness manipulation between the target and nontarget produced larger P3a component profiles for the auditory compared to visual stimuli. The results support previous findings that target/standard stimulus context determines P3a generation for both auditory and visual stimulus modalities and suggest that the distinctiveness of the eliciting stimulus contributes to P3a amplitude. Theoretical implications are discussed. In many event-related brain potential (ERP) studies, the P300 component is obtained with the so-called `oddball &# x27; paradigm, wherein two stimuli are presented in a random order, with one occurring less frequently (target) than the other (standard). The subject is required to discriminate the infrequent target stimulus from the frequent standard stimulus by noting the occurrence of the target—typically by pressing a button or mentally counting. The P300 elicited by the target stimulus in this task is a large, positive-going potential that is of maximum amplitude over the parietal electrode sites, with a peak latency of about 300–350 ms for auditory and 350–450 ms for visual stimuli in normal young adults  14 ,  29 . A major theoretical interpretation of the P300 posits that this ERP component reflects the neural operations underlying the developing representation within short-term memory  7 ,  30 . This hypothesis is supported by findings that multiple neural generators—most likely including portions of temporal–parietal cortex—are involved in P300 production  19 ,  40 ,  42 . A modification of the oddball paradigm, sometimes called the three-stimulus paradigm, has been developed in which infrequent nontarget stimuli are inserted into the sequence of target and standard stimuli. When infrequent `novel &# x27; stimuli (e.g., dog barks, color forms, etc.) are presented in the series of more `typical &# x27; target and standard stimuli (e.g., tones, letters of the alphabet, etc.), a nontarget P300 component that is large over the frontal/central areas is elicited. This so-called `novelty &# x27; P300 subcomponent is sometimes dubbed the `P3a &# x27;, whereas the parietal maximum P300 elicited by the infrequent target stimulus elicits is called the `P3b &# x27;  4 ,  38 . The `novelty &# x27; P300 (P3a) has been reported for auditory, visual, and somatosensory stimuli  5 ,  6 ,  19 ,  38 and is thought to index initial signal evaluation since the P3a appears to originate from the frontal lobe and readily habituates [cf. Refs.  19 ,  22 ,  36 ]. When subsequent memory processes are engaged to store stimulus information, the central/parietal canonical P3b is generated  13 ,  20 ,  21 ,  33 . In another variant of the three-stimulus paradigm, infrequent nontarget `typical &# x27; visual stimuli that are easily recognized (i.e., not novel) have been found to elicit a P300 with maximum amplitude over the central/parietal rather than frontal/central areas  3 ,  4 . This component is sometimes referred to as a `no-go &# x27; P300, because subjects do not respond to the infrequent nontarget. Infrequent nontarget auditory tone stimuli (i.e., not novel) inserted into the traditional oddball sequence will elicit a parietal maximum P300 that is smaller and later than the target P300  27 ,  28 . Thus, for both the visual and auditory modalities, the novel stimuli elicit a central maximum P300, whereas, infrequent nontarget stimuli elicit a central/parietal P300 [cf. Refs.  11 ,  37 ,  39 ]. Several recent studies have evaluated the effects of critical variables on P300 from both target and nontarget stimuli in the three-stimulus paradigm. For the auditory modality, stimulus probability produced P300 components from the nontarget tones that were similar to those from target stimuli. Target stimulus measures were unaffected by the probabilities of either the standard or nontarget stimuli, and target P300 components from three-tone, two-tone, and single-tone paradigms were also similar across tasks [cf. Refs.  16 ,  17 ,  25 ]. More important, however, when the auditory target/standard discrimination was perceptually difficult but the nontarget vs. target/standard differences were easily differentiated, the nontarget stimulus elicited a P3a that was larger in amplitude frontally and shorter in latency than the target P3b  [18] . This P3a/P3b distinction was not obtained when target/standard discrimination was easily made—findings that have been replicated and extended to visual stimuli, with virtually identical results obtained for both modalities  [2] . Indeed, the P3a components using typical stimuli are remarkably similar to previous reports using `novel &# x27; nontarget stimuli [cf. Refs.  3 ,  4 ,  5 ,  10 ,  41 ]. Taken together, these results imply that when the perceptual discrimination between the target and standard stimulus is difficult, increased frontal/central amplitude for the infrequent nontarget P300 (P3a) and a parietal maximum for the target P300 (P3b) are obtained for `typical &# x27; stimuli. Theoretically, this outcome suggests that the P3a vs. P3b distinction emerges because the stimulus context defines the degree of attentional focus required for the primary discrimination task, which is interrupted by an infrequently occurring nontarget stimulus event. When considered with the P3a/P3b findings reviewed above, it is reasonable to suppose that stimulus context—the relative perceptual distinctiveness among stimuli—affects both target and nontarget P300 amplitude because these components are generated by different neural structures. Correlations between magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) gray matter volume measurements and P300 amplitude support this view, because they demonstrate distinct regional differences: frontal areas produce stronger associations with nontarget startling stimuli, and parietal areas produce stronger associations with target stimuli  [8] . Additional ERP and MRI findings also indicate frontal lobe activity for the detection of rare but alerting stimuli  21 ,  22 ,  23 ,  31 ,  36 ,  39 . Thus, P300 amplitude from different stimulus contexts appears to reflect brain areas that are related to specific stimulus evaluation processes. The present study was designed to assess this hypothesis further by manipulating the degree of target/nontarget distinctiveness, while keeping the target/standard discrimination difficult using both auditory and visual stimuli in a three-stimulus paradigm. If stimulus context determines P3a/P3b generation, then the nontarget P300 should be affected by the magnitude of the target/nontarget perceptual difference for both modalities. Relatively large target/nontarget distinctiveness should produce frontal/central P3a distributions compared to relatively small target/nontarget distinctiveness. Based on previous findings using the three-stimulus paradigm, these results should occur because the target/standard stimulus context will engage attentional focus such that an infrequent nontarget stimulus will interrupt the processing operations, with highly distinctive stimuli disrupting frontal lobe activity much more forcefully than a less distinctive nontarget  2 ,  18 . A total of  n =16 young adults (8M, 8F) served as subjects (M=21.4, S.D.=1.4 years) and received course credit or pecuniary remuneration for their participation. All subjects reported being free of neurological and psychiatric disorders and provided written, informed consent. Electroencephalographic (EEG) activity was recorded at the Fz, Cz, and Pz electrode sites, referred to linked earlobes, with a forehead ground, and impedance at 10 KΩ or less. Additional electrodes were placed at the outer left canthus and below the left eye to measure EOG activity with a bipolar recording. The filter bandpass was 0.01–15 Hz (6 dB octave/slope), and the EEG was digitized at 4.0 ms per point for 1024 ms, with a 100 ms prestimulus baseline. Waveforms were averaged off-line, such that trials on which the EEG or EOG exceeded ±90  μ V were rejected automatically. Single trial data were also subjected to an EOG correctional procedure to remove any remaining artifact. All experimental conditions were recorded with eyes open, and rest periods were provided between conditions as well as half-way through each recording block. EEG activity was recorded during four blocks (two auditory, two visual), each of which consisted of 350 stimulus presentations that lasted approximately 12 min. Stimuli were defined as target, nontarget, and standard and presented with probabilities of 0.10, 0.10, and 0.80, respectively. Stimulus conditions were defined according to the level of perceptual distinctiveness of the nontarget relative to the target, such that for each modality subjects were presented with 1 Low and 1 High distinctiveness condition. The task was to respond only to the target stimulus by pushing a mouse button with the right index finger as quickly and accurately as possible. Response time and error rates were recorded. All subjects were given a practice block consisting of 15 stimulus trials before each condition. One half of the subjects received the auditory condition first, and the other half received the visual condition first. Table 1  summarizes the stimulus properties for the auditory and visual modalities. For auditory stimuli, tones were presented binaurally in a random series through headphones once every 2 s, with a 50 ms plateau and 10 ms rise/fall times. Nontarget frequency and intensity were varied from Low (500 Hz, 75 dB) to High (4000 Hz, 90 dB) to produce distinct auditory nontargets. For visual stimuli, blue circles or squares that varied in area were presented on a computer monitor in a random series 1.5 m in front of the subject once every 2 s with a 75 ms duration. Nontarget shapes and color were varied from Low (blue) to High (fuchsia) to produce distinct visual nontargets. The values for the low and high distinctiveness for each modality were chosen based on pilot work to maximize the perceptual distinctiveness between the two arbitrarily defined levels. Table 1 . Stimulus type (probability) for each task condition and modality (auditory=frequency and intensity, visual=area and shape-color) The P300 component was defined as the largest positive-going peak occurring within a specific latency window, with auditory=250–450 ms and visual=300–600 ms. Peak amplitude was measured relative to the prestimulus baseline, and peak latency was measured from the time of stimulus onset. Because the primary purpose was to assess the P300 across the varying stimulus conditions, the other ERP components will not be discussed. Table 2  summarizes the response time (RT) and error rate data from all task conditions. A 2-factor (2 modalities×2 distinctiveness levels) multivariate analysis of variance (MANOVA) was performed on the response time (RT) from the target stimuli. RT was significantly longer overall for the auditory than for the visual tasks,  F (1,15)=7.9,  p < 0.02, and shorter for the Low than the High distinct task,  F (1,15)=12.9,  p < 0.01. RT increased in the auditory conditions from Low to High distinctiveness, whereas RT in the visual conditions remained relatively stable to produce a significant M×D interaction,  F (1,15)=16.5,  p < 0.01. A similar analysis performed on the target hit rate found no significant results. However, the false positive rate for nontargets and standards yielded a modality effect on nontarget false positive rate: auditory nontargets elicited significantly more false positives than visual nontargets  F (1,15)=5.3,  p < 0.05. In sum, the auditory High distinct task produced longer RTs and increased error rates compared with the corresponding visual condition. The implications of these outcomes with respect to the ERP findings will be discussed below. Table 2 . Mean response time and performance rates for each task condition Fig. 1  presents the grand averaged ERPs from the target, standard, and nontarget auditory and visual stimuli in the Low and High distinct task conditions. For the Low distinct tasks, target stimuli elicited a P300 that exhibited larger amplitude and longer latencies at the parietal electrode than the nontarget component. Nontarget peak amplitude in these conditions was earlier and larger at the frontal electrodes than those from the target stimuli for both auditory and visual stimuli. In the High distinct conditions, the same pattern emerged, and auditory nontarget stimuli elicited a P300 (P3a) that was appreciably larger than the target P300 (P3b) over all electrode sites. Fig. 1 . Grand averaged ERPs for each stimulus type, auditory and visual modalities, distinctiveness condition, and recording site ( n =16). Fig. 2  illustrates the mean P300 amplitudes from the target and nontarget stimuli for each experimental condition as a function of electrode site. The amplitude data were assessed with a 4-factor (2 Modalities×2 Distinctiveness levels×2 Stimulus types×3 Electrodes) MANOVA.  Table 3  summarizes the results of this analysis. Main effects of modality and electrode were obtained. P300 parietal maximum amplitude was larger for the target than the nontarget stimuli yielding a significant interaction between stimulus type and electrode. Significant M×S, M×D×S, and M×S×E interactions also were obtained. These interactions arose from the modality differences such that for auditory stimuli, target P300 amplitude remained comparable across the Low to High distinctiveness tasks and nontarget amplitude increased; for visual stimuli, both target and nontarget component amplitude were similar across distinctiveness conditions. More specifically, visual stimuli in both distinctiveness conditions elicited a nontarget P300 that was larger than the target at the Fz electrode site but smaller than the target at the Pz site. Auditory stimuli exhibited this same trend in the Low distinct task, but an exaggerated version of this pattern in the High distinct task: larger nontarget amplitude fronto-centrally and no difference parietally. These effect patterns suggest that the distinctiveness manipulations produced clear P3a and P3b components, although the strength of the P3a scalp distribution was modality dependent. Fig. 2 . Mean P300 amplitude from the target and nontarget stimuli for each modality and distinctiveness condition as a function of midline electrode site. Table 3 . Summary of the 4-factor multivariate analyses of variance (2 modalities×2 distinctiveness levels×2 stimulus types×3 electrodes) performed on the P300 amplitude, vector transformed amplitude, and peak latency data To assess scalp distributions differences among conditions, P300 amplitude data from the target and nontarget stimuli were re-analyzed after the data were normalized by vector length  [24] : each subject &# x27;s amplitude value was divided by the square root of the sum of the squared amplitudes over the three electrode locations for each stimulus condition (i.e., the vector length for each condition). This transformation normalized the modality, distinctiveness level, and stimulus type effects to permit direct evaluation of component scalp distribution effects  [15] . The transformed data were analyzed with the same 4-factor analysis employed previously and the results are summarized in the middle column of  Table 3 . The main effect of electrode as well as the S×E and M×S×E interactions remained significant, with the M×S and M×D×S interactions eliminated. The M×E interaction was significant after the transformation indicating that visual stimuli elicited frontal P300 components that were larger than that from auditory stimuli at Fz. The M×D×S×E interaction was also significant, suggesting that the strength of difference between the P3a and P3b scalp distributions depends on an interaction between distinctiveness and modality: auditory nontarget amplitude appeared to be more responsive to stimulus distinctiveness relative to the visual nontarget amplitude. Fig. 3  illustrates the mean P300 latencies for each experimental condition and electrode site. The same analysis performed on the amplitudes was used to assess the latency data, with the outcomes summarized in the rightmost column of  Table 3 . All of the main effects apparent in  Fig. 3  were significant ( p < 0.001 in all cases), with the exception of distinctiveness level. The significant S×E interaction arose from more dramatic increases in target peak latency from the Fz to Pz electrodes relative to nontarget peak latency, which remained stable across all electrode sites. The lack of any distinctiveness effect for P300 latency suggests that it is relatively unaffected by nontarget distinctiveness. Fig. 3 . Mean P300 latency from the target and nontarget stimuli for each modality and distinctiveness condition as a function of midline electrode site. The target stimulus in each task condition elicited a P300 (P3b) component that was largest over the parietal electrode site and was relatively unaffected by nontarget distinctiveness. These results are in close agreement with previous three-stimulus paradigm reports  11 ,  16 ,  17 ,  41 ,  42 . Nontarget amplitude was larger than target amplitude over the frontal and central electrode sites; nontarget latency was much shorter than target latency  2 ,  18 . However, the strength of nontarget stimulus distinctiveness was more pronounced for auditory compared to visual stimuli with respect to P3a amplitude. Thus, stimulus context facilitated nontarget processing, and stimulus distinctiveness contributed to this effect—most strongly in the auditory modality. The nontarget stimuli of each modality elicited a frontal P300, which closely resembles the P3a from `novel &# x27; stimulus paradigms, as well as that obtained with `typical &# x27; stimuli when the target/standard discrimination is difficult. Hence, the manipulation of target/standard stimulus discriminability produced a stimulus environment in which the infrequently occurring nontarget engaged focal attention in a manner similar to that observed previously for `novel &# x27; stimuli  3 ,  5 ,  9 ,  21 . However, all stimuli in the present study were employed because of their `typical &# x27; characteristics, so that the results imply that an anterior P3a component can be produced without using `novel &# x27; stimuli per se. If stimulus context is defined primarily by a difficult target/standard discrimination, attentional redirection to the nontarget would occur because of the frontal lobe activation that generates P3a [cf. Refs.  23 ,  31 ,  33 ,  36 ]. Moreover, the manipulation of nontarget stimulus distinctiveness from Low to High produced an increase in nontarget P3a amplitude for the auditory but not for the visual stimuli. This outcome may have been obtained because of the comparatively extreme, and therefore, perceptually more compelling, values used for the nontarget auditory (pitch and intensity) relative to the visual (shape and color) stimuli. Whether comparable visual stimulus attributes will produce similar effects awaits future research, but it is reasonable to conclude that when a distinctive nontarget interrupts attentional focus on the target/standard discrimination task this interruption may underlie previous `novel &# x27; stimulus P3a effects [cf. Refs.  2 ,  3 ,  21 ]. Although the neural loci for P3a and P3b generation are not yet completely clear [cf. Refs.  11 ,  12 ,  19 ,  29 ], if the neuroelectric events responsible for P300 generation are related to an interaction between frontal lobe and hippocampal/temporal–parietal function as has been suggested  8 ,  21 ,  31 , then it is reasonable to suppose that task condition manipulations such as those employed in the present study can be used to assess this possibility directly. Given this perspective, discriminating the target from a standard stimulus should initiate frontal engagement as a consequence of attentional focus—a major attribute of frontal lobe function  23 ,  26 ,  34 ,  35 . Communication between the frontal portions of the hemispheres would then occur via the corpus callosum  1 ,  31 ,  32 , and larger P300 amplitudes for highly distinctive stimuli will be obtained in a manner consonant with the positive correlation that has been observed between P300 size and gray matter volumes  [8] . Thus, the three-stimulus paradigm appears to produce a rich set of experimental possibilities for delineating the neural operations engaged when a well-defined target/standard perceptual context is confronted by an infrequent but `typical &# x27; stimulus event. This study was supported by the Undergraduate Research Scholarship to the first author from the Committee on Undergraduate Scholarships and Honors, University of California, San Diego and NIDA grant DA08363 to the second author. This is manuscript NP11085 from The Scripps Research Institute. Elsevier We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content and ads. By continuing you agree to the  use of cookies . Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. or its licensors or contributors. ScienceDirect ® is a registered trademark of Elsevier B.V. 