VHS to digital - best way - Home theatre Hi all, Looking to convert my old home movies from VHS to digital.  Not necessarily DVDs   I have an external HDD that I keep my media on (all in mkv format), so that would probably be best. Looking up old threads, it looks like there are a few options: Is that about it?  Is there a quality difference between the above options?  It looks like they would all take about the same amount of time to process, the first option seems cheapest, but is the quality going to be ok? I don't have any of the above equipment, although I should be able to borrow a VCR (hopefully!), so I will still need to buy the USB adapter OR VCR/DVD combo OR PVR.  At a guess I have about 10 hours worth of movies to convert, although that's a real guess   I don't currently have a VCR to playback my videos. baobei writes... Is there a quality difference between the above options? Not only between options, but also within options ... Plenty of cheap nasty USB adapters, poor quality DVD recorders and dodgy PVRs that will butcher the quality of your precious memories :P Tek baobei writes... Using a VCR/DVD combo, somehow record the VHS direct to DVD ...is the best option. I'm a broadcast video technician so can easily get far too technical in justifying my choice. I'll try and be brief: VHS playback has 'time base' errors. These are hidden on a normal TV but still present in the composite video signal out of nearly* all VHS machines. Connecting this unstable signal into a separate DVD recorder, PVR or even a PC via a USB converter leave the recording device to deal with these errors. [*] Several of the last generation of up-market VHS machines made by Panasonic and JVC had built-in 'time base correction'. [Most of these machines were also S-VHS.] If you can find one of these [eBay or Gumtree?] then go right ahead feeding a separate DVD recorder. Otherwise buy/borrow a combined VHS/DVD recorder. At least then you can reasonably assume the manufacturer has done a decent job of optimising VHS to DVD dubbing :-) Thanks for the replies :) Tekno writes... Plenty of cheap nasty USB adapters, poor quality DVD recorders and dodgy PVRs that will butcher the quality of your precious memories :P Mmm, I suspected as much, from the googling I did for a USB adapter   prices seem to vary so dramatically. Cobra59 writes... Otherwise buy/borrow a combined VHS/DVD recorder. At least then you can reasonably assume the manufacturer has done a decent job of optimising VHS to DVD dubbing :-) Thanks for your explanations!  With the VHS/DVD recorder, will it make a difference to the brand of machine?  ie, is there likely to be a quality difference between cheaper and more expensive ones?  When they burn, do they just burn a regular movie dvd, and then I can use my computer to rip and edit it? Cobra59 writes... ...is the best option. Only if you are looking for "easy" and are happy with the unavoidable 20% quality loss from the poor efficiency of MPEG-2, and the further loss from any "de-interlacing" that's done on the fly by the recording machine ... although, if your desired end game format is MPEG-2 / DVD, then it's not a bad option (but MPEG-2 is old and very inefficient compared to the H.264 format) ... As an example of how much "difference" a decent workflow will achieve, below is an example video (100MB) that shows the difference between "de-interlacing" algorythms ... left and right are "on-the-fly" (or TV / DVD / PVR type de-interlacing), the middle two are PC "processed" de-interlacing (that can't be done at 25 FPS, even with modern CPUs): http://www.teknosrealm .com/examples/deinterlaced_example.avi From a "quality" perspective, you are best digitising the raw analog data (at the highest "sample rate" you can find in a digitising device) and using the power of a modern day CPU to process the video to your desired format ... I use UTVideo to store the lossless, interlaced raw analog sampling ... from there, I use Avisynth to process the video (noise removal, crop, deinterlace, stabalise, color correct, etc),then feed the Avisynth output into the worlds most efficient video encoder (x264 commandline) ...  this results in a good looking, well compressed, manageable MKV / MP4 ... Tek Firstly you need to get yourself a decent VHS deck, preferably one which has a S-Video output. Then you'll need an analog to digital converter. I would avoid purchasing a USB dongle at all costs. Get something like an ADVC55 or ADVC110 http://www.grassvalle y.com/products/advc_professional_family Then all you need is a Firewire cable to plug into your PC. The resulting file will be about 13GB per hour in the DV-AVI codec. Once you have the AVI file on your computer, then you can use a myriad of tools to clean up, edit and encode your footage. Since your video comes from VHS, you will have 'head switching' noise at the bottom of your video. You will need to mask that with a black border. If you have a miniDV or Digital8 camcorder handy, you could use that instead of the ADVC55 or ADVC110. Tekno writes... I use UTVideo to store the lossless, interlaced raw analog sampling ... from there, I use Avisynth to process the video (noise removal, crop, deinterlace, stabalise, color correct, etc) Ive found this to be the hardest bit. Using avisynth or virtualdub, no matter which filters i use, the output looks no better than the input.  Any recommendations you can make regarding the process would be most welcome. Jim writes... Ive found this to be the hardest bit. Using avisynth or virtualdub, no matter which filters i use, the output looks no better than the input. What's your input process, and what format does it end up in?  Alot of the cheapie capture stuff will deinterlace, etc for you before dumping it in MPEG-2 or something worse (and means Avisynth filters have no interlacing, or decent source to work with) ... My workflow is posted somewhere around here, let me see if I can find it ... Tek I too am needing to get my family videos burnt to DVD.  The companies charging $20-60 per tape, are they worth it and are they most likely going to produce the best quality possible?  I only have about 7 VHS that I need done. If you have a spare slot in your pc something like this would be ok. I have used one for VHS to dvd and it worked fine. Comes with all the CyberLink software needed. Makes nice menus and stuff. you can also just save it to avi or mp4 or whatever. Has HDMI as well as a breakout cable with s-video component composite etc http://www.hwp.ru/Multime dia/AverTV_crystalHD_capture _pro/images/AverTV_capture_crystal_hd_1.jpg Under $100 on staticice http://www.avermedi a.com/Product/ProductDetail. aspx?Id=528 http://www.sta ticice.com.au/cgi-bin/search .cgi?q=DarkCrystal+HD+Capture+Pro =3 The VHS I used was a Panasonic NV-HV60. http://img12.slando. kz/images_slandokz/65210777_ 1_644x461_videomagnitofon-pa nasonic-nv-hv60-almaty.jpg I still keep my old Philips DVD recorder with Component input. It has usual composite as well as S-video, SONY iLink and works well burning what ever content it gets feed into DVD+R/RW blank. I'm still in search of VCR with S-Video output for cheap price... :p baobei writes... Looking to convert my old home movies from VHS to digital. Most important first step:  is this standard VHS or camcorder VHS-C/Video8/Hi8/DV ? dj898 writes... I'm still in search of VCR with S-Video output for cheap price... :p This is a ripper. http://www.ebay.com.a u/itm/JVC-HR-DVS2EU-MiniDV-S -VHS-VIDEO-CASSETTE-RECORDER -/330909136306? =AU_VCRs =true IanD writes... Most important first step: is this standard VHS or camcorder VHS-C/Video8/Hi8/DV ? Not a clue! Looks like I need to be on the look out for a VCR with S-Video.  I think I've found a DVD/VCR combo to borrow, so will try that first as an easy attempt, and see what the quality is like. baobei writes... Not a clue! What I meant was:  are the home movies available from miniature camcorder tapes or only on standard size VHS cassettes? If you have the original miniature camcorder tapes, some camcorders have inbuilt TBC and/or digital methods of transferring the data to a PC. Either you transferred your original camcorder recordings to a VHS deck or it was a really old camcorder that used standard size VHS cassettes. Depending on what you have will suggest the highest quality and/or easiest method of transfer. I think I've found a DVD/VCR combo to borrow, so will try that first as an easy attempt, and see what the quality is like. Being able to borrow equipment to try out is the best first approach. theslydog writes... This is a ripper. +1 The key ingredient is there: in the listing the seller states "DigiPure Technology TBC" IanD writes... What I meant was: are the home movies available from miniature camcorder tapes or only on standard size VHS cassettes? Aah, ok, that makes more sense!  Nope, only available as standard size VHS tapes, they were converted to this way back when we recorded them. Jim writes... Any recommendations you can make regarding the process would be most welcome. Ok, found my original post:  /forum-replies.cfm?t=2034819 &# r15 However, for the most flexibility, I still recommend the  Black Magic Intensity Shuttle  for $US199 ... or browse the rest of the  Intensity range  ... Here's my process: - capture from the Intensity via USB3.0 to RAW format, to save space, I convert the RAW format to UTVideo (can skip this step, most NLE video editors like Premier, Vegas and EDIUS will import the Black Magic RAW format directly) ... - start AvsPmod (it's and Avisynth script editor/writer/preview) with my "default" script (it has a heap of stuff already written, like deinterlace, denoise, color correction, etc) - drag and drop the UTVideo into it (my AvsPmod is setup to detect UTVideo and write the correct input source line for Avisynth) - play with the "Sliders" in AvsPmod that set the parameters for each script (as I move the slider, the results of that parameter and script are directly visible in AvsPmod) ... - once happy with the preview, cuts, transitions, titles, deinterlacing, denoising, color correction, etc, I then save the Avisynth file (it's just a text file with an AVS extension instead) - I then double click a BAT file that essentially launches x264 (from the commandline) to accept the Avisynth script as input, and convert the resulting Avisynth output to H.264. The BAT file also launches FFMPEG to process the audio output of the same Avisynth script. The BAT file also merges the x264 video output and the FFMPEG AC3 output into an MKV file :P The capture and the deinterlacing are the most crucial parts to maintain "quality" ... Tek theslydog writes... This is a ripper. http://www.ebay.com .au/itm/JVC-HR-DVS2EU-MiniDV -S-VHS-VIDEO-CASSETTE-RECORD ER-/330909136306? =AU_VCRs =true Ive never seen a dual VHS and MiniDV deck before. If a VHS tape is recorded to MiniDV, what then?  Such decks have ieee1394 output. How would this connect to a PC to encode as h264 video? baobei writes... Nope, only available as standard size VHS tapes, they were converted to this way back when we recorded them. Do you still have the original mini tapes?  They would be the best source to use.  There would have been some loss going from camcorder tape- > VHS. Can someone knowledgeable recommend me a product or advise on what to look for? I have both VHS and VHS-C tapes. I also have a late model VCR with S-video and an old video camera with RCA outputs I also have some Digital8 tapes and video camera with USB streaming but has no analog passthrough unfortunately. I want to store in raw format so that I can restore and edit the videos, learning as I go along. Budget is  < $500 total, would prefer to use open source software but will buy software if it offers reasonable advantages and fits the budget. Thanks in advance :) XaDvAnT writes... I also have some Digital8 tapes and video camera with USB streaming which I assume won't require a capture card. To transfer video from your Digital8 camera to your PC, you do not use USB. You use a Firewire cable (IEEE1394)  http://www.amazon.com/b?ie=UTF8 =464396 You capture is real time and the video quality captured is an exact copy of what's on the tape. Size will be 13GB/hour and captured in the DV-AVI codec. You can use WinDV to capture which is free. I have both VHS and VHS-C tapes. I also have a late model VCR with S-video and an old video camera with RCA outputs In order to get VHS/VHS-C tapes onto your computer, you will need a analog-to-digital converter. You can use something like an ADVC-55 to ADVC-110 http://www.grassvall ey.com/products/advc55 htt p://www.grassvalley.com/products/advc110 You plug your VCR into the ADVC55/110 using the RCA or S-Video cables and then connect a Firewire cable from the ADVC55/110 to your PC. They will output at 13GB/hour using the DV-AVI codec. You can use WinDV to capture which is free. If you don't want to buy an AVDC55 or ADVC110, you can use your current Digital8 camcorder to digitize your video. Simply plug in the output of your VCR into your Digital8 camcorder and then connect your Digital8 camcorder to your PC using a Firewire cable. The Digital8 camcorder will output at 13GB/hour using the DV-AVI codec. You can use WinDV to capture which is free. Hope this helps. Thanks, that confirmed what I already had in my mind :) The VCR I intend to use is a Samsung DVD-VR330 (playback only, not using the DVD recorder) as it has S-Video output. Is there a substantial gain in quality if I go with an SVHS player instead? They are going on eBay for around $200. Not sure what to think about TBC... can't seem to find if the Samsung VCR has it built in, or whether I should get a capture device with TBC, or use a standalone TBC device. The Canopus / Grass Valley devices look perfect, but is there something better? Would like to keep my options open :) XaDvAnT writes... The Canopus / Grass Valley devices look perfect, but is there something better? Would like to keep my options open :) I suppose you could look at the Blackmagic range: http://www.blackmagicd esign.com/products/h264prore corder/ http://www.blackma gicdesign.com/products/intensity/ ...but considering your source is VHS/VHS-C, I think anything more than the Canopus device would be overkill. Take a read through Tekno's posts. He does this for a living so can give practical advice.  /user/9966 A lot of the improvement of the video is done via a PC, using scripts and filters. Thanks for the advice :) I've been considering getting a device that provides Time Based Correction, can anyone provide some advice on that? XaDvAnT writes... I've been considering getting a device that provides Time Based Correction, can anyone provide some advice on that? Yes, highly recommended. JVC made several models, mostly up-market S-VHS machines with TBC included. I'm using an HR-S7600AM for this very purpose. friesian writes... Simply plug in the output of your VCR into your Digital8 camcorder and then connect your Digital8 camcorder to your PC using a Firewire cable. The Digital8 camcorder will output at 13GB/hour using the DV-AVI codec. You can use WinDV to capture which is free. This is your best experimental starting point as you already have the equipment.  You may find that the output quality is satisfactory without a TBC, but if not you can look into that next. Try both composite and s-video connections to see which is best. A Canopus ADVC55/110 is unlikely to be significantly better than the Digital8 as an analogue- > digital converter. Hi Everyone, I have a similar problem. I have 1 VHS, 9 DV and 1 VHS-C which I wish to convert to a digital file so I can preserve them for generations to come. As they are all family recordings. I have the handheld camcorder for the 9 DV's and although I read over some forums I am still confused as to how to use the camcorder to help convert the DV's to digital file? About the VHS and VHS-C what would be the best hardware I can get my hands on in order to convert them to a digital file? I want to preserve or preferably enhance the quality of the VHS and VHS-C during the process. Any recommendations of brands? models? etc for VHS it'd be easier to get hold of VHS/DVD recorder combo as it will record from VHS to DVD+/-R media. with DV and/or miniDV it'd be easier to record into your PC using iLink(Firewire) cable if you still have the camcorder. For such a small amount of tapes I wouldn't buy hardware. It'd be more cost effective to have them professionally converted instead. Hi Guys, I am looking to purchase a new VCR to convert my VHS and VHS-C tapes to digital. I was thinking of hooking the output of the VCR to my MiniDV Camera and capture to PC via Firewire. The problem is, the only VCR I have seen in stores is the LG RC689D DVD Recorder and VHS Combo. This is around $300 and that sounds like an awful lot for what I need. If the actual VHS part of the unit has great features/quality then I would be happy to pay that, but I am a bit hesitant that it may be just as good as a standard VCR. I have about 50 tapes and in my current VCR some play great and others have a lot of noise/tracking issues. I alter the tracking but I either get flickering or that image noise that is common with VHS. Has anyone had any hands on with the LG DVD/VHS combo? Thanks! ADSL writes... I have about 50 tapes and in my current VCR some play great and others have a lot of noise/tracking issues. I alter the tracking but I either get flickering or that image noise that is common with VHS. You'd probably want to get a second hand S-VHS player instead:  http://www.digitalfaq.com/gui des/video/capture-playback-hardware.htm ADSL writes... I am looking to purchase a new VCR to convert my VHS and VHS-C tapes to digital. I was thinking of hooking the output of the VCR to my MiniDV Camera and capture to PC via Firewire. Has anyone had any hands on with the LG DVD/VHS combo? I have one of the LG units myself, although it doesn't have firewire connection, it will do what you want through other connections. If the actual VHS part of the unit has great features/quality then I would be happy to pay that, but I am a bit hesitant that it may be just as good as a standard VCR. As far as playback goes (which is really the only job it needs to do) it does ok. Whether the results are acceptable or not is purely subjective, my definition of acceptable might be completely different to yours. I have stated this a couple of times on threads here.....you can't beat the simplicity the LG offers as far as archiving the tapes onto DVD and getting rid of the tapes themselves. If improving the picture quality is a priority, the LG won't be the final solution, but you can't beat the 2-step dubbing option for simplicity/ease-of-use. [edit to add   whether it's worth $300, I would say it can be had   cheaper  , and there are other options in that price bracket that have more flexibility....ie a  video capture card  if you have PC capable enough to run it](extra edit- this would of course mean more work to get the final product) XaDvAnT writes... You'd probably want to get a second hand S-VHS player instead:  http://www.digitalfaq.com/gui des/video/capture-playback-hardware.htm I'm looking for affordable miniDV play deck to convert my collection of miniDV recording to DVD or Blu-Ray copies. ADSL writes... I have about 50 tapes and in my current VCR some play great and others have a lot of noise/tracking issues. I alter the tracking but I either get flickering or that image noise that is common with VHS. Another thought occurs   how long has it been since the heads were cleaned on your current VCR, and the belts replaced? If it has been a while, that could cause  ~some~  of those issues [edit   or could be making them worse] T_G Similar question asked here  whrl.pl/Rd67v8 That_Guy writes... Another thought occurs   how long has it been since the heads were cleaned on your current VCR, and the belts replaced? If it has been a while, that could cause ~some~ of those issues [edit   or could be making them worse] T_G Thanks for all the replies. I must mention, I won't be using the DVD recorder part of the LG if I purchased it, only the VCR for playback. I have a PC Capture setup that is all sorted. Problem is finding one of these recommended VCR's in Australia. I am more than happy to just take the composite or S-Video out of the VCR/Unit but the actual unit itself needs to handle the VHS Tapes well enough. All the post cleanup etc will be taken care of on the PC so mainly just need the cleanest/best output from the VCR. If the LG can do that (and being brand new means no wear on the unit) then I will get it. My existing VCR is old and I haven't cleaned the heads or replaced any parts. I was hoping that buy new would mean I could avoid these issues, but as I read more it seems that being new doesn't mean a whole lot if the actual quality of the unit is sub par. ADSL writes... My existing VCR is old and I haven't cleaned the heads or replaced any parts. I was hoping that buy new would mean I could avoid these issues, but as I read more it seems that being new doesn't mean a whole lot if the actual quality of the unit is sub par. As far as playback goes, I actually preferred my ancient tank-sized top loader, but that's just me. The LG is acceptable picture quality as far as comparing to others I've had over the years.  The LG does have HDMI output in its favour, but whether that is worth $300......[edit to add] I will say though, it hasn't let me down in the ~4 or so years I've had mine, which is more than could be said for some others i've had (and gotten rid of) As per my earlier reply, it can be had cheaper than $300 if you look around [re-edit to add   cleaning the heads on your current vcr is fairly easy if you have the bits as well, and depending on model numbers the belts are usually easy to find, if you are that way inclined to DIY]  T_G That_Guy writes... As far as playback goes, I actually preferred my ancient tank-sized top loader, but that's just me. The LG is acceptable picture quality as far as comparing to others I've had over the years.  The LG does have HDMI output in its favour, but whether that is worth $300......[edit to add] I will say though, it hasn't let me down in the ~4 or so years I've had mine, which is more than could be said for some others i've had (and gotten rid of) As per my earlier reply, it can be had cheaper than $300 if you look around [re-edit to add   cleaning the heads on your current vcr is fairly easy if you have the bits as well, and depending on model numbers the belts are usually easy to find, if you are that way inclined to DIY]  T_G Thanks for the info. How is the LG VHS Combo with old tapes? Are you able to adjust the tracking or other options to get a better picture? The source isn't the best and I am not expecting miracles. I can look into cleaning my current VCR but I think I would be better off getting a better model and look into cleaning/fixing up that. I haven't had any issues with it playing old tapes. The tracking has the usual slight tweaks of course, but I have only had to use it very rarely. I'm inclined to agree with you that you might get better results with a better quality machine, especially when you can pay sometimes far less by leaving out the bits you won't use (like the DVD recorder function in this case) but then you have to find one that works for you.  Suffice to say the LG will work,  but I wouldn't pay $300 to find out if I could help it. I used to have VHS-C camcorder many years ago and before it died I recorded all VHS-C tapes to standard VHS tapes. Then about 10 years ago, I purchased Panasonic NV-DS50 DV camcorder and recorded all these VHS tapes to mini DV tapes (by connecting a VHS player to DV camera directly).  I am planning to edit these videos in Sony Vegas Pro 12 and I was wondering if I can achieve a good quality outcome at all given the fact that I used quite inferior method to transfer VHS to digital format.  Can anybody suggest a good template (or method) to complete this process in Sony Vegas? I am afraid that the video will have to be cropped to eliminate the bar at the bottom that now appears as a result of VHS to DV conversion. I still have all my VHS tapes but no device that can play them so re-digitalising or capturing directly to PC is not an option. freee writes... I still have all my VHS tapes but no device that can play them maybe buy the 2nd hand VHS < - > DVD recorder with dubbing feature. that way you can quickly(?) burn those VHS tapes to DVD and then you can rip them into movie files? afterwards sell the recorder to recoup the cost. dj898 writes... maybe buy the 2nd hand VHS < - > DVD recorder with dubbing feature. that way you can quickly(?) burn those VHS tapes to DVD and then you can rip them into movie files? afterwards sell the recorder to recoup the cost. I already have the avi files captured from mini DV tapes. I need to edit the videos in Sony Vegas first. I would like to render them as MPEG2 files and play them when I want via Media Centre. DVD as a medium is not something that is suitable for me. The main issue for me is the quality I am going to be able to achieve due to the factors I mentioned. Everything you need to know about editing, converting, playing etc can be found here  http://www.videohelp.com/ Here is a VHS to h.264 conversion I did a few years ago. The weakest link in the chain was the actual VHS player. I was very pleased with the result considering the tape was nearly 20 years old. One thing I did learn was that to encode for DVD was very inferior than encoding using a HD format. The added bonus is that the file size was smaller too. (Modern codecs are far superior that old DVD codecs. I bought a cheap online video adaptor from EBAY. See what you think, (Besides the start of the video) https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wBHs4z6X3co I has never realised how "poor" the recordings were from old vhs tapes :) YNNEBBENNY writes... The weakest link in the chain was the actual VHS player. provided the VHS tape is original copy it's best to use S-VHS player to output S-Video which will be marked improvement over the Composite output.  Problem is S-VHS player is getting harder to come by as times goes by... :x freee writes... I would like to render them as MPEG2 files and play them when I want via Media Centre. DVD as a medium is not something that is suitable for me. for me the issue was to burn into DVD and sent to relatives and parents so DVD burner was much more handy. :) freee writes... I already have the avi files captured from mini DV tapes. I need to edit the videos in Sony Vegas first. I would like to render them as MPEG2 files and play them when I want via Media Centre. Editing can also be done using Avisynth, Virtualdub (both freeware) and a good free DV codec. Better to encode as H.264 for smaller file size. Mpeg2 is still a very capable codec if it is not bit-starved, but H.264 can achieve equivalent or even better quality in less space. Just wondering if someone can recommend a hardware device that is a reasonable price? I'm thinking sub $100 Sir Knight Slydog writes... This is a ripper. http://www.ebay.com.a u/itm/JVC-HR-DVS2EU-MiniDV-S -VHS-VIDEO-CASSETTE-RECORDER -/330909136306? =AU_VCRs =true I would love to get one but  @ 355?  @ __ @ Need something bit cheaper as I may not need to keep for too long   just need to convert my small collection of VHS and miniDV tapes.  YNNEBBENNY writes... The weakest link in the chain was the actual VHS player. Not really, the weakest, poorest quality conversion in the chain is the "de-interlacing" ... leaving the de-interlacing up to the playback device (as you would expect to be the best "quality" method) still provides poor results in this day and age ... My post below links to a 100MB de-interlace example showing the differences between realtime and offline de-interlacing ... Can also see some examples of different cleanups in my previous posts: /forum-replies.cfm?t=1685367#r17 Tek Tekno writes... leaving the de-interlacing up to the playback device (as you would expect to be the best "quality" method) still provides poor results in this day and age In this age of large screens, I would be more inclined to simply decode SD interlaced fields and map them 1:1 to alternate pixel rows on the desktop, with the only scaling being in the horizontal direction to achieve the correct aspect ratio.  Sure the image will only take up about   of the screen, but this helps appearance of SD as it is closest to the way it used to be presented on CRT and no need for complex de-interlacing algorithms. Grubsy writes... Just wondering if someone can recommend a hardware device that is a reasonable price? I'm thinking sub $100 I use an old sony mini-tape digital video camera as a pass-through device. The VHS output goes into the Sony and the digital signal then passes into a PC via firewire port. Captured and edited using premiere pro. Results are great (depending on the initial source). Cameras like that are everywhere gathering dust because they are obsolete for taking video. There are cheaper/free alternatives to premiere pro. So all you need is an unwanted camera with pass-through, a pc with firewire input, capture/editing software and away you go. basilb writes... I use an old sony mini-tape digital video camera as a pass-through device. I used to use my miniDV camcorder connected to SONY DVD Burner standalone unit   I picked one at the Big Camera many years ago while vising Namba Town in Osaka   via i-Link cable. The result was very good   alas I lost the battery for the miniDV camcorder and haven't had much luck finding the suitable battery   actually I wanted the main power adapter unit that went into the battery slot and you could connect to the main power thus negating the need for the battery. Maybe the camcorder is just too old for the suitable spare parts to be found... I've read through the posts but got a bit lost, but my question is related   I have a Samsung combo VCR-DVD player that always worked fine until I got rid of my CRT TV. The player only has the red-yellow-white AV outputs. I have 2 different generic brand flat-screen TVs that have the AV inputs but  they both say "no signal" when I connect the player. is there a converter to DVI or other input that I could test whether or not there is output from the player? Seems unlikely that it would have failed just when I switched TVs.  Any other suggestions? I am loathe to just throw it out without trying something. Thanks :) Have you tried with new RCA cables? Is there an S-Video output you can try? loghl writes... The player only has the red-yellow-white AV outputs. I have 2 different generic brand flat-screen TVs that have the AV inputs but  they both say "no signal" when I connect the player. The yellow socket is the composite video connection: make sure you have yellow connected to yellow and don't bother about audio for now. Try a different cable in case the yellow cable was broken during the transition:  cables are meant to be pulled by the connector, but some people just yank on the cable. Some TVs have multiple composite video inputs:  make sure you are selecting the correct one in the TV. Check the player settings to make sure the output is activated and that there aren't other outputs that can be selected, disabling the composite output:  I had an LG combo that had HDMI as well as composite. If you can't get a signal on different TVs with different cables and making sure settings are correct, the player video output is likely faulty. Finally, the player might not output a signal unless a source is active:  since it is a recorder as well as a player, perhaps you have the source set to some input connector that has nothing connected to it. friesian writes... Then you'll need an analog to digital converter. I would avoid purchasing a USB dongle at all costs. Get something like an ADVC55 or ADVC110 http://www.grassvalle y.com/products/advc_professional_family I have this exact unit. The 110. Had it since 2005 and was branded Canopus at that time. It works a treat! Haven't used it much in the last 5 years but it's something I'll hang onto. http://www.ebay.com.au/itm/l ike/381547514079?limghlpsr=t rue =2 =true =1 & hlpht=true =107 =ps _noapp=true thanks very much for this info. I've saved the links; as you say, something to keep. :) OK, I pulled out my box of spare connectors, cables and all sorts of things that might come in handy one day, and found spare AV cables. I tried my non-Android TV and got it to work for VCR! TV couldn't handle DVDs   said problem with discs even though they're quite new. Maybe DVD codings have changed since the player was made. Anyway, I have other DVD players, wanted the VCR. So brilliant, Blues Brothers hits the deck first ... Thanks for your comprehensive reply; all good info stored for later reference. :) I bought a h264 composite hdmi standalone capture box it works fine http://www.ebay.com.au/i tm/191799517524?_trksid=p205 7872.m2749.l2649 =STRK%3AMEBIDX%3AIT Sorry for hijacking this thread but, I'm about to sell one of the all-time best ever Pro Super-VHS VCR's; A JVC HR-S7600EU. Purchased it on eBay UK a few months ago to digitize all my VCR tapes; process is now complete so looking to sell the unit.  I don't know if selling is 'allowed' here on Whirlpool so, apologies if this post is inappropriate.  Just saw this post about digitizing so thought a user on this post could make great use of my JVC.  Just looking to get back what I paid for it.. PM me if interested (saves me having to go through the eBay hassle!). A Pro-VCR FAQ below lists the virtues of the 7600. http://www.digitalfaq.com/fo rum/video-restore/1567-vcr-buying-guide.html Cheers Doobie12 writes... JVC HR-S7600EU ^^ Same unit I use ;) These decks were popular in Cardiac Ultrasound machines and review stations ...  If you can find a Cardiology practice that has been around for a while, they will often have a few of these stored away from the days when cardiac ultrasound were recorded to S-VHS video tapes ;) Tek When I was buying it, I did try that =).  I had no luck finding any of these high end units anywhere..  So, had to buy on eBay overseas. But I'm so impressed at the quality of the digitization.  So glad I researched and bought this model.  =). Looks beautiful even on my 60" plasma! Reelbox Video  &  Photo Avoid at all costs. REELBOX LOST FOOTAGE. They sent last footage of my grandfather express post (un-insured) with no tracking. (And deleted the backup) Then had the nerve to tell me to make a claim when it was NOT INSURED so all I get is an express post bag. Won't refund lost the film and USB stick. Check terms. Yeah right. XeonDigital writes... Avoid at all costs. REELBOX LOST FOOTAGE. They sent last footage of my grandfather express post (un-insured) with no tracking. (And deleted the backup) Sorry to hear that. I would always be wary of sending original tapes via mail. There's always the possibility of it going missing there or back. My preference would be somebody local. Even so, if the footage was that valuable I would have made a copy of the tapes myself before handing them over to be professionally transferred. That being said, Reelbox should have at least kept their backups until you received the footage. Poor form there. Just to clarify. Reelbox did not lose the footage. As clearly stated in our terms of service   We successfully digitised and sent back via Australia Post Express Satchel with full tracking. We keep all files backed up for a period of 30 days after invoice in the event of loss. The files were deleted after the 30 day period as stipulated in our terms. Contact from the customer was not made during this time. We are very sorry for the loss however our terms state clearly that the responsibility of items falls to the owner once it leaves our premises as we cannot speak for or be responsible for any courier or postal companies. Reelbox writes... We are very sorry for the loss however our terms state clearly that the responsibility of items falls to the owner once it leaves our premises as we cannot speak for or be responsible for any courier or postal companies. However being asses about strict backup terms and not keeping copies is also pretty pathetic ... I have backup tapes with copies of client data from 5+ years ago, and my three video processing servers run 24/7 ... and I have gone back a few times this year to pull old client files ... Even archiving it to H.265 and storing on a HDD for years is also a more customer friendly approach ... Tek Reelbox writes... that the responsibility of items falls to the owner once it leaves our premises as we cannot speak for or be responsible for any courier or postal companies The ACCC would disagree with you. You might not be able to help a third party losing an item but it is a reasonably foreseeable problem. Your terms and conditions are misleading and that can cop you a pretty heft fine (just ask MSY). If a few gigabytes of storage is more precious than your reputation you will probably be seeing less customers as a result of this. You ought to reconsider your policies and ensure that you are providing the best service you can in such a competitive market. XaDvAnT writes... The ACCC would disagree with you. You might not be able to help a third party losing an item but it is a reasonably foreseeable problem. Your terms and conditions are misleading and that can cop you a pretty heft fine (just ask MSY). What is misleading about the terms and conditions? Reelbox state that they will keep a copy of the footage for 30 days and then it will be deleted. I'm sure if they had been asked to keep it for a longer period (i.e. if the recipient did not receive their DVDs in the mail) then they would have. You can't expect somebody to keep data indefinitely. Tekno seems to be happy to  keep gigabytes of information for years but I bet he charges signifcantly more than Reelbox. And even if he doesn't, you can't dictate how long a business should keep someone's data. friesian writes... What is misleading about the terms and conditions? By declaring that the delivery is the responsibility of the customer. Anything sent by post/courier is the responsibility of the sender and they must replace it if it doesn't arrive. friesian writes... And even if he doesn't, you can't dictate how long a business should keep someone's data. I am sure I do charge more, but there is much more offered like TBC, superior de-interlace, superior edge masked   motion compensated   spacial and temporal denoise, deshake, color correct, etc ... but I charge per full minute of final product, however, what the customer pays is not the reason I keep data! My contractual terms and conditions (laid out somewhere on these forums, as is my typical VHS to digital hardware and workflows!) also actually states that final product will not be available beyond 30 days (with access via a secure unique URL), but I do actually keep an archival copy of the final product ... I do that specifically for reputation and customer service (it's a small cost for the continual positive word of mouth a customer generates when they come back years later for an archived copy of the product; even though my contract terms and conditions are only 30 days as well)! Tek 