Body Mind Spirit Radio November 26, 2019 | Posted in  Beautiful Earth with Barbra White ,  Featured Guest Leave a Comment Airs  12/24/2019    10:00-11:00am Welcome to the “Beautiful Earth” radio show, a one-hour celebration of our “Great Mother Earth” with host Barbra White. Barbra is a holistic therapist, a gifted psychic, and bestselling author. Each month she is joined by Dynamic Leaders on cutting edge of Ecopsychology, Feminism, Sacred Sexuality, Ecology, Raw Food, Macrobiotics, Spirituality, Sustainability and more… Spirituality Beautiful Earth with Barbra White BodyMindSpirit Radio Upcoming Episode 00:00 00:00 BlogTalkRadio × Share  Facebook  Twitter  Email Embed AIRTIME 10-11AM See More → September 27, 2019 | Posted in  Beautiful Earth with Barbra White ,  Featured Guest Leave a Comment Airs  10/22/2019    10:00-11:00am Welcome to the “Beautiful Earth” radio show, a one-hour celebration of our “Great Mother Earth” with host Barbra White. Barbra is a holistic therapist, a gifted psychic, and bestselling author. Each month she is joined by Dynamic Leaders on cutting edge of Ecopsychology, Feminism, Sacred Sexuality, Ecology, Raw Food, Macrobiotics, Spirituality, Sustainability and more… Spirituality Beautiful Earth with Barbra White BodyMindSpirit Radio 00:00 00:00 BlogTalkRadio × Share  Facebook  Twitter  Email Embed AIRTIME 10-11AM See More → August 31, 2019 | Posted in  Beautiful Earth with Barbra White ,  Featured Guest Leave a Comment Airs  9/24/2019    10:00-11:00am Welcome to the “Beautiful Earth” radio show, a one-hour celebration of our “Great Mother Earth” with host Barbra White. Barbra is a holistic therapist, a gifted psychic, and bestselling author. Each month she is joined by Dynamic Leaders on cutting edge of Ecopsychology, Feminism, Sacred Sexuality, Ecology, Raw Food, Macrobiotics, Spirituality, Sustainability and more… Spirituality Beautiful Earth with Barbra White BodyMindSpirit Radio 00:00 00:00 BlogTalkRadio × Share  Facebook  Twitter  Email Embed AIRTIME 10-11AM See More → August 3, 2019 | Posted in  Beautiful Earth with Barbra White ,  Featured Guest Leave a Comment Airs  8/27/2019    10:00-11:00am Welcome to the “Beautiful Earth” radio show, a one-hour celebration of our “Great Mother Earth” with host Barbra White. Barbra is a holistic therapist, a gifted psychic, and bestselling author. Each month she is joined by Dynamic Leaders on cutting edge of Ecopsychology, Feminism, Sacred Sexuality, Ecology, Raw Food, Macrobiotics, Spirituality, Sustainability and more… Spirituality Beautiful Earth with Barbra White BodyMindSpirit Radio 00:00 00:00 BlogTalkRadio × Share  Facebook  Twitter  Email Embed AIRTIME 10-11AM See More → June 3, 2019 | Posted in  Beautiful Earth with Barbra White ,  Featured Guest Leave a Comment Airs  7/23/2019    10:00-11:00am Is Heart Break Real?? My guests, cardiologist Dr. Alica Williams and Clinical social worker Erin Stohl, would say yes. Find out the fascinating reasons why heartbreak is not in your imagination and discover ways to heal.  Alicia Williams, DO, Integrative Cardiologist (Board certified Cardiology) from the Center for Optimal Health in East Lansing and Erin Stohl, LMSW. A clinical social worker with a holistic psychotherapy practice in Plymouth. Spirituality Beautiful Earth with Barbra White BodyMindSpirit Radio 00:00 00:00 BlogTalkRadio × Share  Facebook  Twitter  Email Embed AIRTIME 10-11AM See More → April 10, 2019 | Posted in  Beautiful Earth with Barbra White ,  Featured Guest Leave a Comment Airs  4/29/2019 AIRTIME April 29th 10-11AM Spirituality Women’s Holistic Health Symposium, on “Beautiful Earth” BodyMindSpirit Radio 00:00 00:00 BlogTalkRadio × Share  Facebook  Twitter  Email Embed See More → November 2, 2018 | Posted in  Featured Guest ,  InTouch Interviews Leave a Comment INTOUCH INTERVIEW with Barbra White and Michael McAdams, author of An Angel Told Me So An Angel Told Me So This amazing collection of messages and teachings dictated directly from spirit teachers/angels from the other side compose Wilma Jean Jones  book  An Angel Told Me So.  The depth and quality of these messages and teachings received and the personal nature of this material engages and allows readers to feel they also are being spoken to on a level that reflects what they are personally experiencing and speaks to the heart of those willing to accept the divine nature of this deep and thought-provoking material. This body of material not only offers proof of the existence of a spiritual realm outside this physical plane but presents communications in the form of messages and teachings dictated directly from spirit teachers/angels who inhabit this spiritual realm. These messages and teachings received by Wilma Jean appear to be woven with a universal thread that speaks directly to all sincere seekers of truth on a personal level as each reader feels that they are being addressed as they deal with what is transpiring in their lives. As you read this material know that you too are being spoken to directly by the spirit teachers/angels inhabiting this realm and that these messages and teachings are intended for your guidance and the advancement of your purpose in this existence. Know that as you read this material these teachings apply to your situations and that you are not alone as you walk your chosen path. Note the numerous first-person references of these spirit teachers to themselves as  we, our,  and  us.  The depth and quality of these messages and teachings are unlike anything you have ever read before. Airtime  November 12 at 10 a.m. Spirituality InTouch Interviews with Barbra White and Michael McAdams BodyMindSpirit Radio 00:00 00:00 BlogTalkRadio × Share  Facebook  Twitter  Email Embed See More → November 2, 2018 | Posted in  Beautiful Earth with Barbra White ,  Featured Guest Leave a Comment Airs  11/27/2018 Welcome to the “Beautiful Earth” radio show, a one-hour celebration of our “Great Mother Earth” with host Barbra White. Barbra is a holistic therapist, a gifted psychic, and bestselling author. Each month she is joined by Dynamic Leaders on cutting edge of Ecopsychology, Feminism, Sacred Sexuality, Ecology, Raw Food, Macrobiotics, Spirituality, Sustainability and more… AIRTIME 10-11AM Spirituality Beautiful Earth with Barbra White and Michael McAdams BodyMindSpirit Radio 00:00 00:00 BlogTalkRadio × Share  Facebook  Twitter  Email Embed See More → August 27, 2018 | Posted in  Beautiful Earth with Barbra White ,  Featured Guest Leave a Comment Air date  8/28/2018 Welcome to the “Beautiful Earth” radio show, this episode is about  John E. Fetzer and the Quest for the New Age  follows the spiritual sojourn of John E. Fetzer, a Michigan business tycoon. Born in 1901 and living most of his life in Kalamazoo, Fetzer parlayed his first radio station into extensive holdings in broadcasting and other enterprises, leading to his sole ownership of the Detroit Tigers in 1961. By the time he died in 1991, Fetzer had been listed in  Forbes  magazine as one of the four hundred wealthiest people in America.  https://www.amazon.com/Fetzer-Quest-Great-Lakes-Books/dp/0814345301 AIRTIME 10-11AM Spirituality Beautiful Earth with Barbra White BodyMindSpirit Radio 00:00 00:00 BlogTalkRadio × Share  Facebook  Twitter  Email Embed See More → July 17, 2018 | Posted in  Featured Guest ,  InTouch Interviews Leave a Comment Barbra White Interviews Life Coach Diane Kasunic, HeartMath Certified Coach and Mentor Studies conducted with over 11,500 people have shown improvements in mental  &  emotional well-being in just 6-9 weeks using HeartMath training and technology, find out more in this episode of InTouch InterViews Our guest is Diane Kasunic is a  Reiki Master  and doctor of educational sociology and has worked with many corporations and in academia as a college professor of business management and leadership.  She has owned and operated multiple businesses, including a franchise. She does volunteer work regularly and has worked with many senior centers and substance rehabilitation facilities.  Dr. Kasunic is currently a Life Coach and Mentor, Certified by HeartMath providing services to individuals, groups, and organizations; and the Davenport University adjunct faculty.  Meet her at the Body, Mind and Spirit Festival on  September 8  at Unity of Farmington and the Body, Mind, and Spirit Festival at Unity of Livonia on  October 6th .  https://www.facebook.com/DobraLifeCoaching/ Airtime  July 23 at 11 a.m. Spirituality Barbra White Interviews Life Coach Diane Kasunic, HeartMath Certified Coach BodyMindSpirit Radio 00:00 00:00 BlogTalkRadio × Share  Facebook  Twitter  Email Embed See More → July 17, 2018 | Posted in  Beautiful Earth with Barbra White ,  Featured Guest Leave a Comment Airs  8/28/2018 Welcome to the “Beautiful Earth” radio show, a one-hour celebration of our “Great Mother Earth” with host Barbra White. Barbra is a holistic therapist, a gifted psychic, and bestselling author. Each month she is joined by Dynamic Leaders on cutting edge of Ecopsychology, Feminism, Sacred Sexuality, Ecology, Raw Food, Macrobiotics, Spirituality, Sustainability and more… Guest the episode  “Beautiful Earth” is all about  SASHA Farm  | Sanctuary and Safe Haven for Animals  http://www.sashafarm.org/ SASHA Farm is the Midwest s largest farm animal sanctuary. They provide animals with food and water, veterinary care and a roof over their heads, they also give the animal residents affection, social interaction with others of their own species, and a sense of security. Sasha was a wonderful canine companion, a true friend, who lived and loved for 17 years. In honor and in memory of this beloved dog, her caretakers chose to name their sanctuary “SASHA Farm.” The name SASHA is also an acronym for the animal rescue operation – Sanctuary And Safe Haven for Animals. The sanctuary currently shelters over 200 animals, each with its own healing story to tell. AIRTIME 10-11AM c Spirituality Beautiful Earth with Barbra White introduces Sasha Farms BodyMindSpirit Radio 00:00 00:00 BlogTalkRadio × Share  Facebook  Twitter  Email Embed See More → June 19, 2018 | Posted in  Aetherius Radio Live ,  Featured Guest Leave a Comment Aetherius Radio Live. Discover the Cosmic Message for this Age revealed through legendary Master of Yoga and world-renowned medium, Dr. George King, between 1954 and 1997. Covering the wisdom of outer space to help you realize the potential of inner space, the Nine Freedoms, Ascended Master, The Twelve Blessings and more! Co-hosted by international broadcasters and authors, Richard Lawrence and Chrissie Blaze. This month guest  is Brian Keneipp, join us for an exciting show! AIRTIME 1-2pm Spirituality Aetherius Radio Live with guest Brian Keneipp BodyMindSpirit Radio 00:00 00:00 BlogTalkRadio × Share  Facebook  Twitter  Email Embed See More → May 22, 2018 | Posted in  Beautiful Earth with Barbra White ,  Featured Guest Leave a Comment Welcome to the “Beautiful Earth” radio show, a one-hour celebration of our “Great Mother Earth” with host Barbra White. Barbra is a holistic therapist, gifted psychic, and bestselling author. Each month she is joined by Dynamic Leaders on cutting edge of Ecopsychology, Feminism, Sacred Sexuality, Ecology, Raw Food, Macrobiotics, Spirituality, Sustainability and more…  Barbra s Guest this month :  Dr. Robert Alexander  is the co-creator of Breath of Life. See more info about him below . AIRTIME 10-11AM Spirituality Beautiful Earth with Barbra White BodyMindSpirit Radio 00:00 00:00 BlogTalkRadio × Share  Facebook  Twitter  Email Embed Dr. Robert Alexander  is the co-creator of Breath of Life, a meditation app that promotes meditation, relaxation, stress reduction, and sleep induction through deep slow breathing supported by auditory biofeedback.  As a NASA fellow,   Dr. Robert Alexander   worked with scientists at Goddard Space Flight Center to transform our understanding of the sun and solar wind through auditory data analysis. Using this novel approach, his collaborative team produced the most sensitive diagnostic of the electron temperature in the solar wind source region. For this research, he was featured in Origin Magazine’s list of the top 100 creative leaders, and he received the Outstanding Achievement award from the Interna- tional Community on Auditory Display. He currently teaches sound design at the renowned Hong Kong Polytechnic Univer- sity School of Design, where his research focuses on music, meditation, and biofeedback. For the past several years he has traveled the globe hosting workshops on topics ranging from the Science of Bass to the Sonification of Space Data. He has constructed software interfaces for artistically exploring data from a wide range of sources including the human genome, real-time EEG data streams, human conflict, celestial orbits, weather patterns, and binary-star systems. As a multimedia artist, musician, and composer, Alexander has performed at venues such as the Metropolitan Museum and the Detroit Institute of Arts, as well international stages in Europe and South America. See his video here Contact him at  robertalexandermusic@gmail.com   and Join Barbra for this exciting interview! See More → February 5, 2018 | Posted in  Featured Guest ,  InTouch Interviews Leave a Comment In Touch Interviews Faithe Mintz Welcomes Faithe Mintz who will be joining the show to discuss Accepting who you are, stepping into your truth, self-love, self-empowerment, the divine feminine and so much more! Faithe aspires to be a public and transformational speaker and wants to help assist others in succeeding in life by rising above all obstacles. Faithe is a Claircognizant, Intuitive Writer, and Speaker. Faithe Mintz is a 26 year old African American woman and the Mother of a 4 year old boy. She was born and raised in Gainesville, Ga and graduated from Johnson High School in 2009. Faithe loves to encourage and inspire people to be themselves and to speak their truth. She offers: Energy Healing, Intuitive Channeling, Oracle Card Readings, Spiritual Baths. For more information please go to: Social Media: Facebook- Splendiferous Inspiration Instagram- Splendiferous Inspiration YouTube- dorianmintz Airtime 7-8 p.m. Spirituality In Touch Interviews w Faithe Mintz  &  The Divine Feminine BodyMindSpirit Radio 00:00 00:00 BlogTalkRadio × Share  Facebook  Twitter  Email Embed See More → December 26, 2017 | Posted in  Beautiful Earth with Barbra White ,  Featured Guest Leave a Comment Beautiful Earth with Barbra White. Celebrating the Great Mother through dynamic explorations around embodiment, natures gifts, sexuality, food and emotional awareness. Topic: This month we host Author Ginny Nadler who will be discussing her book,  Spiritual Anatomy: Realigning Body and Soul. Ginny Nadler Ginny Nadler s Book Ginny Nadler is the founder of Core Body Wisdom LLC, created to deliver the highest quality wellness initiatives and care to individuals, businesses, and health care organizations. Graduate studies in physical, medical, and cultural anthropology, as well as Holistic Health with a focus on nutrition, led her to seek more creative ways to discover where imbalance and distortion arises in human structure. She frequently travels for lectures and workshops. In Spiritual Anatomy, she presents a powerful approach for unraveling your deeply entangled distortions and bringing your body back into alignment. The book is filled with illuminating illustrations that detail the impact and control that the perineum has on a person s health. Ginny has discovered a key that has eluded physical therapists, doctors, and other medical professionals.  A chronically tight, contracted pelvic floor will congest, spiral, and twist muscle fibers, ultimately pulling the bones out of alignment and leading to pain and dysfunction,  she says. She includes many case histories of her patients and the complete healings that her Structural ReAlignment Integration® has achieved even in people who are wheelchair bound, in excruciating pain, using walkers or have lost hope for living a normal life. Ginny recounts her own story of physical and emotional pain, and how her search for an answer lead her to study yoga and numerous other healing and spiritual methodologies. A life-long fascination with body structure, starting as a young child, propelled her to seek solutions. And through her diligent self-study, she found them. Airtime 10-11 a.m. Spirituality Eco-sexuality with Barbra White BodyMindSpirit Radio 00:00 00:00 BlogTalkRadio × Share  Facebook  Twitter  Email Embed See More → November 28, 2017 | Posted in  Beautiful Earth with Barbra White ,  Featured Guest Leave a Comment Beautiful Earth with Barbra White. Celebrating the Great Mother through dynamic explorations around embodiment, natures gifts, sexuality, food and emotional awareness. Topic: This month we host sexual empowerment coach and best selling author of Lesbian Sex Secrets for men Amy Jo Goddard. Amy Jo Goddard The most common question I hear is “How did you get into this work?” Since helping people with their sexuality isn’t your everyday occupation, people are often curious about it. My work as a sexual empowerment expert has spanned over 20 years and came directly out of my feminist work to empower women in their bodies, relationships and in the world. It came out of my own history of not having the resources and guides I truly needed when I was grappling with difficult things about my sexuality. I know this is a very common human dilemma. We all need guides. I went on to find many mentors in my life who I’ve learned from and who have championed me to become the best version of myself I can be. And I, in turn, offer that mentorship to the people I help. I’m a California-New York hybrid with a passion for passion. I’m here to live full-out, and to explore the depths. It’s my Scorpio nature. Sexuality is so vast. I believe it is the core of who we are. When it’s wonky, it impacts everything in our lives: work, creativity, relationships, money. All things suffer when we are not in right relationship with the most intimate part of ourselves. And when we are in right relationship with it, everything opens up. Our sexuality is such an expansive part of who we are that when we expand our relationship to it, it helps us to be bigger, not just in the bedroom, but in the whole of our lives. Amy Jo Goddard I do not believe any of us are broken. We might be hurt. We might have been abandoned or abused. We may have had some traumatic experiences in our lives. We may feel really disconnected from our body and our desire. But we are whole and sometimes we are searching for the parts that maybe got lost along the way. I have had thousands of conversations with people about sexuality. Personal conversations where the most tender parts of people are revealed. It’s such an honor to receive those precious revelations and the trust of a person who shares their personal story. We all have a sexual story—and I think most people want to know its depths. What I hear over and over is that people want freedom, vibrancy, and to live life more fully and with more pleasure—they know these things will come from breaking through in their sexuality. I know this to be true because I’ve had the joy of witnessing it so many times in my life’s work. The women who come to me tend to be creative people on a spiritual path—they know that breaking through sexually is the obvious next step in their evolution as fully self-actualized people. I co-wrote the best-selling Lesbian Sex Secrets for Men (although I think more women have read it than men), now available in a second edition. This book shifts the perspective on sex away from the myopic lens that gets most people stuck and opens up new possibilities for how to approach sex, women’s bodies and pleasure. For more information please visit  amyjogoddard.com Airtime 10-11 a.m. Spirituality Eco Sexuality with Barbra White BodyMindSpirit Radio 00:00 00:00 BlogTalkRadio × Share  Facebook  Twitter  Email Embed See More → October 8, 2017 | Posted in  Featured Guest ,  InTouch Interviews Leave a Comment In Touch Interviews with Marybeth Rombach Nelson.   Author, Intuitive and Reiki Master, Marybeth Rombach Nelson joins to discuss her new book, “One Universal Source  &  You: Manifest The Life You Want Today.” Learn how to vibrate with the Universal source to manifest your life right now! You are a blank slate and you are capable of all things. Tapping into Universal Source-you by raising your vibration to match that which you want to manifest. Allow yourself to be the empowered soul that you are. Embrace self-affirmation and being you, your real self with respect and dignity. In reading this book you will become attuned to Universal Source. Marybeth Rombach Nelson is and author, spiritual teacher, Reiki Master and Reiki Teacher and an intuitive. She is the author of four books that are available on amazon. Her latest book ,”Paths To Your Soul-Self” is about finding your soul’s path in this lifetime. She also enjoys giving readings and teaching classes if you would like to contact her you can venture to   MarybethRombachNelson.com  or email at marybeth@spiritualintuitiv emb.com. You can also call 734-890-8581 to book your Reiki or Intuitive session. Watch her seminars on her YouTube channel,  youtube.com/watch Go to   amazon.com  to own your own copy and make sure to listen live! Airtime 7-8 p.m. Spirituality In Touch Interviews w Marybeth Rombach Nelson  &  Her New Book! BodyMindSpirit Radio 00:00 00:00 BlogTalkRadio × Share  Facebook  Twitter  Email Embed See More → August 22, 2017 | Posted in  Beautiful Earth with Barbra White ,  Featured Guest Leave a Comment Calling All Leaders  &  Healers. Andrew Harvey You are a unique expression of the Presence of Love. Self Acceptance opens you to your dynamic destiny. In a willingness to love yourself you become a leader, healer and a beneficial presence to others. Each show is inspirational power packed with teachings by Barbra White and world changing guests. Guest: SPECIAL RE-BROADCAST! Andrew Harvey will join the show to discuss his Institute for Sacred Activism, creating peace, sustainability, change and much more! Andrew Harvey is Founder Director of the Institute of Sacred Activism, an international organization focused on inviting concerned people to take up the challenge of our contemporary global crises by becoming inspired, effective, and practical agents of institutional and systemic change, in order to create peace and sustainability. Sacred Activism is a transforming force of compassion-in-action that is born of a fusion of deep spiritual knowledge, courage, love, and passion, with wise radical action in the world. The large-scale practice of Sacred Activism can become an essential force for preserving and healing the planet and its inhabitants. Andrew Harvey has taught at Oxford University, Cornell University, Hobart and William Smith Colleges, The California Institute of Integral Studies, and the University of Creation Spirituality as well as the at various spiritual centers throughout the United States. He was the subject of the 1993 BBC film documentary The Making of a Modern Mystic and appears also in Rumi Turning Ecstatic and The Consciousness of the Christ: Reclaiming Jesus for A New Humanity. He has also worked with the great Iranian Sufi dancer, Banfsheh Sayyad, in producing a film, In the Fire of Grace, which marries Sufi inspired dances to the stages of Rumi’s understanding of the path of Divine love. This 2011 film has had premiers in New York City, Los Angeles, Chicago and Paris, to great acclaim. For more information or to connect with Andrew Harvey please visit, andrewharvey.net Airtime 10-11 a.m. Spirituality Calling All Leaders  &  Healers BodyMindSpirit Radio 00:00 00:00 BlogTalkRadio × Share  Facebook  Twitter  Email Embed See More → August 9, 2017 | Posted in  Featured Guest ,  Journey Into Oneness Leave a Comment Journey Into Oneness. Journey Into Oneness with Darlene Sowa. Energy Medicine Practitioner, exercise physiologist and bona-fide nature lover, Darlene shares ideas and tools to assist you on your journey to rediscovering your wild and authentic nature, as well as, the abundant nature of the universe. Liz Gunn Monthly topics and guest will help you navigate these ever-changing times with new insights, renewed hope and empowering visions. Topic/Guest: Exploring a New Threshold of Potential and Possibility through Astrology with guest, Liz Gunn, Intuitive Astrologer. Liz Gunn is an Intuitive Astrologer with 30 years of experience as a skilled translator of planetary influences. My intuitive astrology readings specialize in shifting perceptions in order to see the gift in life’s challenges. From deep personal experience, I offer an uncommon wisdom that will inspire you to find faith and meaning in your own story. The focus of my work centers around the theme, “Know Your Chart – Know Your Self.” I believe we are each being asked to understand the nature of our humanity within the context of the rapidly changing paradigm of existing reality. The increasing demands of navigating the waters of self-change require a perceptual shift to broaden our self-awareness. We all have a threshold we must cross in order to embrace the highest frequency of Love available at this time. It is with great joy that I offer my gifts in service to help facilitate your moment of crossing. For more information please visit,  lizgunn.net Airtime 1-2 p.m. Spirituality Journey Into Oneness BodyMindSpirit Radio 00:00 00:00 BlogTalkRadio × Share  Facebook  Twitter  Email Embed See More → July 25, 2017 | Posted in  Beautiful Earth with Barbra White ,  Featured Guest Leave a Comment ENCORE SHOW June 2016! Calling All Leaders  &  Healers. Marianne Williamson Live interview with New York Times bestselling author Marianne Williamson. Barbra White will be discussing Marianne’s new book, TEARS TO TRIUMPH: The Spiritual Journey From Suffering to Enlightenment published in June of 2016. Marianne Williamson is an internationally acclaimed spiritual author and lecturer. Marianne has been a popular guest on television programs such as Oprah, Larry King Live, Good Morning America, Charlie Rose  &  Bill Maher. Six of her eleven published books have been New York Times Best Sellers. Four of these have been #1. The mega best seller A Return to Love is considered a must-read of The New Spirituality. A paragraph from that book, beginning “Our deepest fear is not that we are inadequate. Our deepest fear is that we are powerful beyond measure…” is considered an anthem for a contemporary generation of seekers. Her other books include The Law of Divine Compensation, The Age of Miracles, Everyday Grace, A Woman’s Worth, Illuminata, Healing the Soul of America, A Course in Weight Loss, The Gift of Change, and A Year of Miracles. For more information or to find out about upcoming events that include Marianne, visit her website at:  marianne.com Airtime 10-11 a.m. Spirituality Calling All Leaders  &  Healers w Marianne Williamson BodyMindSpirit Radio 00:00 00:00 BlogTalkRadio × Share  Facebook  Twitter  Email Embed See More → June 27, 2017 | Posted in  Beautiful Earth with Barbra White ,  Featured Guest Leave a Comment SPECIAL RE-BROADCAST August 2016 Dreams do come true. I am beyond excited I will be hosting inspirational power house Michael Bernard Beckwith on Barbra White Live: Calling All Leaders And Healers Series, on Body Mind Spirit radio Friday, April 22, at 4:30pm EST!!!! I will also be the featured guest on Dr. Beckwith’s Los Angeles show KPFK, Wake up: The Sound of Transformation July 28th at 4p.m. Eastern Time! How did I ‘make’ this happen? Well, the truest and most authentic answer is: the moment I gave up an obsession to “find the one” and realized that the “one” is within, opportunities showed up. Surrendering to what is truly Real (love, beauty, prosperity, wisdom) has been a moment by moment choice for me, a twenty year journey, (and of course will continue for the rest of my life). Michael Beckwith Dr. Beckwith is a highly sought after meditation teacher, conference speaker, and seminar leader on the Life Visioning Process, which he originated. Three of his most recent books—Life Visioning, Spiritual Liberation, and TranscenDance Expanded are recipients of the prestigious Nautilus Award. He has appeared on the Oprah Winfrey Network’s Super Soul Sessions, Dr. Oz, The Oprah Show, Larry King Live, Tavis Smiley, OWN’s HELP DESK and in his own PBS Special, The Answer Is You. Every Friday at 1 pm PST, thousands tune into his radio show on KPFK, Wake up: The Sound of Transformation. Michael Bernard Beckwith is the founder and Spiritual Director of the Agape International Spiritual Center, a trans-denominational community headquartered in Los Angeles comprised of thousands of local members and global live streamers. This November marks Agape’s 30th Anniversary. Beckwith’s humanitarian works have been read into the 107th Congressional Record, and in 2012 he addressed the UN General Assembly during its annual World Interfaith Harmony Week. As president of the Association for Global New Thought, he hosts conferences featuring harbingers of world peace including His Holiness the Dalai Lama. I’ve attended many of Dr. Beckwith’s meditation retreats, conferences, and lectures, and have been powerfully transformed by them all. I highly recommend Agape International Spiritual Revelation conference (live streamed), the spring meditation retreat, or diving deep into your adventurous spirit and traveling with Dr. Beckwith to Egypt! For more information visit:  agapelive.com  and  michaelbernardbeckwith.com Airtime 10-11 a.m. Spirituality Calling All Leaders and Healers BodyMindSpirit Radio 00:00 00:00 BlogTalkRadio × Share  Facebook  Twitter  Email Embed See More → May 10, 2017 | Posted in  Featured Guest ,  Journey Into Oneness Leave a Comment Denise Medved Journey Into Oneness. Journey Into Oneness with Darlene Sowa. Energy Medicine Practitioner, exercise physiologist and bona-fide nature lover, Darlene shares ideas and tools to assist you on your journey to rediscovering your wild and authentic nature, as well as, the abundant nature of the universe. Monthly topics and guest will help you navigate these ever-changing times with new insights, renewed hope and empowering visions. Topic/Guest: Denise Medved, Founder/Creator of Ageless Grace Brain (Body) Health Program and The Science of Aging Gracefully. Denise Medved is a woman with a vision formed by a lifetime of facing struggle with optimism, grit, and perseverance. S he is the creator of Ageless Grace, a brain fitness program with the purpose of changing the model of aging in this world. Ageless Grace is a cutting-edge brain fitness program based on neuroplasticity that activates all 5 functions of the brain – analytical, strategic, kinesthetic learning, memory/recall, creativity and imagination – and simultaneously addresses all 21 physical skills needed for lifelong optimal function. In the simplest terms, neuroplasticity is the ability of the brain and central nervous system to change form and function throughout one’s lifetime, specifically when stimulated by various physical activities. Each of the Ageless Grace Tools, or exercises, emphasizes a different “anti-aging” technique, such as joint mobility, balance, spinal flexibility, right-left brain coordination, upper body strength, development of new neural pathways, dexterity of the feet and hands, systemic health, oxygenation of the cells, increased self-esteem, confidence and playfulness. The easy-to-learn Tools promote the “three Rs” of lifelong comfort and ease – not reading, ´riting and ´arithmetic—but the ability to respond, react, and recover quickly, efficiently and safely. The movements in the program are designed to be performed seated in a chair to activate and work the core muscle group, stimulate the systems of the body (i.e. digestive, endocrine, lymphatic, respiratory, etc.) and help maintain optimal organ function. However, they can be done on a bed, standing near or behind a chair, down on the floor, or standing. When created, it was Denise’s intention that anyone could perform the movements in Ageless Grace, whether recovering from a surgery or at the peak of health – and that anyone of any age or ability can be certified to teach the program and inspire others to practice this cutting-edge brain elasticity program. Intentionally nourishing the mind-body connection on a daily basis can help improve health and well-being, reduce stress, keep the brain agile and the body responsive. When body, mind, spirit and emotions are in balance, health and well-being follow. Ageless Grace offers something for each of these dimensions. The biggest difference between Ageless Grace and other fitness programs is that Ageless Grace is meant to both exercise the body and stimulate the brain. Research now supports that we must combine the two for optimal lifelong function and graceful aging. And that we must continue to practice movements we are unfamiliar with in order to create new neural pathways. For more information please visit,  agelessgrace.com Airtime 1-2 p.m. Spirituality Journey Into Oneness BodyMindSpirit Radio 00:00 00:00 BlogTalkRadio × Share  Facebook  Twitter  Email Embed See More → April 12, 2017 | Posted in  Featured Guest ,  Journey Into Oneness Leave a Comment Journey Into Oneness. Journey Into Oneness with Darlene Sowa. Energy Medicine Practitioner, exercise physiologist and bona-fide nature lover, Darlene shares ideas and tools to assist you on your journey to rediscovering your wild and authentic nature, as well as, the abundant nature of the universe. Monthly topics and guest will help you navigate these ever-changing times with new insights, renewed hope and empowering visions. Topic/Guest: Rev. Annamarie McConnell will join to discuss, The Power and Joy of Sacred Ceremony. Rev. Annmarie McConnell has led sacred fire ceremonies both in the U.S. and abroad for a number of years in an effort to honor Gaia and rekindle the love and power of sacred ceremony in the hearts of others. Her intense shamanic training has enabled her to personally experience first hand the gift, value and importance of sacred ceremony in our ever-evolving spiritual growth. She lovingly shares this gift and her experiences with others. For more information please visit,  www.mynativeireland.com Airtime 1-2 p.m. Spirituality Journey Into Oneness BodyMindSpirit Radio 00:00 00:00 BlogTalkRadio × Share  Facebook  Twitter  Email Embed See More → March 28, 2017 | Posted in  Beautiful Earth with Barbra White ,  Featured Guest Leave a Comment Calling All Leaders  &  Healers. You are a  unique expression of the Presence of Love. Self Acceptance opens you to your dynamic destiny. In a willingness to love yourself you become a leader, healer and a beneficial presence to others. Each show is inspirational power packed with teachings by Barbra White and world changing guests. Topic/ Guest: Dr. Will Meecham joins to discuss MindfulBiology &# x2122; enhances familiarity with our own human bodies. It combines guided mindfulness with concise and—when possible—visually compelling explanations of life science, so that inner sensations can be mapped to the body’s processes and structures. Where feasible, MindfulBiology also incorpo rates movement practices that deepen our felt experience as living beings. helps people enjoy the human body with compassion, tenderness, and awe. Using a method called Mindful Biology, he combines guided mindfulness with colorful depictions of anatomy to lead participants on sensory tours of the natural landscapes within their own bodies. After a severely arthritic neck forced him to leave his surgical practice at age 41, Will suffered a personal crisis and began experiencing transcendent visions. He devoted many years to reading, contemplation, and meditation in order to reconcile his visionary experiences with his scientific training. Dr. Will Meecham Will’s spiritual transformation had its roots in a traumatic upbringing that included parental divorce at age four, maternal suicide at age six, and severe child abuse thereafter. While growing up, Will found refuge from domestic chaos in the beaches and mountains near his family’s home. Then, during a solo trek of the 211-mile John Muir Trail at age sixteen, he connected with the sacredness of Nature. He returned from that journey committed to learning how life works. Will went on to study ecology, neuroscience, and biophysics as an undergraduate and graduate student before enrolling in medical school. As Will came to terms with the loss of his surgical career, he again found solace in his love of living things. After working in environmental health and complementary medicine, he began teaching anatomy and physiology at a yoga institute. While explaining human biology to aspiring yoga teachers and yoga therapists, he found ways of using accurate science to encourage body-amazement and self-understanding. Before long, Will recognized his true calling: revealing the grandeur and sweetness of Nature within our own bodies. He soon began teaching Mindful Biology at College of Marin and other Northern California venues. Will lives at the edge of San Francisco Bay with his wife and two dogs, where he feels intimately connected to the adjacent marshland. He can sometimes be found there in the hours before dawn, striding in silent ecstasy. For more information please visit  mindfulbiology.org Airtime 10-11 a.m. Spirituality Calling All Leaders  &  Healers BodyMindSpirit Radio 00:00 00:00 BlogTalkRadio × Share  Facebook  Twitter  Email Embed See More → March 22, 2017 | Posted in  Featured Guest ,  InTouch Interviews Leave a Comment Ina Lukas In Touch Interviews  with Ina Lukas  &  The Alchemists. Ina Lukas joins the show to discuss her upcoming event on March 25th  &  26th, Ina  &  The Alchemists Immersion Weekend. She will also discuss her background, what information the Alchemists will bring forth, what the workshop weekend will include and more! The Alchemy of Connection Potluck Saturday March 25th, 5-7 p.m. The Alchemy of Connection Potluck is open to our wonderful tribe of people wanting to connect more deeply together. It s my one social opportunity to connect with all of you awesome peeps outside of the channeling workshops, so I m looking forward to that! Bring a dish to share, and we ll have social time to celebrate together, chat, integrate and have fun. The location is at a private residence in Westland. If you are interested in joining us, please email me and I will send you the information. We need to keep the RSVP s to a certain limit, so please let me know in advance if you d like to attend. Workshop Sunday March 26th 1-4:30 p.m. Location: Unity of Livonia, 28660 5 Mile Rd, Livonia, MI 48154 The Alchemists will open with a monologue activation on Creating Prosperity in Your Life. Then they will open the floor to your questions, on any topic you d like (relationships, health, money, etc). Many of you will have an opportunity to get in the Love Seat with The Alchemists. They will choose you as you raise your hands. And if you don t have any questions for the Love Seat, you will still get tons of answers through everyone else s questions. “Click here to purchase your tickets for the event.”   inalukas.com Email: ina@inalukas.com   Phone: (760) 500-9878 For more information please visit,  InaLukas.com Ina Lukas helps people break through their biggest relationship, health, and money issues quickly and easily with Divine Guidance. She channels a collective of non-physical teachers called the Alchemists. Together with the Alchemists, Ina has helped people around the world free themselves from weight issues, phobias, anxiety, parenting problems, financial fears, business blocks, health issues, and more. Ina works one-on-one with clients and creates group workshops to help people dive through their blocks and bring to life the specific gifts that they ve been given. Ina’s unique approach combines playfulness and levity, with laser-focused intuitive skills, allowing people who are ready to create a shift in their life to have fast, fun, life-changing results. She lives and plays in Carlsbad, California. Spirituality In Touch Interviews with Ina Lukas  &  The Alchemists BodyMindSpirit Radio 00:00 00:00 BlogTalkRadio × Share  Facebook  Twitter  Email Embed See More → March 14, 2017 | Posted in  Fairy Tale Interrupted: Relationship Coaching ,  Featured Guest Leave a Comment Fairy Tale Interrupted Relationship Coaching with Dr. Andrea Lee.  Dr. Lee is a certified relationship coach and guru that applies a “keep it real” approach as she tackles practical, emotional, and spiritual matters of the heart as it relates to individual, relationship, and family matters. Jo Anne White, Ph.D Topic: Dr. Jo Anne White joins to discuss her books, “More Heaven” and “Bully Free” and how this can affect your family dynamic. Jo Anne White, Ph.D is an International Award-Winning, Bestselling Author and Speaker, Certified Professional Coach and Energy Master who has helped millions of individuals and organizations shape their dreams, master their own success and triumph. Kno wn globally as the “Success Doc,” Dr. White is the Executive Producer and Host of the popular Power Your Life TV and Radio Shows and CEO/President of Dr. Jo Anne White Consulting Services, LLC. She’s been featured online and in national and international media outlets, such as  CNN.com , Good Housekeeping, More, and WebMD. Jo Anne’s made frequent guest appearances on Radio and Television Networks such as NBC, CBS, FOX, and Voice America. Dr. White is also the founder of the recently launched Power Your Life Network and Power U Online University: both aimed at helping individuals, families, businesses and professionals grow, soar and succeed. Named a 2015 Worldwide Branding Top Female Executive for Professional Coaching by Worldwide Who’s Who, she was featured in Women of Distinction Magazine, 2016. Both “More Heaven” and “Bully Free” received a Mom’s Choice Award for Excellence and have been named among the best in family-friendly media, products and services. Jo Anne has also authored and co-authored many books for women, men and businesses as resources for personal, professional and spiritual growth, leadership, success and empowerment. They include Amazon International Bestseller “Keys to Conscious Business Growth” , “Mastering the Art of Success”, “JOY”, “The Self Architect,” and more. For information or to purchase her books, please visit,   drjoannewhite.com  or  poweryourlifenetwork.c om Airtime 10-11 a.m. Spirituality Fairy Tale Interrupted Relationship Coaching with Dr. Andrea Lee BodyMindSpirit Radio 00:00 00:00 BlogTalkRadio × Share  Facebook  Twitter  Email Embed See More → March 8, 2017 | Posted in  Featured Guest ,  Journeys in Wellness Leave a Comment Journey Into Onenes s. Journey Into Oneness with Darlene Sowa. Energy Medicine Practitioner, exercise physiologist and bona-fide nature lover, Darlene shares ideas and tools to assist you on your journey to rediscovering your wild and authentic nature, as well as, the abundant nature of the universe. Versandra Jewel Kennebrew Monthly topics and guest will help you navigate these ever-changing times with new insights, renewed hope and empowering visions. Topic: Versandra Jewel Kennebrew, Energy Field Enhancement Specialist, International Speaker, Homeless Advocate, and author of 5 books including  Thank God for the Shelter.  Discussing, Flying High after a Devastating Setback, one woman s story of how she overcame homelessness. VKI Personal Development is happy to be Atlanta s source for tools and resources to support you on your journey to optimal living at work and at play. By providing a variety of private and group customized life enhancement programs, nutritional supplements and personal care products and services, we meet you where you are and take you to where you want to be. For more information please visit,  versandrakennebrew.com Airtime 1-2 p.m. Spirituality Journey Into Oneness BodyMindSpirit Radio 00:00 00:00 BlogTalkRadio × Share  Facebook  Twitter  Email Embed See More → February 28, 2017 | Posted in  Beautiful Earth with Barbra White ,  Featured Guest Leave a Comment Calling All Leaders  &  Healers. You are a unique expression of the Presence of Love. Self Acceptance opens you to your dynamic destiny. In a willingness to love yourself you become a leader, healer and a beneficial presence to others. Each show is inspirational power packed with teachings by Barbra White and world-changing guests. Topic/ Guest: “The Trust Frequency: Ten Assumptions For a New Paradigm” is a visionary, uplifting synthesis of quantum science, Eastern mysticism, indigenous wisdom and plain common sense. Andrew Cameron Bailey and Connie Baxter Marlow are original thinkers, writers, photographers, film-makers, and inspirational public speakers. Connie Baxter Marlow Andrew  Cameron  Bailey and Connie Baxter Marlow are original thinkers, writers, photographers, film-makers, and inspirational public speakers. They met at a gathering of indigenous elders and shamans at the Omega Institute in upstate New York in October 2003. It was immediately obvious that they had a destiny together, and they got right to work. For decades, they had been aware of the Hopi prophecies, the Mayan Calendar, the Omega Point and other predictions of a consciousness shift starting around the year 2012. The Trust Frequency is an original synthesis of indigenous cosmology, quantum science and Eastern and Western wisdom. It offers a new perspective on the nature of the Universe: Andrew Cameron Bailey We are One and we live in the Now, in a conscious loving Universe where there is only Love. The unconditional nature of that Love means it gives us everything we ask for. The 7A’s – Awareness, Assumption, Attitude, Attention, Alignment, Action and Allowing are our requests to the Universe. Each of these carries a frequency, which has its own laws. Free Will enables us to choose our frequency and thereby our reality. The true, abundant, joyful nature of the Universe is available to anyone who chooses The Trust Frequency. To purchase,  THE TRUST FREQUENCY: Ten Assumptions For a New Paradigm  or for more information please visit  thetrustfrequency.net Airtime 10-11 a.m. Spirituality Calling All Leaders  &  Healers BodyMindSpirit Radio 00:00 00:00 BlogTalkRadio × Share  Facebook  Twitter  Email Embed See More → January 17, 2017 | Posted in  Aetherius Radio Live ,  Featured Guest Leave a Comment Aetherius Radio Live. Aetherius Society members, Richard Lawrence and Chrissie Blaze bring the wisdom of outer space to help you realize the potential of inner space. Wonderful topics every month such as The Nine Freedoms, Ascended Masters, Karma and more!  Topic: King Yoga- The Path of the Aetherius Society with guest, Braine Keneipp. Airtime 1-2 p.m. Spirituality Aetherius Radio Live BodyMindSpirit Radio 00:00 00:00 BlogTalkRadio × Share  Facebook  Twitter  Email Embed See More → December 27, 2016 | Posted in  Beautiful Earth with Barbra White ,  Featured Guest Leave a Comment Andrew Harvey Calling All Leaders  &  Healers. You are a unique expression of the Presence of Love. Self Acceptance opens you to your dynamic destiny. In a willingness to love yourself you become a leader, healer and a beneficial presence to others. Each show is inspirational power packed with teachings by Barbra White and world changing guests. Guest: Andrew Harvey will join the show to discuss his Institute for Sacred Activism, creating peace, sustainability, change and much more! Andrew Harvey is Founder Director of the Institute of Sacred Activism, an international organization focused on inviting concerned people to take up the challenge of our contemporary global crises by becoming inspired, effective, and practical agents of institutional and systemic change, in order to create peace and sustainability. Sacred Activism is a transforming force of compassion-in-action that is born of a fusion of deep spiritual knowledge, courage, love, and passion, with wise radical action in the world. The large-scale practice of Sacred Activism can become an essential force for preserving and healing the planet and its inhabitants. Andrew Harvey has taught at Oxford University, Cornell University, Hobart and William Smith Colleges, The California Institute of Integral Studies, and the University of Creation Spirituality as well as the at various spiritual centers throughout the United States. He was the subject of the 1993 BBC film documentary The Making of a Modern Mystic and appears also in Rumi Turning Ecstatic and The Consciousness of the Christ: Reclaiming Jesus for A New Humanity. He has also worked with the great Iranian Sufi dancer, Banfsheh Sayyad, in producing a film, In the Fire of Grace, which marries Sufi inspired dances to the stages of Rumi’s understanding of the path of Divine love. This 2011 film has had premiers in New York City, Los Angeles, Chicago and Paris, to great acclaim. For more information or to connect with Andrew Harvey please visit,  andrewharvey.net Airtime 10-11 a.m. Spirituality Calling All Leaders  &  Healers BodyMindSpirit Radio 00:00 00:00 BlogTalkRadio × Share  Facebook  Twitter  Email Embed See More → Body Mind Spirit Radio t  GUEST LINE (646) 378-0378 (only during live shows) Copyright 2018, Body Mind Spirit Radio Design by  Nimbus Themes  | Powered by  WordPress 