ORIGIN Press Room at San Diego Comic-Con 2018 - NoReruns.net At this year s San Diego Comic-Con, YouTube held a press room and panel for its upcoming original series  Origin . Unfortunately, due to a tight schedule, we only got the chance to interview one pair of actors from the series Tom Felton  &  Sen Mitsuji before they were whisked off for their panel. You can find the video from our roundtable Q & A below. From Left Bank Pictures and Sony Pictures Television comes the highly anticipated YouTube Original series ​ ORIGIN​ , an all new intergalactic space thriller starring ​ Tom Felton  (​ Harry Potter  film franchise, ​ Rise of the Planet of the Apes​ ) and ​ Natalia Tena  ( Harry Potter  film franchise,  Game of Thrones​ ). The 10-episode series, from director  Paul W.S. Anderson  and the producers of ​ The Crown​  and  Outlander,  follows a group of outsiders who find themselves abandoned on a ship bound for a distant land. Now they must work together for survival, but quickly realize that one of them is far from who they claim to be. The cast features an international roster of talent including Sen Mitsuji, Nora Arnezeder, Fraser James, Philipp Christopher, Nina Wadia, Madalyn Horcher, Siobahn Cullen, Adelayo Adedayo and Wil Coban. ORIGIN is created, written, and executive produced by Mika Watkins. The series is executive produced by Andy Harries, Suzanne Mackie, and Rob Bullock from Left Bank Pictures, alongside Josh Appelbaum, André Nemec, Jeff Pinkner, and Scott Rosenberg from  Midnight  Radio, and Paul W.S. Anderson. ORIGIN is a Left Bank / CiTVC co-production in association with Sony Pictures Television, International Production. Origin Subscribe Origin Teaser Trailer featuring Tom Felton and Natalia Tena Info Shopping Tap to unmute If playback doesn ' t begin shortly, try restarting your device. Your browser does not currently recognize any of the video formats available.  Click here to visit our frequently asked questions about HTML5 video. More videos on YouTube More videos Share Include playlist An error occurred while retrieving sharing information. Please try again later. Watch later Share Copy link Switch camera 0:00 0:00  /  Live An error occurred. Try watching this video on www.youtube.com , or enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser. Powered by WPtouch Mobile Suite for WordPress  