Top 10 World’s Sexiest Women in 2015 It is impossible to mention the name of every beautiful and hot lady in this list of top 10  world’s sexiest women  in 2015. The fact is, we find them in movies, music videos, fashion industry, sports, and everywhere. These pretty women have boosted their confidence by making distinctive place in their particular fields. They are successful, hot, and superbly hard-working. There is a never-ending list of  sexy women . What we have talked here will surely be loved by the readers. List of Content  [ show ] Taylor Alison Swift (born on December 13, 1989) is an American singer-songwriter and actress. She is an adorable and successful female of the era. She began as a country singer at the age of 14. Taylor, in those days, signed with the independent label Big Machine Records. This adorable lady received a Best New Artist nomination at the 2008 Grammy Awards. An album of Taylor is  Fearless , released in 2008, which was a big success. She has bagged numerous awards during her career. Her best singles are  Love Story  and  You Belong with Me  etc. Taylor is an asset of American music industry, having a huge fan following all over the world. She was also honored by the Nashville Songwriters Association, and the Songwriters Hall of Fame. Candice Susan Swanepoel  (born in October, 1988), belongs to South Africa. She is an adorable model, famous for her work with Victoria s Secret. Candice is a young and impressive female. She has been on the cover of numerous magazines like  Vogue ,  Elle , Chinese  GQ ,  Harper s Bazaar , i-D, Lush and  Ocean Drive  (U.S.). Apart from this, Candice has worked in ads of Nike, Diesel, Guess?, Tommy Hilfiger, Tom Ford, Miu Miu, Juicy Couture, and Versace. She walked the runway of Tommy Hilfiger, Dolce and Gabbana, Michael Kors, Rag  &  Bone, Givenchy, Jean Paul Gaultier, Christian Dior, and other designers. Priyanka Chopra (born on July 18, 1982) is a Bollywood actress, singer. She won the Miss World pageant of 2000. She is a successful and  high demanding Indian actress . Priyanka is one of the highest paid females of the industry. She has bagged numerous awards during her career including a National Film Award for Best Actress and Filmfare Awards in four categories. Her best movies are  Thamizhan .  The Hero ,  Andaaz ,  Mujhse Shaadi Karogi ,  Aitraaz ,  Krrish ,  Don ,  Fashion ,  Kaminey , and  Barfi! . Priyanka is an accomplished female celeb. Before becoming an actress, she was famous as a model who was on the cover of numerous fashion magazines. She was appointed as a UNICEF Goodwill Ambassador for Your Child Rights in 2010. Kate Upton (born June 10, 1992) is a bold and beautiful actress and model of America. She is famous for her appearance in the  Sports Illustrated Swimsuit , and was seen on the covers of 2012 and 2013 issues. Kate has been seen in movies like  Tower Heist  (2011) and  The Other Woman  (2014). She was raised in Florida, and is the daughter of Shelley (née Davis), a former tennis champion. Kate attended Holy Trinity Episcopal Academy. In 2008, she was signed by a Miami-based fashion company. Then she went to NY, and contracted with IMG Models. First of all, Kate modeled for Garage, and Dooney  &  Bourke. In 2010, she became the face of Guess. She rose to the peaks of success when signed by Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Issue. Kate is an adorable swimsuit supermodel. Deepika Padukone (born 5 January 1986) is a Bollywood actress and former model. She is one of the most popular and highest-paid Indian celebrities. Deepika has won two Filmfare Awards. This Indian beauty is the daughter of the badminton player Prakash Padukone. She began career as a badminton player, followed by being a model and finally an actress. Her began acting career in 2007 from  Om Shanti Om , opposite Shah Rukh Khan. Her best movies are  Love Aaj Kal ,  Lafangey Parindey ,  Bachna Ae Haseeno ,  Housefull ,  Cocktail ,  Yeh Jawaani Hai Deewani ,  Chennai Express ,  Happy New Year ,  Goliyon Ki Raasleela Ram-Leela ,  Finding Fanny , and  Piku . Scarlett Johansson  is one more hot and beautiful lady. She was born on November 22, 1984. She is a wonderful American actress, model, and singer. Scarlett began from  North  (1994). In 1996, she was nominated for the Independent Spirit Award for Best Female Lead for her performance in  Manny  &  Lo . Her top movies are  The Horse Whisperer ,  Ghost World ,  Girl with a Pearl Earring ,  Lost in Translation ,  A Love Song for Bobby Long ,  The Black Dahlia ,  The Prestige ,  The Other Boleyn Girl ,  Vicky Cristina Barcelona , and  He s Just Not That Into You . She is an acclaimed actress of the era. Scarlett has released two albums,  Anywhere I Lay My Head , and  Break Up , as a singer. Nicole Scherzinger (born on June 29, 1978), is another American diva. She is a singer, actress, and tv personality. Nicole contracted with Interscope Records in 2003 as a member of the Pussycat Dolls. Her debut album was  PCD  (2005), which included singles like  Don t Cha  and  Stickwitu . Other than this, Nicole released a studio album,  Doll Domination  (2008) having singles  When I Grow Up  and  I Hate This Part . This gorgeous female collaborated with A. R. Rahman on a pop version of  Jai Ho  entitled  Jai Ho! (You Are My Destiny)  from  Slumdog Millionaire  (2008). As an actress, she has worked in movies like  Men in Black 3 ,  Rent ,  Cats , and others. Shailene Diann Woodley (born November 15, 1991) is a  successful and graceful actress . She played wonderful role of Amy Juergens in the ABC Family series  The Secret Life of the American Teenager  (2008–13). Shailene has appeared in  The Descendants ,  The Spectacular Now ,  The Divergent Series ,  The Fault in Our Stars ,  Without a Trace , and  The District . In 2005, she got nomination of Young Artist Award due to her amazing performance in  A Place Called Home  as California Ford. Shailene has worked as a model with numerous brands. On television, she appeared with John Schneider. Her best tv series are  Crossing Jordan ,  Everybody Loves Raymond ,  My Name is Earl ,  CSI: NY , and  Close to Home . Gal Gadot (born in April, 1985), is an Israeli actress and model. She is the winner of the Miss Israel title 2004. She represented her country in a lot of beauty competitions including the 2004 Miss Universe beauty pageant. She is a leading model of the clothing company Castro. Gal played superb role as Gisele Yashar in  The Fast and the Furious  film series. She was only 19 when won the 2004 Miss Israel competition. This opened the doors of many beauty competitions and shows for this gorgeous lady. Her performance in the film  Quantum of Solace  is highly admired. She participated in 2007’s Maxim photo-shoot. Emma Watson  (born 15 April 1990) is an adorable English actress, and fashion model. She rose to prominence as Hermione Granger in the  Harry Potter  film series, and appeared in eight  Harry Potter  films from 2001 to 2011. This is a clear evidence that Emma is a hardworking and talented female. She voiced for  The Tale of Despereaux , and was seen in tv adaptation of the novel  Ballet Shoes . Emma studied at Brown University, and Oxford University. Her top modeling works are the campaigns of Burberry and Lancôme. Her original place of birth is Paris, France, and is the daughter of English lawyers Jacqueline Luesby and Chris Watson. Do you like these ladies? 