The 10 best hotels close to Rock City Nottingham in Nottingham, United Kingdom Loading Choose your preferred language. We speak English and 42 other languages. Nottingham City Centre, Nottingham (0.3 miles from Rock City Nottingham) Situated in Nottingham, 1.5 km from National Ice Centre, Golden Cage Apartments features a terrace and views of the city. Nottingham Castle is 1 km from the property.  Hotel in Nottingham City Centre, Nottingham(0.3 miles from Rock City Nottingham) This boutique hotel is a 3-minute walk from the city centre. It has an award-winning restaurant, a private car park and stunning views.  Nottingham City Centre, Nottingham (0.1 miles from Rock City Nottingham) Overlooking the Nottingham city skyline, Roomzzz Nottingham City is located 5 minutes '  walk from popular bars, shops and restaurants.  Hotel in Nottingham City Centre, Nottingham(0 miles from Rock City Nottingham) In the heart of Nottingham city centre, Crowne Plaza Nottingham features on-site parking and a stylish restaurant. The Royal Centre is a 2-minute walk away.  Nottingham City Centre, Nottingham (0.2 miles from Rock City Nottingham) Set in the heart of Nottingham’s vibrant city centre, these self-catering apartments have a fully equipped kitchen, free Wi-Fi and fantastic views over Lace Market Square.  Nottingham City Centre, Nottingham (0.3 miles from Rock City Nottingham) In the Nottingham City Centre district of Nottingham, close to Nottingham Castle, Lux Apartment has free WiFi and a washing machine.  Hotel in Nottingham Popular with guests booking hotels in Nottingham Hotel in Nottingham Popular with guests booking hotels in Nottingham Hotel in Nottingham Popular with guests booking hotels in Nottingham Hotel in Nottingham Popular with guests booking hotels in Nottingham Hotel in Nottingham Popular with guests booking hotels in Nottingham Hotel in Nottingham Popular with guests booking hotels in Nottingham Hotel in Nottingham Popular with guests booking hotels in Nottingham Hotel in Nottingham Popular with guests booking hotels in Nottingham Hotel in Bingham The Townhouse, Bingham is a small, privately run hotel with an on-site restaurant and bar. Set in the Vale of Belvoir, it offers free Wi-Fi and rooms with en suite bathrooms.  Staff very friendly. The food excellent. The rooms very clean and well equipped. Hotel in Nottingham De Vere Jubilee Conference Centre is situated 1.6 miles from the centre of Nottingham, set within its own lakeside grounds within the University of Nottingham ' s Jubilee Campus.  Location Room view Facilities Staff Cleanliness Hotel in Nottingham Adjacent to the East Midlands Conference Centre, this contemporary 4-star hotel features accessible rooftop terraces, green roofs and free Wi-Fi in all areas.  Bed was very comfy. Clean room and bathroom. Nice breakfast. Hotel in Nottingham Situated just 3 miles from Nottingham city centre, The Beeches Hotel  &  Leisure Club features a fitness centre and free private parking.  The hotel is excellent. Clean, comfortable and fast service. We like everything. Hotel in Nottingham The 4-star Nottingham Belfry hotel is just 15 minutes’ drive from the city centre, and 2 minutes from the M1. The property offers free WiFi access and free on-site parking.  Everything else was great and perfect for the Nova meets Hotel in Nottingham City Centre, Nottingham In Nottingham city centre, this Jurys Inn offers modern rooms with spacious bathrooms, just 5 minutes’ walk from Nottingham Rail Station.  Very comfortable beds,friendly and efficient service. Hotel in Nottingham City Centre, Nottingham Just 2 minutes '  walk from Nottingham city centre and 50 metres from Nottingham Castle, St James Hotel is 10 minutes '  walk from the train station and 15 minutes '  drive to M1 Motorway.  So pretty. Unfortunately we didn’t get to spend much time in the hotel, but what we saw was... Hotel in Nottingham City Centre, Nottingham Opposite Nottingham Castle, Park Plaza has spacious rooms, 2 restaurants and an 11th-floor fitness centre with panoramic city views.  Beds and pillows very comfortable. Lovely clean room and bathroom. Hotel in Nottingham The Gamston Lock Lodge by Marston ' s Inns is situated in Gamston and offers a family-friendly pub along with a 27 room lodge, opposite Holme Pierrepont Country Park.  Staff was helpful and very welcoming. Beds were wonderful Delicious food Hotel in Hockley, Nottingham Mercure Nottingham City Centre Hotel offers a stylish brasserie bar and modern fitness centre in the heart of the city.  Excellent location, great staff. Hotel in Nottingham Village Hotel Nottingham offers a warm, friendly environment with a real sense of community.  It had everything and great staff Hotel in Nottingham Just a mile from Nottingham city centre, this hotel offers free on-site parking, free 300MG of WiFi and a 24-hour front desk and a fitness centre.  Personal touches made the stay here Property even posted on my Facebook thread on how to find Robin... Hotel in Nottingham The modern DoubleTree by Hilton Nottingham has free parking and free Wi-Fi. Guests can reach Nottingham city centre in 20 minutes by catching a bus or tram from outside the hotel.  The staff was absolutely fantastic and lovely at every minute of day and night . Hotel in Nottingham Less than 1 mile from Nottingham city centre, this Best Western offers both modern and traditional rooms. There is free on-site parking and free WiFi.  Very comfy beds and nice staff Hotel in Long Eaton Just off junction 25 of the M1, the Novotel Nottingham is located between Nottingham and Derby. It has rooms with king-sized beds, and a restaurant.  Very friendly  environment  and respectful, professional  members of staff Hotel in Long Eaton The 3-star Best Western Nottingham Derby has easy access to the M1 motorway and free guest parking. Conveniently located between Nottingham and Derby, just off the M1 at junction 25.  The front desk staff was absolutely lovely, and accommodating to us. They made everything easier! Hotel in Nottingham City Centre, Nottingham This boutique hotel is a 3-minute walk from the city centre. It has an award-winning restaurant, a private car park and stunning views.  I loved the room opened up to a gorgeous back garden you could sit outside and see a very cool view... Hotel in Nottingham Boasting a garden, Brad Properties is situated in Nottingham in the Nottinghamshire region, 2.4 km from National Ice Centre and 2.8 km from Nottingham Castle.  Nick and his wife are lovley they even took uss to town as we missed our taxi lovley hosts! Hotel in Nottingham In a quiet corner of the Nottinghamshire village of Awsworth, the Hogs Head Hotel offers free Wi-Fi, free on-site parking and comfortable en suite accommodation.  This was a lovely little inn with great food and rooms.  Absolutely loved my stay! Hotel in Lace Market, Nottingham This stylish Georgian townhouse is located in Nottingham’s trendy Lace Market district.  Extraordinary fresh and high standard hotel with very nice staff, cosy bar and excellent location. Hotel in Nottingham City Centre, Nottingham Opposite Nottingham Train Station, The Bentinck Hotel provides attractive rooms and a bar, restaurant and coffee lounge.  Amazing staff,very friendly . The best coffe in town:) Hotel in Calverton Just 20 minutes’ drive from Nottingham’s historic city centre, Cockliffe Country House offers free Wi-Fi and free parking on site.  Another fantastic stay here. Everything is excellent and the staff are outstanding. Hotel in Nottingham Nottingham ' s newest 4-star Boutique hotel, 5 minutes from the station and city centre, offers ample free parking, fabulous brand new boutique rooms, stunning views and really great food.  The bed was very comfortable, bathroom was amazing, heated towels provided, very cozy. Hotel in Nottingham Featuring free WiFi, a restaurant and a terrace, The Residence at The Nottinghamshire offers accommodation in Nottingham. Guests can enjoy the on-site bar. Free private parking is available on site.  Tastefully decorated room excellent shower. Great location. Had tickets for a gig, the band announced they had cancelled the gig but rock city continued to sell tickets until the day of the actual show. Caused a great deal of confusion. Also the security staff are horrible and treat fans terribly at shows.For a rock venue they're more concerned with money grabbing than providing a good experience. Went to watch darkness . Venue not bad ladies toilets could be better . E ciggarettes should be banned .   Think they should leave exits acssessable . As if in an emergency the place was that full . You would have got hurt getting out  Great venue for live bands. We didn't bother with the support act and the place was packed when we arrived so we're at the very back, did not spoil the night mind as its only about 2000 capacity. Great atmosphere. No trouble whatsoever. 90's rock/ alternative club night on the 1st Friday of every month is Awesome. This has its own entrance on the side of the main club.TIP: If you plan visiting one of Rock Citys main club nights take photo ID, as this is needed no matter your age to access the club. Your ID is checked and scanned into the security system as you enter. Fantastic live music venue really enjoyed seeing the awesome local rock metal band Fahran there.  Good facilities and great sound quality.  Well worth the drive up from London, plus we stayed in the Ramada Hotel in the city centre, which was a 3 minute walk away from the venue. If you ' re after a fancy nightclub, this is not the place for you. If you ' re after great music, fantastic atmosphere, cheap drinks and a great time, this is your place! Love going to gigs here, great time every time.  Error: Please enter a valid email address Error: Sorry. An error has occurred. Thanks! We've sent you an email so you can complete your subscription Refer a property List your property Booking.com is part of Booking Holdings Inc., the world leader in online travel and related services. We have more than 70 million property reviews, and they're all from  real, verified guests . 1 The only way to leave a review is to first make a booking. That's how we know our reviews come from real guests who have stayed at the property. 2 When guests stay at the property they check out how quiet the room is, how friendly the staff are and more. 3 After their trip, guests tell us about their stay. We check for naughty words and verify the authenticity of all guest reviews before adding them to our site. If you booked through us and want to leave a review, please sign in first. Check-in date Check-out date By clicking anywhere on our website or "Accept", you agree to the use of cookies and other technologies to process personal data.  Manage your privacy settings here . Cookies are used by us and our trusted partners to enhance, analyse and personalize your experience across Booking.com. Additionally these cookies are used for advertising tailored to you, both on and off our site. 