Project Summary : freshservice +1 (866) 832-3090 +91 (44) 6667 8040 +44 (800) 808 5790 +61 2 8188 4692 Hi I would like to start by saying that I think the new 'Project' section is going to be incredibly useful. Quick thoughts however, are that it would be nice to have an option to 'sort' or 'arrange' tasks on the Project Summary. Additionally, the information is there to produce a Gant-style chart which would be useful for a visual representation. Once again, I think this new update is great!   Where do you see this? I cannot seem to find it. Which version are you using? Maybe we were randomly selected to be early adopters...  The 'Projects' tab is between CMDB and Reports. Yes, it's in the Estate plan, apparently.  I now see "Projects" in my menu bar as well.  I was just about to come here and suggest a Gantt Chart as well.  Or at least have a way to generate a report of the tasks, status, etc.  An easy way to export a report to a PDF to share with folks who are not in FreshService.    Here's the YouTube video giving an overview of it:    https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h3u63ZzIobQ   Yes I see it in my toolbar too, and was about to come here and ask for some sort of gantt chart view as well as a report.  Would like to bring out tasks, status, etc or at least save to PDF to share with non-FreshService users.  Here's the Youtube video with an overview of the Projects module:  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h3u63ZzIobQ And I have a question.  When I created a project and assigned tasks to myself, where will I see those tasks? Will I only see them on the Projects page?  Will FS users have a "tasks" view showing all of their open tasks regardless of project?  Kind of like a FS task list?  Like the list of tickets? Hello everyone,  Project Management is now live and is available in the Estate plan. You can learn more about the feature  here. Thank you Richard and Christie for your feedback! I agree, visual representation  of the project timeline  (like  Gantt charts) could be very useful to track work and update project schedules. I will keep you posted on this enhancement.  Let us know if you have any other feedback, looking forward to hear your inputs.  @Christie - You can view Project tasks assigned to you under 'My Tasks' in the Dashboard page.  Deepikaa  Freshservice Product Management Hi Kevin,  Thank you for pointing this out. Status of this post has been updated.  Hi  Just started with the project module and i like it. Like already said gant graph would be great. What would also be great is asign time to the task so you can make a sum at the end of all the time you spend on the project. But since it are all tasks and you can only set time on a ticket i dont know if you can do this ?  Regards, David   I'd like to add that a Gantt Chart and Time tracking feature would be very beneficial. Hello all, Thank you for sharing your feedback with us! Gantt Charts and Time tracking are both very useful to effectively track projects and measure employee productivity. I will keep you updated on these enhancements. Do let us know if you have any other suggestions.  Deepikaa  Freshservice Product Management  +1 (866) 832-3090 Freshworks, Inc India Office  Copyright   Freshworks Inc. All Rights Reserved.  