Transit | Haynes Publishing Written from hands-on experience gained from the complete strip-down and rebuild of a Ford Transit, Haynes can help you understand, care for and repair your Ford Transit. We do it ourselves to help you do-it-yourself, and whatever your mechanical ability, the practical step-by-step explanations, linked to over 900 photos, will help you get the job done right. Regular servicing and maintenance of your Ford Transit can help maintain its resale value, save you money, and make it safer to drive. Free postage in the UK The Online Manual is not a printed product, not a PDF and not a download. Access this manual  immediately  on your internet browser on your mobile, desktop or tablet. Diesel: Transit front-wheel-drive 2.0L (1998cc) (2000 - 2006) Transit front-wheel-drive 2.4L Di  &  TDCi(2402cc) (2000 - 2006) Transit rear-wheel-drive 2.0L (1998cc) (2000 - 2006) Transit rear-wheel-drive 2.4L Di  &  TDCi (2402cc) (2000 - 2006) Including Tourneo Does NOT cover auto-shift manual (ASM) transmission, petrol models, specialist bodywork/conversions or Transit Connect range. Does NOT cover new Transit range introduced October 2006. General Information Chapter 1: Routine maintenance and servicing Chapter 2: Part A: 2.0 litre engine in-vehicle repair procedures Chapter 2: Part B: 2.4 litre engine in-vehicle repair procedures Chapter 2: Part C: Engine removal and overhaul procedures Chapter 3: Cooling, heating and ventilation systems Chapter 4: Part A: Fuel and exhaust systems Chapter 4: Part B: Emission control systems Chapter 5: Starting and charging systems Chapter 6: Clutch Chapter 7: Part A: Manual transmission – front-wheel drive models Chapter 7: Part B: Manual transmission – rear-wheel drive models Chapter 8: Driveshafts, propeller shaft and rear axle Chapter 9: Braking system Chapter 10: Suspension and steering systems Chapter 11: Bodywork and fittings Chapter 12: Body electrical systems Wiring diagrams Reference With a Haynes Online Manual in an online format you get all the trusted content of a printed manual, with additional features to help you get the job done. Take your entire manual with you on every journey. Key features: This Mk2 Ford Transit was introduced in October 2000 and continued until 2006. Seemingly innumerable variations of body types and styles were available, mounted on long-, medium- or short-wheelbase chassis. The Transit was available with 2.0 and 2.4 litre turbocharged diesel engines and a 2.3 litre petrol engine. As a departure from previous Transit vehicles, it was available with either front wheel drive or rear-wheel drive. The 2.0-litre models has a 5-speed all synchromesh manual transmission, whereas the 2.4-litre model had either a 5- or 6-speed unit, according to engine power output. Standard and optional equipment included power steering, air conditioning, remote central locking, electric windows, anti-lock brakes and supplemental restraint systems. For the home mechanic, the Transit is a relatively straightforward vehicle to maintain, and most of the items requiring frequent attention are easily accessible. At Haynes, we have an extensive range of Ford repair manuals and online maintenance procedures available for professional mechanics and DIY car enthusiasts. Our repair manual for the Ford Transit is here to help you through every stage of servicing or fixing your car.   We use cookies on this site to enhance your user experience. By clicking any link on this page you are giving your consent for us to set cookies. 