" If the folder conatins a driver, make sure it is designed to work with windows for x64-based systems " Breaking news from around the world Get the Bing + MSN extension Hi , I'm gettin this error  " The folder you specified doesn't contain a compatible driver for your device. If the folder conatins a driver, make sure it is designed to work with windows for x64-based systems " I'm installing the driver by using this method. 1. Rt Click MyComputer then  Manage. 2. Select  Device Manager. 3. Rt Click to  Computer name , a  very first icon  and check for  " Add legacy hardware " . 4. Clicked on  Next  and the select  " Install hardware manually(Advanced) " 5. Clicked on  Next  and the  Show All Devices  then  Next. 6. Selected  Have Disk  and then browse to the location where my all the driver files are stored. It contains  " mydriver.inf " ,  " mydriver.cat " ,  " mydriver.sys " & " WdfCoInstaller01009_chk.dll " It is giving the above described Error being compiled on Windows 7, 64-bit platform. But when doing above procedure for Windows 7 32-bit machine it is very fine, means driver is installed properly. Please Guide me the proper reason, where is the issue either in  " mydriver.inf "  or " mydriver.cat "  or  " mydriver.sys "  or finally  " WdfCoInstaller01009_chk.dll " . Thanks Amit First is the driver built for x64?  You can't use a 32-bit driver on an x64 system.  Second have you signed the driver?  If not it is not going to work.  You can use the dumpbin tool in Visual Studio to determine if the driver binary is built for x64. Really Thank You Mr. Donald. Your effort is preciousless. Right now I'm using dumpbin tool of Visual Studio. My  " WdfCoInstaller01009_chk.dll " .  is of  x64 but I not getting how my  " mydriver.sys " is of  x86  as I've did everything as per the doc provided by microsoft. And for  " mydriver.inf "  and " mydriver.cat " , Warning LNK4048: invalid format file; ignored No worry, I'll try to build the driver once again and at this time will make sure to build in x64 env. Thanks Hey Gary, that really thanks, actually I just explored it and find your answer as well. Bye the way it is same here also in VS 2011 I just checked my driver  " .sys "  file with  dumpbin  and it is of x64 Thanks for your true effort First is the driver built for x64?  You can't use a 32-bit driver on an x64 system.  Second have you signed the driver?  If not it is not going to work.  You can use the dumpbin tool in Visual Studio to determine if the driver binary is built for x64. Really Thank You Mr. Donald. Your effort is preciousless. Right now I'm using dumpbin tool of Visual Studio. My  " WdfCoInstaller01009_chk.dll " .  is of  x64 but I not getting how my  " mydriver.sys " is of  x86  as I've did everything as per the doc provided by microsoft. And for  " mydriver.inf "  and " mydriver.cat " , Warning LNK4048: invalid format file; ignored No worry, I'll try to build the driver once again and at this time will make sure to build in x64 env. Thanks Hi Donald, I tried at this time and again it has given the same x86  " .sys " why visual studio 2011 generating a x86 .sys file. could you please guide me where I need to make changes Thanks Hey Gary, that really thanks, actually I just explored it and find your answer as well. Bye the way it is same here also in VS 2011 I just checked my driver  " .sys "  file with  dumpbin  and it is of x64 Thanks for your true effort Hi Doron, I really didn't get your mean, Actually I'm doing practise for driver development and for that I'm using following components to design a WDF (KMDF) drivers and then installing on target machine to debug it. 1. Win 7, x64 Host Machine 2. VMware Workstation 8.1 on host machine to creat target Virtual machine. 3. Win 7, x64 Target Virtual Machine. 4. Visual Studio 2011 and 5. WDK 8 Developer Preview. Here I've one question. From where I can get the  " WdfCoInstaller01011_chk.dll " you want to use Wdfcoinstaller01011.dll, not the _chk version of the dll.  you can get the wdf coinstaller DLLs from the same MSDN link you downloaded VS2011 Ultimate (you can't use express) from 