What to do while waiting for your admissions decision logo-h Search search Close Search close Menu menu Close Menu close search close menu close search Looking for more?  Browse the main college website . search close menu close Waiting to hear if you’ve been accepted to college can be stressful, so Chase is here to reassure you everything will be okay and tells us about how you can be productive while waiting to hear back. Waiting to hear if you’ve been accepted to college can be stressful, so Chase is here to reassure you everything will be okay and tells us about how you can be productive while waiting to hear back. share facebook twitter linkedin envelope So you’ve likely applied or will apply to colleges very soon. Now the waiting begins. You long to hear from the X number of colleges you applied to, some more than others. For Chase of 2015, this was extremely stressful waiting to hear back from 20 schools. I played a lot of mind games with myself and what-ifs with the schools I really wanted to attend. In retrospect, this wasn’t the best use of my time and ultimately stressed me out more. More productive uses of your time include taking your mind of the college application process. You just got through some of the most taxing months of your academic career. Celebrate that that’s over and enjoy time with high school friends! There’s also no need to continually bother the admissions office with trivial matters. Also, value the time you have with your high school teachers (yes, even 2nd semester) and don’t fall into senior slide. Maybe look for some internships for the summer before college. And once you do get your decision, make sure to be supportive of your friends: nothing hurts more than flaunting an acceptance to a school that a friend did not get into. Again, I need to reiterate what I’ve said in a previous post: no matter where you go, you will have an amazing experience. College is not the be all end all.  Best of luck to all the applicants and I hope to see you in the Class of 2022 (say hi to me on campus, too!).   Chase  is a junior linguistics major and is more than glad to exchange the year-round California heat for some Minnesota seasonality. In his free time, he enjoys directing K-pop dances for Karl-Pop, playing guzheng, and cycling around Northfield. When Chase doesn t have free time, which is often, he ll be in the libe or Sayles with a cup (or cups) of chai tea in hand.  facebook twitter instagram youtube  Admissions pages maintained by  Connor Jackson 