Marauders rout NDSU in hockey debut | College | bismarcktribune.com University of Mary Hockey players celebrate after a goal by Drew Lenertz, center, in the second period of Saturday night's game at Starion Sports Complex in Mandan. Also pictured from the left is Ben Kottmeier, Zachery Garrett, Drew Lenertz, Marschall Tshida and Andrew Huber. University of Mary Hockey player Zachery Garrett provides a screen in front of the net during Saturday night's game against NDSU.  It won’t rank up there with the Miracle on Ice, but Saturday’s college hockey game between North Dakota State and the University of Mary at Schwan Cadillac Arena at Starion Sports Complex in Mandan was special nonetheless.  The state’s newest college hockey team (the Marauders) routed the Bison 8-0 in the program debut in front of a standing-room-only crowd within the confines of their home and the state’s newest hockey arena in Mandan.  The win had a distinctive local flavor with Bismarck, Mandan and Dickinson players accounting for 10 points.  Senior goalie Aaron Nelson of Bismarck High made 21 saves in his first start as a Marauder. Nelson came to U-Mary after four years at NCAA I Minnesota State, Mankato.  “Going out for warmups was something you don’t even see in Mankato, that kind of crowd,” Nelson said. “It was exciting for the Bismarck-Mandan community to have that kind of showing. Hopefully going forward we can be good representatives.”  The local community was well-represented on the ice.  Alex Flicek of Bismarck Century scored two goals. Bismarck High’s Drew Lenertz had a goal and an assist in the four-goal second period. Bismarck High’s Bryce Eckman and Jakob Parisien and Mandan’s Alexander Horner added assists. Dickinson High grad Andrew Heckaman scored the first goal in program history just minutes into the game and fellow Midget Peter Pavek had an assist. Heckaman also had an assist.  It was more than U-Mary head coach Dan Huntley ever imagined.  “When we started the schedule, I really wanted to go after a good program and that was the NDSU program,” Huntley said. “To come out and play like we did couldn’t have been scripted. That was movie theater right there.”  Thirteen different players scored for the Marauders. Holiday Digital Sale! Cancel anytime  Unlimited articles on bismarcktribune.com  with no surveys  Includes E-Edition Replica of Newspaper  FREE Access to Newspapers.com archives (last 2 years)  SALE! Up to 34% OFF   Convenient home delivery of the Bismarck Tribune  Unlimited access to standard  E-Edition  Unlimited articles on bismarcktribune.com with no surveys  Exclusive members-only discounts  on travel, tickets and more  FREE Access to Newspapers.com archives (last 2 years), plus exclusive discounts  Convenient home delivery of the Bismarck Tribune  Unlimited access to standard  E-Edition  Unlimited articles on bismarcktribune.com with no surveys  50% OFF classified ads  on select categories  Exclusive members-only discounts  on travel, tickets and more  FREE Access to Newspapers.com archives (last 2 years), plus exclusive discounts  Convenient home delivery of the Bismarck Tribune  Unlimited access to bismarcktribune.com  with a faster browsing experience  FREE classified ads  on select categories  Exclusive members-only discounts  on travel, tickets and more  FREE Access to Newspapers.com archives (last 2 years), plus exclusive discounts Please call 800-472-2273 to upgrade your subscription. Subscribe for $1/mo.  Heckaman netted the first goal in Marauder hockey history just 3:44 into the game to give U-Mary a 1-0 lead. Manning the point on the power play, Heckaman took a feed from Phil Silveria and his slapper beat NDSU goalie Jordan Elliott, who had a wide-open look at the shot. Elliott made 45 saves.  U-Mary kept the pressure on Elliott throughout the period. It put 14 shots on goal and many more just wide or high. Nelson made eight saves in the first period.  The Bison killed of 1:18 remaining on a power play to start the second period but it only delayed an onslaught by the Marauders, who scored four goals in just 3:06 and took a 5-0 lead into the third period.  The explosion began with Flicek’s goal at 3:38. Two penalties were called on the Bison and Zachary Garrett scored 5-on-3 at 4:45. Lenertz, who assisted on Garrett’s goal, scored again at 5:22 and Marshall Tschida added a goal at 6:50 that gave U-Mary a five-goal lead.  Flicek made it 6-0 with an easy goal skating down the slot at 9:41 of the third period and he assisted on Kyler Moore’s goal moments later.  “Couple years ago, it never crossed my mind,” Flicek said about scoring college goals here. “Now that I’m here, I’m happy to have it.”   And  lot of fans were happy to see it.  “I heard there were a lot of people coming to the game and that there would be a lot of people, but I never expected a full house to the point where people were being told to leave that they couldn’t come it,” Flicek said.  U-Mary secured the shutout by killing off two 5-on-3 power plays and a pair of 5-on-4s in the third period. And with 4:54 left, Nelson stopped Derek Rasmussen on a breakaway.  “Going into this first game you just want to represent the university,” Nelson said. “Everything Monseignor Shea, AD (Dale) Lennon and coach Huntley have done for us, just giving them our best effort was all we could ask for.” The teams meet again this afternoon at 2 for the series finale. NDSU;0;0;0;--;0 U-Mary;1;4;3;--;8 First period:  1. UM, Andrew Heckaman (Phil Silveria, Josh Colleaux), 3:44 (pp). Second period:  2. UM, Alex Flicek (Peter Pavek), 3:38. 3. UM, Zachary Garrett (Bryce Eckman, Drew Lenertz), 4:45 (pp). 4. UM, Lenertz (Ben Kottmeier), 5:22 (pp). 5. UM, Marshall Tschida (Jakob Parisien, Alexander Horner), 6:50. Third period:  6. UM, Flicek (Tschida), 9:41. 7. UM, Kyler Moore (Silveria, Flicek), 8:43. 8. Colleaux (Heckaman), :20. Goalie saves: NDSU – Jordan Elliott 13-14-10 – 45. UM – Aaron Nelson 8-6-7 – 21. Penalties: NDSU – 6 for 12 minutes. UM – 7 for 14 minutes. Records: University of Mary 1-0. We'll send breaking news and news alerts to you as as they happen! AREA SPORTS  AREA SPORTS  Dale Lennon's Upper Midwest college football roots run deep. FARGO, N.D. (AP) — Griffin Crosa kicked three second-quarter field goals and North Dakota State's defense did the rest as the defending nation Britta Knudson earns award playing for Jamestown Jimmies. BOSTON - The brains arrive at all hours in white cardboard boxes stamped "RUSH!" Inside each package is an inch-and-a-half-thick foam liner and a red bag protecting an ordinary white plastic bucket. When a courier service delivered Kevin Ellison's brain to the Bedford VA Medical Center near Boston just after 2 p.m. on Jan. 22, Dr. Victor Alvarez performed the routine he has done so many times ... Minot State completed a weekend sweep of U-Mary, winning 4-0 Saturday night in Mandan. Tremendously well for the quarterbacks and their new teams, judging from the College Football Playoff field. Three of the four starting quarterbacks in this season's playoff began their college careers at other schools: LSU's Joe Burrow transferred from Ohio State, Oklahoma's Jalen Hurts from Alabama and Ohio State's Justin Fields from Georgia. "We're fortunate that the transfer rule is in ... An alleged $40,000 payment to former basketball star Dennis Smith Jr. is at the center of the NCAA's case against N.C. State. In its 66-page response to the Notice of Allegations the NCAA sent in July, N.C. State questioned the evidence of the payment by T.J. Gassnola, a former Adidas associate, and the veracity of Gassnola's testimony during a federal fraud trial in New York in 2018. N.C. ... University of Mary Hockey players celebrate after a goal by Drew Lenertz, center, in the second period of Saturday night's game at Starion Sports Complex in Mandan. Also pictured from the left is Ben Kottmeier, Zachery Garrett, Drew Lenertz, Marschall Tshida and Andrew Huber. University of Mary Hockey player Zachery Garrett provides a screen in front of the net during Saturday night's game against NDSU. Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device. 