Napan creates tour for Rail Arts District | Business | napavalleyregister.com © 2019 Lee Enterprises Terms of Service   |   Privacy Policy Cloudy. Low 47F. Winds light and variable.. Cloudy. Low 47F. Winds light and variable.  Updated: November 13, 2019 @ 5:53 pm Kimberly McGinness recently launched Paper Napan Walkabouts, which offers walking tours along the Napa Valley Vine Trail through the Rail Arts District. A mural paying tribute to firefighters who helped protect Napa Valley homes during North Bay wildfires last October is taking shape along the Vine Trail through the Rail Arts District. Kimberly McGinness recently launched Paper Napan Walkabouts with a tour of the Rail Arts District on the Vine Trail.  Business Editor Kimberly McGinness recently launched Paper Napan Walkabouts, which offers walking tours along the Napa Valley Vine Trail through the Rail Arts District. A mural paying tribute to firefighters who helped protect Napa Valley homes during North Bay wildfires last October is taking shape along the Vine Trail through the Rail Arts District. Kimberly McGinness recently launched Paper Napan Walkabouts with a tour of the Rail Arts District on the Vine Trail.  As more murals and artwork pop up along Napa’s Vine Trail, so has a new business that celebrates that same art. Napa transplant Kimberly McGinness recently launched Paper Napan Walkabouts, LLC. Inspired by the city’s Rail Arts District (RAD), Paper Napan Walkabouts is a new tour company that specializes in guided walking tours in the heart of downtown Napa. Paper Napan Walkabouts launched with a three-hour guided walking tour in and around the semi industrial/residential RAD in downtown Napa that features “amazing hidden gems.” “I live near the vine trail,” said McGinness. During walks on the trail with her family, “I kept seeing all these cool murals coming up.” Established in 2016, the Rail Arts District Napa is a nonprofit organization led by the Napa Valley Vine Trail Coalition, the Napa Valley Wine Train and the local arts and business communities. The 1.7-mile section of the railroad contains a gallery of public artworks from arts around the world. Ultimately, the “district” will consist of more than 30 murals along the train tracks. “I always had a passion for starting my own business,” McGinness said. And while there are other walking tours in Napa, they don’t concentrate on the RAD district the same way her tour does. “I saw an opportunity here,” she said. “As I started learning more about the RAD it became my inspiration… to put together a package of a walking tour around the district.”  Unlimited articles on napavalleyregister.com with no surveys  FREE Access to Newspapers.com archives (last 2 years)  Try Digital for 25¢ a week  Cancel anytime  Includes E-Edition Replica of Newspaper  Unlimited articles on napavalleyregister.com  with no surveys  FREE Access to Newspapers.com archives (last 2 years)  SALE! Up to 31% OFF   Convenient home delivery of the Napa Valley Register  Unlimited access to standard  E-Edition  Unlimited articles on napavalleyregister.com with no surveys  Exclusive members-only discounts  on travel, tickets and more  FREE Access to Newspapers.com archives (last 2 years), plus exclusive discounts  Convenient home delivery of the Napa Valley Register  Unlimited access to standard  E-Edition  Unlimited articles on napavalleyregister.com with no surveys  50% OFF classified ads  on select categories  Exclusive members-only discounts  on travel, tickets and more  FREE Access to Newspapers.com archives (last 2 years), plus exclusive discounts  Convenient home delivery of the Napa Valley Register  Unlimited access to napavalleyregister.com  with a faster browsing experience  FREE classified ads  on select categories  Exclusive members-only discounts  on travel, tickets and more  FREE Access to Newspapers.com archives (last 2 years), plus exclusive discounts Please call 877-433-5056 to upgrade your subscription. Try Digital for 25¢ a week McGinness said she thought a RAD tour would be a great way to express how the arts district connects the valley artistically, physically and culturally. The Paper Napan Walkabouts tour currently includes viewing eight murals and two to three electrical switch boxes which have been “wrapped” in artwork. Tours start at the Jackson Street entrance to the Vine Trail and then go south on the trail to Vallejo Street. During the 3-hour tour, guests will view murals and art, enjoy tastings at urban wineries and nano-breweries, try yard games at Vine Trail pocket parks and learn about interesting projects planned for the area. The cost is $80 per person. Featured merchants include St. Clair Brown Winery  &  Brewery, Robert Craig Winery and CRU @ the Annex. The walking distance is less than a mile. About 45 minutes is spent walking and 45 minutes at each tasting stop, said McGinness. Because the business has just launched, McGinness is currently offering a 50 percent discount on tours using the promo code CHEERS. McGinness, who previously worked in sales and marketing for American Airlines in Dallas, said she’s enjoying her first steps as a new entrepreneur. “It’s crazy but I love it,” she said. Info:  papernapan.com , 707-815-3845 We'll send breaking news and news alerts to you as as they happen! Article with images On Mondays there’s a new place for “hoppy” hour, but you must catch the train on time. Napa Valley Wine Train’s new “Hop Train” replaces wine  Business Editor Jennifer Huffman is the business editor and a general assignment reporter for the Napa Valley Register. I cover a wide variety of topics for the newspaper. I've been with the Register since 2005. PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device. 