making of scania clock | Gkindshivani Benjamin Franklin once said,  You may stop, but time will not. Swedish automobile maker Scania achieved to make a running clock for 24 hours straight keeping time down to the second, deploying a great team effort recently while managing a 750,000 sq ft working clock in a deserted airfield by strategically deploying 14 trucks that kept moving round-the-clock. Scania employed 90 drivers for two hours each, to drive the trucks representing the second, the minute and the hour hands of the clock. Fleet managers kept guiding the trucks from a monitoring room. Have a view at making of the Scania clock: India s first squad of Women Firefighter is not just breaking the stereotypes but proving that there is nothing impossible that woman can t do. First in its kind in Asia, meet this squad of 14 girls creating the history, proving there is nothing a woman cannot conquer and thus inspiring millions of young girls to chase [ ] We reap, what we sow  is an old proverb and the credit goes to the parents of a daughter, who is making India proud while staying abroad by leaving her marks (not footprints) on this earth through her passionate green actions. This is an inspiring story of a 17 years old girl, Arushi Madan who [ ] Meaning:  Intricately folded, twisted, or coiled (especially of an argument, story, or sentence) extremely complex and difficult to follow. Synonyms: Complicated, complex, involved, elaborate, serpentine, labyrinthine, tortuous, tangled, Byzantine. In Hindi: जटिल Use: When I fly, I prefer a direct flight not one which takes me on a convoluted journey. My head began to hurt as I [ ] Meaning: Not written in any key or mode. Synonyms: Discordant, harsh, loud, strident, absonant, acute, blaring, dissonant, blatant, braying, brusque, cacophonous, gruff, squawking, stertorous, unharmonious, husky. In Hindi: अतान Use: I heard a new voice floating above the atonal music. The atmosphere was filled with an eerie, atonal melody.  View Full Site Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com. 