World's Biggest Tsunami | 1720 feet tall - Lituya Bay, Alaska Home Records  Tallest Tsunami On the night of July 9, 1958, an  earthquake  along the Fairweather Fault in the Alaska Panhandle loosened about 40 million cubic yards (30.6 million cubic meters) of  rock  high above the northeastern shore of Lituya Bay. This mass of rock plunged from an altitude of approximately 3000 feet (914 meters) down into the waters of Gilbert Inlet (see map below). The impact force of the  rockfall  generated a local  tsunami   that crashed against the southwest shoreline of Gilbert Inlet. The wave hit with such power that it swept completely over the spur of land that separates Gilbert Inlet from the main body of Lituya Bay. The wave then continued down the entire length of Lituya Bay, over La Chaussee Spit and into the Gulf of Alaska. The force of the wave removed all trees and vegetation from elevations as high as 1720 feet (524 meters) above sea level. Millions of trees were uprooted and swept away by the wave. This is the highest wave that has ever been known. Lituya Bay is an ice-scoured tidal inlet on the northeast shore of the Gulf of Alaska. It is about seven miles long (11.3 kilometers) and up to two miles wide (3.2 kilometers). It has a maximumdepth of about 720 feet (219 meters), but a sill of only 32 feet (9.7 meters) in depth separates it from the  Gulf of Alaska between La Chaussee Spit and Harbor Point. The Fairweather Fault trends across the northeast end of the Bay and is responsible forthe T-shape of the bay.  Glacial scour has exploited the weak zone along the fault to produce a long linear trough known as the Fairweather Trench. The Lituya Glacier and North Crillon Glacier have scoured portions of the Fairweather Trench in the area of Lituya Bay.  Gilbert Inlet and Crillon Inlet occupy the Fairweather Trench on the northeast end of Lituya Bay. The rockfall of July 9, 1958 occurred on steep cliffs above the northeast shore of Gilbert Inlet. It is marked on the map above in red.  The rocks fell from an elevation of about 3000 feet (914 meters). The impact of 40 million cubic yards  (30.6 million cubic meters) of rock hitting the water produced a local  tsunami that swept the entire length of the Lituya Bay and over the La Chaussee Spit. This wave stripped all vegetation and soil from along the edges of the bay. This damaged area is shown in yellow on the map above. The numbers are elevations (in feet) of the upper edge of the wave damage area and represent the approximate elevation of the wave as it traveled through the bay. Map redrawn from data included in United States Geological Survey Professional Paper 354-C. This is a Landsat Geocover image of Lituya Bay produced with Landsat data collected by NASA about forty years after the tsunami. The wave damaged areas along the edges of the bay. Areas where soil and vegetation were removed are still clearly visible. They are the light green areas of different vegetation color around the rim of the bay. Lituya Bay a few weeks after the 1958 tsunami. The areas of destroyed forest along the shorelines are clearly recognizable as the light areas rimming the bay.  A  fishing boat anchored in the cove at lower left was carried over the spit in the foreground; a boat under way near the entrance was sunk; and a third boat, anchored near the lower right, rode out the wave.  Photo by D.J. Miller, United States Geological Survey. This is an isoseismal map showing the impact of the Magnitude 7.7 Alaska Earthquake of July 9, 1958 in Modified Mercalli Scale units. Lituya Bay was in the area of XI intensity. The isoseismal contours near the epicenter parallel the Fairweather Fault.  Map information from Seismicity of the United States, 1568-1989 (Revised),  by Carl W. Stover and Jerry L. Coffman,  U.S. Geological Survey Professional Paper 1527,  United States Government Printing Office, Washington: 1993. The cliff on the northeast wall of Gilbert Inlet showing the scar of the 40 million cubic yard (30.6 million cubic meters) rockslide that occurred on the day before this photo. The head of the slide was at an altitude of  about 3,000 feet (914 meters), just below snowfield in upper center. The elevation of water in Lituya Bay is sea level. The front of  Lituya Glacier is visible in the lower left corner. Photo by D.J. Miller, United States Geological Survey. Photo looking down the  Fairweather Fault Trench at the head of Lituya Bay. The front of Lituya Glacier with lateral and medial moraines is seen terminating in Gilbert Inlet. The cliff where the rockslide originated is on the right side of Gilbert Inlet. The opposite valley wall on the left side of Gilbert Inlet received the  full force of the big wave, stripping it of soil and trees.   Photo by D.J. Miller, United States Geological Survey. The spur of land between Gilbert Inlet and Lituya Bay that received the full force of the wave. Trees and soil were stripped away to an elevation of 1720 feet (524 meters) above the surface of Lituya Bay.  Photo by D.J. Miller, United States Geological Survey. Wave damage areas along the shorelines of Lituya Bay, viewed from the south.  Photo by D.J. Miller, United States Geological Survey. Stump of living spruce tree broken off by the giant wave at Harbor Point, mouth of Lituya Bay. Brim of hat is 12 inches in diameter.  This tree is located about seven miles  (11.3 kilometers) from where the wave originated. Photo by D.J. Miller, United States Geological Survey. Wave damage on the south shore of Lituya Bay, from Harbor Point to La Chaussee Spit, southwest of Crillon Inlet. Tree trunks can be seen in the water and tree stumps along the lower shoreline. This location is seven miles  (11.3 kilometers) away from where the wave originated. Photo by D.J. Miller, United States Geological Survey. A third boat was in Lituya Bay at the time of the tsunami.  It was anchored near the mouth of the bay and was sunk by the big wave.  There are no known survivors from this boat, and it was believed that there were two people on board. Prior to the July, 1958 tsunami, Don J. Miller of the United States Geological Survey had been studying evidence for the occurrence of large waves in Lituya Bay.  He had documented evidence for at least four previous large waves with estimated dates of 1936, 1899, 1874, and 1853 (or 1854).  All of these waves were significant in size, but shoreline evidence for all of them was removed by the 1958 wave. Mr. Miller was in Alaska when the July 1958 wave occurred and flew to Lituya Bay the following day. He took the photographs shown above in July and August and documented the older waves in United States Geological Survey Professional Paper 354-C, Giant Waves in Lituya Bay, Alaska, 1960. With such a history of large waves, Lituya Bay should be considered as a dangerous body of water prone to a few large waves every century.  When will the next one occur? 