Best cosmetic bags | Toiletry bags It’s one thing to have a dedicated area in your cupboard for your beauty bits. It’s an entirely different ball game being organised enough to cart around said products when going out for the day, weekend or even month without losing everything. Which is exactly why every girl should own at least one of these cosmetic bags: The pencil case is the kind of cosmetic bag every girl should own when hauling around a gazillion of her lip products. The length makes it perfect for most liners, glosses, lipsticks, and lipstains and it’s small enough to fit into your handbag. It’s even a great size to fit in some single eyeshadows, eyeliners and mascara.  Try:  MOR New York Pencil Case Pantone 504 If there was one make-up bag staple, this would be it. This kind of make-up case holds all you need for touch-ups through the day, including foundation, bronzer, and blush, and doesn’t take up much room. Just make sure not to shove too much in there.  Try: Jimedale Perfect Day to Day Make-up Bag, $15, Target If you use a brush to apply each of your make-up products, then this bad boy should be your travelling staple. It’ll safely hold all of your brushes without smushing the bristles.  Try:  Shu Uemura Brush Case 14 So you’re going on a trip are you? Then this is the bag that you need – big enough to carry the cosmetics you need for an extended time away and often compartmentalised so that you can have a bit of organisation. Added bonus if it can hook onto the shower rack in a bathroom. Try: Models Prefer Russian Floral Weekender Sometimes a girl needs a variety of bags to have her covered no matter the situation. Enter a trio of cosmetic bags: where there’s a different size bag perfect for each situation. The smallest one goes right in your hand bag on a day-to-day basis, the medium one is your go-to for when you need to carry around a bit extra, and the largest will see you through any trip. Try:  Designer Brands Cosmetic Check Cosmetic Bags How many make-up bags do you own? Which is your favourite kind? Great article Cosmetic bags are my favorite bags to shop for! Ohhhh the dream to be that organised  &  have a bag for different places, gym, home, work!!! I never thought to use a pencil case as a make-up bag but it looks cute!! Just one! A gift I have a few make-up cases and bags, I really want one that has a ton of separate compartments and brush/lippy sections to keep everything neat. The brush bag would be handy. Would love to design my own style. I like the pencil case but how big is it? I have heaps of cosmetic bags, including spares.  Often I've had them as a GWP, I've never paid for one I'm with you on this one. I've been given plenty as gifts, or received them as GWP. I haven't had to buy one since high school. I need the Hanging Organiser type bag! I'm making do with my stuff in several smaller bags at the moment and it's not doing the job. very pretty cases They are all gorgeous! I love the everyday makeup bags! Mecca Maxima has cute little handbag size bags! I definitely need the lot! haha I need the lot!! I really need the shu brush case. Id love to take it with my while travelling :) I own a couple of make-up bags but the one I use the most is similar to the Models Prefer "Hanging Organiser" bag. it's definitely perfect for those overseas trips! I have heaps of make-up bags, they are very handy. I've few of these. Very useful while travelng I have a few. Most of which have been given to me. The main time I use them is when I'm travelling. I love a nice makeup bag and always carry one in my handbag. I generally go for a nice sequins clutch and use that as my makeup bag. I use a make up box for my stuff at home, it has different compartments for different things and different levels.Then just a normal make up bag for touch ups or for when i dont have time to do make up at home before work, I will often just swap things around in there. Let's not forget the train case - handle for travel, and very sturdy! I love make up bags. My favourite is my hot pink Ted Baker one. 