GHS Thespian Troupe #243 - Greenwich Public Schools Greenwich Public Schools Top Element About GHS Thespian Troupe:  Thespians are members of an international honor society for theater, the International Thespian Society, which is a division of The Educational Theater Association. As members Thespians earn their membership by meeting a set of requirements which are based on a set of national criteria involving both performance and back stage work. The overall standards for Thespian membership at Greenwich High School have been roughly unchanged since 1987. Greenwich High School ' s Troupe is one of the oldest in the nation, although a brief lapse in affiliation in the early eighties prevents us from having the continuous affiliation recognition. Our original charter for our troupe (Thespian Troupe #243) goes back to 1932 and is on display in the Theater Wing. A prospective member must have either acted in three separate plays and have held one position of responsibility in a non-acting aspect of theater (tech, production, etc.) OR by having held a position of responsibility and meeting backstage commitments on two other productions (30 hrs. each) as well as participating in one performing situation. In either case, a candidate must also complete with distinction a position of responsibility which involves primary responsibility of an important backstage role (technical theater or arts administration).. Students are invited into Thespians when they meet these requirements. Thespians provides service to the Theater Arts program and less experienced students, and they have a variety of responsibilities. Thespians have no special privileges nor do they receive preferential treatment of any kind. Thespians provide the organizational energy and commitment necessary to produce quality educational theater in a supportive and respectful setting. Thespians also serve as student directors and leaders to produce Magic Circle. THESPIAN DIRECTORS Emily Bass Julia Bibault Skye Gillespie Lucy Mini  Anika Rabenhorst THESPIANS Ian Bouslough Amanda Brea Michael Busani JJ Evans Gwen Gilfond Katie Hoffmeister Nick Kach  Liz Murray Cayla Smith Jack Ullrich Sarah Walker Click here for information on Thespian Requirements and Membership responsibilities 