Homemade Knit, Sew and Crochet: 25 Home Craft Projects - Ros Badger - E-book Join to find the hottest teen books, connect with your favorite YA authors and meet new friends who share your reading interests.  Visit EpicReads.com » Read new romance book reviews, posts from your favorite authors, samples, exciting digital first publications and e-book specials. Visit AvonRomance.com » Visit the official Harlequin book site. See the newest novels, discuss with other book lovers, buy romance books online. Visit Harlequin.com » Get a  free  e-book from  Book perk  by  Ros Badger ,  Thompson On Sale:  10/11/2012 $ 1.99 Spend $49 and get FREE shipping on HC.com To read e-books on the  BookShoutApp , download it on: We have partnered with Bookshout and recommend using their app as a simple way to readoure-books. Their App is available for download on iOS and Android devices. You can alsoaccessyour e-book titles on your desktop or mobile browser. Format: E-book by Ros Badger, Thompson We'd love you to buy this book, and hope you find this page convenient in locating a place of purchase. The broadest selection of online bookstores. The links will take you to the Web site's homepage. From there you can navigate to the title you are interested in. Interest-specific online venues will often provide a book buying opportunity. Click here for a list of interest-specific sites grouped by category. If you are located outside the U.S., the best way to order online is to choose from the following bookstores listed by region and country. Get out your knitting needles, crochet hooks and sewing machines and learn to make something truly original! Complete with step-by-step instructions and beautiful photography, these projects - from knitted fingerless gloves to upcycled vintage summer bunting - will add individuality to your home and wardrobe, and also make perfect gifts. 25 fun and simple projects to make, perfect for beginners. Complete with patterns, and knitting, sewing and crochet basics. Includes a directory of suppliers and resources The content of this book is adapted from Homemade by Ros Badger and Elspeth Thompson, first published by Collins in 2009. ‘There could hardly be a better time to relearn the joys of the home-made. Ros Badger and Elspeth Thompson have put together a book filled with ideas for economising or simply wiling away a lovely afternoon.’ Telegraph’s Stella magazine on Homemade ‘This beautiful book would make a lovely gift in itself, if you can bring yourself to give it away! It’s packed with all kinds of craft projects.’ Simply Knitting on Homemade by  M. P. Kozlowsky illustrated by  Brian Thompson by  Anne Thompson by  Caroline Zoob by  Linda Thompson by  Mary Papenfuss ,  Teri Thompson by  Mitsuki Hoshi by  Kenneth Oppel illustrated by  Keith Thompson illustrated by  Jackie Morris by  J. E. Thompson by  Christina Thompson by  M. P. Kozlowsky illustrated by  Brian Thompson by  Anne Thompson by  Caroline Zoob by  Linda Thompson by  Mary Papenfuss ,  Teri Thompson by  Mitsuki Hoshi by  Kenneth Oppel illustrated by  Keith Thompson illustrated by  Jackie Morris by  J. E. Thompson by  Christina Thompson by  M. P. Kozlowsky illustrated by  Brian Thompson by  Anne Thompson Copyright © 2019 HarperCollins Publishers. All rights reserved. Site Powered by  Supadu Daily bookish finds, fantastic deals, giveaways, and more.  Plus, download a free e-book just for signing up! Click below to redeem your free e-book from BookShout. Use promo code  BookperkFree . Thanks for signing up! Before you claim your free e-book, tell us more about what you like to read so we can send you the best offers and opportunities. What kind of books do you like to read? Would you like to receive any of the followingnewsletters? 