The 10 best resorts in Bangalore, India | Booking.com Loading Pick your preferred language. We speak English and 42 other languages. View vacation packages to Bangalore The rooms are fitted with air conditioning, a flat-screen TV with cable channels, a kettle, a shower, a hairdryer and a desk. At the  resort  rooms are fitted with a wardrobe and a private bathroom. ><br >Chinnaswamy Stadium is 27 km from the  resort , while Forum Mall, Koramangala is 27 km from the property. The nearest airport is Kempegowda International, 54 km from Ayurvedagram Heritage Wellness Center, and the property offers a paid airport shuttle service. Wonderful staff, great yoga classes and Ayurvedic treatments. Bangalore Situated in Bangalore, 33 km from Commercial Street, Malgudi Farm  Resort  features accommodation with a restaurant, free private parking and a garden. The property is located 33 km from The Heritage Centre  &  Aerospace Museum, 33 km from Brigade Road and 34 km from Chinnaswamy Stadium. The accommodation provides a 24-hour front desk, room service and luggage storage for guests. I have been visiting Malgudi since January and this review is long a due.Malgudi has been by far the best hideout from city life for me and I appreciate the extended hospitality from the staff. The ambiance of the place reminds me of my childhood days and thrills me with joy.No TV,  little phone signal, No access to technologies make me spend family time and self realization rather than watching movies, scrolling social media which has become our new family time.Foodies paradise: with home cooked food and all meals are enriched with flavors. I thoroughly enjoyed all the meals offered during  my stay and they made me realize their are 4 meals a day to enjoy and in busy city life I am used to missing most meals on daily basis.Animals provide the definition to the farm so would like to thanks all the dogs for their pampering and a grand welcome they give me whenever I come. Jesse, jasper, stephie, Max, whiskey, Chester and especially Bruno; my love to all the dogs.Staff has been amazing and would like to appreciate their attentiveness ; Suman, Aalang, Bharat 😃 Thank you.Kudos! To the owner Nixon Whitefield, Bangalore This  luxurious  property is situated 1 km away from the local bus stand and Forum Value Mall. Whitefield Railway Station is 5 km away while Bengaluru Airport is 45 km from the hotel. ><br >Guests can select from various  spa  treatments  and utilize the business centre. Palm Meadows Club also features a 24-hour reception, a games room and a tour desk. the staff are great, the facilities are good and its away from the hustle and bustle of Bangalore. More informal than a big hotel and also more relaxing. Has the space and ambience that means you don ' t feel so lonely when travelling.The staff are really great Bangalore Boasting a restaurant, garden and views of pool, Suvarnamukhi holistic is set in Bangalore, 3.7 km from ISKCON Hare Krishna Temple. Featuring room service, this property also provides guests with a children's playground. The  resort  has an outdoor  swimming pool , fitness centre, evening entertainment and a 24-hour front desk. Location, reception, hospitality, cleanliness, respecting the privacy Bangalore Offering an  outdoor pool  and a restaurant, Radiant  Resort  is located in Bangalore. Free WiFi access is available in this  resort . ><br >At Radiant  Resort  you will find a 24-hour front desk, a garden and a bar. Other facilities offered at the property include a games room. The property offers free parking. Food is very tasty  especially the chili chicken but as a sea food lover fish and prawns were not available Yelahanka, Bangalore Royal Orchid  Resort &  Convention Centre is a 30-minute drive from Bangalore International Airport. This stylish accommodation features 2 dining options and an  outdoor pool . ><br > Resort  Royal Orchid is a 30-minute drive from Lal Bagh and a 1-hour drive from Banarghatta National Park. The hotel is a short 10-minute drive from Lord Shiva Temple. Location of the hotel is so perfect that one can now think of travelling to Bengaluru without being afraid of the city’s dreaded traffic. Bangalore Situated in Bangalore, 28 km from The Heritage Centre  &  Aerospace Museum, Golden Mile  Resort  features accommodation with a restaurant, free private parking, a fitness centre and a garden. The property is around 29 km from Forum Mall, Koramangala, 36 km from Bull Temple and 37 km from Brigade Road. The accommodation offers a 24-hour front desk and room service for guests. We have booked a 3 BR villa and was good.  The house was kept clean and no cobwebs or dust.  The mattress was comfortable to sleep and the place was neat and tidy Bangalore Situated in Bangalore, 12 km from Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, Sambhram Roost  Resort  features accommodation with a restaurant, free private parking, a bar and a garden. This 3-star  resort  offers a 24-hour front desk and room service. Every room is equipped with a flat-screen TV with cable channels. Space was good, food was great!! Service staff were too humble and kind. Bangalore All units at the  resort  are equipped with a seating area, a flat-screen TV with cable channels and a private bathroom with free toiletries and a shower. The rooms at Holiday Village include air conditioning and a wardrobe. Food was good. Ambience is nice. Bangalore Chairman's  Resort  offers 3 dining options, an indoor  swimming pool  and a variety of recreational facilities. Located in Bangalore, this property features free parking and free Wi-Fi in public areas. ><br > Resort  Chairman is 24 km from Bangaluru International Airport and 25 km from the main bus stand. The main railway station is 26 km away. Staffs were very alert and since it was new year eve, they were extra vigilant. Snacks and food provided was good, seating arrangement and program for kids were nice. DJ was nice but dancing floor was cramped, could have been little big. Resort in Bangalore Popular with guests booking resorts in Bangalore Resort in Bangalore Popular with guests booking resorts in Bangalore Resort in Bangalore Popular with guests booking resorts in Bangalore Resort in Bangalore Popular with guests booking resorts in Bangalore Resort in Bangalore Popular with guests booking resorts in Bangalore Resort in Bangalore Popular with guests booking resorts in Bangalore Bangalore Located in Bangalore, 11 miles from The Heritage Centre  &  Aerospace Museum, Ayurvedagram Heritage Wellness Center has accommodations with a restaurant, free private parking, a fitness center and a... Wonderful staff, great yoga classes and Ayurvedic treatments. Bangalore Featuring a garden and a restaurant, Malgudi Farm Resort is located in Bangalore.  I have been visiting Malgudi since January and this review is long a due. Whitefield, Bangalore Sprawled across 5 acres of lush greenery surrounded by Bangalore’s major business parks, Palm Meadows Club features a spacious outdoor pool and sauna facilities.  the staff are great, the facilities are good and its away from the hustle and bustle of Bangalore. Bangalore Featuring a restaurant, garden and views of pool, Suvarnamukhi holistic is located in Bangalore, 2.3 miles from ISKCON Hare Krishna Temple.  Location, reception, hospitality, cleanliness, respecting the privacy Bangalore Offering an outdoor pool and a restaurant, Radiant Resort is located in Bangalore. Free WiFi access is available in this resort. The accommodations will provide you with a TV and a seating area.  Food is very tasty  especially the chili chicken but as a sea food lover fish and prawns were not... Bangalore Located in Bangalore, 8 miles from Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, Utsav Club and Resort provides accommodations with a restaurant, free private parking, a fitness center and a bar.  Bangalore Chairman ' s Resort offers 3 dining options, an indoor swimming pool and a variety of recreational facilities. Located in Bangalore, this property features free parking and free Wi-Fi in public areas.  Staffs were very alert and since it was new year eve, they were extra vigilant. Bangalore Located in Bangalore, 18 miles from The Heritage Centre  &  Aerospace Museum, Golden Mile Resort has accommodations with a restaurant, free private parking, a fitness center and a garden.  We have booked a 3 BR villa and was good.  The house was kept clean and no cobwebs or dust. On average, a resort in Bangalore costs $51 per night (based on Booking.com prices). These resorts in Bangalore are highly rated by couples:  Ayurvedagram Heritage Wellness Center ,  Palm Meadows Club , and  Malgudi Farm Resort . For resorts in Bangalore serving highly-rated breakfasts, try  Malgudi Farm Resort ,  Ayurvedagram Heritage Wellness Center , and  Palm Meadows Club . The average price per night for a resort in Bangalore this weekend is $88 (based on Booking.com prices). Koramangala ,  Electronic City , and  Gandhi nagar  are popular with other travelers visiting Bangalore. Many families visiting Bangalore enjoyed staying at  Ayurvedagram Heritage Wellness Center ,  Golden Mile Resort , and  Malgudi Farm Resort . Palm Meadows Club ,  Malgudi Farm Resort , and  Ayurvedagram Heritage Wellness Center  have received great reviews from guests in Bangalore about the views from these resorts. The average price of a resort in Bangalore this evening is $58 (based on Booking.com prices). Ayurvedagram Heritage Wellness Center ,  Malgudi Farm Resort , and  Palm Meadows Club  are some of our most popular resorts in Bangalore. 8.8 Excellent 474 reviews Location  /  luxury property.  Staffs were very courteous.  Tanya was warm person, cared about our wellness everyday. Food was great. Breakfast area and the staffs are very courteous.  6.8 Review score 257 reviews Very good location and a huge campus in the heart of the city limits it’s like a resort. Good staff and South Indian vegetarian breakfast was really good.  8.5 Very Good 106 reviews The rustic and no frills feel of the place is the most charming aspect of it. Do not expect a resort because it is not. It is a very earthy kinda place away from the traffic and noise that gives a homely feeling. And if you love dogs this is paradise as it was for me and my boy. lots of other farm animals which goes with the setting of the place. Food is exceptional and the service boys are very friendly. Definitely recommend this place. 7.2 Good 64 reviews Good place resort for Hebbal,  8.5 Very Good 106 reviews Location : Not very far from the National highway. Easy to reach using google maps. Facilities : Room was clean. They welcomed us with refreshing lime juice. Food was great. They charge 300 rupees for lunch / dinner and serve 3 starters ,main course (rice,dal  &  roti) and ice cream. Food was very yummy.They have pets inside resort - Dogs, Rabbit , Emu bird, Love birds, ducks ...Network connectivity is weak and they dont have TV. So we can spend quality time with the family. 8.8 Excellent 474 reviews The hospitality of the Taj Hotel was excellent. I ' ve never experienced such a luxury and level of service. Rooms even have huge TV with screen mirroring feature, Netflix and other streaming options. A lot of drinking water supplied every day. 9.5 Exceptional 873 reviews Ohhh words merely won’t describe the experience which we had staying there. Staffs were amazing service was outstanding  &  mind blowing. After Burj Al Arab this was the property which blew my mind in terms of service comfort luxury etc. Have to stay to experience such wonderful service. Kudos  &  Hats off. Keep it up. NB: the pressure of water in the bathroom was outstanding never ever seen a hotel give that much pressure. Simply Loved It. 8.7 Excellent 164 reviews This place is located in a good location, good food and shopping malls are located in walking distance. The staff were very friendly and attended all our requests promptly. Outstanding service from the staff. Easy access to main road, peaceful location away from loud traffic  9.5 Exceptional 873 reviews The rooms were amazing. Ther service and hospitality were beyond amazing and second to none. I ' d say it ' s the best luxury hotel in Bangalore. Will certainly be back again soon.Thank you 6.8 Review score 230 reviews I didn ' t like anything in this resort Refer a property List your property Booking.com is part of Booking Holdings Inc., the world leader in online travel and related services. We have more than 70 million property reviews, all from  real, verified guests . 1 The only way to leave a review is to first make a booking. That's how we know our reviews come from real guests who have stayed at the property. 2 When guests stay at the property, they check out how quiet the room is, how friendly the staff is, and more. 3 After their trip, guests tell us about their stay. We check for naughty words and verify the authenticity of all guest reviews before adding them to our site. If you booked through us and want to leave a review, please sign in first. Check-in date Check-out date 