Alerts  &  Notices :: Colonial Federal Savings Bank October is National Cybersecurity Awareness Month: This year the main focus is broken down into three separate categories: Own IT :  Never click and tell:Staying safe on social media, update pricacy settings and keep tabs on your Apps Secure IT :Change yout passwords, make sure they are strong and unique. Turn on multi-factor authentication. Protect IT : Make sure your anti-virus software is always up to date.  Always connect to a secure Wi-fi.                                More information Social Security benefits SCAM: Tax Identity Theft Awareness Tax Identity week is January 28 to February 1. Consumers need to be informed about protecting themselves from tax-related identity theft and scams. Take these steps to protects your personal and financial information. Some tips to help you shop wisely and protect your personal information.  Don't Worry your Social Security Number (SSN) has NOT been suspended. This is one of the latest scams going around. Scammers are trying to trick people into giving them their personal information. Social Security Numbers do not get suspended. This is just a scam that's after your SSN, bank account number or other personal information. In this particular scam the caller pretends to be protecting you from a scam while he's trying to lure you into one. Tips to protect yourselves: When shopping, banking, or sharing personal information online, take the same precautions with your smart phone or other device that you do with your personal computer. Do not use public Wi-Fi networks Avoid using open Wi-Fi Networks to conduct personal business, bank or shop online. Open Wi-Fi networks at places such as airports, coffee shops, and other public locations present an opportunity for attackers to intercept sensitive information that you would provide to complete an online transaction.  If you simply must check your bank balance or make an online purchase while you are traveling, turn off your device's Wi-Fi connection and use your mobile device's cellular data internet connection instead of making the transaction over an unsecured Wi-Fi network. Turn off Bluetooth when not in use Cyber criminals have the capability to pair with your phone's open Bluetooth connection when you are not using it and steal personal information. Be Cautious when charging Avoid connecting your mobile device to any computer or charging station that you do not control, such as charging station at an airport terminal or a shared computer at a library. Connection a mobile device to a computer to interact with the phone in ways that a user may not anticipate. As a result, a malicious computer could gain access to your sensitive data or install new software. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has issued a news release to beware of a new phishing email scam. Cyber criminals posing as state accounting and professional associations have been sending emails to entice their targets to reveal login credentials.  Tax practitioners should be wary of unsolicited emails and forward email phishing attempts related to this scam to phishing@irs.gov. Be on the lookout for a new Apple email phishing Scam of the Week. New European data privacy regulation is going into effect this week. Its called General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and bad guys are using it as bait in a variety of ways. This scam looks like its from Apple and claims that if you do not take action, your account will be  " restricted " . But in reality they steal your identity and credit card information.  As this year's April 17 Tax deadline approaches, NCCIC/US-CERT is offering taxpayers guidance to help protect your personal, financial, and tax information. Hackers can take advantage of taxpayers by using social engineering scams to attempt to steal personally identifiable information.  Tax Scams: Tips on protecting yourself:   Tax Season is in full force and with that comes phishing scams. Phishing emails are going around that can secretly download malicious software that can help cyber criminals steal client data. The IRS has already identified a new scam that began with cyber criminals stealing data from several tax practitioners’ computers and filing fraudulent tax returns.  Tax-related phishing emails are trying to get victims to provide personally identifiable information, click on a malicious link, or pay a ransom. Sometimes these requests were followed by or combined with a request for an unauthorized wire transfer. The most popular method remains impersonating an executive, either through a compromised or spoofed email in order to obtain W-2 information. We encourage all taxpayers to review the IC3 Alert page  more information. Reports from the Federal Trade Commission are reporting of a new Social Security Scam. Scammers are calling and claiming to be from the Social Security Administration. They say there is a problem with their computers and they need you to verify your Social Security number.  There are also spoof websites that look like a place where you would apply for a new Social Security Card-These websites are just a set-up to steal your personal information. If you get a phone call or are directed to a website other than ssa.gov that is claiming to be associated with the Social Security Administration, Do Not Respond!! Its most likely a scam. Some Tips: Researchers have recently found out that the main chip in most computers has a hardware bug. It's a design flaw in the hardware that has been there for 20 years. This is a big deal because it affects almost every computer, phone, tablet etc.  This hardware bug allows malicious programs to steal data that is being processed in your computer memory. So, if the bad guys are able to get malicious software running on your computer, they can get access to your passwords stored in a password manager or browser, your emails, instant messages and even business-critical documents. Not good.  Make Sure your Browser and other computer updates are patched to the latest version. Be extra vigilant and as always  Think Before You Click ! The Holidays season is officially underway. May we all have a Happy, Healthy and Holiday season. With that being said, the man wearing the Santa hat is not the only one we have to worry about! During this holiday season please make sure you are aware of all the possible scams out there. Those guys do not care if you are on the Nice or Naughty list. Here are some tips to keep in mind:  Holiday Traveling with personal Internet-Enabled Devices More Information Another reason to THINK BEFORE YOU CLICK, Scammers are now emailing Netflix subscribers. You will get an E-mail that says your Netflix account has been suspended, they are trying to get your login information and your credit card data. Do not Fall for this scam. If you ever need to change your subscription settings, log into your account from your browser. Never Click on any links in E-mails that you are not familiar with.  .   Publishers Clearing House Scams: There have been many reports about scammers calling and claiming you have won the sweepstakes, but they will need you to send money for  " fees and taxes " .  Paying to collect a prize is a scam. Always is. Scammers like to ask you to send money by Western Union or MoneyGram or by getting a prepaid card or gift card. Why? because it is nearly impossible to trace that money and you will almost never get your money back. If you think you have won a prize, here are a few things to know: if you or someone you know believes they have been victim of a scam, please report it to your institution,  Phishing Scams Summer Edition These are some of the most recent Phishing scams emails you might receive : *Always be cautious when opening emails from an unknown sender* Google Docs Phishing Campaign When it comes to this scam, before clicking on the  " Open "  or  " View "  take these steps into consideration: Scammers know how to make a phony check look legitimate. Fake Checks are known as one of the most popular scams and one of the most risky ones. Fake check scams come in many different ways. Look out for fake jobs, Prizes, online sales or even the person next door handing you a check. Money orders and cashier's checks can be counterfeited too. Here is how to avoid a counterfeit check scam; If you believe you are a victim of tax identity theft or if the IRS denies your tax return because one has previously been filed under your name, alert the IRS Identity Protection Specialized Unit at 1-800-908-4490 you should also: More Information 10/7/2016 Please be aware a combination of calls, emails and text messages that appear to be from the IRS are going around. The IRS does not initiate contact with taxpayers by email, text, or social media. They are trying to lure people to a malicious website or to provide personal and financial information. Always know who your are speaking with or what sites you are clicking on. More Information If you notice  suspicious activity  on your account or experience a security event, call Bill, Mary or Jennifer at: I am sorry, an error has occurred. I'm sorry, an error has occured. I'm sorry, an error has occured. 