Residential | Baker ' s Travertine Power Clean, Polishing, Sealing #1 in Scottsdale  &  Paradise valley Bonded • Insured • Contractor Lic # AZROC237989 Request a Quote Submit a Photo We have been providing expert residential stone floor finishing and restoration service to the Valley since 1988. Over the years, we have developed the most efficient and safe custom  abrasive A substance used to sand, scour, scrub, smooth or  polish Using abrasives to make the stone surface so smooth that it reflects light that results in a clear shine.  by removal of the original material. The amount of material removed is determined by the size of the  abrasive A substance used to sand, scour, scrub, smooth or polish by removal of the original material. The amount of material removed is determined by the size of the abrasive particles used (ie: grit) Sandpaper, scouring powders and steel wool are examples of abrasives.  particles used (ie: grit) Sandpaper, scouring powders  &  steel wool are examples of abrasives.  processes to thoroughly clean, buff,  polish Using abrasives to make the stone surface so smooth that it reflects light that results in a clear shine.  and seal your stone floor and other surfaces. Our competitors have been focusing on “ honing Webster says that Hone or Honing is  the process of sharpening something , such as a tool or skills. In the stone finishing industry, honing has as many different meanings as there are stone finishers honing stone. The finisher may refer to it as a procedure, the tile retailer may refer to it as a look or shine of the stone. The term has become too diluted and over-used to provide and accurate description. We don’t like the term and believe our ” Custom Abrasive Process” is far more descriptive as a procedure for stone. Our different finishes offered have their own categories to aptly describe the resulting shine of the stone .  More ” as a means to sand and beautify your travertine or marble or limestone. We have taken our unique processes to a higher level for better results. We have evolved way past the standard “ honing Webster says that Hone or Honing is  the process of sharpening something , such as a tool or skills. In the stone finishing industry, honing has as many different meanings as there are stone finishers honing stone. The finisher may refer to it as a procedure, the tile retailer may refer to it as a look or shine of the stone. The term has become too diluted and over-used to provide and accurate description. We don’t like the term and believe our ” Custom Abrasive Process” is far more descriptive as a procedure for stone. Our different finishes offered have their own categories to aptly describe the resulting shine of the stone .  More ” techniques offered by our competitors. We focus on natural stone. We do one thing really well, which is of benefit to our clients. We have looked outside what the stone finishing industry has to offer and have found abrasives that work even better on travertine and natural stone floors. Safe sanding is what we base our process on. Overly aggressive sanding to  polish Using abrasives to make the stone surface so smooth that it reflects light that results in a clear shine.  your stone will make it shiny, but opens up new tiny holes. Less experienced finishers fall into this method because it’s faster worse for your stone floor. We stress treating your stone with care and actually closing up porosity through our system, not making it more porous. There is a reason we are the #1 homeowner preferred natural stone care company in the greater Phoneix area. Our residential customers love us and we have the outstanding  reviews  and  awards  to prove it. We pride ourselves on our friendly approach to customer service. From the moment you contact us, Tom  &  Amy Baker will be there step by step. All estimates are done in person by the owners. This means that no matter what, we’ll only charge you the amount that you were estimated – even if we underestimate the job!We value honest competition so we keep our pricing very fair to give you the best value while elevating our service for a much better result. Upfront pricing is how we operate and we never base our rates on your zip code. We may not be the cheapest in town, but for the high quality and expertise we provide, our rates are competitive. We don’t stop there.  We treat your home as our own. As soon as our team enters your home, you’ll be in good hands. We stand behind our work, never leave trash or debris behind, and always treat your home and family with the utmost respect and privacy. We staff our jobs competently with craftsmen who take pride in their work. We work hard and efficiently staffing each job between three to five. Our foremen have between seven and fourteen years of experience so you can count on consistency every time you use us. Our wonderful staff has high standards and they are the friendliest and most courteous in town. We know homeowners care about who is invited into their home to work. We are properly licensed in Stone Finishing and Restoration and carry full liability insurance for your protection. We are also bonded and carry Workers Comp insurance as required by law. We love to hear the great feedback not only from the great work, but just as often warm comments towards the hard work and great personalities we have on staff. We are picky with who we hire, and it’s been worth it. Check out our reviews online to see what our customers have to say. We don’t stop with your floors. We have specialized techniques to restore and maintain your travertine shower, or marble vanity, or limestone bar or kitchen counters. Repairs are very common with every job we do. From filling just a few holes in the stone to filling long stress cracks in tile, we are as full service as possible so you can check “to-do’s” off your list. Natural stone is also a favorite for pool decks and patios as we in Arizona love to live outdoors. We have developed an answer to the very common erosion found in flagstone patios, slate patios and even travertine pavers that are so popular now. Similar to our interior processes, we can take it further to offer more protection through our unique 2 part sealing system. There was no effective treatment on the market to treat eroding stone patios, especially around water, so we invented a sealing solution. Now in our sixth year, the process has saved patios across the Valley from demolition. From flagstone to slate to travertine patio pavers, we have the right solution to protect your outdoor stone investment from the elements. We can also tackle all kinds of outdoor stone surfaces such as waterfall features, bbq tops, spa and fire pit areas, pony walls, benches. We offer the same level of service for all these typses opiece workrk with thorough cleaning, buffing, sanding, polishing and sealing.  At the end of the day, we want you to love the work we’ve done for you. We offer an in person estimate – even on short notice. Contact us today for your natural stone care estimate. We are well versed in small, medium, and large commercial projects. You can contact us for a  commercial bid  today. Serving Phoenix Metro Area Including:  Avondale, Buckeye, Cave Creek, Carefree, Glendale, Goodyear, Peoria, Surprise, Scottsdale, Paradise Valley, Tempe, Ahwatukee, Maricopa, Mesa, Chandler, Gilbert, Fountain Hills, Apache Junction, Higley, Queen Creek, Sedona, Flagstaff, Prescott, Tucson, Maricopa, Casa Grande, Payson, Rio Verde, Arizona COPYRIGHT 2018-2019. BAKER'S TRAVERTINE POWER CLEAN. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.  PRIVACY POLICY >WEBSITE  DESIGN & MANAGEMENT By Creative License< p>     About Meet The Bakers Why Choose Us Services Travertine Marble Flagstone Limestone Cantera Tile Saltillo Tile Ceramic  &  Porcelain Concrete Paver Cleaning  &  Sealing Slate Travertine Decking, Patios  &  Pavers Browse All Services Residential Commercial Gallery Resources Ask An Expert Types of Stone Recommended Home Services FAQs Is My Stone Coated? Dictionary Products Reviews Customer Reviews Commercial Client Reviews Submit a Review Blog Contact var sbiajaxurl = "https://travertinepowerclean.com/wp-admin/admin-ajax.php"; var c = document.body.className;c = c.replace(/woocommerce-no-js/, 'woocommerce-js');document.body.className = c; /*   */ /*   */ /*   */ /*   */ 