Best Laser Hair Removal Treatment in Meerut - Book Appointment Online - Best Laser Hair Treatment Meerut - Justdial Get Best Deal on Laser Hair Removal Treatment! Removing hair through shaving, tweezing might be easier and more convenient however, its is not a permanent solution to say goodbye to unwanted hair. Laser hair removal treatment in Meerut City, Meerut might be the right solution for men as well as women who are looking for a minimally painful long-lasting method of hair-removal. Laser removal identify and target thick, dense hair in different parts of the body including in sensitive areas and can help in removing hair harmlessly without damaging or blackening the skin in the surrounding areas. Laser removal for men as well as women helps in reducing hair growth to a tremendous extent. Eyebrow shaping or plucking unwanted hair from the eyebrows is a painful process and may cause ingrown hair and irritation and ingrown hair. Laser removal helps in eyebrow removal which helps in ensuring smooth and well-defined eyebrows. In addition to removing unwanted hair from the body, laser treatment can help in removing unwanted moles, warts and other conditions without leaving behind marks or visible traces.  It can help in rapidly removing external hair from different parts to the body.  Laser hair removal is a medical procedure and it is important to make sure about the credibility of the doctor and the clinic before shortlisting on a clinic for the treatment to avoid the skin from getting damaged due to burning.  Its important to avoid any hair removal procedures like plucking and waxing before the treatment to help the laser remove the roots of hair that would have otherwise been removed through waxing/plucking. Sun exposure should be limited for a couple of weeks before and after treatment to avoid complications. The contrasting colour between the skin and the hair is what allows the laser to effectively target and remove the hair. Laser is an ideal option for women with fair skin. Prior to beginning the treatment, the region undergoing treatment requires to be trimmed and requires to be a couple of inches above the skin. The equipment being used for the treatment will be adjusted according to a number of factors like the colour of the skin, the colour and the thickness of the hair etc..In certain conditions, the patient and the doctor might require to wear glasses to protect their eyes from the laser light used. A cold gel will be applied on the surface of the treatment area to ensure the light penetrates through the skin. After the treatment is administered, the specialists make sure there is no adverse reaction. Laser treatment is less painful as compared to waxing. However, the degree of pain felt could vary from person to person. A person should avoid gymming, swimming and any other physical activity at least for a period of 24 hours. After the completion of the treatment, the patient is administered with ice packs or creams and lotions to ease discomfort.  Meerut City , Meerut Laser hair removal treatment centres decide the date for the next appointment which is approximately 6 weeks apart. Laser hair removal is faster as compared to electrolysis because it removes only one hair at a time. (The prices are highly indicative and are subject to change.) The laser hair removal session can last anywhere between 10 minutes to 1.5 hours. The duration of a session depends on various factors like the area of treatment and hair growth. The laser hair removal treatment can require from 6 to 12 sessions. The number of sessions varies from person to person. The recommended age for laser hair removal treatment is above 17 years. The ideal time gap between two laser hair removal sessions should be between 4 to 8 weeks. The consultation fee for laser hair removal treatment starts approximately from Rs. 500. 