May 2010 - John Boright - Office for Science  &  Technology of the Embassy of France in the United States  Published on Tuesday June 1, 2010  ,  Lire cette page en  fran ais ,  " data-placement="bottom" data-toggle="popover" href="#null" data-original-title="Popover on top">  Share Dr. John P. Boright is the Executive Director of the Office of International Affairs of the US National Academies (comprising science, engineering, and medicine).  International activities of the National Academies are very diverse, and include cooperation with national, regional, and global groups of counterparts from all regions of the world.  A central goal of these cooperative activities is to build the capacity of the science, engineering, and medical communities to successfully engage in meeting local, national and global needs, and to inform policy making at all these levels.  Dr. Boright has served in several governmental positions. From 1994-1995, he served as Deputy to the Associate Director for National Security and International Affairs at the Office of Science and Technology Policy in the Executive Office of the President.  During the period from 1989-1994 he served as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Science and Technology Affairs at the Department of State overseeing U.S. science and technology agreements with other countries, international space policy and program matters, and the science officer system at U.S. Embassies.  During the period 1987-1989 John served as Director of the Division of International Programs, at the National Science Foundation, where he developed international cooperative arrangements and U.S. access to science and engineering in other countries, particularly with Japan, other Asian countries, and Eastern Europe.  Prior to 1987 he served for 10 years at the Department of State, including a four year tour (1982-86) as Counselor for Scientific and Technological Affairs at the U.S. Embassy in Paris.  John’s earlier professional experience include works at the Goddard Space Flight Center, the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, and the U.S. Mission to IAEA in Vienna, Austria. John served from 1995 – 2002 as Board member and Chair for the Science and Technology Center/Ukraine, and  also as Chair of the OECD Global Science Forum from 1995 to 2004.  He has received numerous awards for outstanding service.  He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa and received a B.A. and Ph. D. in physics from Cornell University. No documents are available for this event. Sommaire 1998-2019    Office for Science  &  Technology of the Embassy of France in the United States  |  Log in 