Darioush - Cabernet Sauvignon Napa Valley 2014 - Mid Valley Wine  &  Liquor At this time we can only ship to New York and D.C. Darioush Description Proprietor Darioush Khaledi and winemaker Steve Devitt made an unorthodox choice, to commit to Southern Napa Valley   choosing its cooler microclimates to develop their unique style.  While the focus was in northern Napa Valley in the late 1990 s, Darioush was headed south. Seeking opportunities others overlooked, Darioush and Steve focused intently on site selection and cooler microclimates in Southern Napa Valley; high atop Mount Veeder and the maritime-influenced Valley floor.  Replanting where necessary to unlock the full potential of both the vineyard and wine grape cultivated from it. They committed to a Bordeaux-style of winemaking   a blended style they long admired for the potential to truly express a wine s character. Now these years later, the Darioush estate comprises 120 acres in Southern Napa Valley spanning the Mount Veeder and Oak Knoll AVA s. We believe truly unique wines reflect great vineyards, but also the character of the people behind them. Individualism and the role of the craftsman are heralded qualities that honor our ancient and modern influences.  Darioush Signature wines echo these founding principals.  Possessing inherent personality, they are complex, poised, individual, courageous. Wines with gravitas. Bridging old-world traditions and modern style and stature. Crafted to be appreciated on the world stage, they are the most revered and celebrated wines in our portfolio. Inspired by the power and grace exhibited in the great wines of Bordeaux, Cabernet Sauvignon from Darioush s cooler-climate, southern Napa Valley vineyards exhibit extraordinary depth, character and poise. Now in their second decade, these estate vineyards in the Mount Veeder, Napa Valley and Oak Knoll AVA s have hit their stride, producing fruit with splendid concentration and power, compelling freshness and graceful complexity. 