10 biệt thự tốt nhất ở Port Vila, Vanuatu | Booking.com Đang tải Chọn ngôn ngữ phù hợp với bạn. Chúng tôi sử dụng Tiếng Việt và 42 ngôn ngữ khác. Port Vila Boasting an outdoor pool, Waves at Surfside in Port Vila features accommodation with free WiFi and free private parking for guests who drive.  The staff are incredible and efficient. Katia is so very professional and friendly. She truely is an asset to this business Port Vila Set on Emten Lagoon and an 8-minute drive from the centre of Port Vila, this waterfront holiday home features an outdoor pool, tennis court, jetty and motorized boat for guest use.  Port Vila Overlooking Port Vila harbour, Onyx Luxury Harbour Resort Residences is 6 km from Konanda Reef.  Views. Pool, property was stunning Port Vila Offering a sun terrace and a private beach area, Kooyu Villas is set in Port Vila in the Efate Region. Guests at this tranquil can enjoy stunning ocean views.  Kooyu Villas is located on a beautiful golden sandy beach with a reef to explore right on the doorstep (and more snorkeling options really close by).  Private and relaxed Kooyu is perfect for those looking for a self catered, non-resort type holiday. There are 2 restaurants within walking distance but it’s hard to leave you villa!Brad, Christine and all the staff are super friendly and helpful. Thank you all for a lovely week - we’ll definitely be back! Port Vila Situated on a pristine private beach, Cove Villas offers an outdoor swimming pool. This peaceful retreat offers self-contained villas with free WiFi and a patio or a balcony.  Great space, villa was very comfortable and spacious! Villa was really well equipped Port Vila Situated next to a peaceful sandy beach and rocky foreshore at Mele Bay, Pandanus Breeze offers self-catering accommodation away from the hustle and bustle of daily life.  Great hosts who were very easy to deal with, very considerate and do the best they can to ensure your stay is the best. Port Vila Featuring an outdoor pool, a patio deck and free onsite parking, the 4-bedroom Harbour Views is located in Port Vila. You can enjoy sea and pool views from the deck, kitchen and dining area.  Glenn was great to deal with, he replied to all of my messages very promptly. Excellent information supplied about the house and surrounding area. Allan picked us up from the airport and took us to the supermarket on the way to the house and then gave us a thorough walk through of the whole house and property. You will not meet a nicer person than Peter the gardener, he took pleasure in showing the kids the fruit and nuts growing on the property. Port Vila Set on 3 hectares of tropical gardens and rainforest, La Maison du Banian offers self-contained accommodation located within a unique tree house, just 3 km from Eratap Beach.  Beautiful, unique tree house tucked away in a luscious forest. The accommodation and view are equally breathtaking. And! There ' s only 1 tree house on the property, you ' ll be the only guest! (With lovely neighbours close by.) Truly relaxing, wonderful getaway from a busy lifestyle. Port Vila Plantation Villas has pool views, free WiFi and free private parking, situated in Port Vila, 16 km from Konanda Reef.  What’s not to love about plantation villas!! Port Vila Offering an outdoor pool and a garden, La Brise De Mer is located in Port Vila. All accommodation features a fully equipped kitchen, a dining setting and a lounge area. Towels and linen are provided.  Location was beautiful!!! So relaxing and made for a real holiday.  Florence, our host was so helpful and Margaret, the site manager was lovely.Definitely would consider going back there.  Hiring a car also made all the difference - so much to explore Biệt thự ở Port Vila Ph &# x1ED5; bi &# x1EBF;n v &# x1EDB;i kh ch  &# x111; &# x1EB7;t bi &# x1EC7;t th &# x1EF1;  &# x1EDF; Port Vila Biệt thự ở Port Vila Ph &# x1ED5; bi &# x1EBF;n v &# x1EDB;i kh ch  &# x111; &# x1EB7;t bi &# x1EC7;t th &# x1EF1;  &# x1EDF; Port Vila Biệt thự ở Port Vila Ph &# x1ED5; bi &# x1EBF;n v &# x1EDB;i kh ch  &# x111; &# x1EB7;t bi &# x1EC7;t th &# x1EF1;  &# x1EDF; Port Vila Biệt thự ở Port Vila Ph &# x1ED5; bi &# x1EBF;n v &# x1EDB;i kh ch  &# x111; &# x1EB7;t bi &# x1EC7;t th &# x1EF1;  &# x1EDF; Port Vila Port Vila Set on 3 hectares of tropical gardens and rainforest, La Maison du Banian offers self-contained accommodation located within a unique tree house, just 3 km from Eratap Beach.  Beautiful, unique tree house tucked away in a luscious forest. Port Vila Set on Emten Lagoon and an 8-minute drive from the centre of Port Vila, this waterfront holiday home features an outdoor pool, tennis court, jetty and motorized boat for guest use.  Port Vila Overlooking Port Vila harbour, Onyx Luxury Harbour Resort Residences is 6 km from Konanda Reef.  Views. Pool, property was stunning Port Vila Offering a sun terrace and a private beach area, Kooyu Villas is set in Port Vila in the Efate Region. Guests at this tranquil can enjoy stunning ocean views.  Kooyu Villas is located on a beautiful golden sandy beach with a reef to explore right on the... Port Vila Situated next to a peaceful sandy beach and rocky foreshore at Mele Bay, Pandanus Breeze offers self-catering accommodation away from the hustle and bustle of daily life.  Great hosts who were very easy to deal with, very considerate and do the best they can to ensure... Port Vila Featuring an outdoor pool, a patio deck and free onsite parking, the 4-bedroom Harbour Views is located in Port Vila. You can enjoy sea and pool views from the deck, kitchen and dining area.  Glenn was great to deal with, he replied to all of my messages very promptly. Port Vila Plantation Villas has pool views, free WiFi and free private parking, situated in Port Vila, 16 km from Konanda Reef.  What’s not to love about plantation villas!! Port Vila Vaemoli Dreams offers accommodation in Port Vila, 8 km from Konanda Reef. Port Vila Boasting an outdoor pool, Waves at Surfside in Port Vila features accommodation with free WiFi and free private parking for guests who drive.  The staff are incredible and efficient. Katia is so very professional and friendly. Port Vila Situated on a pristine private beach, Cove Villas offers an outdoor swimming pool. This peaceful retreat offers self-contained villas with free WiFi and a patio or a balcony.  Great space, villa was very comfortable and spacious! Villa was really well equipped Port Vila Offering an outdoor pool and a garden, La Brise De Mer is located in Port Vila. All accommodation features a fully equipped kitchen, a dining setting and a lounge area. Towels and linen are provided.  Location was beautiful!!! So relaxing and made for a real holiday. Port Vila Featuring an outdoor swimming pool, a garden, and a private beach area, Tempo Holding House provides accommodation in Port Vila with free WiFi and pool views.  Port Vila Nằm trên bãi biển cát trắng, Paradise Point Escape là biệt thự sang trọng, cách thành phố Port Vila 5 phút lái xe. Chỗ nghỉ có Wi-Fi miễn phí, hồ bơi ngoài trời riêng và khu vườn nhiệt đới tươi tốt.  Port Vila Offering a restaurant and an outdoor swimming pool, as well as water sports facilities, LagoonWaveVillas is set in Port Vila, 10 km from Konanda Reef. This property offers access to darts.  Port Vila Located in Port Vila, just 12 km from Konanda Reef, The Plantation House provides beachfront accommodation with an outdoor swimming pool, a bar, a garden and free WiFi.  Port Vila Featuring garden views, Teouma Bay Beach House provides accommodation with a garden, a private beach area and a terrace, around 21 km from Konanda Reef.  Rất nhiều gia đình thích ở  Mifala Villa ,  Havannah Blue  và  Pandanus Breeze  khi đến thăm Port Vila. Trung bình, giá theo mỗi đêm cho biệt thự ở Port Vila trong dịp cuối tuần này sẽ là VND 4.851.610 (dựa trên giá trên Booking.com). Waves at Surfside ,  La Maison du Banian  và  Pandanus Breeze  có view các biệt thự này được đánh giá rất tốt từ các du khách đến Port Vila. Những biệt thự sau được đánh giá cao bởi các cặp đôi ở Port Vila:  Waves at Surfside ,  Harbour Views  và  Plantation Villas . Trung bình ở Port Vila, biệt thự có giá VND 4.054.066 cho đêm nay (dựa trên giá trên Booking.com). Trung bình, biệt thự ở Port Vila có giá VND 4.717.232/đêm (dựa trên giá trên Booking.com). Onyx Luxury Harbour Resort Residences ,  Pandanus Breeze  và  Harbour Views  là một trong những biệt thự được ưa chuộng nhất ở Port Vila của chúng tôi. Đăng chỗ nghỉ của Quý vị Booking.com là một phần của Booking Holdings Inc., tập đoàn đứng đầu thế giới về du lịch trực tuyến và các dịch vụ liên quan. Chúng tôi có hơn 70 triệu đánh giá chỗ nghỉ, tất cả đều được viết bởi  những khách thật đã được xác thực . 1 Cách duy nhất để viết đánh giá là đầu tiên bạn phải thực hiện đặt phòng. Đó là cách chúng tôi biết đánh giá đến từ khách thực đã từng ở tại chỗ nghỉ. 2 Khi nghỉ tại khách sạn, các du khách xem phòng yên tĩnh tới đâu, ẩm thực thơm ngon như thế nào và nhân viên có thân thiện hay không. 3 Sau chuyến đi, khách kể với chúng tôi về kỳ nghỉ của mình. Chúng tôi kiểm tra xem có ngôn từ bậy hay không, xác minh tính chân thực của tất cả đánh giá và sau đó đưa các đánh giá này lên trang web Booking.com. Nếu bạn đặt phòng qua chúng tôi và muốn viết đánh giá, vui lòng đăng nhập trước. Ngày nhận phòng Ngày trả phòng 