Corral Bar looks to continue McQuades dynasty | Sports | bismarcktribune.com © 2019 Lee Enterprises Terms of Service   |   Privacy Policy Sunny. High 31F. Winds NW at 10 to 20 mph.. A few passing clouds. Low 14F. Winds light and variable.  Updated: November 13, 2019 @ 2:45 pm Casey Gray, center, is given high fives from his Corral Bar/Grind Athletics teammates after scoring a run against Dakota Bus from Gillette, Wyo. during opening day action at the 41st annual McQuade Softball tournament held in Bismarck and Mandan. Very few teams have had more success competing in the McQuades Softball Tournament over the past half-decade than Bismarck Corral Bar/Grind Athletics. Coming off its third championship in four years, Corral Bar began an attempt to continue its dynasty at Clem Kelley Complex on Friday night against Gilette (Wyo.) Dakota Bus in the men’s ‘C’ division. “We have a solid core of guys,” Corral Bar’s Adam Nystrom said. “We play well together, and we seem to play well at Clem Kelley. “It’s kind of been our home field, and obviously the crowd kind of helps us too.” The only instance in which Corral Bar did not win a tournament championship during the past four years was in 2014 when McQuades was rained out. After defeating Longwood (Fla.) Russell’s Bodyshop last year, Corral Bar beefed up both its batting order and pitching staff this year. “We just added a couple more guys and some power hitters,” Nystrom said. “Ryan Johnson is one of our power hitters, and we added another pitcher here too.” The roster additions have already proved helpful, as Corral Bar has put together two strong showings at tournaments this summer prior to this weekend.  Unlimited articles on bismarcktribune.com with no surveys  FREE Access to Newspapers.com archives (last 2 years)  Try Digital for 25¢ a week  Cancel anytime  Includes E-Edition Replica of Newspaper  Unlimited articles on bismarcktribune.com  with no surveys  FREE Access to Newspapers.com archives (last 2 years)  SALE! Up to 34% OFF   Convenient home delivery of the Bismarck Tribune  Unlimited access to standard  E-Edition  Unlimited articles on bismarcktribune.com with no surveys  Exclusive members-only discounts  on travel, tickets and more  FREE Access to Newspapers.com archives (last 2 years), plus exclusive discounts  Convenient home delivery of the Bismarck Tribune  Unlimited access to standard  E-Edition  Unlimited articles on bismarcktribune.com with no surveys  50% OFF classified ads  on select categories  Exclusive members-only discounts  on travel, tickets and more  FREE Access to Newspapers.com archives (last 2 years), plus exclusive discounts  Convenient home delivery of the Bismarck Tribune  Unlimited access to bismarcktribune.com  with a faster browsing experience  FREE classified ads  on select categories  Exclusive members-only discounts  on travel, tickets and more  FREE Access to Newspapers.com archives (last 2 years), plus exclusive discounts Please call 800-472-2273 to upgrade your subscription. Try Digital for 25¢ a week “We won one tournament already this season. That was last weekend,” Nystrom said. “We also took second in the early bird [tournament] that we had, and that’s been about it so far.” But, according to Nystrom, there isn’t a tournament that the team participates in throughout the summer quite like McQuades. “No doubt this the biggest tournament we play in," he said. "And it’s the most fun too." Corral Bar ultimately won a tightly-contested matchup against Dakota Bus 19-16 to advance to the second round in the winners' bracket and take the first step toward another title. It will play Berthoud (Colo.) Lazer Sports/1st Team, which had a first-round bye, at 11 a.m. today on Clem Kelley field No. 7. “There is nothing better than playing Friday night at McQuades when you’ve got 2,500 people standing around watching us," Nystrom said. Dakota Bus, on the other hand, will still have an opportunity to make it to the championship game through the losers' side of the double-elimination bracket. It will face off against Alliance (Neb.) We Dem Boys, which lost to Mandan Heartland Investors by a final score of 24-14, on Clem Kelley field No. 6 at 1:20 p.m. We'll send breaking news and news alerts to you as as they happen! Scott Throlson is the Bismarck Tribune sports editor PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device. 