5 cases you didn ' t know Amal Clooney worked on Facebook Twitter Email App AddThis Lebanese-born Amal Alamuddin Clooney is an Oxford graduate and an internationally acclaimed human rights lawyer. Apart from working at some of the most prominent law firms such as  Sullivan  &  Cromwell  (New York, USA) and  Doughty Street Chambers &# xA0;(London, UK), the Lebanese-British barrister has practiced in the  International Court of Justice  and the  International Criminal Court  in The Hague. &# xA0; Throughout the years, Clooney has represented many high profile clients, as well as being a symbol of female empowerment within the Arab world. &# xA0; Her fame grew outside of the law world once she married Hollywood actor, George Clooney. The acclaimed couple is now  parents to twins . Here are just a few notable cases Amal Alamuddin Clooney has worked on throughout her career: Amal Clooney along with Doughty Street Chambers &# xA0;were hired by the Greek government in the historic legal battle for the return of the  Greek Elgin Marbles . &# xA0; The dispute over the marbles began over 200 years ago when  " Thomas Bruce, the seventh E arl of Elgin, removed and sold them to the British Museum, " writes the Washington Post . Clooney and her team were up against a historic battle at which she commented, &# xA0; " We ' re talking here about an injustice that has persisted for too long, " as reported by Reuters . Unfortunately, the Greek government rejected Clooney ' s proposal to pursue the case in the International Court of Justice, which frustrated many advocates. &# xA0; In December 2013, Mohamad Fahmy was arrested in Cairo along with two other Al Jazeera journalists for allegedly broadcasting false news and cooperating with the Muslim Brotherhood. &# xA0; Fahmy was initially sentenced to 10 years in prison as he was found guilty of possessing a spent bullet casing. However, after the retrial, his sentence &# xA0;was reduceed to three years. &# xA0; The journalists and many legal experts across the globe condemned the charges as they were suspected to be politically motivated. &# xA0; Clooney described the convictions as an  " outrage, " writes BBC . Fahmy was released after receiving a pardon from Egyptian President &# xA0;Abdul Fattah al-Sisi. In March 2015, Amal Clooney filed a case against the Filipino Government before the United Nation ' s Working Group on Arbitrary Detention for the continued detention of former &# xA0;Philippine President, Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo. &# xA0; The former President was arrested while in hospital for allegedly exploiting state funds while in office for personal gain. &# xA0; After five years of hospital detention, the Philippine Supreme Court granted her immediate release due to  " insufficiency of evidence, "  according to Supreme Court spokesman, Theodore Te. Arroyo was  reportedly  happy that Clooney decided to take her case to the United Nations, which gave it the ability to be open to the international community. &# xA0; Maldives '  first freely elected leader was convicted of terrorism after allegedly ordering the detention of a judge, thus leading to Nasheed ' s forceful resignation at gunpoint. &# xA0; Nasheed was given a 13-year sentence in a  " politically-motivated show trial "  according to Clooney. &# xA0; The UN Working Group on Arbitrary Detention found that the former president was  not given a fair trial . He has currently been granted political asylum in England after departing the Maldives for hospital treatment. &# xA0; As if representing global leaders and governments isn ' t enough, Clooney aims to take legal action against ISIS members for international crimes of genocide. &# xA0; In her representation of Nadia Murad, a former ISIS sex slave who was kidnapped in 2014, the two plan to do what no court has attempted: to prosecute ISIS for international crimes. In her statement to the United Nations, Clooney  said , &# xA0; " You can ' t defeat ISIS on the battlefield alone, because you have to also deal with future recruiting. " The Lebanese-British barrister is asking the Iraqi government and the United Nations to organize an investigation. This simply requires the Iraqi government to send a letter to the Security Council stating,  " Please establish an investigation, "  from which a vote on an already drafted resolution can take place. Facebook Twitter Email App AddThis Facebook Messenger Twitter WhatsApp 