Dubai Holding business manoeuvre will not affect SmartCity Thiruvananthapuram 29 C Mist Enter word or phrase Look for articles in CAB unconstitutional, Kerala will not implement it: Pinarayi Vijayan Maharashtra portfolios: Sena takes Home; NCP gets Finance; Revenue for Congress Elderly woman found living amid scrap behind the house she bequeathed to her daughter Warning alarm averts bank robbery in Ochira  Ranji Trophy: Chandela, Rana help Delhi earn a draw with Kerala La Liga ropes in Rohit Sharma as brand ambassador Centre to replace rubber subsidy with loans First commercial electric plane takes flight in Canada Endurance test for Kerala Blasters against Jamshedpur FC  Only India indulges in annual tamasha called Budget, says Surjit Bhalla LFW announces its 2020 Summer/Resort edition This dream-like abode in Thrissur is the talk of the town now Aashiq Abu to direct Shah Rukh Khan Geetha IPS haunted me for long, says Asha Sharath 4 must-visit winter destinations in India this year Kerala's first all-transgender canteen to open in Palakkad Sukhiyan Easy marble cake in pressure cooker What should girls be taught? Miss Universe' words will sweep you off your feet Changemakers to come together in Delhi summit on women issues and more Heal Thy Self | Early warning signs you could be in an abusive relationship On yoga day, Krishnaprabha is an inspiration NEWS VIDEOS DISTRICTS SPORTS BUSINESS IN DEPTH LIFESTYLE ENTERTAINMENT TRAVEL FOOD WOMEN WELLNESS TOPICS SEARCH RESULT MY NEWS AUTHORS ENCONFIG RSS INFOGRAPHICS PODCASTS '+date+' ' +inf+ ' '+date+' ' +inf+ ' Recipient's Mail:* Your Name:* Your E-mail ID:* Your Comment: Enter the letters from image : Kochi: The major organizational restructuring at Dubai Holding amid speculation that the investment conglomerate would disassociate itself from all international projects would not have an adverse impact on SmartCity Kochi; a joint venture between Dubai Holding’s TECOM Investments and the government of Kerala. The investment vehicle of the emirate's ruler would go ahead with the much-touted IT project as it is optimistic about the outlook for the free-zone business park. The developer is expecting rental incomes of Rs 280-300 crore per year from the 6,50,000 square foot IT complex alone. Another reason for the decision to not exit the SmartCity, Kochi project was that the Dubai government wanted to keep the historic and present day bonds with the state intact. Following the restructuring aimed at focusing on growth in key priority sectors locally, an in-principal decision was taken to abandon its smart city projects in Lagos in Nigeria, and the South Korean capital of Seoul, while continuing with similar projects undertaken in Kochi and Malta. The Dubai Holding, which has also decided to eliminate the Smart City-Dubai and TECOM Investments, is currently in the process of redeployment of its employees. The Phase I of SmartCity, Kochi, including the 6.5 lakh sq ft IT tower, was inaugurated in last February. Around 20 IT companies have so far leased space in the complex. The developer has completed works on five buildings of SmartCity-Malta, and several multinational companies have already joined the project. Dubai Holding has so far invested about Rs 400 crore in the Kochi SmartCity project. The works undertaken during the first phase included construction of bridges and substations. As the remaining structures would be built in partnership with co-developers, it would not incur any additional financial liability to Dubai Holding. The state government is hopeful that the organizational restructuring at Dubai Holding would not have any bearing on SmartCity Kochi. Representatives of the developer have also promised the government that the project would be completed on time. An official delegation from Dubai, including Dubai Holding chairman Abdulla Al Habbai and interim CEO of SmartCity Kochi Khalid Al Malik, is expected to hold a meeting with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, in September. Read more at:  Latest in Business  |  Banks' bad loans to hit 10.5% by March 2018: Crisil SRK himself had invited Aashiq to come to his place for the discussions. Malayala Manorama apps - carry the world with you Read digital editions of Vanitha, Weekly and more... Email ID: User Name: User Name: Please anyone option Please anyone option 