GoPro camera stolen by lions with hilarious consequences Next up: Staff let themselves be 'hunted' by tigers every day as part of show 5 Cancel We all know cats are curious – and it seems the bigger the cat, the more curious it gets, as this hilarious video of lions stealing a GoPro camera shows. A pride of cheeky lions decided to get their 15 minutes of fame by stealing a GoPro camera. Lions from the Avoca pride at Makanyi Lodge in Kruger National Park, South Africa, nonchalantly strolled up to the camera – before one of the cats decided to take it in its jaws. A big cat comes in for the camera kill Park ranger Massimo Da Silva placed his GoPro camera near the majestic animals hoping to capture some unique footage, however it didn t go according to plan. The 29-year-old says:  We arrived at the waterhole in the morning and there was the Avoca pride, we approached them and decided to put a GoPro up to see what would happen. It's the David and Goliath of the natural world! Buffalo wings, anyone? Big cat mayhem! Hoping to outsmart the lions, Massimo attached his camera set-up to a length of fishing nylon for a quick retrieval – but failed to account for the big cats  reflexes. Massimo was left shocked when the two big cat burglars easily took the GoPro to the rest of their pride. However, all was not lost as the lions captured unique footage of their pride as they shared the camera with each other. Say cheese, you re on canine camera! When we arrived back at the siting, we saw that the camera was in the mouth of the lion without the casing,  says Massimo. The lion who initially picked up his GoPro managed to open the casing, causing the camera to tumble to the ground, only to be picked up by another member of the pride. At least curiosity didn t kill these cats Although the camera was left with puncture wounds, Massimo was amazed to find that it was still working. In typical cat fashion, the lions soon grew bored of their new chew toy and dropped the camera – allowing Massimo to swoop in to retrieve it. © Copyright TI Media Limited.  Life Death Prizes is part of TI Media Limited. All rights reserved.  Terms  &  conditions  |  Privacy policy  |  Privacy Settings Editorial Complaints We work hard to achieve the highest standards of editorial content, and we are committed to complying with the Editors’ Code of Practice (https://www.ipso.co.uk/IPSO/cop.html) as enforced by IPSO. If you have a complaint about our editorial content, you can email us at complaints@ti-media.com or write to Complaints Manager, TI Media Limited Legal Department, 161 Marsh Wall, London, England, E14 9AP.  Please provide details of the material you are complaining about and explain your complaint by reference to the Editors’ Code. We will endeavour to acknowledge your complaint within 5 working days and we aim to correct substantial errors as soon as possible. 