HI Karei Deshe – Sea of Galilee Hostel house in Kinneret HI - Karei Deshe Hostel The Karei Deshe Guest House is situated on the shores of the Sea of Galilee, in one of the world’s most admired Biblical locations. It is structured around a stunning inner courtyard with palm trees and lawns, with an enchanting panorama of the nearby sea and mountains. The hostel takes the hassle out of your trip with a convenient location and discounts to local attractions, as well as free breakfast and Wi-Fi for all guests. Rooms  Different party sizes are catered to with 65 rooms, each with either 2, 4 or 6 beds. All rooms are air-conditioned and have an en-suite bathroom and shower, as well as a TV, mini-bar and facilities for making coffee. Rooms are cleaned daily to maintain them in the best possible condition.   Food  Our rich and varied buffet Kosher breakfast is included in the price of your room and comes with a range of Israeli salads, fruit and cereals as well as hot dishes. Additional meals, including packaged meals, can be arranged for groups in advance. The dining room seats a total of 250 guests.   All food served in our hostel is Kosher.   Facilities and Seminars  The Guest House is the perfect place to unwind between sight-seeing, with a basketball court, bathing beach in a short distance, television room and snack bar, in addition to vast lawns to relax in the sun. We are also set up for conferences and seminars with a lecture room and conference room, as well as study rooms with audiovisual equipment.   Things to do  The Sea of Galilee is actually not a sea, buta freshwater lake. Fed by the springs in the Golan, and from Mount Hermon's melting snow, the Sea of Galilee is a placid body of water, popular for its religious connections and its tranquil atmosphere. Capernaum (or Kfar Nahum) is one of the nearby Christian sites, historically a fishing village. Excavations have uncovered two ancient synagogues, an octagonal church and an ancient 2,000 year old wooden fishing boat. The Christian site of Tabgha is also nearby. The ancient ruins of Korazim, today a National Archaeological Park, are just four kilometres from Capernaum. With ruins such as a magnificent pillared synagogue and five sections of a small town uncovered, Korazim is just one of the historical sites on the banks of the Sea of Galilee. The city of Tiberias is nearby as well as its hot springs National Park, Hamat Teverya. With seventeen different hot springs, the site is rivaled by the hot spring spa of Hamat Gader, at the southern end of the Sea of Galilee. Hamat Gader's hot springs were a source of therapeutic relief for the Roman soldiers garrisoned in the area – as the ruins of a Roman spa attest to. Today, Hamat Gader hosts an advanced spa, factoring in the natural thermal springs, as well as a crocodile farm (the only one in the Middle East), a small zoo with an aviary and archaeological sites. 