Framlingham Holidays – Self Catering Holiday Cottages Well known for its rugged coastline and traditional English countryside, the West Country offers a diverse array of breathtaking landscapes. Whether it’s pristine beaches, picture-perfect villages or dramatic river valleys, between them, Devon, Cornwall, Dorset and Somerset offer some of the UK’s most stunning scenery. A varied landscape where mountains tower above lush river valleys and glassy lakes, interrupted only by charming towns, villages and many historic castles. The stunning coastline offers 750 miles of flawless beaches and hidden coves, and Cardiff offers a vibrant atmosphere and plenty of cultural discoveries. Scotland is a land of real diversity. Revel in the vibrancy of Edinburgh and Glasgow or enjoy solidarity on the peaceful islands of Skye or Lewis. Walk beside gentle lochs or rushing rivers, climb towering mountains and discover hidden beaches and ancient battle grounds. Not only that but Scotland is swathed in historic castles, stately homes and attractions to suit just about anyone. From the huge open skies and vast beaches in Norfolk to the traditional seaside charm in Essex, the East of England is a varied holiday destination. Taking in Suffolk, Lincolnshire, Hertfordshire, Cambridgeshire and Bedfordshire, you can also enjoy stunning countryside, cultural cities, historic castles and several Areas of Outstanding Natural Beauty. Encompassing the likes of The Cotswolds, Oxfordshire, Shropshire, Staffordshire and Warwickshire, a holiday in the Heart of England guarantees a traditional English break. Get lost in the stunning countryside, explore cultural cities, market towns and picture-perfect villages. Not only that but you can discover stately homes, peaceful gardens and beautiful castles. Home to some of the UK’s most loved Victorian seaside towns, the South Coast promises perfect family memories full of fish and chips and ice cream! Head slightly inland and you can enjoy the likes of the New Forest in Hampshire, the South Downs in Sussex and cultural cities like Canterbury in Kent. There are many contrasting landscapes in the North of England, from the unspoilt mountains in the Lake District to the vast rolling countryside of Yorkshire. If you’re more interested in the coast then Northumberland’s stunning beaches and Yorkshire’s popular fishing villages will not disappoint. With so many beautiful places in the UK designated as an Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty, this is a testament to just how special much of the country’s landscapes are. Choose from the peaks of Snowdonia, the honey-coloured villages of the Cotswolds, the unspoilt wilderness of the Cairngorms. If you would like help or to book over the phone call01237 459888 Call 01237 459888 or Open live chat Open today from 9am to 8pm! Mon-Fri:  9am - 9pm. Sat:  9am - 8pm. Sun: 10am - 8pm. Bank Holidays:  10am - 8pm. Find helpful answers to frequently asked questions. Online and ready to help while you continue to use the site. Call 01237 459888 or Open live chat Open today from 9am to 8pm! New to our site?  Create an account S urrounded by the picturesque  Suffolk  countryside and dominated by an imposing castle is the ancient market town of Framlingham. Framlingham dates back to Anglo-Saxon times and its remarkable history is revealed to visitors in its ancient architecture, including a towering 12th century castle. The countryside surrounding Framlingham is some of Suffolk’s most beautiful. Cycling, hiking and a variety of other outdoor pursuits are easily accessed from the town. Not far from Framlingham is the rugged Suffolk coast  There’s little doubt that one of Suffolk’s most impressive landmarks is  Framlingham Castle  . This imposing structure dates back to the 12th century and it was here that Mary Tudor was proclaimed Queen of England. Amazingly, the castle was built using five different types of rock, including Caen Rock, all the way from Normandy. Visitors can explore the castle’s spectacular grounds and enjoy wide-reaching views across the Suffolk countryside. Rustic farm cafes, cosy pubs and traditional tearooms can all be found in Framlingham. For a hearty breakfast, great coffee and homemade cake, look no further than The Dancing Goat, which is popular with locals and known for its friendly atmosphere. If you’re in town on Tuesday or Saturday, don’t miss the town’s excellent market, when the Over the Moon Café is set up in the middle of the action, serving tea and snacks to tired shoppers. Framlingham is home to some terrific pubs, many of which serve fresh, locally sourced food. For a pint of ale by the river, there are few better options than the Railway Inn, which is known for its excellent food as well as its original décor.  “Surrounded by the picturesque Suffolk countryside and dominated by an imposing castle is the ancient market town of Framlingham.” The Castle Inn is located, as you might expect, right next to the castle. It’s a relaxed, busy pub which serves a wide selection of beverages including Aspall’s cider and Adnams ale. Another great pub is the Dennington Queen, in nearby Dennington. This 500-year-old inn is one of the most atmospheric places to have a pint in the area, with a coffin hatch, mysterious tunnel and, allegedly, a resident ghost. Framlingham is well positioned for visitors wishing to explore some of Suffolk’s most picturesque villages. It’s a stone’s throw from Peasenhall, which is home to some unique historical landmarks, including a 15th century medieval hall house, featuring a chapel which, unusually, resembles a Swiss chalet. Also well worth a visit are Marlesford and Easton, home to Easton Farm Park, which makes a great family day out. Easton Farm Park The 2nd farm park to open in the UK. A guaranteed fun day out for all!  Shawsgate Vineyard Sample the produce, stroll through the vines and enjoy the views. Framlingham Castle It was here that Mary Tudor was proclaimed Queen of England. Properties in Great Yarmouth Properties in Aldeburgh Properties in Southwold Do you have a property that you're interested in letting? To find out more about letting with us, simply  get in touch  with our friendly team today. Holidaycottages.co.uk is a trading name of The Travel Chapter Limited | The Travel Chapter Limited is registered in England and Wales. | Registered office Travel Chapter House Gammaton Road Bideford EX39 4DF Company No. 02431506 | VAT reg: 143053210. © holidaycottages.co.uk 2019 