Need the code for radio for 2002 lexus es300 - Fixya Please wait... Question about 2002 Lexus ES 300 SOURCE:   Hi there, Save hours of searching online or wasting money on unnecessary repairs by talking to a 6YA Expert who can help you resolve this issue over the phone in a minute or two. Best thing about this new service is that you are never placed on hold and get to talk to real repairmen in the US. Here's a link to this great service Good luck! SOURCE:   CD player Error 3 dear, I have different experiance with the C.Dplayer (  error 3 ) , there is no need to remove it nor send it to the dealer ,all you have to do when you have `` Error 3 `` is to reset the C.D player , by recycling the power supply ,this can be done by disconnecting the main car battery power supply , you must also keep the battery disconnected for at least one hour . then connect the cables to the batteries ,when you start the C.D player you will hear some clicking sound ,and watch the numbers of the C.D`s in the display you will find all what is inside has been detected by the display . and your C.D player is back to normal.. i discovered ths by chance , when I had this error in the past ,coincidently I had to replace the battery and after installing the new batteries ,i was suprised to see the player back to normal condition by its self. SOURCE:   Radio removal 200 Lexus ES300 First you need to remove th wooden bezel surrounding the shifter. Do this by gently prying up the bottom part of the wood closest to the cup holders in the armrest using a small screwdriver. Then work out te top part gently. Rotate/angle the wood bezel to get it over the shifter. It will slide past, just work it around the button. Once this is removed then you need to remove the ashtray below the climate control. Now that the shifter bezel has been removed locate the 2 screws securing the bottom of the ashtray housing and remove them. The  ashtray  then will  only be  held in be  retaining  clips at the top. Once the screws are removed you'll want to have the ashtray open to get better leverage on it to pull. Gently slide the ashtray out. Be careful not to pull to hard on the actual tray of the ashtray. there is a plastic tab in the back of the ashtray that can't be seen that prevents it from coming out all the way that can easily be broken. If you do break it the ashtray is still secured to the swing mechanism by 2 screws in the bottom of the tray that will still allow it to be functional and secure, so  don't  worry. After the ashtray is removed the next step is to remove the small trim piece directly underneath the climate controls. On 2000 and 2001 models this will be made of wood. 97-99 models it will be black plastic. Using a small flathead screwdriver gently pry the strip of wood or plastic out. Starting in the middle of the strip is best, the retaining clips are on the  right and  left of the strip. It should pop out fairly easily.This will expose the  screws holding  in the bottom of the climate control which will need to be removed. Once the climate controls are removed the bottom radio screws should be visible. Next for the screws retaining the top of the radio you'll need to remove the clock/airvents located above the radio. Remove this with a small flathead screwdriver using the pop out method. Once removed this will expose the screws retaining the top fo the radio. Remove these screws and the screws at the bottom and the radio should slide out. Again, this will work on all models from 97-2001. SOURCE:   amplifier location 1993 lexus es300 My Son has a 95 es300, the amp for it is located under the front passenger seat.  The easiest way to access it is to remove the 4 bolts holding the seat down, and remove the seat.  Takes about 5 minutes SOURCE:   2002 Lexus ES300 Check Engine Light You can clear the check engine light by disconnecting the battery and leaving it overnight. This will only shut off the light but will not reset the system  SOURCE:   LEXUS es300 oil light stays on oil level full Check oil level sensor, replace if necessary. also, does your engine knock or make a tapping sound? Load More Unanswered Questions  2005-2019 Fixya -  View Full Site Is this question mis-categorized or about a different product? Help this question get an answer by entering the correct category or product below. Oops! Something went Wrong: This page should be removed because: Oops! Something went Wrong: Loading... 