Top 100 TV Shows of All Time - IGN.com < %= searchResult.renderDomain + searchItem.url.replace('http:','https:') %>"> < %= searchItem.title %> < %= searchItem.description %> Last modified  < %= searchItem.displayDate %> < %= searchItem.description %> We’ve been enjoying a Golden Age of Television for well over a decade now, and it’s been absolutely epic. Dramas like Breaking Bad and The Wire have kept us on the edge of our seats. Sharp and subversive comedies like Arrested Development and Parks and Recreation are fantastic to binge watch. Even “genre” TV has been elevated to new heights thanks to gorgeous and vivid shows like Lost and Game of Thrones. There may be more great television on the air now than ever before, but the truth is that television has always been a fantastic way to tell thoughtful, slow-burn character stories, or to slowly unfurl a tightly-wound mystery. ‘90s shows like The West Wing or The X-Files feel just as entertaining and relevant today as they did when they debuted. And our course it’s nearly impossible to overstate the importance and influence of greats like I Love Lucy and The Andy Griffith Show. But which are the best of the best? Which have shows were so far ahead of their time and so immaculately made that they stand apart, demanding recognition? IGN’s TV addicts put out heads together to find out. These are the top 100 TV shows of all time. Our criteria: The 1993 MTV animated series Beavis and Butt-Head featured the titular dimwitted metal heads, Beavis and Butt-Head. Mike Judge (King of the Hill, Silicon Valley) originally created the duo for an animation festival. Beavis and Butt-Head watched and critiqued music videos from MTV’s regular rotation. When they weren’t watching TV the pair of 9th graders were out doing things like donating blood for money or trying to get intoxicated on cough syrup. During its initial run the show was MTV’s highest rated series. The series is notable for it’s hilariously juvenile humor and unique animation style. The series also foreshadowed MTV’s eventual move away from music-based programming. CBS is known for airing straightforward, crowd-pleasing sitcoms, and procedural dramas. We’re not entirely sure how a complex, heavily serialized series like The Good Wife made its home there, but we can’t complain. Over the course of seven seasons, The Good Wife offered an engrossing look at a woman (played marvelously by Julianna Margulies) salvaging her career and family in the wake of her husband’s destructive political scandal. Always a critical darling, The Good Wife proved that network TV dramas can hold their own against the most prestigious fare from the likes of HBO, AMC, and FX. Avatar: The Last Airbender is perhaps the strongest argument against the notion that American cartoons can’t compete with the best of Japanese anime. Avatar succeeded in fusing Western and Eastern sensibilities, presenting a fantastical world where young heroes manipulate the elements and fight an epic battle to save the world from an evil tyrant. The diverse cast of characters, gorgeous animation, and highly spiritual sensibilities helped Avatar capture a wide audience that most cartoons can only dream of. And though the series lasted a mere three seasons, it spawned a very strong sequel series, The Legend of Korra. The mid-’90s marked the point where Comedy Central struggled to shift focus from airing syndicated reruns and standup specials to original content. Dr. Katz was an important step forward for the network. The series offered a subversive, low-budget alternative to more mainstream animated sitcoms like The Simpsons, complete with a charmingly low-budget look and feel. It may not have proven to be the smash hit South Park would later become, but it’s debatable whether South Park would ever have materialized without Dr. Katz lighting the way. The same could be said for Cartoon Network’s Adult Swim lineup, much of which owes a clear debt to Dr. Katz. The ‘70s were a difficult time in America, and that led to a resurgence of nostalgia for the supposedly simpler era of the ‘50s. Happy Days was perfectly poised to tap into that nostalgia. And while the show ostensibly focused on young Richie Cunningham and his family, it wasn’t long before Henry Winkler’s Arthur “Fonzie” Fonzarelli became the driving force of the show and a veritable pop culture icon. It could be argued that Happy Days wore out its welcome. It was the show that birthed the phrase “jumped the shark,” after all. But it still left a huge mark and managed to spawn a legion of spinoffs like Laverne  &  Shirley, Joanie Loves Chachi, and Mork  &  Mindy. As the first primetime TV series in the US to feature openly gay main characters, it’s difficult to understate the cultural importance of Will  &  Grace. Perhaps no show has done more to bring LGBT characters and issues into the mainstream. But Will  &  Grace is also a very entertaining show, one anchored by the lovable friendship between the precise, methodical lawyer Will and his impetuous BFF/roommate, Grace. Will  &  Grace proved a more than worthy addition to NBC’s “Must See TV” Thursday lineup. Hollywood has frequently turned to the work of legendary crime writer Elmore Leonard, but rarely has an adaptation proven as successful as Justified. Adapted from the short story Fire in the Hole, this FX series followed the struggles of a U.S. Marshal (played by Timothy Olyphant) enforcing the law in his rural Kentucky hometown. The series was consistently showered with praise for the quality of its acting, writing, directing, and art direction and over the course of its six years introduced a ton of memorable characters. Hollywood often likes to pretend that older actresses simply don’t exist, so the fact that NBC commissioned a sitcom focused squarely on a quartet of older women sharing the same house is pretty amazing, in retrospect. The Golden Girls quickly became a ratings powerhouse, helping pull NBC out of an ongoing slump and making audiences fall in love with Dorothy, Rose, Blanche and Sophia. And despite the sitcom trappings, The Golden Girls was never shy about tackling serious issues like marriage equality, elder care, and AIDS discrimination. Following up a ratings juggernaut like Cheers is no easy task, but that’s what Frasier managed over the course of its 11-year run. The series followed Kelsey Grammer’s Dr. Frasier Crane as he returned to Seattle, took a new job as a radio rost, and frequently butted heads with his high-strung brother and cantankerous father. The series was unique in that it managed to make a pair of elitist, intellectual snobs relatable to the average TV viewer. Maybe that’s because, for all the upper class trappings, Frasier was really a story about an oddball family trying to relate to one another and the world around them. Even now, you can see Frasier’s influence in everything from The Big Bang Theory to Modern Family. While Good Times was a spinoff of Maude, which in turn was a spin-off of All in the Family, the series had little trouble making a name for itself in the mid-70s. It focused on an inner-city African American couple trying to raise their three children and all the challenges involved. And even though the series often struggled to balance tackling real-world issues with devoting ample screen time to Jimmie Walker’s wildly popular J.J. Evans (who was basically the proto-Steve Urkel), Good Times offered a crucial alternative to the normally sanitized sitcom landscape of the era. Soap was conceived as a parody of daytime soap operas, but in the form of a half-hour primetime comedy. That premise alone would be enough to make the show stand out, but it also benefited from a ridiculously strong cast that included Katherine Helmond, Richard Mulligan, and even a young Billy Crystal. In many ways, Soap was truly ahead of its time, diving headlong into taboo subjects like murder, prostitution, and homsexuality. That might have angered religious groups and given ABC’s standards and practices department many headaches, but Soap’s bold approach also helped it attract a devoted fanbase hungry for shows willing to take risks. Rome was and still is one of HBO’s most ambitious drama series. The show spared no expense in its sweeping depiction of the Roman Empire as it existed in the time of Julius Caesar. And while it featured many iconic names from the history books — Brutus, Cicero, Octavian, Marc Antony — it hinged on the struggles of two ordinary soldiers, Lucius Vorenus and Titus Pullo. Unfortunately, Rome ultimately proved to be too expensive to last more than two seasons, but it certainly left its mark during that short run and proved that the small screen can offer a truly cinematic experience. It also opened the doors for HBO to tackle another ambitious and hugely expensive project in the form of Game of Thrones. As mainstays like The Sopranos and The Wire ended their runs, HBO needed a new generation of critically adored shows to help them compete with networks like FX and AMC. They found just what they needed in Boardwalk Empire, a lavish historical drama based on the life of Prohibition-era politician Enoch “Nucky” Thompson. The show immediately impressed with its authentic look and feel (having Martin Scorsese direct the pilot certainly didn’t hurt), but it was the incredibly talented cast and engrossing character drama that kept viewers hooked over the course of five seasons. It’s easy to dismiss this MTV mainstay now thanks to what it eventually turned into, as seasons became increasingly dull and similar, filled with cast members whose main goals seemed to be gaining fame and doing anything on-camera to get more screen time. But the early days of The Real World were terrific and attention-getting television, proving that a ton of engaging drama could occur by simply aiming a camera at a diverse group of young men and women — groups who, in the early seasons, were much more likely to be filled with distinct and memorable people who had actually begun their careers, and whose arguments and discussions about race, politics, sexual issues, and more were often reflective of modern society. It was a manufactured scenario, of course (“seven strangers picked to live in loft...”), but a surprisingly riveting one, and for better or worse, it was a highly influential step in the rise of reality TV. Before The Sopranos, Sex and the City, and The Wire, there was Oz. Oz marked HBO’s first foray into one-hour TV drama and served as an early showcase for what was possible on a premium cable network. The show initially turned heads because of its graphic depictions of sex and violence, but it won a legion of followers thanks to its depiction of the complicated, dangerous world of Oswald State Penitentiary. For a series that started out as a simple Back to the Future parody, Rick and Morty has certainly developed a life of its own. Rick and Morty is both a high-concept, bizarre sci-fi adventure and a very grounded character study of an alcoholic inventor and his socially awkward grandson/sidekick. It manages to be both uproariously funny and surprisingly emotional, which is not an easy balance to maintain. The show also proves that Adult Swim is still the go-to destination for top-notch animated sitcoms. Alias will always deserve a place in pop culture history because it elevated the careers of both creator J.J. Abrams and star Jennifer Garner. Would shows like Lost or Fringe even exist without Alias? But Alias is a terrific show in its own right, blending action, espionage, and conspiracy into one satisfying whole. Along with Buffy the Vampire Slayer, it also proved that audiences are hungry for more intelligent, female-driven action shows. One wouldn’t think that a show centered around stuffy British aristocrats and the legion of butlers, maids, cooks, footmen, and valets who serve them would make for riveting drama. But Downton Abbey proved as engrossing as any soap opera, sucking viewers into the world of the Crawley family and their servants as both groups navigated the shifting social landscape of the early 20th Century. The series quickly developed a rabid fanbase on both sides of the Atlantic and proved that a humble network like PBS can compete with the titans of the TV landscape. The Americans has quickly established itself as one of the finest dramas currently on the air. Its appeal rests mainly on the fact that it combines good, old-fashioned spycraft and Cold War intrigue with ordinary, relatable marital struggles. Elizabeth and Phillip Jennings aren’t just KGB spies masquerading as Americans, they’re also two people trying to learn how to live with one another. The series now seems poised to take its place among the all-time greats when it wraps up in 2018. Hannibal always faced an uphill battle when it came to escaping the shadow of Silence of the Lambs and its various sequels and prequels. And while the series never quite found the audience of its cinematic cousins, for many Hannibal Lecter fans it offers the definitive take on the refined serial killer. Over the course of three seasons, Hannibal offered a brooding, macabre and brilliantly crafted look at the twisted and complicated relationship between Doctor Lecter and FBI profiler Will Graham. It proved that a broadcast network like NBC can deliver the same sort of mature, highbrow storytelling usually reserved for the likes of AMC and HBO. ER was hardly the first primetime medical drama to hit the airwaves, and it certainly wasn’t the last, either. But over time the show has become the gold standard by which all others are judged. Few medical dramas can rival its quality, its knack for merging medical and interpersonal drama, or its ability to make viewers feel like they’ve fallen smack dab in the middle of a chaotic, downtown emergency room. Robert Graves’ I, Claudius is widely considered to be one of the best novels of the 20th Century, so it’s only fitting that this BBC adaptation left a similar mark on the TV landscape of the 1970’s. I, Claudius offered a sweeping view of the early Roman Empire, one bolstered by an incredible cast that included thespians like Derek Jacobi, Siân Phillips, and John Hurt. I, Claudius pushed the boundaries of what was considered acceptable in terms of sex and violence on television and paved the way for more recent historical dramas like The Tudors and The Borgias. Before Forrest Gump, The Wonder Years was the best way for Baby Boomers to relive their glory years and watch a plucky young hero (played here by Fred Savage) come of age in one of the most tumultuous periods in American history as a kid in the 1960s. The Wonder Years was always entertaining, but it also struck a powerful chord with viewers both young and old. Survivor didn’t invent the concept of reality television, but it certainly perfected the formula. The concept is simple: strand a group of people in a remote location and watch the human drama unfold as each struggles to become the last person standing. It’s a formula that has enabled Survivor to, well, survive for more than 30 seasons, inspire a legion of imitators and spark a reality TV craze that shows no sign of cooling. When it comes to political drama, it’s hard for fiction to outdo reality anymore. Even so, House of Cards remains at the top of the pack. This American remake of the BBC mini-series is crammed full of intrigue and shocking plot twists and anchored by a strong cast that includes the likes of Kevin Spacey and Robin Wright. And as the first Netflix series to win an Emmy award, House of Cards proved that streaming services can stand toe-to-toe with traditional TV networks in terms of both viewership and critical acclaim. Having already made a splash on The Dick Van Dyke Show, Mary Tyler Moore truly cemented her status as a comedy legend with this self-titled sitcom. The show immediately stood out amid a sea of cookie cutter sitcoms thanks to its impeccable writing. And as a female-driven sitcom that dealt with issues that were still considered taboo back in the ‘70s, like workplace equality and homosexuality, it was truly a ground-breaking series. Its DNA can be found in everything from Friends to 30 Rock. Helping cement FX as a credible cable network for complex, challenging drama was Shawn Ryan’s The Shield, which featured a stellar cast headed by Michael Chiklis as Vic Mackey — a corrupt, brutal member of an experimental LAPD anti-gang police unit. With expert writing and command performances, The Shield kept viewers riveted for seven seasons, all the way to its spectacular series finale, as Mackey now stands as one of the greatest small screen anti-heroes of all time. In the “root for the bad guy” Golden Age of the Aughts, Chiklis still stood out as one of TV’s most troubling, and stunning, lead characters. Taking place in an unnamed, crime-ridden city, Hill Street Blues transformed the TV cop show and revolutionized the genre by using an ensemble cast, overlapping storylines, multi-episode arcs, handheld cameras, and many other things we now, in 2016, consider to be cop show cliches. They all started with Hill Street Blues though, on a show that would wind up directly influencing the bulk of television for the next 30 years. Hill Street Blues would also tackle complex and controversial topics like corruption, racism, alcoholism, and more. Life and laughs slowed to a small town crawl on The Andy Griffith Show, which ran for a whopping 249 episodes during the bulk of the ‘60s. Griffith portrayed the wise, patient sheriff for the fictional town of Mayberry, North Carolina. As an Abe Lincoln-esque do-gooder, Griffith’s Sheriff Taylor was able to patiently solve problems caused by moonshiners, his own local citizenry — and even his own inept deputy Barney Fife, played by Don Knotts. This show’s wholesome portrayal of bucolic America was a ratings hit for all of its eight seasons; a safe haven for viewers who may have been shaken by the decade’s shifting cultural mores. As one of the first TV comedies to portray a bickering, working class husband and wife — complete with tenement-style digs and relatable financial woes — The Honeymooners, which only lasted for 39 episodes, became one of the most influential and iconic sitcoms of all time. Filmed live in front of a studio audience, Honeymooners was based on a recurring sketch from star Jackie Gleason’s variety show and would feature characters that would become TV and movie paradigms for decades to come. In fact, versions of Gleason’s blustering, get-rich-quick scheming husband, Ralph, along with Audrey Meadows’ sarcastic wife, Alice, can be seen on TV today. Based on best selling book by Candace Bushnell, and holding the distinction of being the first cable show to win an Emmy for Outstanding Comedy Series, Sex and the City became a cultural phenomenon as a show featuring four single New York women talking frankly about sex, confiding in each other, and celebrating friendship. Men would come and go in their lives, but Carrie, Samantha, Charlotte, and Miranda always had each other on a show that didn’t prioritize “finding a man” as the ultimate goal for a woman. Funny, honest, and empowering, Sex and the City was fashionable but not to the point where it wasn’t relatable. Airing for two decades, NBC’s Law  &  Order was a no-nonsense “here’s your case, here’s your trial” series that combined a police procedural with a courtroom drama. Unlike other police ensemble shows, the personal lives of the detectives and attorneys would not be the focal point here as the show centered more on our justice system, and its various moving parts, than with characters. Birthing numerous spinoffs — one, Special Victims Unit, that’s still on the air, along with all of Dick Wolf's "shared universe" Chicago series — Law  &  Order would tackle ripped-from-the-headline cases that mirrored real events in the news. Created by puppeteer Jim Henson, and starring his beloved Muppets, The Muppet Show was a whimsical musical hall-style variety show that featured skits, musical numbers, and celebrity guests as well as a continuous look behind-the-scenes as producer Kermit the Frog attempted to keep everything from falling apart — including his own mental state. Whether covering an old standard or sending puppet pigs into space, The Muppet Show created a timeless, family-friendly atmosphere that appealed to all ages. As one of the first low-rated but critically acclaimed modern shows to avoid cancellation thanks to a miracle save by another network (in this case, DirecTV’s Channel 101, who agreed to co-fund the series with NBC), Texas high school football drama Friday Night Lights was so good that it appealed to those who might not think they'd like a show about high school football in Texas. Inspired by H.G. Bissinger’s book, and subsequent 2004 film, Friday Night Lights was a clear-eyed and earnest series about heartland values featuring an inspired ensemble, headlined by award-winning performances from Kyle Chandler and Connie Britton as Coach Eric Taylor and his wife, Tami. We owe Bob Odenkirk and David Cross’ fantastic surreal sketch comedy show a giant debt of gratitude for introducing us to a litany of incredible comedians who are now household names. The HBO show not only put the two titular leads on the map, but also featured phenomenal comedy writing and performances from Paul F. Tompkins, Jack Black, Dino Stamatopoulos, Sarah Silverman, and Brian Posehn, among countless others. The show’s willingness to satirize topics considered taboo at the time, including religion, sex, suicide, and racism was way ahead of its time, and allows the show to still exist in that rare echelon of timeless comedy. A giant part of British pop culture, sprawling sci-fi series Doctor Who debuted in the early sixties, featuring the misadventures of the Doctor — a renegade galactic custodian with mastery of time-travel technology. Running for over 25 years (before getting resurrected in 2005), the classic Doctor Who series featured seven different Doctors (thanks to the character’s pattern of regeneration), giving the show a built-in premise of a rotating leading man — a trait that helped freshen up the proceedings as each new Doctor brought with him his own tone, style, and peculiarities. Doctor Who became a cult hit on our shores, but in the U.K. it carved out a masterful legacy. Based on the hit UK comedy (also featured on this list), the American version of The Office quickly found its own voice thanks to Steve Carell’s fiercely funny portrayal of paper company branch manager Michael Scott. While its early episodes mirrored the overseas original, this series would find its own gems in Rainn Wilson’s needlessly intense Dwight Schrute along with John Krasinski and Jenna Fisher’s workplace flirts Jim and Pam. Lasting nine seasons — the final two without Carell — The Office did right by the UK series while still managing to create its own laugh-filled legacy. Described by some as “Seinfeld on crack,” It’s Always Sunny in Philadelphia broke new ground and shattered conventional mores back in the mid-Aughts by giving us “The Gang” — a quartet of selfish, maladjusted sociopaths who never fail to display humanity’s worst traits on a daily basis. Together they run a dilapidated pub in Philly, attempting to scheme their way to success at the expense of those around them, as well as each other. Drugs, cancer, cannibalism — no topic is off-limits for Always Sunny as it often proves that some of the biggest laughs can come from the most devious, and deviant, places. As one of the first shows to feature a working mother in the central role, ABC’s Roseanne tapped into the in-your-face “Domestic Goddess” standup routine of comedian Roseanne Barr’s standup routine and created a hand-to-mouth heroine for the sitcom ages. Roseanne was a Top 5 show for the majority of its nine season run as flocks of fans tuned in to watch the constantly quippy Connor family struggle to make ends meet in small town Illinois while also directly addressing hot button issues like sex, drugs, racism, homosexuality, and… a replacement Becky? Yes, a pre-Scrubs Sarah Chalke took over the role of Becky Conner from Lecy Goranson after the star left the show post-season 4… and again mid-way through season 8. One of the most popular anime titles in history, Cowboy Bebop transcended most known genres with a stylish, cinematic look at the ragtag lives of bounty hunters aboard the spaceship Bebop. With a jazz and funk-inspired score and a blend of science fiction and westerns, the series hit viewers with a moody noir atmosphere, amazing characters, smart dialogue, and existential themes of ennui and loneliness. Cowboy Bebop was a beautiful masterpiece that featured its own unique, compelling world. With a ticking clock, real-time format creating a desperate “one bad day” cat and mouse chase each season, FOX’s 24 delivered thrills like no other action series had before. The central character of Jack Bauer, which resurrected the career of film star Kiefer Sutherland, was part John McClane, part Rambo, all brutal ass-kicker. Though the series would receive some criticism mid-way through its run for Bauer’s reliance on torture as a methodology, 24 is still considered one of the most exciting and vital TV shows of the 21st century. Louie CK certainly wasn’t the first standup comedian to get a TV deal, but he was the first one to evolve his brand of comedy into an atypical, artistic collection of segments and vignettes that range from silly to dramatic to downright surreal. Shot on a shoestring budget, and with little thought given to continuity or consistency, CK portrays a fictionalized version of himself as he lives life as a divorced father of two girls in New York, interacting with guest stars such as Ricky Gervais, David Lynch, the late Robin Williams, and many more. The superb low-key indie quality of Louie allows it to constantly change its tone and keep viewers on their toes. Still lauded as one of the best shows that never got a decent chance, Paul Feig’s Freaks and Geeks, produced by Judd Apatow for NBC, was an offbeat-yet-honest look at high school awkwardness in the ‘80s. Ahead of its time, Freaks’ single-camera format would influence many TV comedies to come, while the stand-out cast and style of humor would go on to dominate many successful big screen Apatow-produced comedies. That the show was about misfits, in all shapes and sizes, made the fact that it only lasted one season feel quite apropos. Featuring a lineup of awesome dramas, mysteries, and thrillers, Alfred Hitchcock Presents capitalized on the host and auteur’s penchant for suspenseful tales filled with dark twists and turns, giving us one of the most successful anthology series of all time. With a “who’s who” list of writers, directors, and stars, each episode would take us into a macabre, unsettling realm where no one was safe. Hitchcock, being personally involved, would even direct 20 episodes of the show over the course of its run. Seinfeld co-creator, and basis for the George Costanza character, Larry David took his annoyance with, and intolerance for, the minutiae of everyday life, dialed up the awkwardness, and gave us another classic comedy. In HBO’s Curb Your Enthusiasm, David portrays a semi-fictionalized version of himself as he neurotically navigates through his post-Seinfeld life in Los Angeles, trying to impress upon others his own personal codes of conduct and stubborn beliefs. Curb was beloved by both Seinfeld fans and those who’d perhaps wished Seinfeld had gone even further with its aggravating scenarios. In what felt like a misguided project when the news broke, FX’s reboot-slash-sequel of the Coen Brothers’ Oscar-nominated film, Fargo — a “rebootquel,” if you will — was able to go beyond the impressive feat of seamlessly matching the movie’s distinctly dark, comedic, and starkly violent tone. Creator Noah Hawley also gifted us with new characters that stood strongly on their own while still smartly mirroring roles from the original story. Add to that the anthology nature of the series as well as the flawless casting and you get one of the most expertly-crafted crime shows on TV. Existing in the shadow of a series as iconic as Breaking Bad seems like a suicide mission, which makes it even more impressive that Better Call Saul has found an incredible identity of its own. Leaving behind Walt and Jessie in favor of a secondary character like Saul was a risky decision, but creator Vince Gilligan and actor Bob Odenkirk have created an original story that smartly exists as both prequel, as well as a sequel. By fleshing out Saul’s tragic backstory, the character is given an effective depth that simultaneously enhances the already-incredible Breaking Bad. We’re only two seasons in, but Better Call Saul is unquestionably one of the best shows currently on air. While one could argue that the original run of Doctor Who that ran from 1963 to 1989 could be folded in with the modern run of the show that started up again in 2005, we’re separating them here due to the long gap between the two series as well as the complete creative changes that took place both behind and in front of the camera. That said, Doctor Who is Doctor Who, and certainly the continued adventures of the Time Lord — in all of his different incarnations — remains a hugely important part of genre TV, from its far-out concepts to its clever storylines and its sometimes deep revelations about the show’s half-century old mythology. In addition to giving us a string of unique and always exciting new Doctors, from Christopher Eccleston through Peter Capaldi (to date), the modern run of the show also placed a major emphasis on the companions like Rose, Amy, and Clara. Because after all, the Doctor isn’t much without his friends. Created by Armando Iannucci, who based it off his own British comedy series The Thick of It, HBO’s Veep features a howlingly funny and cynical look at American politics with expert comedic performances and some of the best, expletive-filled insult-hurling of all time. Julia Louis-Dreyfus shines as the perpetually hapless and vain vice president (and later POTUS) Selina Meyer — a woman fittingly surrounded by an entourage of self-serving aids and advisors who only, occasionally, manage to find success due to sheer luck and the misfortune of others. What started as a fairly familiar sitcom setup — a group of strangers from different walks of life coming together and learning to be friends — grew into a meta love letter to the films and shows that inspired it and its creator, Dan Harmon. Greendale Community College became everything from an action movie-homage paintball war zone to the site of a traditional stop motion Christmas story, all while taking a surprisingly deep look at how friendships and relationships evolve and change as we grow older. Narrowly surviving death by cancellation multiple times, Community became as resilient as the study group at the heart of its hilarious, poignant tale. Creators Ricky Gervais and Stephen Merchant brought the mockumentary format to the TV masses with a show about the hilarious humdrum lives of office workers, headlined by Gervais himself as their dense, socially clumsy boss David Brent. As a man who’d deluded himself into thinking he was an effective leader, Brent also believed himself to be quite talented in the arenas of writing, comedy, and music. Naturally, he was a failure on all fronts. The Office was a huge hit at home and as an export, even creating a franchise of international remakes from Germany, France, Sweden, and the critically-acclaimed version from America. Featuring the first African American captain on a Star Trek series, Deep Space Nine, though the first Trek spin-off developed without creator Gene Roddenberry’s involvement, is considered to be one of the very best and complex science fiction shows of all time. Taking place on a fixed space station instead of a mobile ship, the series was less about exploration and more about a hub of cross-cultural alien activity, ranging from trade to politics to outright hostility. Yes, deep interpersonal conflict between characters, a theme not fully explored on other Trek shows, became the beating heart of DS9, along with more morally ambiguous storylines. Based on BBC’s Steptoe and Son, Sanford and Son was developed for NBC by All in the Family’s Norman Lear and would run for six seasons, making a household name of comedian Redd Foxx for his portrayal of bitter, bigoted, and cantankerous South Central Los Angeles junk dealer Fred Sanford. Also starring Demond Wilson as Fred’s son, Lamont, Sanford and Son, with its quick wit and catchy theme song, would become the first successful African American-based sitcom in history, paving the way for Lear’s own Good Times and The Jeffersons a few years later. With a series finale watched by a staggering 125 million people — the most-watched television episode in history — M*A*S*H* cemented itself as one of the longest running and enduringly popular TV shows of all time. Based on Robert Altman’s 1970 darkly satirical war comedy, which itself was based on Richard Hooker’s book, M*A*S*H* followed the doctors and staff of a Mobile Army Surgical Hospital during the Korean War. Yes, that’s 11 seasons of TV for just three years of actual war. At times, a screwball comedy, other times an aching poignant drama, M*A*S*H* depicted some of the hard horrors of war while also focusing on the humorous humanity involved with clashing personalities having to rely on each other while being far from home. Take a guy, a couple of robots, and a bunch of terrible movies, and you know what you get? Magic! Mystery Science Theater 3000, or MST3K, is one of those ideas that’s so simple, and yet so universally recognizable, that it’s no wonder it turned into a cult phenomenon. Who hasn’t sat in front of the screen with their buddies and cracked jokes at the expense of the lousy movie or show in front of them? Of course, combining this concept with the crack comedic wit of creator Joel Hodgson and his team meant that Mystery Science Theater 3000 would go from a locally produced crank effort on Minneapolis TV to, well, a precursor to the sniping, arch Internet culture we live and breathe today — a world where everything is ripe for riffing. Over the course of its turbulent five-season history, In Living Color tackled the sketch comedy scene in a way its gargantuan competitor Saturday Night Live couldn't touch: with a diverse cast of comedians, voices from all walks of life tackling risky subject matter. The Fox series, created by brothers Damon and Keenan Ivory Wayans, also served as the breeding ground for a little known comedian named Jim Carrey. Perhaps you've heard of him? Before launching his career with Ace Ventura, Carrey cut his chops on In Living Color, yet another reason to be thankful for the show's existence. He was supposed to follow Late Night with the Tonight Show, but we all know how that went. Instead of becoming Johnny Carson's direct successor, Letterman hopped over to CBS and carved out his own space in the talk show scene. The rest is history, and what a history it is: Rupert and the Hello Deli, Joaquin Phoenix's method acting meltdown, Top Ten lists… and really, the list goes on. No disrespect to Stephen Colbert, but the Ed Sullivan Theater simply isn't the same without Dave. But his retirement has been worth it, if only for the retirement beard. Long before Tricia Helfer came along, there was a very different but equally mysterious Number Six: the ex-spy at the heart of the 1960s British limited series, The Prisoner. The series, co-created by and starring Patrick McGoohan, focuses on an unnamed secret agent who wakes up on a mysterious island, at the mercy of equally enigmatic enemies. The twisting-and-turning narrative, not to mention its island setting, certainly serves as something of a basis for more than a few future dramas, and its themes of paranoia and mistrust certainly spoke to its times. Its short-burst nature, airing all 17 episodes across 17 consecutive weeks, added to the show's cultural urgency; an early instance of destination television. More than just a Saturday morning cartoon, the Bruce Timm animated series was a transcendent experience for Batman fans. Finally, an occasion to take the Caped Crusader seriously on a large scale, as he battled through the streets of Gotham, pummeling memorable rogue after memorable rogue into submission. With glorious animation, a striking Art Deco-inspired style, a riveting score, and spectacular stories often ripped straight out of the pages of the character's extensive DC Comics history, Batman: The Animated Series isn't just a great Batman property — it's the great Batman property. After spending six full years contending with smoke monsters and island drama, Lost creator Damon Lindelof returned to television with a wholly unique follow-up, HBO's The Leftovers. Okay, perhaps not wholly unique (though certainly Holy Wayne), as it explores the same themes found throughout Lindelof's Lost: questions about destiny, how to handle grief, embracing life's great mysteries or else drown in the swamps of sorrow. A grueling but moving series from the start, The Leftovers is most notable for its Texas-set second season, a strong contender for the title of single-best television season of the modern prestige drama era. Every child who ever escaped their worries with a visit to the Neighborhood of Make-Believe can attest to the power of Fred Rogers, both as a man and institution. As admirable for his talent and skills as a puppeteer as he is for his moral compass, Mister Rogers guided Americans through issues of civility and how to respond to adversity with kindness and strength. It's hard to even conceive of a more good-natured series; indeed, in the history of television, Mister Rogers may well be the beating heart. Few shows have ever explored life's fragility and the all-consuming power of grief more artfully than Six Feet Under, the HBO drama focused on the Fishers, a California family who run their own funeral home. Created by Alan Ball, fresh from winning an Oscar for his work writing American Beauty, Six Feet Under submerges its characters and its audience in a world where death is just an everyday part of life, fueled by fantastic performances from Peter Krause, Michael C. Hall, Frances Conroy, Lauren Ambrose, and the rest of the cast. Its final episode, culminating in a forward-looking trip into the future, stands out as one of the strongest endings any series has ever produced. It's hard to believe that the legendary British comedy sketch series Monty Python's Flying Circus produced just 45 episodes across only four series. The troupe's titanic roster — including John Cleese, Terry Jones, Eric Idle, and more — are such forces throughout pop culture on their own standing, and all the more gut-busting as a group. (Literally in some cases; ask Mr. Creosote, he'll tell you all about it.) As a group and as a television franchise, Monty Python defies definition; perhaps the greatest compliment one can pay a comedy series. "And now for something completely different," barely does it justice. Despite a hit-miss ratio that's not always skewed in a favorable direction, no one can deny The X-Files is anything but a legendary show. David Duchovny's sardonic Mulder and Gillian Anderson's cynical Scully boast as much individual identity and combined chemistry as any pair of leads in virtually any story, certainly within the science fiction genre and television medium. Despite a walloping 208 episodes to its name, X-Files is one of those shows where one can blissfully cherry-pick episodes as they see fit. Any day is a good day to watch one of the single most important and engaging genre shows of all time. Star Trek was already legendary and iconic by the time the first spin-off series, The Next Generation, arrived in 1987. And while many fans eyed Captain Picard and his crew warily at first — and rightfully so considering the series’ first couple of shaky years — this new take on the voyage of the starship Enterprise eventually earned its own place among great sci-fi television. Not only did star Patrick Stewart elevate the series, and the genre, with his Shakespearean-trained approach, but Next Gen’s continued mining of the vast Star Trek universe for thought-provoking, exciting, and often relevant to the here and now stories mirrored and sometimes outmatched The Original Series. TNG was also a trendsetter in the strange galaxy known as first-run syndication for dramatic series, helping to prove that television did not have to be constrained to the big three networks, long before cable dramas and streaming Emmy winners were the norm. And finally, the adventures of the Enterprise-D stood as a testament to the enduring appeal and adaptability of the Star Trek concept. The original show was not a fluke, and indeed three more sequel series would follow… and now we’re on the verge of getting yet another in Star Trek: Discovery. Few television endeavors are as culturally essential as Roots, the 1977 miniseries that spans more than a century, covering a generation of men and women subjected to slavery. With magnificent and important performances by LeVar Burton, John Amos, and others, the Emmy-winning Roots forces all Americans to take a long, hard look at the most shameful institution in the nation's history. It's gutting, it's empowering, and it's still tragically relevant all these years later. The balance between light and dark is an iconic one, but coming from the mind of cult filmmaker David Lynch, it took on new life in Twin Peaks. Twin Peaks is Lynch at peak quirkiness, but also, sometimes, his most sinister. While some critics lambast the latter half of Season 2 for needlessly dragging on unlikable arcs, Twin Peaks ultimately offered one of the most compelling murder mysteries in TV history. It both baffled and entranced cable TV audiences in the 90s with its unrelenting bizarreness, and its line-up of unforgettable characters. It also sparked a cult following so strong that, 25 years after its heartbreaking Season 2 cliffhanger, it inspired a series revival that will continue the strange, supernatural crime drama with an upcoming and much-anticipated season 3. As a follow-up series to Matt Groening’s The Simpsons, Futurama had a lot to live up to. And not unlike its main character Fry, the show was something of an underachiever compared to its more famous, more successful sibling. But Futurama was a revelation for fans of comedy, animation, and sci-fi, combining its best elements into something completely unique, smart, and hilarious. Taking every genre staple under the sun(s), Futurama would turn those often familiar (but sometimes obscure) concepts on their head with some weird and idiosyncratic touch involving any number of its main or supporting cast of crazy humans, robots, aliens and, of course, cyclopes. Another hallmark of Futurama was its against-all-odds, sometimes graceful, and touching dose of humanity. We dare you to watch the tale of Fry’s long-lost dog Seymour and not shed a tear. Remember the one with the blackout? Or the one with Ross's wedding? Or the one in Vegas? (Ironically enough, that last one also features Ross's wedding.) Turn your television on at any given moment in the day, and you're bound to land on one of those ones. Over the course of ten seasons and well more than 200 episodes, the Central Perk crew of Rachel, Monica, Phoebe, Joey, Chandler, and Ross earned their status as fixtures in the sitcom history books, and television at large. Loosely inspired by Tina Fey’s experiences as head writer for Saturday Night Live, 30 Rock was a hilarious look behind the scenes at a fictional sketch comedy show, TGS with Tracy Jordan. The cast of Fey, Alec Baldwin, Tracy Morgan, Jane Krakowski, Scott Adsit, and Jack McBrayer created a unique and memorable group of characters that were hilariously awkward, hyper Alpha, probably crazy, incurably vain, hopelessly jaded and possibly immortal. Not content with being a traditional sitcom, 30 Rock elevated the medium with it’s hyper aware meta observations on everything from it’s own product placement and advertising, to current events outside of the show. 30 Rock’s unique style of comedy and absurdist take on the traditional sitcom make it one of our all time favorites. The first and some would argue best of Joss Whedon's television endeavors, Buffy the Vampire Slayer smashed California valley and slacker comedy sensibilities right into the horror genre, resulting in a television experience unlike anything before or, arguably, since. As often a joy to consume as it was emotionally devastating (there's a reason Whedon has a reputation for breaking fans' hearts through brutal character deaths, and the Scooby Gang is no exception), the Sarah Michelle Gellar action-comedy series was effectively epic and intimate all at once. There's an old proverb that says: "A little bit of David Caruso goes a long way." After headlining the early days of the acclaimed cop drama, Caruso parted ways with NYPD Blue and paved the way for an ensemble cop drama that was a staple of the 1990s television era, even extending five years into the new millennium. Dennis Franz's abrasive cop Andy Sipowicz provided the anchor for a commendable cast of rotating players, including the likes of Jimmy Smits, Mark-Paul Gosselaar, and more. Looking back at Cheers, it's almost staggering to consider the 11-year comedy's incredible roster of actors. From Ted Danson and Rhea Perlman to George Wendt, John Ratzenberger and beyond, the faces that weaved in and out of the cozy Boston bar relieved the audience's end-of-day tensions just as much as the characters relieved their own. Among the many reasons to appreciate the series: its graceful and impressive handling of the tragic death of Coach actor Nicholas Colasanto and handoff to the new character who stepped up to fill the void: Woody Boyd, played by a little-known actor named Woody Harrelson. Deadwood sits firmly in the pantheon of the greatest shows to ever air on HBO. David Milch’s gorgeous, filthy, and deep South Dakota opera introduced us to a set of characters as rich and nuanced as any in the history of westerns. From Timothy Olyphant’s heroic-yet-flawed Sheriff, to Ian McShane’s iconic portrayal of the vulgar and electrifying Al Swearengen, the citizens of Deadwood each help paint a fantastic mosaic of 1870s America without ever pulling a single punch. Like so many great shows, it was canceled before it had a chance to wrap up, but constant murmurs of a movie follow-up have us craving one more round at The Gem Saloon. Band of Brothers was bound for greatness, from the moment it was announced that Saving Private Ryan collaborators Steven Spielberg and Tom Hanks were developing an HBO limited series set during World War II. Fueled by beautiful performances from the likes of Damien Lewis and Ron Livingston, tightly written episodes, and spectacular direction capturing the literal and figurative explosions on the battlefield, Band of Brothers stands the test of time as one of the most moving and meticulously crafted explorations of war in any medium. Beginning as a humorous riff on the daily news with Craig Kilborn, The Daily Show morphed into a much more important and significant pop culture touchstone under Jon Stewart's tenure. With a sharp political focus and cutting humor, The Daily Show helped reshape how an entire generation consumed news. Stewart became a trusted voice from the early days of the 2000 election and the September 11th attacks through the end of his run in 2015. Beyond catapulting a huge number of stars from the show's correspondents — from Stephen Colbert to Steve Carrell to John Oliver to Samantha Bee — the Daily Show's transition from humorous news satire to reliable news commentary has changed the way news is presented and consumed. As the grandfather of the modern late night television landscape, the virtues and successes of The Tonight Show with Johnny Carson are self-evident. For three decades, Johnny fueled American conversations with high-profile interviews conducted with humor and humanity. His was a generation and genre-defining reign, serving as a nation's late-night counsel through triumph and tragedy alike. The impact Carson's run has had on the modern comedy landscape — the nightly new scene especially — cannot be overstated. Though the quality fluctuated in its final seasons — which also served as a surprisingly prescient take on what would be Barack Obama's historical presidential win — The West Wing at its best delivered brilliant dialogue, powerful performances, and an inspirational look at the American political system. Aaron Sorkin's scripts were certainly liberal ideals of what government employees could be, but his cast of characters were so memorable not just for their wit but for their fallibility. President Jed Bartlet's presidency faced many failures, but it was his and his cabinet's unfailing determination, which came to life thanks to Sorkin's singsong dialogue and the spectacular ensemble cast, that makes the show as politically stirring as when it first aired. While Fawlty Towers as a hotel might not get such a great review on Trip Advisor, it earns top marks as a TV show. One of the most loved comedies in British television history, the series stems from the mind of John Cleese and Connie Booth (married at the time of the series' inception, divorced by its conclusion) and focuses on the aptly named Fawlty family, doing their best to run a hotel… and their best isn't all that great. Cleese somehow made the extraordinarily unlikable and hard-headed hotelier Basil Fawlty into a source of comedic gold; all the more impressive, as Cleese reportedly based the character and show on a real (and really rude) hotel owner he once encountered. The second series from the late, great Garry Shandling (following the inventive It’s Garry Shandling’s Show), The Larry Sanders Show was a very funny, highly influential HBO series that feels like a precursor to the “uncomfortable comedy” single-camera boom that would give us series like Curb Your Enthusiasm and The Office, filled with characters who can’t help but make things worse for themselves. Shandling’s look at the behind-the-scenes events of a late-night talk show was also notable for its meta look at Hollywood politics and neurosis, and its bevy of real-life stars playing themselves, before shows of this sort became much more common. But the highlight was the central trio of Shandling, Jeffrey Tambor, and Rip Torn, who played beautifully off each other as three men barely keeping it together as they produced a new episode each weeknight. There are those who predict history will eventually be evaluated by two periods of time: all that came before Big Bird, and all that came after. Seriously, it's tough to imagine a time without Sesame Street in the public consciousness. The amount of imagination and passion poured into the decades-spanning series not only resulted in an engaging and entertaining hour of television, but also resulted in pop culture icons who transcend the show itself: Elmo, Snuffaluffagus, and Oscar, to name a few. They're more than just puppets on a TV show. They're practically family. Chappelle’s Show is hands-down one of the most important sketch comedy series in television history. Its willingness to skewer political leaders, pop-culture icons, and racial tensions in America brought a breath of fresh air and a new voice to the forefront. Its wealth of iconic characters, from Chappelle’s versions of Prince and Rick James, to Tyrone Biggums and Leonard Washington entered our pop culture lexicon immediately with a deluge of incredibly-quotable skits. Pair this with an incredible lineup of musicians, from Kanye West to Mos Def, and Chappelle’s Show remains an integral part of television comedy well-over a decade after it aired. Using the core concept of a 1970s series that is looked back on with affection, but didn’t exactly live up to its potential, Ron Moore’s version of Battlestar Galactica is one of the finest examples of a reboot one can imagine. With the enemy Cylons capable of looking like humans in this version, BSG not only could tap into themes of paranoia and questions of what makes us truly “alive,” but also allowed Moore to delve into some very notable scenarios – many of which few other show were willing or able to deal with head on. Produced in the wake of 9/11, Battlestar Galactica was a stellar and powerful example of how science fiction can reflect and comment upon our modern world through a fantasy prism, as episodes dealt with topics like torture, occupation, the line between resistance and terrorism, and much more. Impressively grounded and filled with terrific characters and performances, Battlestar Galactica is sci-fi at its best. It's difficult to reflect on The Cosby Show, and particularly challenging to return to the character of quirky family man and doctor Cliff Huxtable, given recent accusations against Bill Cosby. Putting recent revelations aside as much as one can, there's no denying the show's place in television history, and what it represented as a cultural moment. Beyond Cosby, the show also features some performances that were instantly iconic. Phylicia Rashad as the inspirational Clair Huxtable and Keshia Knight Pullman as the impossibly adorable Rudy certainly rank among the single most iconic characters in family sitcom history. Trey Parker and Matt Stone's cutting cartoon satire requires no explanation for its place as one of the best shows of all time. The reasons to tip your ski-cap to South Park are endless, whether it's because you're in the tank for brilliant low-brow humor (a hallmark of the series from the first ever episode, the memorably named "Cartman Gets an Anal Probe"), timely and biting political commentary (the Turd Sandwich versus Giant Douche rivalry will always reign supreme), or simply wanting to watch an animated series pick a fight with any and every subject, no matter how controversial. (No Tom Cruises were insulted in the writing of this piece.) One of the last torchbearers of NBC’s two-hour Thursday night comedy dynasty (at least for now), Parks and Recreation sold a different brand of comedy than most other shows around it. Nearly all of Parks’ humor came from a place of goodness and positivity, embodied by Amy Poehler’s spectacular role model Leslie Knope. Though the show struggled in its first season, trying to be too much like The Office, the Pawnee, Indiana Parks department went on to deliver six seasons of consistently hilarious, heartwarming comedy. Nearly every member of the ensemble, from Ron Swanson and the many Tammys of his life to Donna and Tom and their creation of Treat Yo Self, had a chance to shine as the series cemented itself in comedy history. Mileage varies on Arrested Development’s Season 4 Netflix revival, which many felt failed to recapture the magic of the show’s original run, but those first three seasons firmly cement this comedy’s place in TV history. Incredibly funny and smart, this Mitch Hurtwitz-created series wasn’t for casual viewers — the humor was often based off of clever visual gags or payoffs on long-gestating subplots (some of them literally hidden in the background of previous episodes). But for those paying attention, few TV comedies reached the heights of this look at a narcissistic Orange County family in crisis mode after their patriarch is sent to jail. Especially well-cast, Arrested Development also benefited from a fantastic ensemble of actors who each had a distinct — and distinctly funny — character to play, with all of them able to carry a storyline on their own or in various groupings. America spent nine seasons and more than two hundred episodes with the Bunkers, one of the single most recognizable fictional families throughout television history. He's not the most politically correct protagonist, certainly not now, but actor Carroll O'Connor portrayed patriarch Archie Bunker as a rough-around the edges man unsatisfied with the state of things, longing for the older, better days — a character with lasting power and some fascinating modern relevance. Yes, SNL will always have its unfunny sketches and episodes, but throughout the decades SNL has remained both a platform around which the nation can rally at major moments as well as a tremendous talent farm. The show’s quality can waver week to week, sure, but there’s no denying the show’s hilarious ability to cut to the heart of major political and cultural moments, from the first post-September 11 episode to every four years when the show dives into the U.S. presidential elections. And throughout its decades of voicing its audiences’ frustrations and excitement, it’s also produced some of the greatest comedic talents of the last 40 years, from Chevy Chase to Eddie Murphy to Will Ferrell to Kristen Wiig. It may not have a 40-year perfect run (and what show could?), but few entertainment institutions have endured like Studio 8H has. Game of Thrones successfully revolutionized fantasy on TV. Whereas the likes of Hercules and Xena: Warrior Princess were previously the pinnacle of fantasy's depiction on the small screen, HBO's Game of Thrones brought the grandeur of The Lord of the Rings with a heavy dash of the politics of The Sopranos, which together snowballed into a huge success for the network. It's easy to mark the late-Season 1 twist as the turning point for Game of Thrones' popularity — it prompted a deluge of surprise main character deaths across the TV landscape — but the show's greatness isn't just in its unpredictability. From fantastic performances to gorgeous cinematography, an iconic score and stellar writing, Game of Thrones has raised the bar for the quality of genre television. For a “show about nothing,” Seinfeld certainly got everyone talking. In nine seasons on the air, Seinfeld took topics previously considered taboo on mainstream television and managed to not only put them in front of millions of people, but redefined what the modern comedy could tackle. Seinfeld eschewed every sitcom trope and instead focused on the bizarre misadventures of four flawed people and the collection of characters in their lives, and in doing so it became a cultural phenomenon. Seinfeld’s unique turns of phrase and outlandish storylines helped inspire an entire new generation of comedies and made Jerry Seinfeld a household name. (It also kick-started the career of co-creator and future Curb Your Enthusiasm star Larry David.) While its series finale was divisive, Seinfeld is regarded as one of the greatest shows of all time, and modern comedy wouldn’t be the same without it. Sitcoms were never quite the same after The Simpsons. Beyond putting Fox on the map as a network, The Simpsons injected sharp writing and insightful social commentary into primetime, proving that animated shows could be for adults too. The Simpsons has never shied away from covering real-life situations, and its initial seasons were a brilliant, subversive take on the typical dysfunctional family that quickly made the show a hit. With over 20 years under its belt, The Simpsons is the longest running American sitcom in history. Even with criticism that current episodes aren’t quite as incisive as they were in the early days, the fact that it’s still on the air is a testament to the lasting impact the show has had on pop culture and on modern humor as a whole. Homer and Bart Simpson are among the most recognizable pop culture figures of the last two decades, and you’d be hard-pressed to find a contemporary comedy that wasn’t influenced by The Simpsons in some way. The Simpsons will have to come to an end eventually, but when it finally does it will be remembered as one of the most important (and funniest) shows ever made. Lost changed network television forever, and it looked beautiful and kept us all guessing doing it. Mythology-driven, sci-fi-tinged ensemble-cast TV is still dominant more than a decade after Lost got the whole country freaked out about smoke monsters and mysterious hatches. The show is usually remembered for its meta-mysteries, some of which paid off in epic fashion and some of which… didn’t (looking at you, Hurley Bird). But Lost was more under-the-hood than that. It often felt almost impossibly gorgeous, with stunning island vistas that showed off its at-the-time unprecedented budget. And its emphasis on character-driven side stories, especially in its early seasons, allowed the writers to tell a surprising variety of high quality, self-contained short stories of love, loss, and longing. Matthew Weiner’s nuanced, immersive look at a 1960s advertising executive put AMC on the map as a major player in the scripted TV world, thanks to its smart, introspective scripts and wonderful array of characters. “Advertising executive” might not sound incredibly exciting for an ongoing TV show, but Don Draper (Jon Hamm) proved to be a fascinating protagonist — a self-made man in every sense of the term, as his entire identity was a fabrication that helped prove just how good he was at selling people on the right image. The supporting characters, most notably Peggy Olson (Elisabeth Moss), allowed Weiner to show what a time of change the 1960s were and the obstacles that were constantly placed in the path of many looking to ascend higher than the society they were raised in was often comfortable with. And while Mad Men could be quiet and meditative, it was also incredibly witty and capable of shocking and thrilling you at just the right moment. Just ask that guy who lost his foot to an unfortunate office lawnmower accident… Many sitcoms have come and gone over the decades, but Lucy… Lucy is eternal. To watch an episode now, some 66 years after the show’s debut, is to still face at the very least cracking a smile, if not actual big laughs — despite the show’s age. But I Love Lucy, which was very much a production run  by  star Lucille Ball and her husband/co-star Desi Arnaz, also pushed the boundaries of television in a variety of ways. Arnaz, along with DP Karl Freund, worked to perfect the multi-camera, live studio audience system that became the standard for the many, many sitcoms that followed. Ball and Arnaz also introduced a light continuity to the show, a rarity for the time, while even — gasp — depicting Lucy’s real-life pregnancy onscreen. (This was an era, mind you, where the two leads still had to be portrayed as sleeping in separate beds.) The times they were a-changin’, and it was a quirky redheaded comedienne leading the way. The most important and influential science fiction TV series ever produced, this Gene Roddenberry creation was never a ratings juggernaut during its initial 1960s run (it was canceled after only three seasons), but found new life and fans when it entered syndication. Within a decade of it going off the air and following the success of Star Wars, Star Trek made the leap to feature films, becoming a franchise with a presence on both the big and small screens. As undeniably fun as the Enterprise's mission to seek out new worlds and new civilizations was, it was Roddenberry's positive vision of humanity's future and his social consciousness — from the diversity of its cast to its tackling of the hot button issues of its day — that made Star Trek important, brave, and, ultimately, timeless. It also certainly helped that Trek's characters were so thoughtfully drawn and then brought to life by actors with an undeniable chemistry between each other. The story of cancer-stricken high school chemistry teacher Walter White's transformation into the meth maker and drug kingpin "Heisenberg" made for addictive television. There are arguably no truly bad episodes of the Vince Gilligan-created series thanks to its impeccable writing, direction, and, of course, the performances of its cast, most notably Bryan Cranston as Walter White and Aaron Paul as his former student-turned-drug partner Jesse Pinkman. Breaking Bad was the peak of American television's decade-long obsession with antiheroes that began with The Sopranos. The worse Walter became, the more despicable his deeds, and the more tragic the effects had on his family, the better the show became. Breaking Bad has since spun off another acclaimed but different kind of series, Better Call Saul. The Twilight Zone broke boundaries in 1959 by going against all that television was at the time: simple, easy, and safe. Instead, it scrutinized society, often through the lens of science fiction, but without the melodramatic fear-mongering of other media from the same era. The Twilight Zone cared less about shocking viewers into submission and more about planting the seeds of new ideas within them, constantly subverting our expectations in new and profound ways with its now-iconic twists and the clever life lessons that bookended each standalone episode. While it paved the way for more technologically modernized takes on its formula, like in the recent Black Mirror, the stories and ideas that unfolded in The Twilight Zone are still just as surprising and relevant today as they were nearly six decades ago. Few dramas reshaped the modern-day TV landscape as much as The Sopranos. Not only did it manage to balance an extremely large cast of characters, which was relatively new for television in the late 90s, but every single one of those characters was as well-written, memorable, and complicated as the story arcs they served. It was beneficial for TV dramas up until that point to stay as simple and inoffensive to the average viewer as possible, but The Sopranos — thanks in part to the exclusivity and freedom of premium cable network HBO — was bold enough to break away from that mold. It started by “de-dramatizing” the traditional Mafia story, turning it away from the classic American epics of Coppola and Scorsese and thrusting it into the modern-day. Tony Soprano, his family, and his other Family live and operate in an era where the mythos of the Mafia has faded with the dawn of the 21st century — an existentially troubling and emasculating effort for Tony himself, who decides to attend therapy at a time when the stigma around anxiety and depression was finally being torn down. For TV’s most “badass” crime boss to be making regular visits to a psychiatrist was revolutionary in the early 2000s. In many regards, it was this very mundanity that made The Sopranos such a bold show. Its down-to-earth approach to its subject matter allowed it tell violent, shocking, and often tragic crime stories while also (in the same episode) exploring less extravagant affairs: teen angst, the stress of caring for an elderly parent, awkward college relationships. The Sopranos’ effortless embrace of all aspects of Tony’s life (and the lives of his family) is owed to its compelling, well-acted characters, superb writing, and the way it finds complexity and humanity in even the smallest struggles. It all comes together to make The Sopranos one of the best television shows ever made. On the surface HBO’s 2002 series, The Wire, looks like a traditional police drama. On second look the show is an examination of the criminal justice system, or relentless critique of the War on Drugs. In reality The Wire is a thorough examination of one American city, specifically Baltimore, Maryland. Created by author and former Baltimore journalist David Simon and written by acclaimed authors like Richard Price (Clockers) and Dennis Lehane (Gone Baby, Gone), the series was known for it’s hard looks at civic bureaucracy and gritty realism. Aiding to the show’s realism was a very talented, but not necessarily well known cast which occasionally included former police officers and drug dealers. For 60 episodes The Wire’s cast brought characters like Detective Jimmy McNulty (Dominic West), Omar Little (Michael K. Williams), "Kima" Greggs (Sonja Sohn) and Stringer Bell (Idris Elba), to life with performances so honest you might think they weren't actors. Another remarkable aspect of the show was its willingness to kill off lead characters in service of the story, unlike most shows, just about anyone could go at any time. The realism of the show allowed it to explore social, political and educational issues without appearing sensational or exploitative. Unfortunately many of the themes explored in the show still exist, which allows the show to continue to be just as relevant (and entertaining) today. Very few TV shows have ever been able to successfully tell such a large and interconnected story at this scale. The show started with the drug trade, then abruptly switched to union longshoremen, and moved to mayoral politics, the school system and finally print journalism. The Wire was able to elevate the TV drama to the quality and depth of a great novel, and that is why we have selected it as our greatest TV show of all time. We encourage you to read our updated  PRIVACY POLICY  and  COOKIE POLICY . 