Kanye West calls out Nike, mentions LeBron James and other athletes in new track - The Washington Post chevron-right chevron-right chevron-right chevron-right chevron-right chevron-right chevron-right chevron-right chevron-right chevron-right chevron-right chevron-right chevron-right chevron-right chevron-right chevron-right chevron-right chevron-right chevron-right chevron-right search menu menu Washington Post Logo profile profile Try 1 month for $1 close Washington Post Logo close Email Bio Follow Updated post: Michael Jordan’s son responds to Yeezy’s diss track Kanye West’s line of Adidas Yeezy Boost shoes seem to sell out in minutes as soon new versions go on sale, so he doesn’t need to publicize them. Maybe West really does just hate Nike. Either way, hours before 2016 arrived, the rapper dropped a track that took square aim at the athletics apparel giant. West had been a brand ambassador with Nike and even collaborated on an “Air Yeezy” line of shoes before defecting to Adidas in 2014, apparently after being promised royalties. In “ Facts (Jumpman) ,” West, who has boasted in previous songs that his shoes were more popular than Air Jordans, says, “Nike out here bad, they can’t give s— away.” He then has this to say about the company’s recent announcement of a “ lifetime relationship ” with LeBron James. Elsewhere in the track, West refers to another Nike endorser, Odell Beckham Jr., but he also makes sure to give a shout-out to a pair of NBA players who part of the Adidas roster, James Harden and Nick Young. Nike just die 5 hrs b4 2016 I can hear Nick rapping that line through all shoot around tomorrow and during the game he losing his mind right now lol Nick Young plans to up his shoe game after wearing Adidas ‘Yeezys’ Here is West’s track in its entirety (warning: profanity). comments home share Share on Facebook Email this link Share on Twitter Share on Pinterest Share on LinkedIn Your cheat sheet for weekly fantasy domination, delivered on Thursdays during the NFL season. By signing up you agree to our  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy Washington Post Logo Original reporting, exclusive scoops and more. Subscribe for  $1 . Already a subscriber?  Sign in Your cheat sheet for weekly fantasy domination, delivered on Thursdays during the NFL season. By signing up you agree to our  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy Nike just die 5 hrs b4 2016 I can hear Nick rapping that line through all shoot around tomorrow and during the game he losing his mind right now lol 