What Is the HUD-1 Settlement Statement? The  HUD-1 Settlement Statement  is a standard government real estate form that was once used by settlement agents, also called closing agents, to itemize all charges imposed upon a borrower and seller for a real estate transaction. The statement is no longer used, with one exception— reverse mortgages . It was originally developed by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to give each party a complete list of their incoming and outgoing funds.  The statutes of the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (RESPA) required that the HUD-1 form be used as the standard real estate settlement form in all transactions in the United States that involved federally-related mortgage loans. It was formerly used for nearly all transactions that involved a buyer and seller, including  cash closings .  You would have received a HUD-1 statement if you applied for a mortgage on or before Oct. 3, 2015. Borrowers began receiving a form called the Closing Disclosure instead of a HUD-1 for most kinds of mortgage loans after October 2015. The change was in response to the TILA RESPA  Integrated Disclosures , or simply  TRID , which overhauled the way mortgages are processed and disclosed. The HUD-1 settlement statement is still used in 2019 for reverse mortgages. These types of mortgages are very popular with sellers over the age of 62 who want to pull equity out of their homes. Lenders will also often ask for a copy of an old HUD-1 to prove the date the property closed during the three- to 10-year period following a short sale prior to 2015. Before Oct. 3, 2015, RESPA stated that borrowers should be given a copy of the HUD-1 at least one day prior to settlement. In real life, however, entries could easily still be coming in right up until a few hours before closing. Most buyers and sellers studied the statement on their own, with the assistance of their real estate agent and the settlement agent. The idea was that the more people who reviewed it, the more likely it became that errors would be detected. Don ' t assume that the closing agent is always correct, whether you ' re dealing with the HUD-1 or the Closing Disclosure. Mistakes can and do happen, and errors can be found at the last minute. Ask as many questions as necessary to help you understand all charges. This line-by-line summary covers the most critical sections of the form. And yes, there are a  lot  of lines. Many entries are tabulated before being brought forward to page 1 in Section L or page 2. Columns contain charges that are paid from either the borrower ' s or the seller ' s funds. Your closing statement probably won ' t have entries in all these lines. This section deals with the commissions paid to real estate agencies. Lines 701 and 702 show how the commissions are split between two participating agencies. Commissions are usually paid from the seller ' s funds, but a buyer ' s agent who sells  " for sale by owner "  home might be paid by their client, not the seller. The entries on these lines are most often paid from the buyer ' s funds, although sellers might agree to pay specified amounts to help the buyer close in some cases. These charges are typically paid by the buyer. They ' re all items which the lender requires, but which are not always paid to the lender. This section is used to itemize  escrow funds  collected by the lender from the borrower for such things as hazard insurance and property taxes. The number of months charged can vary, but there are limits as to how much the lender can collect. Current charges for the expenses paid by the borrower appear in Section 900. The entries on lines 1001 through 1007 are for funds used to start the borrower ' s escrow account, from which the lender will pay next year ' s premiums. Each mortgage payment includes an amount that covers a portion of these recurring expenses. Line 1008 is an escrow adjustment calculated by the settlement agent by comparing different escrow formulas. This step is to make sure the lender isn ' t collecting more escrow funds than are allowed. The figure is always zero or a negative number. Title charges include fees directly related to the transfer of title, such as the title examination, title search, document preparation, and fees for the title insurance policy. They are normally charged to the buyer. Legal fees include fees for both the borrower ' s and seller ' s attorneys, and sometimes for an attorney for the lender. Other items covered in this section are fees for closing agents and notaries. Many tasks fees can be lumped together when one person performs several of them. This section is used to itemize charges such as costs for recording deeds and mortgages and fees for tax stamps. Section 1300 is used to record survey fees and inspections for such things as pests, lead-based paint, and radon. Structural inspections and inspections for heating, plumbing, or electrical equipment might also be included. The charge will be entered in this section if either party is buying a home warranty. Line 1400 is for the total settlement charges paid from borrower ' s and seller ' s funds. They ' re also entered in Sections J and K, lines 103 and 502. You ' ll find sections J and K back on page 1 of the HUD-1 form. They outline the borrower ' s and seller ' s itemized transactions. These are all entries for funds the borrower will receive at closing. This basically summarizes what money will change hands at closing. This section appears to the right of section J, the Summary of the Borrower ' s Transaction. It summarizes the transactions of the seller. The amounts in Section 400 ,  Gross Amount Due to Seller, are added to the seller ' s funds. The amounts in this section are subtracted from the seller ' s funds. These lines can also be used to list additional liens which much be paid at settlement to clear title to the property. This section details the cash the seller will either receive or pay at closing. This is one of the  closing documents that you should keep  if you receive a HUD-1 as part of your reverse mortgage transaction. The same applies to the Closing Disclosure in any other real estate sale or purchase. 