Larry Raymond Montgomery Obituary - Weston, WV | ObitTree September 25, 1931 - October 02, 2017 September 25, 1931 - October 02, 2017 Larry Raymond Montgomery, 86, of Simpson Run Road Weston passed away on Monday, October 2, 2017 at his residence with loving family surrounding him. He was born in Lewis County on September 25, 1931: son of the late Arvel Montgomery and Eula Dee (Snyder) Montgomery. On September 3, 1955, he married his wife of 62 years, Lora (Workman) Montgomery, who survives. Larry was blessed with four children: Steve Montgomery and wife Heather of Jane Lew, Brad Montgomery and wife Debi of Weston, Mark Montgomery and wife Anne Marie of New Stanton, PA and Brenda Corcoglioniti and husband Dominick of Bridgeport, grandchildren: Cody Montgomery of Pittsburgh, PA, Brandon Starkey of Ohio Mathew Starkey of Lumberport, Lora Montgomery of Weston, Anthony Montgomery of Maryland, Brittany Montgomery of Florida, Morgan Ramsey of Fairmont, Ashlie Montgomery of Bridgeport, Alexis and Madisyn Montgomery of Jane Lew and Devon Perrine of Bridgeport and 5 great grandchildren. He was also survived by one sister: Jackie McClain of Weston and several nieces and nephews. Mr. Montgomery was retired from Consolidated Natural Gas Company as a foreman with 36 years of service. He was a veteran of the United States Army serving 6 years during the Korean Conflict and was stationed in Japan and Germany. He was a member of St Matthew United Methodist Church of Weston where he had served as a Sunday school teacher and usher.  He was very civic minded and was active as a Scout master Pack 105, Weston City Council, Lewis County Business Development Authority, member of the Northview UMC Quartet, Weston Lodge #10 A.F  &  A.M., Weston Chapter #40 Order of Eastern Star, was active with Weston Jaycees where he coached Little League Basketball for several years, and was the owner of Towne Shoppe for several years. His hobbies included woodworking, camping and fishing. He will be missed by family and friends. Family and friends will be received at the Hardman-Paletti Funeral Home 730 N. Main Avenue Weston on Thursday, October 5, 2017 from 4-7 p.m. Funeral services will be held on Friday at 1:00 p.m. from the Hardman-Paletti Funeral Home chapel with Reverend Tim Conrad officiating. Interment will follow services in Forest Lawn Memorial Gardens of Jane Lew, WV. Full military honors will be conducted by the United States Army and the Lewis County Honor Guard. On-line condolences and life stories in memory of Larry may be expressed at hardman-palettifuneralhome.com. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to WV Hospice 92 W. Main Street Buckhannon, WV 26201. Hardman-Paletti Funeral Home of Weston is honored and privileged to serve the family of Larry Raymond Montgomery. In the event that there is an error in the information presented, please contact the funeral home by  clicking here .  There are some errors in your submission. 