150 Best Romantic Comedies of All Time  < <  Rotten Tomatoes – Movie and TV News In Theaters Ford v Ferrari In Theaters Honey Boy On DVD  &  Streaming Blinded by the Light The Crown: Season 3 Hooking up? No problem.  Meet cute  at the book shop? Happens all the time. Finding the right one, falling in love, and getting married? What else are you gonna do? But compiling the ultimate list of the Freshest romantic comedies? It s complicated. For our list of the 150 best romantic comedies of all time, we searched high and low throughout movie history for every permutation of (hilarious) courtship and love captured on camera. We have the dazzling wit of the early studio system ( His Girl Friday ,  Bringing Up Baby ), the realistic cynicism of the  70s ( Annie Hall ,  The Goodbye Girl ), and the sweeping romance in-between ( The Apartment ,  Roman Holiday ). There was plenty to find in the John Hughes, teen-driven era ( Say Anything ,  Pretty in Pink ), and the bubbly  90s decade that followed ( Groundhog Day ,  Four Weddings and a Funeral ,  While You Were Sleeping ). Then we dabbled in 21st century raunch ( Knocked Up ) and twee ( (500) Days of Summer ), leading into our current era of new voices declaring that they too are entitled to their own messy relationship stories ( The Big Sick ,  Crazy Rich Asians ). The only stipulation for a rom-com to get a shot at love on this list was achieving a minimum of 20 reviews, before we sorted it all by Adjusted Tomatometer. And because we want you feeling red, and not seeing red, we want to prepare you for some of the relatively low placements for beloved classics like  Pretty Woman ,  Love Actually , and  Sleepless in Seattle . The Tomatometer, just like the heart, does not deceive. Ready to dive into the sea of love? Then continue on with open arms into Rotten Tomatoes  150 best romantic comedies of all time! Pages:  1  2 3   Next   100 Fresh Movies You Can Watch for Free Online Right Now  55 Best Christmas Movies of All Time   Classic Christmas Films  2019 Holiday TV Calendar: A Guide to Every Special, Episode, Marathon, and Movie of the Season  100 Best Musical Movies of All Time  The 50 Best Horror Movies of the 2010s – Best 2010s Horror Films  The 50 Best Sci-Fi Movies of the 2010s – Best Science-Fiction Films of the Decade Avatar  Was the Biggest Movie of All Time, so Where Are Its Fans? December 18, 2019  100 Best Musical Movies of All Time December 18, 2019 Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker  First Reviews: A Mixed Bag of Nostalgia, Jam-Packed with Story and Action December 18, 2019  Which Oft-Rebooted Story Yields the Highest Tomatometer Scores? We re Breaking Down the Ultimate Reboots December 18, 2019 