Laughter by Henri Bergson Essay - 2353 Words | Cram The definition of comedy has been contested for many years, as it is notoriously difficult to determine. Eric Weitz notes that “a general intention to elicit laughter or amusement remains the signature element of what we consider a comic text.”  Laughter is notably the reaction most associated with comedy. We often laugh when we find something humorous. However, the definition of humour is just as problematic as that of comedy, as “no two people will always agree on what constitutes ‘successful’ Hobbes, and Bergson covering everything from we laugh as a release mechanism to we laugh out of superiority.Sigmund Freud’s theory over humor serves the purpose to explain why we laugh at the times we do. In Freud’s theory he explains laughter as a release mechanism to let go of tension you may have. In his theory he describes how when a joke is being told tension builds up behind a cathexis and when the punchline is reached and the cathexis is lifted, the energy is released as laughter.  Freud also the issue of logical contradictions.” (Page 77).  The contradictions Feibleman mentions can be identified as major comedic tools both in Aristophanese's play, “The Clouds,” and in the short film, “A Dog's Life,” by Charlie Chaplain. Vicki Janik, Henri Bergson, and Leon Golden identify many of these tools through their published works, all of which can be applied to, “The Clouds,” and, “A Dog's Life.”One of the major ideas outlined in Viki Janik's essay, “Fools and Jesters in Literature, Art and History reduced laughter begin shaping literary work through its mode of narration, structure and characters. I would like to focus on the way laughter is incorporated into the narration of The Idiot and on what functionality it is aimed to serve. In his work on Rabelais and the history of laughter, Bakhtin presents a transition that laughter underwent in literary tradition from Renaissance period towards XVIII and XIX centuries. Notably, having occupied a significant part of the popular culture, laughter during Cram.com uses cookies to offer you the best service. By continuing, you are agreeing to receive cookies.  Learn more 