21 Best Game of Thrones Mugs You ll Absolutely Love (2019) | Heavy.com Game of Thrones  is the show everyone is talking about right now. Elevate your watercooler chats and watch parties with a cool mug inspired by the show. These Westeros-inspired options make a great addition to anyone s standard rotation, whether for coffee or other assorted spirits. Plus, a quality mug is always a fun and affordable gift idea.  Now let s dive right into this collection of the best  Game of Thrones  mugs out there: Our Review While a little pricey, this is truly a handsome and unusual mug. It s inspired by Viking drinking horns and no two are alike. Color variations include white, black, or even beige. The mug also features the Lannister Lion. Grab this gorgeous drinking horn that also features Tyrion s classic Season 6 line,  That s what I do. I drink and I know things. You ll definitely want to treat this one with the respect it deserves as it s not dishwasher safe and soaking in water too long could damage the print. This cute mug is an excellent choice for enjoying your Monday morning coffee while mulling over the previous night s episode. A cheeky ode to Arya Stark and her beloved  Needle , t he quote and design are specially imprinted, so you can throw it in the dishwasher or microwave without worry.  Plus, it s made in the U.S.A. by a veteran-owned small business. When you add hot liquid to it, the direwolf stays, but the black mug changes color and design. Bring a little  Game of Thrones  magic home with this sweet Stark-inspired pick. Made of high-quality ceramic, in its natural state it features the House of Stark direwolf. It changes to white and also reveals the show s  Winter Is Coming  catch-phrase and logo art. It also holds 11-ounces of your favorite beverage. You can remove the stainless steel insert, making this easy to clean and care for. So sinister and so very cool, this tankard mug has incredible hand-painted sword and dragon details fashioned out of quality composite resin. This gorgeous and hefty officially-licensed tankard features five arches, designed to evoke cathedral windows. Attention all Game of Thrones superfans! We ve found the most epic mug ever for you. Within the arches, you ll find both the sigil and motto of the five main houses of the series: the dragon of the Targaryen s, the kraken of the Greyjoy s, the stag of the Baratheon s, the dire wolf of the Starks and the lion of the Lannister s. Even the handle boasts gold chain resin details. While pricier, this pick also comes in a sturdy storage box, which elevates it collector s item territory. The text wraps around the entire mug and won t fade or chip like other decals or silkscreens. In fact, the company that makes it, CJ Artisans, uses a special extreme high heat and pressure to embed the ink directly onto the surface of the mug. Made from stainless steel and featuring the house Stark sigil, this mug is definitely made for drinking. It s heavy, handsome, and holds 16 ounces of your beverage of choice. The detail of the sigil on this one is really striking too, and the handle shape offers a more comfortable hold. It also comes in a full-color box, making it an excellent gift pick. Hailing the  Westeros Dream Team  combo of Stark and Targaryen, this is a mug that ll also make you chuckle. It s dishwasher and microwave safe and holds up to 11 ounces. Plus, the design is imprinted to last, so no matter what the outcome of the final season may be, you ll always be able to hold the partnership of Jon and Danys close. There have been several notable trials by combat in  Game of Thrones  history, and this mug celebrates them all. If you still can t get over those twists of fate, then here s a sly-messaged mug for you. The image is professionally printed so that it won t fade from dishwasher or microwave use. Plus, the image is also printed on both sides, so left-handed as well as right-handed drinkers never feel left out. While this wolf isn t technically a Stark direwolf, or even  Game of Thrones  official, it certainly evokes the mystery and magic of Westeros. The animal is fashioned in a 3D style to make it look like it s literally walking off of the mug and into your home. It s pretty cool stuff. The rest of the mug is impressive as well with continuous details that flow right into the elegant handle. This mug is perfect for any lady who embodies the character s bold nature, especially any fun, honest mom in your life. No matter who your favorite house or character is on the show, everyone can agree that Daenerys Targaryen, also known as the  Mother of Dragons  is awesome. A wonderfully sinister way to remind yourself of what s truly at stake in the  Game of Thrones  world while you enjoy your daily coffee. This officially licensed show merchandise features a 360-degree wrapped image of the Night King on one side and the phrase  Winter is here  on the other. This sleek mug will fit a hefty 17 ounces of your daily coffee or even favorite evening beverage. Is your favorite  Game of Thrones  character from the House of Lannister? Then here s a great mug for you. It s also available with the  Targaryen dragon  if that house is more your speed. This dark mug is a perfect representation of the house that rules over the Iron Islands. It s made of quality black ceramic and features the House of Greyjoy kraken with their motto,  We do not sow. It fits about 10 ounces and is a great go-to mug for any Game of Thrones fans looking to collect a piece of each house. Pop this baby in the freezer to enjoy a cold one in a frosty, Jon Snow worthy mug come show time. Here s a nice solid glass beer mug option for you. It features the Stark direwolf as well as the show s catchphrase,  Winter Is Coming.  This glass mug is sturdy and dishwasher safe. Plus, the etched design is permanent and won t fade over time. It s handmade in New Jersey from stoneware clay and kiln fired several times over for lasting durability. While Drogo and Daenerys didn t have the most romantic beginnings, their relationship was really the impetus for the Mother of Dragon to come forth. If you still stan for the couple or know someone who does, then grab this unique mug set. Each mug is safe for the dishwasher or microwave and also holds 16 ounces of liquid. Need to complete your collection of pieces each of the  Game of Thrones  houses? Here s a simple, yet perfect, option for you. Oh, House Martell. With the deaths of the older Sand Snakes and Ellaria s imprisonment, its future is uncertain, to say the least. But you can show your support and your faith in the show s incessant surprises with this classic black mug that features the Martell house s sigil and house words,  Unbowed, Unbent, Unbroken. This officially-licensed tankard features a special King of the North Stark design and comes with a removable stainless steel insert. From top to bottom and everywhere in between, this  Game of Thrones  mug is incredible and well deserving of being displayed in your home or office. This mug comes in a gift-ready box making it the perfect host or hostess gift for any friend that s agreed to host your official Season 8 watch parties. It s a fact: There are five kings, yet only one Iron Throne. Who will emerge with the crown?  This officially-licensed mug begs the question along with the rest of us. This pick is dishwasher and microwave safe and is also nicely oversized, fitting up to 20 ounces of fluid. This mug boasts a little modern-day magic in the form of a color changing design. When the mug is cold its color is black and the image is barely visible. Then when you fill it with a hot beverage the color becomes lighter and the printed Westeros map image gradually appears. It s pretty nifty and a nice token of the show. One word of caution to keep in mind though is that this mug is not dishwasher safe. See Also: Disclaimer: Heavy Inc. is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program and other affiliate advertising programs and may receive a commission if you purchase a product via a link on this page.  Stay Connected 