Fenton lawn services and landscaping bids approved | News for Fenton, Linden, Holly MI | tctimes.com Cloudy skies early, followed by partial clearing. High 42F. Winds SSW at 10 to 20 mph.. Cloudy. Low 34F. Winds SW at 5 to 10 mph.  Updated: November 9, 2019 @ 12:15 am Associate Editor When things finally “go green,” the city of Fenton is going to be ready. On Monday, April 9, the City Council voted 6-1 to approve two new contracts for 2018-2020 landscaping and lawn maintenance services. Councilwoman Cherie Smith cast the dissenting vote. According to Michael Hart, assistant city manager and Downtown Development Authority (DDA) executive director, four bids were accepted from companies interested in providing the lawn and landscaping services on city and DDA properties. “… with consideration given to longevity, I believe the city and DDA should continue with our past contractor CJ Callaghan  &  Sons,” said Hart in a memo to City Manager Lynn Markland. “They have provided lawn care services to the city for 14-plus years and, in my hands-on experience working with them, they have addressed any and all issues that have arisen during the last year of their three-year lawn care contract with the city and DDA. Smith, who is the council liaison member on the Oakwood Cemetery Board, said she voted “no” based on past performance by CJ Callahan  &  Sons. “That and the dissatisfaction of the Cemetery Board,” she said. “We went with a different contractor that we’re much more satisfied with.” For the years 2018, 2019 and 2020, CJ Callaghan will be paid $52,580 for lawn care in the city, and $7,150 for lawn care in the DDA District, for a total of $59,730 each year. For landscaping work, CJ Callaghan will be paid $9,720 for work in the city and $2,100 for services in the DDA District. The prices will remain the same for each of the three years for a total of $11,820 for 2018-2020. Thank you for visiting  myfenton.com , your new daily Tri-County Times news source. 5  FREE ARTICLES REMAINING  Click here for  details Associate Editor Log In Keep it Clean.  Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd,racist or sexually-oriented language. PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK. Don ' t Threaten.  Threats of harming anotherperson will not be tolerated. Be Truthful.  Don ' t knowingly lie about anyoneor anything. Be Nice.  No racism, sexism or any sort of -ismthat is degrading to another person. Be Proactive.  Use the  ' Report '  link oneach comment to let us know of abusive posts. Share with Us.  We ' d love to hear eyewitnessaccounts, the history behind an article. 