Halong Cruises - 73 Cruise itineraries on Halong Bay Finder is Searching to find the best cruise prices. View My wishlist test it Prices from: US$185 / person Prices from  $450.00  per Cabin Price per cabin  (1 Cabin, Double occupancy) Price / Dbl Cabin Max adults: 2 Max children: 1 (up to 12 years of age) Max adults: 2 Max children: 1 (up to 12 years of age) Max adults: 3 Max children: 1 (up to 12 years of age) Max adults: 4 Max children: 2 (up to 12 years of age) Max adults: 4 Max children: 2 (up to 12 years of age) Max adults: 4 Max children: 2 (up to 12 years of age) Notes: Prices include all meals onboard, 5% servicecharge and 10% VAT. Prices from: US$187 / person • Taxes  &  Service Charges • Welcome Cocktail • Cruise Itinerary and Program • Entrance and Sightseeing Fees • In-house English-speaking Tour Guide • Luxury Cabins and Suites with A/C • Luxury en-suite Bathroom • Meals as stated in cruise program • Tai Chi Session • Cooking Class • On-board Insurance • Transfer from Hanoi to Halong Bay and back • Kayaking Services • Airfares, and Hotel Accommodation • Visa to Vietnam • Beauty Spa Services and Massage • Beverages and Tobacco • Tips and other Personal Expenses • All other services not clearly mentioned above • Surcharge for New Year, Christmas Prices from  $399.00  per Cabin Price per cabin  (1 Cabin, Double occupancy) Price / Dbl Cabin Max adults: 2 Max children: 1 (up to 12 years of age) Max adults: 2 Max children: 1 (up to 12 years of age) Max adults: 2 Max children: 1 (up to 12 years of age) Max adults: 2 Max children: 1 (up to 12 years of age) Notes: Prices include all meals onboard, 5% servicecharge and 10% VAT. Prices from: US$167 / person • Taxes  &  Service Charges • Welcome Cocktail • Cruise Itinerary and Program • Entrance and Sightseeing Fees • In-house English-speaking Tour Guide • Luxury Cabins and Suites with A/C • Luxury en-suite Bathroom • Meals as stated in cruise program • Tai Chi Session • Cooking Class • On-board Insurance • Transfer from Hanoi to Halong Bay and back • Kayaking Services • Airfares, and Hotel Accommodation • Visa to Vietnam • Beauty Spa Services and Massage • Beverages and Tobacco • Tips and other Personal Expenses • All other services not clearly mentioned above • Surcharge for New Year, Christmas Prices from  $360.00  per Cabin Price per cabin  (1 Cabin, Double occupancy) Price / Dbl Cabin Max adults: 2 Max children: 1 (up to 12 years of age) Max adults: 2 Max children: 1 (up to 12 years of age) Max adults: 2 Max children: 1 (up to 12 years of age) Notes: Prices include all meals onboard, 5% servicecharge and 10% VAT. Prices from: US$155 / person - Cruise itinerary and program - Entrance and sightseeing fees - Kayaking - Cabins and suites with A/C and en-suite bathroom - 1 Breakfast / 1 Lunch + 1 Brunch / 1 Dinner (with 2 days program) - 2 Breakfasts / 2 Lunches + 1 Brunch / 2 Dinners (with 3 days program) - Cooking class - Tai Chi session - Taxes and service charges - Airfares - Transfer round trip (on request) - Beauty spa services and massage - Beverages and tobacco. - Tips and other personal expense. - All other services not mentioned above Prices from  $360.00  per Cabin Price per cabin  (1 Cabin, Double occupancy) Price / Dbl Cabin Max adults: 2 Max children: 1 (up to 12 years of age) Max adults: 2 Max children: 1 (up to 12 years of age) Max adults: 3 Max children: 1 (up to 12 years of age) Max adults: 4 Max children: 1 (up to 12 years of age) Max adults: 2 Max children: 1 (up to 12 years of age) Notes: Prices include all meals onboard, 5% servicecharge and 10% VAT. Prices from: US$122 / person • VAT • English speaking tour guide on boat • Luxury Cruise through Halong bay (apply for 2 days 1 night) • All meals aboard as mentioned in the itineraries (02 buffet lunches, 01 BBQ dinner, 01 breakfast) for 2 days 1 night •  Kayaking, Cooking class, Tai chi exercise, Bamboo boat, Swimming (if the weather permits), Movies, Squid fishing, Music entertainment • Sightseeing entrance fees • Deluxe cabin with A/C • Welcome drink, cold handkerchief, complimentary two bottle of mineral water in each cabin • Transfer round trip (on request) • Airfare, VISA arrangement • Beauty Spa Services  &  Massage • Beverages • Tips  &  Others Personal Expenses • All other services not clearly mentioned in Inclusions Prices from  $254.00  per Cabin Price per cabin  (1 Cabin, Double occupancy) Price / Dbl Cabin Max adults: 2 Max children: 1 (up to 12 years of age) Max adults: 3 Max children: 1 (up to 12 years of age) Max adults: 4 Max children: 1 (up to 12 years of age) Max adults: 2 Max children: 1 (up to 12 years of age) Notes: Prices include all meals onboard, 5% servicecharge and 10% VAT. Prices from: US$320 / person · Welcome drink · Tender/speedboat transfer · Experiences Director on board · Tour guide service for unlimited exploration · 24-hour room service with no additional charges. · Mini-bar replenished daily with soft drinks, beer and bottled water. · Fruits, snack  &  nuts · Unlimited drinks: water, tea and coffee, house wine, local beer, fruit juices, soft drink, cocktail, mock tail. · Tissues and fresh seasonal fruits · Fine meals on board · 2D1N Cruise: 01lunch,01dinner,01breakfast and 1 Brunch · Live music, cinema, bars  &  art gallery · Cookery demonstration · Tai chi/vovinam and unlimited use of massage, sauna  &  gym · Unlimited beach activities such as kayaking, squid fishing. · Upgrade to higher category accommodation or transportation (subject to availability). · Fun club for kids  &  library · All rooms with private balcony  &  ocean view · Buttler service · High speed wifi · Free bank charges if paying by credit card. · All sightseeing tickets · Service charges and government tax. • Airfares, car transfers and hotels • Beverages, tips and personal expenses • All other services not clearly mentioned above Prices from  $820.00  per Cabin Price per cabin  (1 Cabin, Double occupancy) Price / Dbl Cabin Max adults: 2 Max children: 1 (up to 12 years of age) Max adults: 2 Max children: 1 (up to 12 years of age) Max adults: 2 Max children: 1 (up to 12 years of age) Notes: Prices include all meals onboard, 5% servicecharge and 10% VAT. Prices from: US$133 / person • Professional English Speaking Guide on board. • Entrance fees. • All meals on board. • Accommodation in air-conditioned cabin. • Kayaking. • Welcome drinks, cold handkerchief. • Tai Chi class. • Cooking class. • Internet on board. • Insurance. • Baby cot on request. • Airfares, transfers to and from Halong Bay. • Foot and body massage. • Other beverages, tips and personal expenses. • Surcharge for Gala Dinner on the New Year's Eve (31 Dec 2019). • All other services not clearly mentioned in the inclusions. Prices from  $280.00  per Cabin Price per cabin  (1 Cabin, Double occupancy) Price / Dbl Cabin Max adults: 2 Max children: 1 (up to 12 years of age) Max adults: 2 Max children: 1 (up to 12 years of age) Notes: Prices include all meals onboard, 5% servicecharge and 10% VAT. Prices from: US$630 / person - Luxury accommodation with A/C, hot shower, mini bar - English speaking guide on board - All meals per program - Sunrise Tai Chi Class - Kayaking, All entrance and visiting fees - Tax and Services charges - Personal travel insurance - Transfer round trip (on request) - Tips and other Personal Expenses - All other services not clearly mentioned above Prices from  $435.00  per Cabin Price per cabin  (1 Cabin, Double occupancy) Price / Dbl Cabin Max adults: 2 Max children: 1 (up to 12 years of age) Max adults: 2 Max children: 1 (up to 12 years of age) Notes: Prices include all meals onboard, 5% servicecharge and 10% VAT. Prices from: US$138 / person • Waiting room at Hon Gai Tourist Wharf • Meals as mentioned in itinerary • Accommodation on board (twin/ double basis) • English speaking tour guide • Tai Chi exercise • Cooking class • Internet on boat (Table computer with 3G connection) • Entrance fees •  Kyaking, Rowing boat trip with local rower • Welcome drink • Complimentary a bottle water/ person in bus and in room • Drinks • Transfer round trip (on request) • Gratuities • Personal expenses • Peak season surcharge: $15/person for stay on 24 / 31 December 2018 Prices from  $295.00  per Cabin Price per cabin  (1 Cabin, Double occupancy) Price / Dbl Cabin Max adults: 2 Max children: 1 (up to 12 years of age) Max adults: 2 Max children: 1 (up to 12 years of age) Max adults: 2 Max children: 1 (up to 12 years of age) Max adults: 3 Max children: 1 (up to 12 years of age) Notes: Prices include all meals onboard, 5% servicecharge and 10% VAT. Prices from: US$476 / person - Luxury accommodation with A/C, hot shower, mini bar - Boat trip  &  specified Program - English speaking guide on board - Cooking demonstration on board - All meals per program - Sunrise Tai Chi Class - All entrance and visiting fees - Tax and Services charges. - Personal travel insurance - Beverages, tips - Other Personal Expenses. - Transfer round trip (on request) Prices from  $1145.00  per Cabin Price per cabin  (1 Cabin, Double occupancy) Price / Dbl Cabin Max adults: 2 Max children: 1 (up to 12 years of age) Max adults: 2 Max children: 1 (up to 12 years of age) Notes: Prices include all meals onboard, 5% servicecharge and 10% VAT. Load more results  Please note that all of our cruises have daily departure for both 2 day and 3 day itinerary.Cabin rate is for maximumof 2 adults and 1 child under 5 year old. Third person surcharge applies and extra bed orcrib is subject toavailability. All taxes and service charges are included in the listed price (quoted inUSD). Cruise pricemay change based on availability or occasional last minute promotion. All photos andspecifications presentedon our website are provided solely by the cruise. Please refer to our terms and conditionsfor further information. Cabin 1 Unit 507, International Centre, 17 Ngo Quyen St., Hoan Kiem Dist, Hanoi And receive 10% off your second order Halong Cruises Cabin size: Bed size: Max People: This LOW price cannot be public on our website. Please fill out the form below toreceive the deal details. 