Incredibles 2 runtime: How long is Incredibles 2 and can you take small children to see it | Films | Entertainment | Express.co.uk Don ' t have an account?  Register Register with email Already have an account?  Sign in By registering I understand and agree to the  Terms of use & Privacy policy By registering I understand and agree to the  Terms of use & Privacy policy Please provide your site password to link to your existing account or  click here  to create a new account Please enter your email address to reset your password Sign in with a different account The email should arrive straight away, it may be in your spam. The link will expire after 24 hours.  We value your privacy   We and our partners use technologies, such as cookies, and process personal data, such as IP addresses and cookie identifiers, to personalise ads and content based on your interests, measure the performance of ads and content, and derive insights about the audiences who saw ads and content. Click below to consent to the use of this technology and the processing of your personal data for these purposes. You can change your mind and change your consent choices at any time by returning to this site.   Powered by  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Incredibles 2 is incredibly long. The sequel to Pixar's 2004 smash animated hit finally landed in cinemas 14 years after the first Incredibles Clearly, Incredibles fans are comfortable with waiting. Incredibles 2 clocks in at two hours and five minutes, which makes it a full minute longer than Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom. INCREDIBLES 2 TRAILER: HOW TO WATCH INCREDIBLES 2 TRAILER ONLINE For a family with small kids, that might be a long time to get them to sit still. Luckily, Incredibles 2 is getting positive reviews from critics and keeping your kids in their seats shouldn't be too hard. The answer might not be as straightforward as you think. Yes, children - even small ones - will delight at seeing their favourite superheroes on the big screen. INCREDIBLES 2 RELEASE: WHEN DOES INCREDIBLES 2 COME OUT IN THE UK? WHEN IS IT IN CINEMAS? Incredibles 2 is rated PG for mild bad language and violence according to the British Board of Film Classification, which means it's suitable for all audiences. However, Incredibles 2 is slightly darker than its predecessor. Children who connect much closer to animated characters (as children often do) may be frightened by the intensity of Incredibles 2. Incredibles 2 stars Samuel L Jackson reprising his role as Frozone, and Jackson begins to utter the phrase: "What the f..." INCREDIBLES 2: RELEASE DATE, TRAILER AND WHO IS JOINING THE CAST OF THE SEQUEL He doesn't finish the sentence, but for parents who have concerns about swear words around their children, they may want to cover their kids' ears. Educationally, it may be good for kids to see a superhero movie that blatantly flips gender roles, and isn't subtle about it like Incredibles 2. Common Sense Media, an American parent driven website for movie reviews, generally gives it favourable ratings for kids - so Incredibles 2 be a safe bet for the whole family. Incredibles 2 stars Holly Hunter, Craig T. Nelson, Samuel L Jackson, and is directed by Brad Bird. Incredibles 2 is in UK Cinemas Friday, July 13, 2018. Saturday, 14th December 2019  See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper,order back issues and use the historic Daily Expressnewspaper archive. 