Take 5: We pick Cody Carson of Set It Off ' s five best YouTube covers Earlier today we posted about Equal Vision Records band Set It Off s new  music video . What you may not know is starting way back in 2008, Set It Off s lead singer, Cody Carson, began making videos of himself covering pop songs. Even though the number of his videos has decreased over the years, there s still more than enough to create a Top 5 list. So let s begin: This video was posted almost four years ago and is the first professionally done cover video Carson did.  Someone Like You  is actually edited by the same person who directed Set It Off s latest music video. Carson sings the song by a Christmas tree, making it feel extra-special. Cody Carson 147K subscribers Subscribe Adele - Someone Like You [COVER] Info Shopping Tap to unmute If playback doesn ' t begin shortly, try restarting your device. More videos Your browser does not currently recognize any of the video formats available.  Click here to visit our frequently asked questions about HTML5 video. More videos on YouTube Share Include playlist An error occurred while retrieving sharing information. Please try again later. Watch later Share Copy link An error occurred. Try watching this video on www.youtube.com , or enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser. This video is mostly Carson singing into a microphone looking up or standing in front of a window. There s not much you can really do with a song that s so repetitive, but Carson does what he can and the video has more than 200,000 views. I d be lying if I said I haven t watched this video more than a dozen times since it came out over two years ago. It s an actual music video with a whole backstory and a girl (Victoria Baxter) acting alongside Carson. Also, can we talk about how he s dressed? He has grown up well since the days of the  random headband . Freddy Marschall, who edited  Someone Like You,  directed this video as well. There s so much emotion in this video that Swift should be jealous. It s so good. P.S.: Hand-walking motions are a must-have. But how can anything beat that cover?  If you re asking yourself this question, please stand by, there is a reasoning behind my madness. Talk Dirty  has more than a million views and is Carson s most recent cover video (even though it was posted more than a year ago). This is probably my favorite cover of his and honestly, one of the most well-filmed videos for his covers (thank you again, Marschall). If you recall from Carson s  Call Me Maybe  video, he was on by a couch and standing in front of a window. He does the same thing here, even though there s a sheet over the couch. I have no idea if it s the same location but I find it very interesting. Also, someone is in love with their black blazer because he wore it in the  Call Me Maybe  video and in this one. Speaking of fashion, even the nerd outfit is excellent—and Carson surprises everyone by playing the saxophone not only in his normal attire, but also in his nerd outfit. Cody Carson 147K subscribers Subscribe Jason Derulo - Talk Dirty [COVER] Info Shopping Tap to unmute If playback doesn ' t begin shortly, try restarting your device. More videos Your browser does not currently recognize any of the video formats available.  Click here to visit our frequently asked questions about HTML5 video. More videos on YouTube Share Include playlist An error occurred while retrieving sharing information. Please try again later. Watch later Share Copy link An error occurred. Try watching this video on www.youtube.com , or enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser. But wait, how can anything beat that video? It s so great. Did you mess up the list?  Probably, but keep scrolling. You re probably thinking this is the most random video out of Carson s covers. It s more than seven years old, he looks like a child, it s before he got his lip pierced and the quality is terrible. All valid points, but this is why I strongly believe this cover is No. 1: He actually got to sing this song with All Time Low after covering it. Here s the timeline: Carson posted this cover in January of 2008. He then posted a  video  asking Alex Gaskarth if he could sing  Coffee Shop Soundtrack  with them in Cleveland. Gaskarth responded and Carson posted a  video  freaking out about it in April. In May, Carson lived his dream and  sang onstage  with All Time Low. Another reason why this cover is No. 1 is the fact that Set It Off is currently on  tour  with All Time Low which has made this story come full circle. Cody Carson 147K subscribers Subscribe All Time Low - Coffee Shop Soundtrack [COVER] Info Shopping Tap to unmute If playback doesn ' t begin shortly, try restarting your device. More videos Your browser does not currently recognize any of the video formats available.  Click here to visit our frequently asked questions about HTML5 video. More videos on YouTube Share Include playlist An error occurred while retrieving sharing information. Please try again later. Watch later Share Copy link An error occurred. Try watching this video on www.youtube.com , or enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser. 