Visual aberrations in a multifocal intraocular lens with injection-related scratches - Journal of Cataract  &  Refractive Surgery Plum Print visual indicator of research metrics Mendeley Facebook Twitter Email AddThis Figure 1 Clinical photograph taken intraoperatively prior to making the clear corneal incision. Multiple scratches and defects can be seen on the IOL, the largest of which are located on the central portion of the optic. Figure 2 Light photomicrographs of the explanted PC IOL after it was rinsed with distilled water.  A : Multiple scratches on the anterior surface of the IOL optic. The anterior apodized diffractive rings can also be seen (original magnification ×20).  B : Large central scratches on the anterior optic surface (original magnification ×200).  C : One of the haptics showing surface scratches (original magnification ×100).  D : The opposite haptic, which was generally unremarkable (original magnification ×100). Figure 3 Scheimpflug photography of the explanted IOL.  A : Photograph showing the significant light scattering of 227 CCT units at the area of the large central scratches on the anterior optic surface of the IOL.  B : Same photograph demonstrating the light scattering measurements performed in areas of the anterior surface (28 CCT units) and the posterior surface (18 CCT units) without scratches. Figure 4 The MTF curves for the explanted IOL ( blue lines ) and the control IOL ( red lines ) obtained at a single spatial frequency (50 cycles/mm) and variable object distance ( left side : MTF through focus) and for the distance focus ( right side ). Figure 5 Badal images with explanted and control IOLs obtained with different pupillary apertures. We describe the case of a 70-year-old woman who had phacoemulsification and implantation of a single-piece hydrophobic acrylic multifocal intraocular lens (IOL). Following surgery, the patient experienced blurring, positive dysphotopsia, impaired night vision, and glare. After 2 years, optic damage likely related to the IOL injection procedure was noted. The IOL was successfully exchanged. The uncorrected distance visual acuity was 20/20, and the patient reported no further visual aberrations. Gross and microscopic examination revealed large linear scratches on the central part of the optic. Scheimpflug photography with densitometry analysis of the area of the anterior scratches revealed extremely high levels of surface backlight scattering (227 computer-compatible tape units). Modulation transfer function and Badal images of the explanted IOL and of a control IOL did not differ significantly. This report suggests that severe defects/damage such as those described would likely be clinically significant in IOLs with specialized optics and warrant immediate removal/exchange of a damaged multifocal IOL. No author has a financial or proprietary interest in any material or method mentioned. Supported in part by an unrestricted grant from Research to Prevent Blindness, Inc., New York, New York, to the Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah, USA. No data is available Click to get updates and verify authenticity. 