Is it all over? Just how much trouble is MIC ' s Alex Mytton in now Nicola has seen those sneaky texts? - BT So is Alex Mytton a cheater? Or are all those text exchanges with Jess Woodley just a bit of harmless flirting? Nicola Hughes wanted to get the records straight as she met her beau for coffee in the latest episode of E4 s Made In Chelsea. Their conversation began with a rather harmless exchange where Alex admitted to being a bad boyfriend by failing to keep in touch with Nicola during his Ibiza getaway.  Nicola seemed to be in a good mood (at least at the start) which made Alex think he could get away with asking his girlfriend to help with laundry. Really??? NICOLA DO NOT TO MYTTON ' S WASHING you are worth more than Daz sachets  #MadeInChelsea  ES (@sanfransisk0)  November 23, 2015 Although Alex appeared confused at times, as if he wasn t really understanding what Nicola is saying I ' m a few minutes behind but I ' m loving Mytton not understanding his own girlfriend ' s accent.  #madeinchelsea  Jen Halliday (@jenidreadful)  November 23, 2015 I don ' t think even Alex can understand that accent  #MadeInChelsea  kylie (@kylie_pearce)  November 23, 2015 Is it the accent? Or could be Alex trying to cover his alleged indiscretions? Hundred percent Mytton has cheated on Nicola!  #MadeInChelsea  ✨ (@_sxnya)  November 23, 2015 Mytton is lying  #MadeInChelsea  Miss James (@lexisjames)  November 23, 2015 Anyway, long story short, things got heated when the Irish beauty asked Alex to show his text exchanges with Jess. Cue squirming, uncomfortable Alex and an excuse about  deleted  texts. And Mytton puts his foot in it again!why would you delete the texts though! So much love for my Irish blonde  @NicolaMHughes #MadeInChelsea  Abbey Prior (@abbeyyprior)  November 23, 2015 don ' t mind me, just going through all my entirely innocent texts and deleting them  #madeinchelsea  Rick Edwards (@rickedwards1)  November 23, 2015 Surely, Alex is lying? Mytton is lying  #MadeInChelsea  Miss James (@lexisjames)  November 23, 2015 Mytton when are you guna learn?!?!  #mic #MadeInChelsea  Holly B (@hollybarra85)  November 23, 2015 A fuming Nicola meets Jess and asks her to show the phone messages that Alex supposedly deleted. One message said:  Like you will probably end up together but have a break. Seriously, does Jess even KNOW about the girl code? #MadeInChelsea  Jess needs to learn girl code, protecting Alex my backside  #donttrustherasfarasicouldthrowher  ✋🏽  Kayleigh Wilson (@kaynicwil)  November 23, 2015 Don ' t be a home wrecker Jess 👊🏻  #MadeInChelsea  Sarah Bell (@sazzlerb)  November 23, 2015 And who does Alex turned to in troubled times? None other than Spenny, aka, Spencer Matthews.  And this is what Spencer had to say when Alex confessed to exchanging texts with Jess. “I used to do that all the time.” Not sure that’s going to help Mytton’s case  #MadeInChelsea  Made in Chelsea (@E4Chelsea)  November 23, 2015 Mytton asking Spencer for relationship advice?! His success in that dept can ' t be rivalled  #MadeInChelsea  Jo (@amadoldbat)  November 23, 2015 Later Nicola told Alex exactly what she thought of him after storming off following a furious row. Wow. It ' s all on for Nicola vs Mytton. Who will win?  #mic #madeinchelsea  Glitterball Mag (@GlitterballMag)  November 23, 2015 Nicola giving Alex a good roasting, go on girl!! 👏  #MadeInChelsea #mic  Laura McNally (@MizzGlitz1990)  November 23, 2015 Alex and Nicola s relationship might be fizzling out but on the brighter side, it seems JP and Binky Felstead are finally embracing coupledom officially after weeks of secret rendezvous.  YES HE DID!!!!!!!! ❤️  #MadeInChelsea pic.twitter.com/W1uUYfam2J  Made in Chelsea (@E4Chelsea)  November 23, 2015 Finally a fairy tale ending  @BinkyFelstead @Josh__JP !!!!!! 😍😍😍😍😍💖💖💖💖💖💖💖 ahhhhh  Stephanie Pratt (@stephaniepratt)  November 23, 2015 Woo hoo! This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Man who attacked Arndale Centre shoppers with a knife arrested on suspicion of terrorism say Greater Manchester Police. Prime Minister Boris Johnson has said he is  " shocked "  by the Manchester Arndale attack. The daughter of jailed British-Iranian woman Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe has been reunited with her father in London. The winner of the 2019 Nobel Peace Prize has been announced, with the honour going to Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed Five people were taken to hospital with stab injuries following the attack at the Arndale Centre in Manchester at around 11.15am on Friday. UFC fighter Conor McGregor has been remanded on continuing bail after he appeared in court over an alleged incident in a pub in Dublin.The case was adjourned until November 1. A man in his 40s has been arrested on suspicion of serious assault after several people were stabbed at the Arndale shopping centre in Manchester, Greater Manchester Police said. Speaking on Brexit, European Council President Donald Tusk said he had  " received promising signals "  from Irish Prime Minister Leo Varadkar that a Brexit deal is still possible and he has extended a deadline to continue talks with the United Kingdom. The five-year-old daughter of a British-Iranian woman jailed in Iran has returned home to the UK after more than three years living in the Middle East. US President Donald Trump was defiant in the face of an impeachment probe on Thursday. Britain is set to leave the European Union on October 31 2019. Here we take a look at the latest figures behind Brexit. The Metropolitan Police confirm that they have now made more than 1000 arrests, policing the Extinction Rebellion protests in central London and City Airport. Suspended Labour MP Chris Williamson ' s statement after losing his High Court bid to be reinstated to the party after he was suspended over allegations of anti-Semitism. Irish premier Leo Varadkar said that he feels it is possible to have a deal done by the end of October following Brexit talks with Boris Johnson on Thursday. RSPCA officers remove a fox from the middle of an old tyre after receiving a call from a member of the public. Boris Johnson and Irish premier Leo Varadkar have said they can  " see a pathway "  to a possible Brexit deal. Adventurer Bear Grylls has dedicated his OBE to the  " amazing unsung scouting volunteers "  in the country. Two mortars fired from Syria have landed in a Turkish town along the border, wounding at least two people. Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn gives a speech setting out the policy priorities of a Labour government at Franklin ' s Gardens in Northampton. Paralympian James Brown is seen lying top of a British Airways plane at City Airport, London, as environment protests continue. Hundreds of Extinction Rebellion activists have attempted to shut down a London airport by blocking the main entrance for passengers. The Bank of England unveil the new £20 note featuring the artist JMW Turner which will be issued for the first time in February 2020. The new note will be the first to feature the signature of Sarah John, the Bank ' s Chief Cashier. The Duke of Sussex and Ed Sheeran release a video to raise awareness for World Mental Health Day. Britain is set to leave the European Union on October 31 2019. Here we take a look at the latest figures behind Brexit. Donald Trump has said wrong-way driving “happens” after being asked by Boris Johnson to reconsider granting immunity to an American woman suspected of being involved in the death of Harry Dunn. Bessie, a three-year-old Jack Russell, is joining the fight to help students with their mental health. Two men have died in a fire at a working men ' s club in Lancashire, police said. The family of Harry Dunn have said a meeting with Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab over the death of their son felt like a  " publicity stunt " .  Cleveland Police and Crime Commissioner Barry Coppinger talks about a scheme to give 15 Middlesbrough addicts medical grade heroin. The European Union ' s chief Brexit negotiator said on Wednesday the bloc would remain  " calm, vigilant, respectful and constructive "  ahead of crucial Brexit negotiations on Thursday. Several shots have been fired in the eastern German city of Halle, leaving two people dead, police said. Joey Barton leaves Barnsley Magistrates '  Court, where he faced a charge of allegedly attacking a rival manager.  Barton, 37, pleaded not guilty to causing actual bodily harm to then Barnsley manager Daniel Stendel in April 2019. Members of the public gather as the coffin of former RAF serviceman Oswald Dixon, 100, arrives at Agecroft Crematorium, Swinton. A look at the timing and route of super Typhoon Hagibis as it threatens to disrupt Japan ' s Rugby World Cup and F1 schedule. The Duke and Duchess of Sussex have posted a video, trailing a collaboration between Harry and singer Ed Sheeran. With John Bercow set to stand down as Commons Speaker on October 31, we look at eight candidates to replace him. Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn told media he believes Prime Minister Boris Johnson is heading for a no-deal Brexit on a visit to Southampton. Britain is set to leave the European Union on October 31 2019. Here we take a look at the latest figures behind Brexit. An Ohio homeowner is busy cleaning up after a large goat broke into her home by ramming through a sliding glass door and then settling down for a nap in a bathroom. One UK ticket-holder has won the £170 million EuroMillions jackpot to become the country ' s biggest ever winner. Take a look at what actually happens when you win the lottery. Britain ' s biggest ever drug smuggling gang has been smashed after billions of pounds worth of narcotics were brought into the UK, the National Crime Agency believes. As Extinction Rebellion commences a fortnight of climate protests in the UK, we take a look at teenage climate activist Greta Thunberg. Boris Johnson meets the president of the European Parliament David Sassoli at 10 Downing Street. Heavy rain falls on Extinction Rebellion protesters and their tents in Trafalgar Square, London.The Metropolitan Police arrested 152 people on Tuesday. Professor Didier Queloz of Cambridge University, who has jointly been awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics, says he strongly believes that alien life exists. Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster Michael Gove gives a statement to the House of Commons regarding the government ' s preparations for a potential no-deal Brexit scenario.  Hundreds of Extinction Rebellion protesters who spent a first night camped out in Westminster to draw attention to climate change have been ordered by police to move on or face arrest. A look at how the Government and opposition benches stand as Heidi Allen joins the Liberal Democrats. Emily Eccles, 15, was left with just one centimetre of skin keeping her jaw attached to the rest of her head after she smashed into a gatepost while out riding near Baslow in Derbyshire, in August. Britain is set to leave the European Union on October 31 2019. Here we take a look at the latest figures behind Brexit. US President Donald Trump has defended his decision to abandon Kurdish fighters in Syria as fulfilling a campaign promise to withdraw from  " endless war "  in the Middle East. Celebrities including actor Sir Mark Rylance joined the Extinction Rebellion protests as groups of demonstrators shut down roads around Parliament and Whitehall in London. Former Conservative MP Heidi Allen has joined the Liberal Democrats, the party has said. Pizza Express has hired financial advisers ahead of crunch talks with creditors over the restaurant group ' s soaring debts. Boris Johnson has urged the US to reconsider its decision to give immunity to a diplomat ' s wife wanted by British police over a road crash that killed a teenager. Detectives investigating the killings of three men in Colchester believe that a  " sharp, pointed weapon "  was used. Forensic officers are inspecting drains in the area. Boris Johnson refuses to answer three questions about Jennifer Arcuri on a trip to Watford Hospital. Boris Johnson has urged the US to reconsider its decision to give immunity to a diplomat ' s wife wanted by British police over a road crash that killed a teenager. *No access outside UK/US*The US businesswoman at the centre of a storm over her links to Boris Johnson insisted she  " never, ever "  received favouritism, but refused to say whether they had an affair. Protesters are detained and removed from outside the Horse Guards Parade in London as Extinction Rebellion begins two weeks of planned protests in the capital.  The Dukes and Duchesses of Cambridge and Sussex will voice a new mental health campaign during a  " national takeover "  that will be simultaneously broadcast to millions of television viewers. Britain is set to leave the European Union on October 31 2019. Here we take a look at the latest figures behind Brexit. Sir David Attenborough, president emeritus of The Wildlife Trusts, has made a short film with the charity to show how devastating wildlife declines could be prevented.  Ginger Baker has died aged 80. The jazz and blues drummer co-founded the rock band Cream with Eric Clapton and Jack Bruce.  Britain is set to leave the European Union on October 31 2019. Here we take a look at the latest figures behind Brexit. Jeremy Corbyn has vowed to restore  " dignity to people ' s lives "  by scrapping Universal Credit, during a pre-election rally in Newcastle, which roused his loyal supporters. An estimated 100,000 people take part in a pro-Scottish independence march through the streets of Edinburgh.   Anti-government protests have continued in Hong Kong after authorities shut down subway services and criminalised the wearing of face masks at rallies. Britain is set to leave the European Union on October 31 2019. Here we take a look at the latest figures behind Brexit. A British-Australian academic is still being held in Iran while another British-Australian woman and her Australian boyfriend have been released from detention, an official has said. It has been 20 years since the Paddington railway disaster. The accident claimed the lives of 31 people and injured 220. Extinction Rebellion protesters project images onto the side of the Tate Modern art gallery in London, advertising two weeks of non-violent protest in the capital from October 7. A European Commission spokesman said in a statement:  " Michel Barnier debriefed COREPER (The Permanent Representatives Committee) yesterday, where member states agreed that the UK proposals do not provide a basis for concluding an agreement. " The Duke of Sussex has started legal proceedings against the publishers of the Sun and the Daily Mirror newspapers over alleged phone hacking. Independent MP and former Conservative Rory Stewart speaks about his decision to stand down at the next general election, and to run as an independent candidate for the Mayor of London. A US Secret Service dog has received an award popularly known as the  ' animal OBE '  for his courage in stopping an intruder in the White House in 2014. A chartered plane has crashed near the western Ukrainian city of Lviv, killing five people and injuring three, after apparently running out of fuel, authorities said. The Irish premier has said Ireland would probably agree to a request by the UK for a Brexit extension. Ex-footballer Dean Saunders has won his appeal against a jail sentence for failing to take a breath test after being stopped by police on suspicion of drink-driving. Sir Steve House, Deputy Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police, apologises for mistakes made during the Operation Midland investigation into fabricated claims of a VIP paedophile ring in Westminster. A 23-year-old man who was attacked with pepper spray in a suspected homophobic assault remembers his attacker saying  " we don’t want your kind around here”. Hong Kong ' s leader has banned protesters from wearing masks to conceal their identities as the government hardens its stance against long-running pro-democracy demonstrations. Rory Stewart announces that he is going to stand as an independent candidate to become Mayor of London. Former Liverpool striker Dean Saunders arrives at Chester Crown Court to appeal against a jail sentence.  Former Tory leadership candidate Rory Stewart has said he has quit the Conservative Party and will stand down at the next general election. Britain is set to leave the European Union on October 31 2019. Here we take a look at the latest figures behind Brexit. A man paralysed from the shoulders down has been able to walk using his brain to operate a robotic skeleton. Traces of DNA have been found on a length of rope wrapped around bin liners containing the body of Melanie Hall, police have revealed. Household cooking fats and hygiene products played a pivotal role in the formation of the giant fatberg found lurking under a seaside town, scientists have revealed. Speakers: Professor John Love and Nicky Cunningham. Ghassan works alongside two of his six children as grave diggers in a Syrian cemetery. Yazan, 15, and eight-year-old Jawad also help to clean and water the graves. Faintly glowing wisps of gas have given astronomers a rare glimpse of one of the universe ' s largest but most elusive features - the intergalactic filaments of the cosmic web. Libby Squire has been remembered as a  " beautiful person "  by hundreds of people who gathered to remember the student months after her body was found in a river. After the Duke and Duchess of Sussex ' s tour of Africa comes to a close, take a look at some of the highlights. The Duke of Cambridge is given a gift by Bambam, a robot designed to understand the environment and pick up objects. William visited Keble College in Oxford for the official opening of its new graduate building. Four police officers have died in a knife attack carried out by an administrator at the Paris police headquarters, according to a French police union official. Boris Johnson has told MPs he has made a  " genuine attempt to bridge the chasm "  with the EU by making compromises to strike a fresh Brexit deal. Harland and Wolff staff return to the shipyard after a buyer was found to save the Belfast shipmakers. The Metropolitan Police have arrested four people on suspicion of criminal damage after climate change activists Extinction Rebellion sprayed the Treasury’s building with 1,800 litres of fake blood. Journalist Naga Munchetty leaves the BBC studios at Media City following her return to hosting BBC Breakfast. Donald Trump blasts the media as  ' corrupt '  as he holds a joint press conference with President Sauli Niinisto of Finland.  