CDW Employee Benefits and Perks | Glassdoor.co.uk CDW >Interested for your company? <a href='http: /employers.glassdoor.com/opencompany/'>Learn More " class="tt gradient activityLevel small">  All Employees  UK Most Commented  Private Health insurance, shares allowance  CDW Response  seconds ago  sick leave is on a rolling basis.  CDW Response  seconds ago  In offer benefits are ok but not great. Pension contribution is quite low compared to other places I have worked.  CDW Response  seconds ago  Private health insurance, life assurance, discount on gym membership, 2% pension contribution  CDW Response  seconds ago List based on reports from current and former employees. It may not be complete. Hispanic Heritage Month is here, and we ' re proud to celebrate alongside our HOLA BRG! See what members of HOLA had to say about what this month means to them and how they celebrate their heritage.  http://glassdoor.com/slink.htm?key=vM0Qr CDW is excited to celebrate Hispanic Heritage Month and share the voice of our coworkers. Our Business Resource Group, Hispanic Organization for Leadership  &  Achievement (HOLA) will be celebrating all month with a variety of professional development events for our coworkers. Check out our new digs in the DFW Metroplex region!  http://glassdoor.com/slink.htm?key=vMlbq CDW is expanding its presence in the booming Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex region with a new, expanded office in Plano, Texas. With 15,000 square feet of space, the new location enables CDW to meet growing business needs and provides an expanded venue to collaborate with partners and customers.  Your response will be removed from the review – this cannot be undone. Glassdoor is your resource for information about CDW benefits and perks. Learn about CDW, including insurance benefits, retirement benefits, and vacation policy. Benefits information above is provided anonymously by current and former CDW employees, and may include a summary provided by the employer. Glassdoor Android Glassdoor Facebook Twitter Youtube Instagram 