DEFENCE FORCE DISCIPLINE APPEALS ACT 1955 - SECT 4 Interpretation             (1)  In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears:   "appeal"  means an  appeal  to  the Tribunal  under this Act.  "appellant"  means a person who  appeals , or applies for leave to  appeal  underthis Act to  the Tribunal .  "Australia"  includes the Territories to which this Act extends.  "charge"  means a  charge  of a  service offence .  "convicted person"  means a person who has been convicted by a  court martial  ora  Defence Force magistrate .  "conviction"  means a  conviction  by a  court martial  or a Defence Force magistrate .  "court martial"  means a  court martial  convened under the Defence ForceDiscipline Act 1982.  "court of summary jurisdiction"  , in relation to a Territory, includes a courtof that Territory sitting as a court for the making of summary orders or thesummary punishment of offences under the law of the Territory.  "court order"  means:  (a)  an order made by the  Australian  Military Court under subsection 75(1) of the  Defence Force Discipline Act 1982  ; or   (b)  an order made by the  Australian  Military Court under section 83of that Act; or   (c)  an order made by the  Australian  Military Court under section 84of that Act;   but does not include an order made in an  appeal  under Part IX of the Defence Force Discipline Act 1982  .   "Defence Force magistrate"  means a  Defence Force magistrate  appointed undersection 127 of the  Defence Force Discipline Act 1982  .  "Finance Minister"  means the Minister administering the Public Governance, Performance and Accountability Act 2013 .  "member  or  member of  the Tribunal "  means a member of  the Tribunal , andincludes  the President  and Deputy President.  "prescribed acquittal"  means an acquittal of a  service offence  by a court martial  or a  Defence Force magistrate  on the ground of unsoundness ofmind.  "prescribed acquitted person"  means a person who has been acquitted of a service offence  by a  court martial  or a  Defence Force magistrate  on the groundof unsoundness of mind.  "review  and  reviewing authority"  have the same respective meanings as theyhave in the  Defence Force Discipline Act 1982 .  "service offence"  has the same meaning as it has in the Defence Force Discipline Act 1982 .  "service tribunal"  has the same meaning as it has in the Defence Force Discipline Act 1982 .  "the Deputy President"  means  the Deputy President  of  the Tribunal , andincludes a member appointed to act as Deputy President under subsection  (5) of section 7.  "the President"  means  the President  of  the Tribunal .  "the Registrar"  means  the Registrar  of  the Tribunal , and includes a deputy of the Registrar  appointed under  subsection  (2) of section 19.  "the Tribunal"  means the Defence Force Discipline  Appeal  Tribunal constitutedunder this Act.  (2)  For the purposes of this Act, where, in a review underPart VIIIA of the  Defence Force Discipline Act 1982  of the proceedingsbefore a  court martial  or a  Defence Force magistrate , the reviewing authority: (a)  substitutes for the  conviction  of a  service offence  a prescribed acquittal  of that  service offence  or a  conviction  of another service offence ; or   (b)  takes such action in relation to the  convicted person  as could havebeen taken under Part IV of that Act by the  court martial  or the Defence Force magistrate ;   the  conviction  or  prescribed acquittal  so substituted or the action so taken,as the case may be, shall be deemed to have been made or taken, as the casemay be, by the  court martial  or the  Defence Force magistrate .   