Amazon Boycott Unites Workers, Gamers, Shoppers For Prime Day Protest I'm a freelance writer covering tech, media, science, and culture. My background includes the areas of writing, editing, and education, and I received Bachelor and Master of Arts Degrees from the University of British Columbia and California State University, East Bay, respectively. My work's also been published by mental_floss, AlterNet, Salon, and the Atlantic's CityLab, among others. For more of it, check out my online portfolio at janetburns.contently.com or my cannabis news and culture podcast at patreon.com/TheToke. Marchers hold a banner reading 'Make Amazon Pay' during a demonstration attended by Amazon workers, ... [+]  trade union members, and leftist activists in Berlin, Germany on April 24, 2018. Amazon workers from Poland and Spain traveled to join the protest, citing exploitation and bad working conditions at the company. (Credit: Emmanuele Contini/NurPhoto via Getty Images) Amazon workers in Europe have walked out again ahead of a global " Prime Day " boycott highlighting the poor conditions that fulfillment-center staff have endured for years. On Monday, a growing number of online workers, gamers, and shoppers plan to boycott Amazon over its treatment of low-level workers, who have criticized the company's tough working conditions on multiple occasions. To get the company's attention on these issues, organizers hope their boycott will  make a dent  in Amazon's bottom line on July 16, 2018, a.k.a. Prime Day, one of the retail-and- technology  giant's  busiest sales days of the year. In a lead-up to the boycott, which has increasingly gained support on social media, Amazon workers in Spain launched a general strike last week Tuesday that is expected to last through Monday. Workers  at other  European Amazon facilities have reportedly joined the walkout, including groups in Italy, France, England, Germany, and Poland. See also: Amazon Supplier Still Violating China Labor Laws, From Wages To Food, Watchdog Says In the past several years, workers at Amazon fulfillment centers have repeatedly protested against the company's long hours, tough working conditions, and high-pressure "rush" periods, as around Prime Day and Black Friday. In 2017, Amazon workers in Germany and Italy staged a strike to coincide with Black Friday, when they say short-term workers are forced to work long, grueling shifts without adequate compensation or conditions, among other complaints. PROMOTED Amazon workers in the U.S. have also reported brutal working conditions in recent years, including the need to  endure high temperatures , spend unpaid time in security lines, and even skip bathroom breaks . Regarding protesters' latest round of complaints against the company, a spokesperson for Amazon told the  Observer , ”We don’t recognize these allegations as an accurate portrayal of activities in our buildings." Demonstrators hold signs during a protest at Amazon.com Inc. headquarters in Seattle, Washington, ... [+]  U.S. on Monday, Dec. 16, 2013. Amazon.com Inc. workers in Germany sent a delegation to the company's Seattle headquarters to reinforce strikes demanding higher pay and a better work environment, the Verdi union said. (Credit: David Ryder/Bloomberg) As a result of workers' and organizers' efforts, the idea of boycotting Amazon on Prime Day and beyond has been gathering significant steam online. According to the  Daily Dot , " The #AmazonStrike hashtag on Twitter and numerous posts on Tumblr have led the charge among internet users who are supporting employees who have held strikes against the retail giant in the past." A number of gamers and journalists are also expected to participate in Monday's boycott, which calls for supporters to avoid using or visiting any of Amazon's services or sites, from shopping to streaming. See also: At Last, New York City Is Considering Minimum Pay Rules For Uber Drivers That includes the live-streaming video platform Twitch, a popular tool in the gaming community, which Amazon acquired in 2014.  GameRevolution  reported that some journalists and gamers plan to boycott the platform on Monday "in solidarity with the striking Amazon workers." Austin Walker, editor-in-chief of Waypoint, Vice Media's gaming division, commented on Twitter, “Some folks put the news about a transnational Amazon strike in front of us yesterday, glad to hear about it. As a heads up, we’ll be skipping our stream on Prime Day (the 16th) in solidarity.” As the Observer explained (with lots of useful links), workers in each nation have their own complaints about Amazon's sprawling practices: Polish workers say an anti-strike law has made it impossible to negotiate better salaries. German employees have been fighting for a collective bargaining agreement for two years. In Italy, Amazon routinely hires contract workers who aren’t required to have benefits. Amazon’s Spanish leaders unilaterally imposed working conditions when a previous collective bargaining agreement expired. England and France have imposed demanding measures on time and efficiency, meaning workers have to process 300 items an hour and pee in bottles. Workers were also penalized for taking sick days and time off during pregnancies. #AmazonStrike begins today but workers are calling for a boycott through #PrimeDay on July 16th. Amazon workers experience exhaustion, dehydration and injuries at the workplace. Jeff Bezos is the richest man in the world. His workers deserve better! #UnionStrong #PrimeDay2018 pic.twitter.com/WmSQaJTkNv — Bonnie Castillo (@NNUBonnie) July 12, 2018 Amazon founder Jeff Bezos has also been the target of criticism for years regarding his business practices at Amazon and other ventures, from workers as well as the media, and even -- in some cases -- from both. Last year, a reporter for the Washington Post wrote an op-ed for the Huffington Post about how fair pay for Amazon workers -- not high-profile philanthropy -- should be the primary goodwill strategy for Bezos, who bought the Post in 2013. WashPo  staff reporter Fredrick Kunkle explained last September, Amazon’s history of dodging taxes, its mistreatment of workers, and its ruthlessness toward even the smallest competitors have been well documented. It put ambulances outside distribution centers rather than install adequate air conditioning. It broke up a union organizing effort by closing the call center and dismissing everyone who worked there. The New York Times documented its punishing work environment in a front-page exposé. The company’s actions, as Forbes put it, hark back to an earlier time when workers were treated as 'replaceable cogs in the machine.' See also: Spectrum Strike Enters Second Year With NYC Protest, And No End In Sight Within days, the Post had disciplined Kunkle, which his union argued may have been illegal. Given the fact that the winds of  public opinion (if not our laws ) have been blowing distinctly union-ward of late, however, the Amazon CEO would likely do well to start rethinking his business and employment models from the ground floor up. As Kunkle reflected, Bezos should remember that his vast wealth came in part from labor, and he should do more to share that wealth with workers. As the owner of an institution that’s critical to democracy, he should go out of his way to set a tone of progressive stewardship toward employees in all his businesses. Instead, Bezos has shown that he views his employees as parts in a high-tech machine, that income inequality is someone else’s problem, and that modern corporations owe little more to their employees than a paycheck. A protest attendee takes a selfie with a demonstrator wearing a Jeff Bezos mask during protests ... [+]  against Bezos' receipt of the Axel Springer Award for his 'visionary entrepreneurship' on April 24, 2018 in Berlin, Germany. (Credit: Markus Heine/SOPA Images/LightRocket via Getty Images) [Updated at 5:55pm EST Sunday, July 15th to fix a typo dating Prime Day 2018 as June 16, rather than the correct July 16; also at 6:14pm to correct company description, noting that Amazon is a leading firm in both the retail and technology industries.] I'm a freelance writer covering tech, media, science, and culture. My background includes the areas of writing, editing, and education, and I received Bachelor and Mast This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. 