The 5 Best Slices Of Pizza In Queens   CBS New York Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Reddit AddThis New York has a pizza place on every block, but which ones are worth your time? We scoured the city to bring you some of the best slice places by borough.  By Yvo Sin. More:  Brooklyn s 5 Best Slices Of Pizza (credit: Yvo Sin/feistyfoodie.com) Lucia Pizza s location   just off the main drag of Flushing, an area dominated by Asian establishments   may surprise some as the home to some of Queens  best pizza by the slice, but there it is: a slice ordered, $2.25 handed to the counterman, and soon enough, a piping hot slice in your hand. The crisp crust is uniformly thin without venturing into cracker territory, a layer of slightly sweet sauce, gooey cheese, only the slightest bit of oil  all of this adds up to what can only be described as near pizza nirvana. Enjoy the step off the Asian food path in Flushing, but don t linger: there aren t any seats in this hole in the wall, and you re blocking someone else from enjoying the pizza. (credit: Yvo Sin/feistyfoodie.com) Walking into Brother s Pizza is a throwback to days of yore: a long counter with bar stools, narrow aisle, but the back opens up with more seats if you choose to stay. Sitting at the bar, you find the same guy who s been slinging pies for at least the past 12 years, his hands working over the dough easily, muscle memory kicking in so he can chat pleasantly with customers as he preps the next pie. $2.25 gets you a slice heated quickly in the oven, with an evenly thin crust, a slightly soft tip, stretchy cheese and a perfectly balanced red sauce. The overall slice is a little floppy, chewy even, and the oil will pour off as you eat, but the extra crunchy heel will leave you munching away as you debate ordering an entire pie just for yourself. Pro tip: fresh garlic is offered as a topping here. Get it (but not with a date). (credit: Yvo Sin/feistyfoodie.com) No list of the best pizza slices in Queens would be complete without a nod to New Park Pizzeria; its colorful history certainly places it in the history books, and its pizza has received its fair share of accolades. Though the quality has slipped in recent years, on a good day, you d be hard pressed to find better pizza: the key is to ask for your slice or pie to be well-done, to crisp the bottom a bit, and almost caramelize the cheese on top to a sweet finish. At $2.50 a slice, with chewy cheese and crust, sweet sauce, a little oil, the balance is there   if only they were consistent. Pro tip: there s a separate seating area in the back   enter through the door off the parking lot. (credit: Yvo Sin/feistyfoodie.com) John s Pizzeria sits on a stretch of Grand Avenue that isn t quite that well traveled, but is well worth the trip off the beaten path. The friendly woman behind the counter will take your $2.40 in exchange for a slice: very crispy thin crust, bordering on crunchy, even; well seasoned sauce   the oregano is visible as you eat, though it isn t quite as bold as one might expect, with a slightly muted flavor; the perfect amount of sauce and cheese with the perfect thickness  yes, this is indeed an excellent slice. Sit at the counter on one of the bar stools and have a friendly chat, and enjoy. (credit: Yvo Sin/feistyfoodie.com) A & J Pizza is exactly the type of place you d expect to find in your neighborhood: large seating area, glass cases of different pizza you can get by the slice, with interesting toppings (including slices topped with HUGE mounds of lettuce; curiously, the salad slices make one wonder if they get heated before being served?), and the clientele is all locals grabbing a quick bite to fuel up for more shopping, or before they go back to work. The line moves fast during the lunch rush, and $2.50 scores you a slice that s fluffy, chewy, a little oily, with cheese that slides right off if you re not careful. There s only the slightest slick of sauce under the cheese, with a nice tang to balance, making this a great local slice joint. For the latest on where to eat in the Tri-State,  follow us on Twitter ! Yvo Sin is the founder and head writer of  The Feisty Foodie . Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Reddit AddThis These cookies are essential for the proper functioning of our properties. In addition, we use the Google and Tealium Tag Managers. Essential cookies cannot be switched off in our systems. You can set your browser or device to block or alert you about these cookies, but some parts of the site will not work.  These cookies allow us to collect information about how visitors use our properties. Some examples include counting visits and traffic sources, so we can measure and improve the performance of our site. If you do not allow these cookies we will not know when users have visited our properties and will not be able to monitor performance. These cookies enable the website to provide enhanced functionality and personalization. They may be set by us or by third party providers whose services we have added to our pages.    If you do not allow these cookies then some or all of these services may not function properly. These cookies may be set by us or through our property by our advertising partners. They may be used by those companies to build a profile of your interests and show you relevant adverts on other properties. If you do not allow these cookies, you will still see ads, but you will experience less relevant advertising.   These cookies are set by a range of social media services that we have added to the site to enable you to share our content with your friends and networks. They are capable of tracking your browser across other sites, building up a profile of your interests to show you relevant content and adverts on properties. If you do not allow these cookies you may not be able to use or see these sharing tools. Back Button Back Search Icon Filter Icon Clear Fliters All Consent Allowed 3 Purposes Arrow Consent Purposes Location Based Ads Consent Allowed Legitimate Interest Purposes Personalize Features Location Based Ads 