Let ' s focus on what we have in common | MNN - Mother Nature Network Tweet 99 TV 2 Danmark 42K subscribers Subscribe TV 2 | All That We Share Info Shopping Tap to unmute More videos Your browser does not currently recognize any of the video formats available.  Click here to visit our frequently asked questions about HTML5 video. More videos on YouTube Share Include playlist An error occurred while retrieving sharing information. Please try again later. Watch later Share An error occurred. Try watching this video on www.youtube.com , or enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser. "It's easy to put people in boxes," says the narrator of a new Danish television station ad. For TV2's video, " All That We Share ," groups of Danes enter a huge room, stepping into areas that have been marked off on the floor. There are "the high earners" and "those just getting by;" "Those we trust" and "those we try to avoid." As each group files into their boxes, there's an obvious wariness as they look at the groups of strangers around them, like "the people from the countryside" and "those that have never seen a cow." The narrator summarizes: "There are those we share something with and those we don't share anything with." But then, a man steps in and begins to ask questions, framing the groups in new ways. Who in this room was the class clown? Who are stepparents? Who believes in life after death? Who has seen UFOs? As soon as the people start stepping out of their boxes, things begin to change. Grab a tissue and take a look. We guarantee you'll feel a little bit better about the world. Mary Jo DiLonardo  writes about everything from health to parenting — and anything that helps explain why her dog does what he does. 1 2 3 4 5 6 71-year-old woman skates across Lake Baikal to gather her wandering cows. The answer may be stranger than friction. Food banks need your help providing healthy foods. They came. They danced. They may have tried to eat each other. The vague cultural concept doesn't translate easily, but it works for Denmark. You're hoarse and you've lost your voice. Here's what might help. Despite what you may think, birds manage just fine in the freezing cold. Welcome to Mother Nature Network, where curiosity rules and living well is the goal. The MNN newsletter is delivered every Monday, Wednesday and Friday. 