Net Edge Computing Solutions Private Limited, Delhi - About Director is a Verified member of IndiaMART Following details of the company have been verified IndiaMART InterMESH Ltd. 7th Floor, Advant-Navis Business Park, Plot No-7, Sector-142, Noida, UP Find answers to your queries Join Now Secure  &  hassle-free payments Home > Computer  &  IT Solutions > Computer and Mobile Softwares  &  Apps | GST  09AABCN0896P1ZR Dr. Manoj Saxena  Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer A Gold Medalist in Electrical Engineering from Delhi College of Engineering with a Masters in Computer Science from Indian Institute of Science (Bangalore) and a Ph.D. in Computer Science in the area of Distributed Artificial Intelligence from IIT (Delhi), Dr. Saxena is a first generation entrepreneur and Founder CEO of NetEdge Computing Solutions Pvt. Ltd.  A  System Architect and Computer Networking Professional having over twenty six years of experience in IT Services and Telecommunication with a specialization in Distributed Systems, Cloud Computing and Problem Solving, he has undergone training at Cornell University on Distributed Systems. He was a member of the committee constituted by Department of Electronics, Government of India for controlling the menace of Computer Viruses and is also a registered Computer Consultant with Asian Development Bank and a voting member of the IEEE committee on LAN standards. Dr. Saxena founded NetEdge in 1992 after working with leading Indian IT companies like HCL and CMC Ltd. He is the driving force behind the company, providing vision and direction throughout the company's growth. Involved in the conceptualization, design, and architecture of several cutting-edge software products at NetEdge, Dr. Saxena has mentored and encouraged the research and development at NetEdge, incubating new ideas and initiatives that add value added services and exceed customer expectations. NetEdge has tied up with NSIC to establish the NetEdge NSIC Training cum Incubation Center at NOIDA under a Public Private Partnership model to foster entrepreneurship and self employment opportunities in India.  With offices spread across India, Thailand, UK and USA, NetEdge has been listed in the Top IT and ITeS services companies of India 2005 by Dun  &  Bradstreet and also been recognized by Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu amongst the fastest 50 Indian Technologies Company and the Fastest 500 growing Technology, Media and Telecommunications companies in Asia Pacific for the year 2006. In the same year Dr. Saxena was also listed in the International Who?s Who of Professionals for his efforts in the field of Information Technology. Our Company Reach Us  Net Edge Computing Solutions Private Limited, Delhi A -14, Sector No. 7, Sector 7,  Noida-201301, Uttar Pradesh, India Manoj  Saxena (Owner) 