Doctor Sleep (novel) - Wikipedia Doctor Sleep  is a 2013  dark fantasy horror  novel by American writer  Stephen King  and the sequel to his 1977 novel  The Shining . The book reached the first position on  The New York Times  Best Seller list  for print and ebook fiction (combined), hardcover fiction, and ebook fiction.  Doctor Sleep  won the  2013 Bram Stoker Award for Best Novel. [ 1 ] The novel was adapted into  a film of the same name , which was released on November 8, 2019 in the United States. Following the events of  The Shining , after receiving a settlement from the owners of the Overlook Hotel,  Danny Torrance  remains psychologically traumatized as his mother Wendy slowly recovers from her injuries. Angry  ghosts  from the Overlook, including the woman from Room 217, still want to find Danny and eventually consume his phenomenal "shining" power.  Dick Hallorann , the Overlook's chef, teaches Danny to create lockboxes in his mind to contain the ghosts, including that of former Overlook owner Horace Derwent. As an adult, Danny (now going by Dan) takes up his father's legacy of anger and alcoholism. Dan spends years drifting across the United States, but he eventually makes his way to  New Hampshire  and decides to give up drinking. He settles in the small town of Frazier, working first at a tourist attraction and then at a  hospice , and attending  Alcoholics Anonymous  meetings. His psychic abilities, long suppressed by his drinking, re-emerge and allow him to provide comfort to dying patients. Aided by a cat, "Azzie," that can sense when someone is about to die, Dan acquires the nickname "Doctor Sleep." In the meantime, Abra Stone, a baby girl born in 2001, begins to manifest psychic powers of her own when she seemingly predicts the  9/11 attacks . She slowly and unintentionally establishes a telepathic bond with Dan. As she grows, the contact becomes more conscious and voluntary, and her shining grows stronger than his. One night, Abra psychically witnesses the ritual torture and murder of a boy by the True Knot, a group of  vampiric  quasi-immortals, many of which possess their own "shine" abilities, who wander across the United States and periodically feed on "steam," a psychic essence produced when the people who possess the shining die in pain. The True Knot's leader, Rose the Hat, becomes aware of Abra's existence and formulates a plan to kidnap Abra and keep her alive, so she can produce a limitless supply of steam. The True Knot begin to die off from  measles  contracted from their last victim; they believe that Abra's steam can cure them. Abra asks for Dan's help, and he reveals his connection with Abra to her father David and their family doctor, John Dalton. Angry and skeptical at first, David starts to believe Dan and agrees to go along with his plan to save Abra. With the help of Billy Freeman, one of Dan's friends, they foil and kill a raiding party sent by Rose, led by Rose's lover Crow Daddy; however, Dan realizes that Rose will relentlessly hunt Abra for revenge. He visits Abra's great-grandmother Concetta, who is dying of cancer, and telepathically learns from her that he and Abra's mother Lucy are half-siblings with the same father:  Jack Torrance . As Concetta dies, Dan takes her diseased steam into himself. Meanwhile, dissension in the ranks of The True Knot, along with Rose's obsession with Abra, leads to the group splitting up, leaving Rose with even fewer followers. Following another kidnapping attempt that Abra foils with Dan's telepathic help, she baits Rose into confronting her at the location where the Overlook Hotel once stood in the  Rocky Mountains  in Colorado, now home to a campsite owned by the True Knot. Dan and Billy travel to the site, while Abra helps them by using her  astral projection . Lying in wait, Dan releases the steam collected from Concetta to the remaining group of True Knot members, killing all of them. He frees the ghost of Horace Derwent to kill the last member, Silent Sarey, waiting to ambush him and Abra, and the two fight Rose in a long psychic struggle. With help from Billy and the ghost of Dan's father, Jack Torrance, they push Rose off an observation platform to her death. Before leaving the campsite, Dan sees his father wave goodbye, having finally found peace. In the epilogue, Dan celebrates 15 years of sobriety and attends Abra's 15th birthday party. He tells her about the patterns of alcoholism and violent behavior that run in his family, and warns her not to repeat them by starting to drink or submitting to rage. Abra agrees that she will behave, but before they can finish the conversation, Dan is called back to his hospice, where he comforts a dying colleague who had antagonized him in the past. King described the idea for a sequel to his 1977 novel  The Shining  on November 19, 2009, during a promotional tour for his novel  Under the Dome . During a reading moderated by filmmaker  David Cronenberg  at the  Canon Theatre , King said the sequel would follow a character from the original, Danny Torrance, now in his 40s, living in  New Hampshire  where he works as an orderly at a  hospice  and helps  terminally ill  patients die with the aid of extraordinary powers. [ 2 ]  Later, on December 1, 2009, King posted a poll on his official website, asking visitors to vote for which book he should write next,  Doctor Sleep  or  the next  Dark Tower  novel : I mentioned two potential projects while I was on the road, one a new  Mid-World  book (not directly about  Roland Deschain , but yes, he and his friend  Cuthbert  are in it, hunting a skin-man, which are what  werewolves  are called in that lost kingdom) and a sequel to  The Shining  called  Doctor Sleep . Are you interested in reading either of these? If so, which one turns your dials more? [We] will be counting your votes (and of course it all means nothing if the muse doesn't speak). [ 3 ] Voting ended on December 31, 2009.  Doctor Sleep  won the poll with 5,861 votes to  The Wind Through the Keyhole ' s 5,812. [ 4 ] On September 23, 2011, Stephen King received the Mason Award at the Fall for the Book event at the  George Mason University  in  Fairfax, Virginia , during which he read an excerpt from  Doctor Sleep . [ 5 ]  King finished work on the first draft in early November 2011. [ 6 ]  On February 19, 2012, King read the beginning section of  Doctor Sleep  at the  Savannah Book Festival , in  Savannah ,  Georgia . [ 7 ]  The  audiobook  edition of King's 2012 novel  The Dark Tower: The Wind Through the Keyhole , released on April 24, 2012, contains the novel's prologue read by the author. [ 8 ] In an interview with  Entertainment Weekly , King revealed that he had hired researcher  Rocky Wood  to work on the continuity between  The Shining  and  Doctor Sleep . [ 9 ] The story was partly inspired by  Oscar , a therapy cat who allegedly predicts the deaths of terminally ill patients. King said, "I thought to myself: 'I want to write a story about that.' And then I made the connection with Danny Torrance as an adult, working in a hospice. I thought: 'That's it. I'm gonna write this book.' The cat had to be there. It always takes two things for me to get going. It's like the cat was the transmission and Danny was the motor." [ 10 ] On May 8, 2012, Stephen King's official website announced a tentative publication date of January 15, 2013, for  Doctor Sleep . The book was available for pre-order that same day, with the page count of 544 and  ISBN 978-1-4516-9884-8 . However, the exact date was removed the next day with the statement that a new release date is forthcoming, and the pre-order items were removed. Stephen King was not happy with the present draft of the novel and felt it needed a lot of editing. On September 18, 2012, a publication date of September 24, 2013 was announced. [ 11 ] [ 12 ] [ 13 ] Cemetery Dance  also published  Doctor Sleep  as a limited edition in three versions: Gift edition (limited to 1,750 copies), Limited edition (limited to 700 copies), and Lettered edition (limited to 52 copies), the latter two signed by Stephen King and the illustrators. [ 14 ]  On March 1, 2013, Stephen King's official site unveiled the book's cover. [ 15 ] A collector's edition was announced in August 2013 by  Hodder  &  Stoughton  for publication in the United Kingdom, limited to 200 numbered copies, signed by Stephen King. [ 16 ] An excerpt was published in the September 13, 2013 issue of  Entertainment Weekly  magazine. [ 17 ] A film adaptation of the novel directed by  Mike Flanagan  and starring   Ewan McGregor  as  Danny Torrance  was released on November 8, 2019. The film is both an adaptation of the novel, and a sequel to the  1980 film adaptation  of the first book. It therefore makes significant changes to the plot in order to preserve  continuity  with Kubrick's popular film. 