Rick Smolan | Speaker | TED Main menu TED Search Cancel search Photographer Rick Smolan is the co-creator of the  America at Home   project, which  captured the "emotions of home" across the United States during a week in September 2008 . More than 20,000 photographers -- pros and amateurs -- sent images to a team of editors assembled by Smolan and partner Jennifer Erwitt, who turned the photos into an eye-popping book. It's become a best-seller, of course, helped along by the fact that  buyers can choose their own image for the cover .  Smolan has long been a force for  exploring culture through photography . The Day in the Life photography series that he cofounded -- best-selling photo books that captured life in America, Australia,  the Soviet Union ... -- were an '80s cultural phenomenon. (Rare was the coffee table without at least one of them.) In the 1990s his production company,  Against All Odds , investigated the storytelling powers of interactive CD-ROMs with  From Alice to Ocean , a narrative of a cross-Australia trek, and  Passage to Vietnam , exploring that country as it opened up in the early 1990s.  24 Hours in Cyberspace  took a snapshot of the booming industry in 1996, and  One Digital Day  in 1997 further explored our fascination with tech. Along with collaborator Jennifer Erwitt, Smolan published the beautiful  Blue Planet Run   in 2007, about the drive to bring fresh drinking water to everyone on Earth. It's packed with glorious (and sometimes shocking) images and data about our planet's water. In an unprecedented move, Amazon.com offers  Blue Planet Run   as a free PDF download.  Download the free PDF of  Blue Planet Run > > Smolan's latest work is  The Obama Time Capsule,  a collection of photographs and insights capturing the historical election of President Barack Obama, from the beginning of his campaign to his first 100 days in office.  Not since Roy Stryker, who ran an unparalleled photography project through the Farm Security Administration from 1935 until 1942, has America seen itself documented so thoroughly. San Francisco Chronicle Teen reporters Sadie Cruz and Nia Ashley conducted lots of interviews with speakers at the TEDYouth conference on November 17. Their Q & As will run on the TED Blog over the next few weeks. Here, a interview conducted by Sadie.  Photographer Rick Smolan brought the flavor of homes across the United States to life, helped 25,000 photographers capture […] Rick Smolan enlisted an unusual partner for the release of his new coffee table book, The Human Face of Big Data — FedEx. Yes, Smolan orchestrated a meeting with the shipping giant so that 10,000 copies of the book would be delivered simultaneously today, November 20, to a large group of influential people around the […] TED speaker Rick Smolan is asking students between the ages of 13 and 18 to become “Data Detectives” for a new project he’s unveiling today — and that he will talk about at TEDYouth this Saturday. By answering a 20-question online survey, teenagers will help build a data set that will let then compare themselves to […] TED.com translations are made possible by volunteertranslators. Learn more about the Open Translation Project .  TED Conferences, LLC. All rights reserved. Discover recommendations from the  TED community Sign up now 