Gary Winnick (game developer) - Wikipedia Gary Winnick  is an American  computer game designer , writer, artist, and animator who was the first artist hired by  Lucasfilm Games . [ 1 ]  He co-designed  Maniac Mansion , alongside  Ron Gilbert , [ 2 ]  and created the comic book  Bad Dreams . [ 3 ] Gary Winnick founded Horizon Zero Graphiques with  Frank Cirocco  in 1974. There, he was the editor, artist, and writer for the comic magazine  Venture , which ran until 1976. Horizon Zero Graphiques also published the comic magazine  Mindworks  by  Brent Anderson , which included art by Gary. He began his video game career at  LucasArts  as the only artist and animator at the then-newly formed Lucasfilm Games Division in 1984. [ 4 ]  He worked as an artist and animator on the early games by Lucasfilm Games, before he became co-designer of the 1987  adventure game ,  Maniac Mansion . [ 5 ]  He continued working on art and animation at LucasArts, and became the art department supervisor on  Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade: The Graphic Adventure  in 1989. In 1992, he was the designer, artist, and animator on  Defenders of Dynatron City  and co-wrote  the comic based on the game , with  Steve Purcell . [ 6 ]  Before leaving LucasArts in 1993, he contributed dialog and story to the sequel to  Maniac Mansion ,  Day of the Tentacle . After leaving LucasArts, he joined  Spectrum Holobyte  as an art director. In 1995, he co-founded the video game company, Orbital Studios, where he served as executive producer. In 1996, he returned as a partner at Horizon Zero Graphiques, which was rebranded Lightsource Studios. He also co-created the comic book  Neomen  with Frank Cirocco in 1987 and created the comic book  Bad Dreams  in 2014. The first issue of  Bad Dreams  was in the list of the top six new comics and sold out in its first week of release. [ 7 ] Gary Winnick reunited with  Ron Gilbert , with whom he co-created his early critically acclaimed point'n'click games for LucasArts, and both of them ran a  Kickstarter  campaign for a new point'n'click game called  Thimbleweed Park . The campaign ended on December 18, 2014 and the game was released on March 30, 2017. [ 8 ] 