Frey Buck P.S. Law Firm Profile | LawCrossing.com Support PDF,DOC,DOCX,TXT,XLS,WPD,HTM,HTML fils up to 5MB  Review http://www.freybuck.com Main Office: 1200 Fifth Ave, Suite 1900 |   Seattle |  | 98101 Phone: 206-486-8000  | Fax:  Follow This Firm Write an Anonymous Review Frey Buck, P.S. specializes in preparing and trying cases – we are trial lawyers, not litigators. From catastrophic loss to civil rights claims, business disputes to class actions, Frey Buck attorneys have an unparalleled record of success in the courtroom.  As the global leader in Application Delivery Networking, F5 makes the connected world run better. In fact, you’ve probably relied on F5 products dozens of times today and didn’t even know it. F5 helps organizations meet the demands that come with the relentless growth of voice, data, and video traffic, mobile workers, and applications—in the data center and the cloud.... For more than a century, Foster Pepper has been an integral part of the growth of the Pacific Northwest community. With more than 130 attorneys located in Seattle and Spokane, Washington, we have the deep industry knowledge, commitment to client service and a collaborative environment that allow us to provide the best legal and business solutions for our clients. Our clients include closely held businesses, publicly traded companies, municipalities, government agencies, entrepreneurs, philan... Operating from six strategic locations — Anchorage, Beijing, New York, Portland, Seattle, and Washington, D.C. — Garvey Schubert Barer represents clients locally, nationally and internationally, with a special focus on the Pacific Rim. We provide practical, client-centered solutions to established market leaders, newly launched enterprises and governmental bodies.Industries and ClientsSince its founding in 1966, Garvey Schubert Barer has counseled clients across virtually all industr... Since the year 2000, the founder of BCG Attorney Search, Harrison Barnes, and his expert legal recruiters have placed thousands of attorneys and are at the top of their field in servicing attorneys. These businesses include the largest and most popular legal job site in the world, LawCrossing; the l... Law Dawgs® – A specialist, full-service legal and corporate staffing and placement company, and more.Law Dawgs® is a leading provider of legal and corporate staffing and placement services, offering law firms, corporations and corporate legal departments throughout the country and across the... In 2008, after working for a number of years at the world’s largest legal search firm, our founders launched Linketter Walsh to provide more personalized service to candidates and employers. Before becoming legal recruiters, our founders were attorneys at large law firms. We understand our candida... Thank you. 