Surrey job fair features more than 100 businesses looking to hire | The Province The 9th Annual PICS Mega Job Fair  &  Business Expo will be held Aug. 4 at the North Surrey Recreation Centre. Published:  August 2, 2016  Updated:  August 2, 2016 4:11 PM PDT  Filed Under: For people in the Lower Mainland looking for a new job or a fresh career, Satbir Cheema knows exactly where they should be on Thursday. That s when the  PICS Mega Job Fair , featuring more than 100 businesses looking to fill thousands of positions, will take place at the North Surrey Recreation Centre, starting at 10 a.m. This is the biggest job fair in the Lower Mainland,  said Cheema, director of employment programs at Surrey-based PICS Society, a non-profit community service group putting the fair together.  Nobody competes with us in terms of getting all the people under one roof where they are offering hundreds and hundreds of jobs to people. For someone who is in the labour market, this is the place to be on that day. The Mega Job Fair also includes a Business Expo, where companies can show off their latest products and network. But the key draw will be the job fair, which averaged 5,000 to 7,000 attendees before a three-year break from 2012 to 2014. Organizers are hoping for 6,000 attendees this year. The Mega Job Fair  &  Business Expo receives tremendous public response and achieves a great turnout every year,  said Charan Gill, the CEO of PICS.  We are extremely excited for this year as well, and we are anticipating another fantastic event. The list of companies looking to hire at the job fair includes everything from construction, public service and education to traditional retail, finance and insurance. Some of the biggest names include the RCMP, Shaw, Sun Life Financial, London Drugs and Ledcor. We ve confirmed Tommy Hilfiger   I believe they are trying to fill 250 positions. And we said,  Why not? C mon in,  Cheema said.  For the employers and businesses, it s an opportunity to meet with so many potential employees under one roof. There are so many people walking around, and if you like somebody, you can always set up a meeting and go from there. In order to make the fair convenient for job seekers, organizers chose to return to the North Surrey Recreation Centre this year. The location, near the Surrey Central SkyTrain station, is ideal for maximizing foot traffic, Cheema said. He added that if the response to the job fair is as strong as organizers expect, PICS will look at holding a similar fair in Vancouver, alternating the two job fairs at intervals of six months. That s the plan,  Cheema said.  People used to wait two hours just to get in.   When we stopped doing this (in 2012), we got so many calls from our exhibitors, asking:  Why did you stop doing this? This was the event we were looking forward to.  Now we have some additional staff who are back, and some summer students helping out. Organizers say job seekers should prepare resumes and questions for potential employers. A full list of exhibitors can be found at the website linked above. chchiang@postmedia.com We encourage all readers to share their views on our articles and blog posts. We are committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion, so we ask you to avoid personal attacks, and please keep your comments relevant and respectful. If you encounter a comment that is abusive, click the "X" in the upper right corner of the comment box to report spam or abuse. We are using Facebook commenting.  Visit our FAQ page  for more information. Connect with the Province 365 Bloor St East, Toronto, ON, M4W3L4, www.postmedia.com 