Payment Options | Ofek Chiropractic (770) 435-8890  |   1050 Concord Rd SE, Smyrna, GA 30080  Although payment is expected at the time of service, here at Ofek Chiropractic, we are proud to take many different payment methods.  In order to ensure that you receive the best care available, we want to make it as easy as possible for you. We accept cash, checks, and debit cards. We also accept most major credit cards including Visa, Mastercard, Discover card, and American Express.  We also welcome your insurance and will do everything that we can to help you receive as many benefits from it as possible.  One of the questions we are asked a lot is will my insurance cover this? Since there are so many different plans and coverage options available, we are not able to give you a definite answer. When you arrive at your appointment, we will make a copy of your insurance card so that we should be able to estimate what your insurance will cover.  If you have any questions about your insurance, what it covers, or different payment methods, contact us today at  (770) 435-889 .  We will do our best to accommodate your busy schedule. Request an appointment today! Request Appointment Today I had a great e experience with Dr Ofek. Booking the appointment was easy. dr Ofek listen to my concerns and issues and made sure to cover all aspects in order to treat me accordingly. Place is very welcoming. Feels like home inside the clinic.  Tali G. We came here desperately. My 1 month old and I suffered from a traumatic birth. It caused her so many issues with reflux and gas and she would never slept. I tried everything before coming here and nothing helped.  Rene B. I should never have stopped seeing him 2 years ago. Over 3 weeks ago my back started acting up and very bad this time around. Dr. Amit has gotten me out of pain, muscle spasms.  Mark C. Dr. Amit is world class. He is one of the warmest, kindest and most compassionate people I know, and there is no one that I would entrust a child's chiropractic care with, more than him.  Sarah L.  Ofek Chiropractic   Phone: (770) 435-8890   Address:   1050 Concord Rd SE, Smyrna, GA 30080  