herzog  &  de meuron clads miu miu store with angled canopy | Tokyo architecture, Facade architecture, Miu miu door set back a few feet Image 1 of 14 from gallery of Tamakichi Mochiten / Nakahira Architects. Courtesy of Nakahira Architects A series where the best content from one of our other sites, Linxspiration, is rounded up in a large image based post. Make sure to check it out if you’re acidadebranca: “ cabbagerose: “ galeo, issy, france/christian de portzamparc ” #ARCHITECTURE #ARQUITECTURA #FRANCE #EUROPE #PORTZAMPARC Christian de Portzamparc (born 5 May 1944) GALEO, ISSY, FRANCE ” Image 24 of 29 from gallery of Dior Miami Facade / Barbaritobancel Architectes. Floor Plan When South Korea-based architecture and engineering firm S.A.M.O.O. designed the 21,076-square-meter (226,860-square-foot) National Library of Sejong City, they did it with, ever so fittingly,... Built by Savioz Fabrizzi Architectes in Ayent, Switzerland with date 2013. Images by Thomas Jantscher. This barn, built in 1882 in the middle of the fields, was used for housing during the pasture season. In 1980, the ad... Image 17 of 24 from gallery of Nanjing Hongfeng Technology Park, Building A1 / One Design. Photograph by Hou Zhiwei The high-rise tower is an important ingredient within the contemporary city. However, towers have come to be defined solely by their height and, as a.. Completed in 2010 in Tokyo, Japan. Images by Kenichi Suzuki Photography Studio. To express the essence of Yamaha’s brand, Japan’s leading general musical instrument manufacturer, and materialize its architectural design, the... Image 5 of 23 from gallery of Turkish Embassy in Berlin / NSH Architekten. Photograph by Bernardette Grimmenstein Tokyo &# x27;s ever-changing skyline is a diverse jumble of modern architecture, from soaring shards of glass to eccentric 1970s living capsules. Ashley Rawlings picks 10 of the most distinctive buildings Image 5 of 9 from gallery of Amanda Levete &# x27;s MPavilion Opens in Melbourne. Photograph by John Gollings Led by Jacques Herzog (born 19 April 1950) and Pierre de Meuron (born 8 May 1950), most descriptions of Herzog  &  de Meuron projects are almost... Image 10 of 24 from gallery of House in Bangalore / Cadence. 