Pregnancy Massage - All Trimesters | The Massage Specialist Pregnancy Massage has been applied as an effective, valuable therapy during Pregnancy and Childbirth in nearly all traditional cultures for thousands of years. The origins of Pregnancy Massage date back to the beginning of the recorded use of massage. Ayurvedic Medicine, which dates back over 3000 years, has ancient texts with instructions about Massaging Pregnant Women with oils during and after Pregnancy. 2000 years ago, the title “Doula”, used today to denote a profession devoted to Care during Pregnancy, was used as a term for a Greek Slave that attended the Lady of the House during Childbirth. There is even a famous Eskimo sculpture that depicts a Women being massaged whilst in labour. Massage was used because the physiological effects could be readily seen; it supports and comforts the Mother’s Body during Pregnancy, can reposition the Baby if necessary during Labour, and speed Postpartum Healing after the Birthing process. Chemical drugs and medical intervention were not available options in ancient times, so natural herbs and nurturing support were given to strengthen the woman as she journeyed through her experience of giving birth to her baby. Dr. George Engelmann, who was a professor of obstetrics in the late 19 th  century, wrote many articles about the positive effects of massage during pregnancies. They were published in medicals journals of the time, as he was a post graduate of Missouri Medical College, a member of the American and London Gynaecological Society. He also was a member of the pathologist Society, and a Consulting surgeon, so his studies and findings are still used today in many medical text books. In 1980, Carol Osborne-Sheets began collaborating with a variety of professionals to revive instructional programs, and set guidelines and protocols, for pregnancy, labour, postpartum and infant massage therapies. She worked endlessly to reintroduce massage therapies to medical doctors, hospitals and prenatal nursing sisters. Her goal was that everyone involved with expecting mothers and their babies – mothers-to-be through healthcare workers – would gain valuable knowledge on the uses and benefits of maternal massage therapies and could source correctly trained professional massage specialists to have these treatments. 