Introduction To Human Skill   MBA TUTS Introduction To Human Skill It refers to the ability of a human to judge  &  work with understanding  &  motivate others which mean the person should be competent to handle interpersonal relation both to the individual as well as group level. The human skill applied by effective managers can be broadly categorized as a)  Understanding behavior both at individual  &  group level b)  Ability to predict behavior directing, motivating, changing &  controlling behavior Skill:- “The ability to use once knowledge effectively  &  readily in the execution of performance” Human skill  “Human skill is the sum total of talent, knowledge, ability attitude of the individual or the total work in an organization put to productive use” I. Reading Skill “People who read the people who lead”  because the act of reading is essentially a process of thinking. The question is not can you read rather it is, Can you read well. It is necessary to read at least half an hour a day. Mind training for better reading a.Question One must ask a question not only before reading but also while reading. Do I agree with what proof? What follow these types of question should be asked, Time spend on the question should be 10% of the total time b.  Read  For effective reading, it is necessary to choose a place where there is no disturbance. Active involvement should be there in reading after every hour it is necessary to take a break. Time spent on reading should be 15% of the total time c. Restate  It means to put down the book at regular intervals and tell what you read. A good reader does it. After a certain interval close the book  &  tell your sub main point  &  important details. The reader who restates remembers three times more who does not restate. Time spend shall be 20% of the total time. d. Review It is simply repeating the first three steps i. e question, read  &  restate. Time spent should be 10% of the total time 2. Writing Skill. A good writer is a sculpture he uses fewer words  &  expresses more. He cuts useless word and makes every word means. For writing a business letter it is necessary to stay in the simplest way possible the basic element of the message. The proper order of the ideas need to be maintained Letter of yes (Promotion, admission, permission, award etc) For such type of letter, it is necessary to put the main idea first following with details  &  end on pleasant Letter of No ( Request, Refuse, Regret) In such type of letter put the natural idea first then the reason, then bad news in tactful term  &  end with a pleasant note 3.Listening skill  The manager spends 45% of their time listening. The better person listens the better the relationship will be maintained. The most common benefit of better listening is an appreciation increase in moral  &  avoiding of conflict Listening indicates At the end of giving  feedback  is important. You can learn more about basic human abilities  here . Founder  &  Author of MBA Tuts is Sneha S.Dumbali. Academically She has Qualified B.B.A  &  M.B.A with Specialization in Human Resource Management And Marketing. Formerly She has Worked as a lecturer for M.B.A and B.C.A and Dealt with Various Subjects in Management. Being Human in Digital World When we were in childhood age our world was very Happiness = Reality - Expectations High expectations is major key where unhappiness begins According to A Rise After Fall Form the day we are born one day will definitely come Quality Circles Meaning  &  Objectives Quality Circles is a small group of employees of the same work area, doing similar Event Management Services  &  its Types Event Management does proper planning, arranging, and execution of the events.  various kinds of Transformational Leadership in HRM Transformational Leadership is a kind of leadership in which the leader encourages, motivates and inspires employees Supply chain management (SCM) is the process and activity of outsourcing the raw materials or components of an enterprise required Importance of Advertising and its Process Advertising is a very essential aspect today. No doubt your product is excellent, it's To be a Successful Leader A leader is a person who always thinks of his team than about himself. To 