Cheap flights to Los Angeles International at Skyscanner Los Angeles is one of 4 airports in America that you can get to directly from New Zealand. The city is one of the most famous in the world, thanks to its beaches (such as Santa Monica and Venice Beach), the stars of Hollywood and its proximity to Universal Studios and Disneyland.  Air New Zealand  and  United  sell direct flights to Los Angeles from Auckland.  It can often be cheaper to fly with 1 stop on your journey. Several airlines offer this type of flight, including: Cathay Pacific Fiji Airways Qantas Virgin Australia Auckland to Los Angeles 12 hours 10 minutes (direct) Christchurch to Los Angeles 15 hours (1 stop) Queenstown to Los Angeles 15 hours 15 minutes (1 stop) Wellington to Los Angeles 14 hours 45 minutes (1 stop) Much of LA's appeal is down to its beaches and its waves. While summer (June to August in America) is the busiest time to visit California, it's with good reason. If you want to avoid the crowds, spring and autumn are also pleasant times to visit.  If you're not worried about the coastline, the winters are milder in LA than in Auckland, meaning you can still enjoy the theme parks and shopping outlets without getting too cold.  In many respects, LA is cheaper than New Zealand. Eating out or having a drink at a bar is cheaper and public transport also tends to cost less. Accommodation varies in price, and while it's often a bit more than you'd expect to pay in NZ, it's still possible to find bargains.  Los Angeles Airport (LAX) has 9 terminals, with foreign airlines landing at the Tom Bradley International Terminal (TBIT). US airlines have dedicated terminals, such as United which exclusively uses terminals 7 and 8. All 9 terminals are connected by a shuttle bus.  Once you've cleared immigration and collected your bags, you'll be able to sample some American cuisine, take out US dollars or just head straight to the  car hire counters . LAX is 30km from Downtown LA. In a taxi, this takes 20 minutes in good traffic, but can cost as much as US$160. Uber tends to be a much cheaper alternative. Buses, while only costing a few dollars, can take an hour or more to reach the city.  LA has plenty of free museums, including the California Science Center, Griffith Observatory and Vincent Price Art Museum. The TAP card can save you money on public transport.  Find out where to get one here . You can get discounts on many attractions in LA with a GO card, which is also available as an app.  Learn more here . Worried about coping with a long-haul flight?  Read our tips to make your journey more comfortable . Find your cheap flights to Los Angeles on Skyscanner today - use the search panel above to search for the cheapest airfare and specials. Please note: all information is correct as of September, 2017. 7 km from Los Angeles International 28 km from Los Angeles International 30 km from Los Angeles International 59 km from Los Angeles International 544 km from Los Angeles International Prices shown on this page are estimated lowest prices only. Found in the last 45 days. © Skyscanner Ltd 2002-2019 