Sanidumps: RV Dump Points near Wausau Wisconsin within a radius of 20 miles (32 kms) Sponsored Links Earn $50 - $200+ per day Rent Your RV and Earn $50 - $200+ per day For Everyone For Registered Guests Only For Members Only Locations with a line through the text like this have been reported as being  Closed Welcome to the Wausau Wisconsin section of  Sanidumps.com  where you can find the location of RV  " dump stations "  or  " sani dump stations "  or  " dump points "  based on local preference. The time zone for this area is America/Chicago (CST/CDT), Wausau Wisconsin does follow daylight saving. Is there a RV dump station near Wausau Wisconsin not listed? Click to  register the RV dump station . To view a map of Wisconsin dump station click the map icon: The  recreational vehicle dump stations  listed below are approximately station from Wausau Wisconsin given 'as-the-crow-fly's' distance (direct, not by roadways, ignoring hills, mountains, waterways, ferries, etc.) and sorted by city name. * RV Dump stations near Wausau Wisconsin without GPS coordinates are not listed. To change the radius for RV dump to  40 miles (64 kms)  from Wausau Wisconsin. * Loctions listed may be available depending on the season You may be interested in these other cities/towns that are nearby Wausau Wisconsin ('as-the-crow-fly's') for RV dump stations:  Rothschild WI  (6 miles / 10 kms),  Weston WI  (7 miles / 11 kms),  Kronenwetter WI  (10 miles / 17 kms),  Merrill WI  (16 miles / 25 kms) If you find this Free website useful, please consider a small donation ($10) to help support it. Your contribution is more than a donation. Your contribution help pay for: web hosting server (small servers do not run the website anymore), https secure certificate, domain names, development support, web cache server, etc. The website is Free but the cost to run it are not. The type of  recreational vehicle dump stations  you will find on  Sanidumps.com  include: private, public, RV park, non-park, municipal, truck stop, rest stop, campground, camping, resort, commercial, pay, donation, waste disposal, and free. It is important to dispose of human waste properly when RVing. The RV dump station, dump point, or sani dump station you choose to empty your gray and black water holding tanks is up to you; we're hoping that you will choose a approved dump station location, that's green, and environmentally friendly, using a environmentally sound method. Do you need to know where to dump your holding tanks when your RV is on the road? Now you can know where the RV dump Stations are while traveling with a e-book. More information about the  RV Dump Station location  e-book. Every effort is made to ensure the accuracy of the information presented, Sanidumps.com or its management shall have neither liability nor responsibility to any person or entity with respect to any loss or damage caused, or alleged to be caused, directly or indirectly by the information contained herein. We thank all the RVers that have contributed information :-) The Sanidumps.com Team Sanidumps Submit New Location Privacy Policy Terms of Service Contact Us Serving the RV community for over 13 years Sanidumps.com - When RVs have to go...  2006 - 2019 Sanidumps.com - All rights reserved. Sanidumps.com Australia, Canada, Mexico, New Zealand, United States  &  more... 