Is  ' turn around '  right in the sentence  ' His words turned around my biggest mistake in work ' ? I didn ' t find the definition that matches this sentence. - Quora a FVEIn d Bp RaVlu b tK y HCLM bmqN D B u bvgCb c y k smM D Ylu u tRzb c xQhF k QQ G sIkjv o zkEEE The problem is that some people use the words “turns/turned around” in the sense of “ turn on ” (as in “ revolves around ” or “ focused on ” or “ centred on ”) — it makes for great ambiguity in some sentence constructions. In speech, that’s not a tremendous problem because there’s always some kind of context to make the “turns/-ed around” clear enough for understanding — but not always the case in writing. Normally,  “turn around” means  a change in direction  (literal as well as sometimes figurative). The noun  turnaround  therefore is a situation that involves some kind of reversal or change in directio... The problem is that some people use the words “turns/turned around” in the sense of “ turn on ” (as in “ revolves around ” or “ focused on ” or “ centred on ”) — it makes for great ambiguity in some sentence constructions. In speech, that’s not a tremendous problem because there’s always some kind of context to make the “turns/-ed around” clear enough for understanding — but not always the case in writing. Normally,  “turn around” means  a change in direction  (literal as well as sometimes figurative). The noun  turnaround  therefore is a situation that involves some kind of reversal or change in direction (e.g.  This is a major policy turnaround for the government; The government turned around its policy ). So that meaning doesn’t gel for your sentence  — which sounds more like the biggest mistake is being made out to be the main subject or purpose. In short, his words (or intent) are centred on that mistake more than anything else. 21,005 Views 3,317 Views 1,191 Views 5,090,754 Views 2,612 Views The original suggests that ‘ the words are turning ’; but really ‘ my mistake is turning ’ ! " His words turned around my biggest mistake in work? " His words  corrected  my biggest mistake in work " " His words  re-directed  my biggest mistake in work " " His words  fixed  my biggest mistake in work " " His words  remedied  my biggest mistake in work " " His words  turned-around  my biggest mistake in work " is better. " My biggest mistake in work was turned around by his words "  is best. … although some style gurus hate ‘ Passive Voice ’! " His words turn-around-ed my biggest mistake in work "  (I’m only joking!) ‘ at work’... The original suggests that ‘ the words are turning ’; but really ‘ my mistake is turning ’ ! " His words turned around my biggest mistake in work? " His words  corrected  my biggest mistake in work " " His words  re-directed  my biggest mistake in work " " His words  fixed  my biggest mistake in work " " His words  remedied  my biggest mistake in work " " His words  turned-around  my biggest mistake in work " is better. " My biggest mistake in work was turned around by his words "  is best. … although some style gurus hate ‘ Passive Voice ’! " His words turn-around-ed my biggest mistake in work "  (I’m only joking!) ‘ at work’  not  ‘in work ’ ? s PkuVn p N o NmxQT n M s l o YeiHk r OT e P d dABfG spXkX b KhpBT y zkaht QWZxa M xE S dAS N pnGu A turn around is a change in direction. So I’m guessing that what is meant here is that his words - his suggestion or advice perhaps - turned around (or fixed, changed the direction) of the mistake. Honestly it isn’t at all how I would express that thought. But it’s my best guess at the meaning of what is an awkward sentence. 5,090,754 Views 21,005 Views 3,317 Views 1,191 Views 297,697 Views 2,612 Views 38,670 Views 568 Views 290,787 Views 708 Views 31,508 Views 1,418 Views 425 Views 1,259 Views 12,507 Views 