Lemon-Buttermilk Ice Pops recipe | Epicurious.com reviews ( 17 ) make it again Would you make this recipe again? (for example:  Boston, MA) Tart, light, and refreshing--a perfect summer dessert. I took a cue from the previous reviews and chopped the lemon zest finely as possible. I really like lemon zest, so I didn &# x27;t mind crunching through the little bits of it, but if you &# x27;re not a huge fan of zest, I &# x27;d suggest leaving it out. Also, I made this as a sorbet instead of as popsicles. I just dumped the mixture into my ice cream maker, and it came out great! I &# x27;ll definitely be making this again. These are delicious and refreshing! I cringed when I saw lemon combinedwith buttermilk..not the case. This anamazing combination, absolutelydelicious!! Delicious! As other raters suggested, Iblended the mixture to make the pieces ofzest very small. The only reason I gave therecipe 3 forks is I actually thought it wastoo sweet. Next time I make it I will reducethe sugar. I double (or triple) this recipe and put it in the ice cream maker...one ice pop serving is never enough! yummm... perfect! I too was a little unsure of the buttermilk, but now can &# x27;t imagine the lemon without it. I used lowfat buttermilk and it was fine with fewer calories. These are unbelievable.  If my friend Nancy hadn &# x27;t told me that I should try them, I would have passed the recipe right by.  The ingredients don &# x27;t exactly look delicious, but don &# x27;t let the ingredient list throw you off.  The pops are excellent and they reminded me of key lime pie on a stick. I can &# x27;t believe that I have failedtotell ya &# x27;ll how wonderful these are!I made them quite some time ago andwas searching through my recipe boxfor this.I will be making them next weekendfor friends, they will never believehow easy and great they taste...yes,even with buttermilk in it! It is sorta gross in a filling sort of way. This recipe was simple and delicious. To avoid the problem with the  &# x27;ribbons &# x27; of peel, I grated the lemon peel and ran it through my food processor because I love the taste of lemon zest and had no problems with pieces of peel getting stuck in my teeth. These were the hit of the Fourth of July party I took them to. These were really good and simple to make. I used half the amount of buttermilk and did the other half with coconut milk - very tasty! I made these simply because I had a jug of buttermilk in the fridge and needed to use it... but WOW, were they great. I too skipped the lemon peel. I &# x27;ve also put the mixture into my ice cream mixer and it was yummy! Yummmmmmmm... we were in a hurry, and made without the lemon peel, but they were still quite lemony-- and quite delicious. Everyone loved these. My 9-year-old has made them many times since we first tried them. The buttermilk is a great taste addition. We think they &# x27;re better than lemon sorbet or sherbet. Be sure to grate peel very finely or you &# x27;ll have what my 5-year-old calls popsicles with strings. These are amazing pops! I am too totally addicted to them (I did them three times now). I did all three recipes of that section and these are by far the best ones- don &# x27;t lose your time over the blueberry ones. these are fabulous and addictive. they taste unusual, not like buttermilk. don &# x27;t think they are a good choice for younger children though, because they are quite lemony. I loved these, and my uncle said they were the best popsicle he &# x27;d ever had in his life! The kids weren &# x27;t as fond of them (it was the lemon peel, I think), but the adults really enjoyed them. Become a better cook instantly with this weekly report of our ten most helpful tips, tricks, and kitchen secrets. Don ' t miss it! Love recipes, but hate searching? We do the work for you. You ' ll get our favorite seasonal recipe plus collections of our exclusive editors '  picks. Get a daily does of the hottest recipes from Epicurious, Bon Appétit, and other great sites. ©  2019  Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement  (updated 5/25/18) and  Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement  (updated 5/25/18). Your California Privacy Rights The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. These cookies are necessary for the website to function and cannot be switched off in our systems. They are usually only set in response to actions made by you which amount to a request for services, such as setting your privacy preferences, logging in or filling in forms.    You can set your browser to block or alert you about these cookies, but some parts of the site will not then work. These cookies do not store any personally identifiable information. These cookies enable the website to provide enhanced functionality and personalisation. They may be set by us or by third party providers whose services we have added to our pages.    If you do not allow these cookies then some or all of these services may not function properly. These cookies allow us to count visits and traffic sources so we can measure and improve the performance of our site. They help us to know which pages are the most and least popular and see how visitors move around the site.    All information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous. If you do not allow these cookies we will not know when you have visited our site, and will not be able to monitor its performance. These cookies may be set through our site by our advertising partners. They may be used by those companies to build a profile of your interests and show you relevant adverts on other sites.    They do not store directly personal information, but are based on uniquely identifying your browser and internet device. If you do not allow these cookies, you will experience less targeted advertising. These cookies are set by a range of social media services that we have added to the site to enable you to share our content with your friends and networks. They are capable of tracking your browser across other sites and building up a profile of your interests. This may impact the content and messages you see on other websites you visit.    If you do not allow these cookies you may not be able to use or see these sharing tools. The collection of information about your use of the content, and combination with previously collected information, used to measure, understand, and report on your usage of the service. This does not include personalisation, the collection of information about your use of this service to subsequently personalise content and/or advertising for you in other contexts, i.e. on other service, such as websites or apps, over time. The collection of information, and combination with previously collected information, to select and deliver advertisements for you, and to measure the delivery and effectiveness of such advertisements. This includes using previously collected information about your interests to select ads, processing data about what advertisements were shown, how often they were shown, when and where they were shown, and whether you took any action related to the advertisement, including for example clicking an ad or making a purchase. This does not include personalisation, which is the collection and processing of information about your use of this service to subsequently personalise advertising and/or content for you in other contexts, such as websites or apps, over time. The storage of information, or access to information that is already stored, on your device such as advertising identifiers, device identifiers, cookies, and similar technologies. The collection of information, and combination with previously collected information, to select and deliver content for you, and to measure the delivery and effectiveness of such content. This includes using previously collected information about your interests to select content, processing data about what content was shown, how often or how long it was shown, when and where it was shown, and whether the you took any action related to the content, including for example clicking on content. This does not include personalisation, which is the collection and processing of information about your use of this service to subsequently personalise content and/or advertising for you in other contexts, such as websites or apps, over time. The collection and processing of information about your use of this service to subsequently personalise advertising and/or content for you in other contexts, such as on other websites or apps, over time. Typically, the content of the site or app is used to make inferences about your interests, which inform future selection of advertising and/or content. Back Button Back Search Icon Filter Icon Clear Fliters All Consent Allowed 3 Purposes Arrow Consent Purposes Location Based Ads Consent Allowed Legitimate Interest Purposes Personalize Features Location Based Ads 