The King in Love - AsianWiki googletag.cmd.push(function() { googletag.display('div-gpt-ad-1431704070868-0'); }); Current user rating:  86  (3720 votes) You didn ' t vote on this yet. // // Drama series is set during the Kingdom of Goryeo. Won ( Im Si-Wan ) is a crown prince of Goryeo. He has a pretty appearance, but he also has a lust for conquest. He is best friends with Wang Rin ( Hong Jong-Hyun ) who comes from a royal family and is his bodyguard. Beautiful Eun San ( Yoona ) appears in front of the two young men. She is the daughter of the richest man. The three become good friends, but things change after Wang Won and Wang Rin both fall in love with Eun San. Additional Cast Members: Source:  TNS Media Korea & AGB Nielson  Name (required)  Mail (required but will not be published)  Website S.O.S signal aka Fans EXIT Dec 17 2019 7:47 am Why they not follow basic form Novel ????? Maybe ending will good if pd nim and pd writer follow 100% form novel !!! so, Dec 05 2019 6:11 pm I was crying so hard in the last few episodes. amazing how this drama made me really like a crybaby. god, help me. everytime I heard that ending ost my heart clumpred.this is good for those of you who are looking for a super sense of sorrow, pain, misery, frustration and confusion. man, no joke, the feels is very lasting even after a long time. Halla Dec 01 2019 5:59 am Finally, the second character win ? I really love it and the end was unexpected!!! Good job veah Nov 24 2019 10:12 pm it was totally a sad ending for the king .my heart broke at the finale i've even teared .but this k-drama are quiet excellent Jeanie Sep 03 2019 1:11 am I re-watched this drama in 2019 and understand it so much better the second time around. For those who didn't like it just because there was no happy ending for Wang Won -- too bad. History did not end that way. For those who say Wang Lin was the worst kind of friend -- think again. Towards the end after the death of the Queen, her family from Yuan came to find out the truth behind her death. And also the anonymous order for the armies at the border to get ready for war, endorsed with the gold seal. The King, in his delirium, had lost the gold seal and he (or Wang Won) would have had to face the in-laws in Yuan with a good explanation of who made the order and why it was made. Master Lee made a suggestion to Wang Lin that someone with the potential to become a Crown Prince should take the fall as the leader of the anti-Yuan group. Wang Lin sacrificed his good position in life to take the fall so that the King or Wang Won would not be blamed. A story was then created that Wang Lin was found to be a traitor, and that he was eventually killed. In actual truth, he gave up his life comforts to become a nomad without a proper home or base or family. He was taken off the family register. Wang Lin could not have made a bigger sacrifice for his friend, Wang Won. If anything, he was the best type of friend for a Crown Prince who had nobody. And for the Crown Princess' sake, Eun San took herself far away from the Crown Prince. She too, could have lived a comfortable life with all the riches her father had left her. Coreen Aug 10 2019 11:01 am Seems most people having watched this drama doesn't seem to realize that Won is a self absorbed, spoiled, prince used to being able to get everything he wants.San is an independent, but deeply hurt woman (by her mothers death), deciding to go on her own adventures instead of becoming a mans "decoration".In most K-dramas the person contending for the "heroines" love is portrayed as a person she hardly can stand. It makes the plot become so judgmental.Reality is not black and white. Most of the time it's just different shades of grey... Mimi Jul 07 2019 5:51 am I had set aside this drama for nearly two years and I'm glad I finally came back to finish it. Although there were many points throughout the drama where I was overly frustrated by interactions between key characters and bad decisions that were made, I ended up being content with the way things turned out in the end. Apparently a lot of people hated the ending, and I might have been in the same boat had I not done my own research and learned the true historical events surrounding Siwan's character, Wang Won. The drama stayed true to many real historical events, and because of this I understand why the writer's had things play out in particular ways that broke the k-drama formula and upset many viewers that wanted a typical happily ever after. I, for one, was very excited to have finally found a drama that isn't predictable and kept me on my toes throughout the whole 20 episodes. The pacing was good, and I only wish they had flushed out the relationships between some of the other supporting characters a bit better. Eh Eh Eh Mar 29 2019 9:06 am Me as Yoona fans ... I'm waiting this drama before THEK2 , And i cannot believe plot this drama so so so BAD !!!! People blame Yoona make this drama look Bad even PD WRITER make this drama look Bad !!! Seriously This pd writer so ...... :( Kdrama fans Jan 27 2019 6:58 am I love this drama. Really hope San with Rin from episod 19. Because they have good chemistry together. Rin also is a loyal person. I expect the ending has more scenes of San and Rin live together happily and the new king (won) get a baby to make him happy with his life too. Tiff Jan 27 2019 5:22 am I watched this because of Siwan. And now. I’m regretting it so much. I shouldn’t have watched this. I’m so confused about who so hwa really loves. Who weighs more between the two? I tried to figure it out. But I honestly don’t know the answer. Although I don’t like the story, the two scenarios that i’ve really likeis that when the crown prince slayed that bitch! And when the king and crown prince played the baduk. That’s it! The rest? It was so-so. It was dragging but i tried my best to finish it. Siwan-ah. Fighting! Me who is me Jan 06 2019 5:28 am Good all cast ... But really BAD about STORY  !!! Sorry to say pd writer this drama is so Bad ... Lhot Sep 28 2018 5:30 am I like the story ade nampak mammy happy Aug 25 2018 1:02 pm I like Yoona fight scene in this drama ... Even using hanbok dress but she doing great job !! Yoona i wish you will have action drama .. Fighting scene .. Wang Yo the Scarlet Heart. Aug 22 2018 4:46 am I Do Cherish You... ❤️ Hong Jong-Hyun Miss Noona Jun 30 2018 5:26 pm I miss friendship between Won , Rin and San .. Cute when three of you guyss .. In real life too , Siwan , Hjh and Yoona so miss all three main character sagar pat Jun 18 2018 1:38 pm A very good drama but the ending is the worst I have ever seen, ever !!! I saw this drama till the end only for Siwan (King Wang Won), I really hate Yoona (Eun San) she has a role that makes her look like a stupid girl who doesn't know what she wants and Hong Jong Hyun (Wang Rin) is the worst friend ever. prettykr May 22 2018 3:13 am it's beautiful korean drama and had so many twists and event but some events are not good because the one who did bad things didn't punished, it's needed to be punished and it's not simple crime that they do. the character of Wang Jeon, Song In, Song Bang-Young, Ok Boo Yong and Moo Suk .i thought they will suffer till the end. I really really sad , I thought Eun San will marry Wang Won because eun san is the daughter of the richest man (Eun Young-Baek) and wang won will not marry Wang Dan because wang won is scared of the father Wang Dan..that not valid... i thought also Eun Young-Baek is have more power to the king , how come she didn't help her daughter to be with wang won.... This is a disappointment drama... In some episode are good but later on you will stop it.... kid May 02 2018 10:57 am (SPOILER) I'm always asking for justice for second leads and now, I finally managed to achieved it. Rin ended up with San, I should be happy because I am shipping the both of them and I want them to be together. I don't know... but I find myself crying when I saw Won at the last episode. Simona May 01 2018 7:51 am A very good drama but the ending is the worst I have ever seen, ever !!! I saw this drama till the end only for Siwan (King Wang Won), I really hate Yoona (Eun San) she has a role that makes her look like a stupid girl who doesn't know what she wants and Hong Jong Hyun (Wang Rin) is the worst friend ever. I'm sad Apr 05 2018 2:09 pm Why? why you do this to me? for the last 10 episodes I only cried... it was so heartbreaking. I couldn't watch that. I hate how crown prince is so lonely. I still think Lin was mean to him... he shouldn't have turn him into a fool like that. omg Seri Mar 30 2018 3:29 pm I loved this drama so much but z ending is so annoying how could san end up with rin won is so pitful overall this drama was great BoChi Mar 29 2018 1:06 pm The whole drama was such an emotional roller coaster. For once they focus on friendship more than romance and I love it! The characters were believable and enjoyable to watch. Also, the main character, Won's maturation over time was spectacular! Yes, the ending was different but so mature and beautiful. A must-watch title!  < 3 urose29 Mar 04 2018 10:59 am At last i found it!!!At the first time i watch this drama, Again i feel syndrome second lead. From all drama that i watched, it always male lead will be together with female lead although the second lead has better chemistry with female lead. But when i watch this drama it like read my mind and follow my heart to choose second lead better together with female lead. Im very happy and satisfy with this story ending. I love it  :) marie Feb 11 2018 8:31 pm i think also that this is also has a terrible ending....im sorry for giving a low rating... marie Feb 11 2018 8:14 pm i should have have research the comment here before i watch this drama my heart sore to see wang won in the end...i feel bad after watching this drama. i cant get over it. i cant sleep for a night.....omg Akosilhot Feb 09 2018 7:03 pm I like this drama Oh Serin Feb 08 2018 4:34 am i love im siwan to the moon and back that's why I watched this drama, but after the 20th episode i dropped it because San was becoming too fickle about her feelings. People are saying that the drama has an open end so I did my own research and even found out San really ended up with Rin even in the novel, so they were bound to fall in love and Won was bound to learn how much he can give up for the people he loves. That alone is deep, but I don't think I can watch him losing everything. It's just too sad. rim Feb 07 2018 12:07 am Better for pepole supporting Siwan not to watch. Because it is not a better ending for siwan. He sacrificed many things for Eun San and supported her but she loves Rin. It is such a waste of time. This is the first drama i felt so much disappointed. Mili Feb 05 2018 7:59 am Cool kdrama but.......the ending?? I didn't like the ending!!!! Oti Jan 25 2018 11:41 pm Absolutey hated it. San set herself up for misery. And Wang Rin is selfish asf, especially his family. San gave up her whole family, for what? So Wang Rins family can all survive, and get what they want? Who effing cares about what happens to Rins sister. Idk how many times San sacrifice her happiness for Rin and his sister! WTF!!!! The only one who was always selfless was the crown prince. I feel so bad for him. Lost his friend/brother, his mother, and the love of his life. This is straight up an depressing story. And then show made it seem like a happy ending kist to piss us off. Like the prince was content with his life after losing all of his support. WASTE OF TIME! DONT WATCH!!! Zinky Jan 24 2018 5:29 am SPOILERS I think the whole drama was misunderstood by a lot of people. It was an open ended drama in which people are free to think who the girl ended up with. For me, she may have left with Wang Lin, however, it is not said that she stayed with her. I think the scene in which Wang Lin admitted that he should have never love San, and promised that he will never touch her again made me convinced that he gave up on her because he lusted for another man's woman. Also, after several months, Wang Won stepped down as a King and is free to love whoever he loves. And, Eun San stayed at Goryeo waiting for her true love, Won. Ja Jan 22 2018 9:34 pm @Jameng... we have the same sentiments.. I am watching this drama because of Siwan but when I read the reviews saying that he will not be with the woman she loves so much I got disappointed that I stopped watching it...Sorry but I am hopeless romantic...I had second lead syndrome when I watched Hwarang..The second lead loved the girl so much but can't have her... Sara Jan 21 2018 7:26 am @Cutemals It's a period drama set in the ancient time. You can't really expect for a happy ending especially when the lead character is a historical figure Cutemals Jan 16 2018 10:59 pm Terrible ending. The worst kdrama ending I’ve ever seen. ? Season 2 Jan 16 2018 11:18 am Season 2 please!!! ria Jan 14 2018 9:02 am hong jong hyun~ because of his role here, i am suffering from second lead syndrome agaaaaaaiiiinnn. haha. At first, i don't like him, because of his character in Scarlet Heart, but he is such a good actor. Fighting oppa! Laliya Jan 10 2018 1:36 am This is the first time I'm having second lead syndrome because of Wang Rin. He deserves the lady he loves. Lee Seohwa Jan 09 2018 12:57 pm Isn't Siwan's character name was Wang Jang...?I think he's a next King before his father though... I don't think he is Wang Won, Wang Jang was next before Chungnyeol.... Jameng Jan 09 2018 1:15 am Actually I don't want spoilers, but I accidentally read the reviews here. I was a bit disappointed knowing that the male lead and female are not together in the end. Although I like Wang Rin as a friend IIike more Wang Won. He is so cute and charming and I super love him. I'm on episode 6 now and I don't think I will be able to finish this knowing that the ending will not satisfy me LOL. Ps. This series is the reason why I knew Siwan. I love his character attitude here. He's so gentleman, cute, kind, and his love for Eun San is so true that he will do everything. You will actually fall inlove with these two because of how they express their love towards each other. And somehow I wish their happy ending. But Whyyyyy?!?!? Bah Jan 06 2018 4:42 am I like the way the story ends. True friendship indeed. Even the ending is a bit sad. It is very satisfying. The flow of the story is unpredictable it made me excite, sad, and happy in ever plot twist. At first I was rooting for Wang Won and Eun San because they are adorable. But when the story goes on I shipped to Eun San and Wang Rin they’re suit for each other they have the chemistry I can’t explain, I guess they are more matured. Anyway the story is absolutely impressive! Thanks Gshwheyege Dec 30 2017 6:46 am I am rooting for RinSan from the start... But for I don't know reason, I cried so bad in the ending. I want a continuation, not for RinSan to have more detailed happy ending but for the three of them to be reunited. I strongly hate stories that the lead actress oppose a good relationship between two good friends, but I hated this more. I want the both of them staying beside Won... This is just sad, not for the lead actor not having his girl, but this is sad for the reason that he can't have both of the girl and his friend. lyka Dec 30 2017 2:09 am i love this drama and am happy because rin and san are together in the end of this drama., Hsoo Dec 28 2017 2:11 am Choo Soo Hyun looks like a gold fish. She has bulging eyes like the gold fish dat will pop out anytime and has very thick lips like the gold fish too. keightie Dec 21 2017 3:54 pm now on ep 36, im sorry but i cant ship the female lead and the 2nd lead....I just feel bad for the male lead. At least he was honest and showed his friend that he interested in the female lead and while the 2nd lead try to get the girl behind his back. More so while trying to save him from the charges he was supposed to get. I also didnt like that the girl cant make up her mind and was leading the male lead. keightie Dec 21 2017 9:23 am on ep 22 now, been reading the comment...im not really bother abt the spoiler. But I cant seem to see any chemistry between the the female lead and the male leads. I can feel the bromance but nt the romance. momodrama Dec 19 2017 12:17 am I'm all in for the ending! from the very beginning I fell in love with San and Rin's plot. They had more chemistry, all in honestly Rin do sooooo much for San. Won was sweet but I felt he was too possessive and obsessive that it was kind of sick to watch. While Rin he never made San uncomfortable or like made her do things she didn't want to do. He simply loved her reminds me of YoonSung from Love in the Moonlight. I need more love and relationship like these in drama. the whole drama was just alright. I felt like the writer had way too many ideas uggghh Dec 13 2017 8:16 pm i wanna watch this for Siwan but upon knowing he won't get the girl, I just don't have the heart to watch T_T Kylex Anderson Dec 03 2017 3:29 am Wow, looking at the reviews, I guess I must be the only one who was actually satisfied with the ending. I actually liked the second lead waayyy better than the first. Initially I was disappointed he was second (he seems to always be a secondary character). So I was happy the lead female ended with the second male. It makes more sense. The lead is a king, back in those days he would have had to have concubines, you are ok with the lead female having to share. That's just sad. And another point is that I was getting rather tired of leads always ending up together, when the seconds are written to be much better people sometimes. When you see the same thing in every drama its gets rather tiring, hence why this was refreshing. I originally expected the leads to end up together, but I am glad I was proven wrong. Now if only other dramas would take note Yooona Dec 01 2017 3:35 pm I love Yoona character in this drama better K2 .. Coz in K2 many people still talk shit about Yoona character ... In this drama character Yoona as San so much strong :) She know how to protect her sellf , She have a great idea , Everthing character Yoona in this drama a STRONG .. And i miss my Trio ... WON , RIN , SAN !! Can't see them at Mbc Drama Award 2017 ?? I wish MBC not cancel MBC DRAMA AWARD THIS YEAR ! Mori Nov 26 2017 2:07 pm I dunno why .. But in this drama just love friendship this Trio WonRinSan :) And at the same time dont like how this drama ending !!: Madeleine Nov 24 2017 6:34 pm I did a lot of fast forward - the pace was too slow for me, too much eyes following expressions and to much flash backs in a confusing way. New knew if you are watching middle, beginning or end. I was shipping San and Rin though, just liked Rin so much better...... so I felt she got the better deal. And won't have to share hubby with his harem of noble girlfriends. evelyn Nov 20 2017 3:58 am OMG!!!! I just finish the drama!!!! The ending is so sad!!!!! I cried so much!!!! I love the ending, but it so sad!!!! Love it!!! Zel Nov 19 2017 8:41 pm Refreshing drama! Both guys are cute. But i feel sad about wang won. I like him more from the very beginning because he's cute and funny, making this story full of life. The Ending Was Good, Don't Be Confused Oct 27 2017 4:11 pm Please, don't be confused. The ending is great! It's not happy or satisfying,i agree that. It's a bitter sweet ending. But, If you're more into plot than cast, you'll love it! Don't let the other negative comments bother you and give it a chance. Thank you! GorgeousGirl Oct 27 2017 12:16 pm Siwan might not be present on MBC drama awards 2017 but he deserves such big award for his outstanding performance in The King in Love. Ella Oct 20 2017 3:24 pm worst drama ending EVER !!! love the story but hate the ending with all my heart :( come_on Oct 17 2017 6:48 am song jina good joob ??? seriously !! wth !!! plot crazy ... ABC Oct 17 2017 3:28 am I agree, this is a refreshing drama. Good job Song Jina and team. Too bad the rating doesn't show how good it is. Kdrama lover, quite the opposite for me, I like it after episode 18. And SoHwa/EunSan was shown to be smarter and smarter in the end. It is refreshing because it is complex and has multi-dimensional characters, the good guys are not completely good, the bad guys are not completely bad, the stupid guy turned out to be not so stupid...Because of these, it takes a while to set up in the beginning, so it may seem it was going nowhere at first. Not all love stories have to be love at first sight and soulmate to the end of time. And even the ending makes sense for me. Such is the life of a person responsible for the whole country. As much as I totally love Moonlight and Park Bo Gum, I play dumb and believe it is possible for a king to marry a terrorist /rebel's daughter.Scarlet Heart was good. But more people prefer happy dopey ending, so they stay away from it. Kdrama lover Oct 16 2017 7:46 am The writer makes Yoona looks dumb in this drama....The series is actually good but become unpleasant from episode 18... angel Oct 14 2017 1:26 am i love this drama ever.. tattiee Oct 07 2017 5:54 am I love the drama. Keep it up guys I also gained some ideas I'm a student studying film, radio and television production so it helped me a lot.... THANK YOU! nana Oct 06 2017 10:46 pm If you are looking for new type of k drama then definitely go for it. Its totally worth to watch because it is different than most of the similar type of k drama. Its unique interesting and exciting to watch. Crazy about Siwan :* Oct 06 2017 3:22 am If I have to give a note to The King Loves, I will give an 8,7 for the beginning and an 3,5 for the ending...this shows how strong I was disappointed about the end, sad and unnecessary endding T_T fossette Oct 04 2017 10:54 pm i love the drama and the actors but i feel sorry for siwan for not having yoon-ah in the story.i cried for this touching story about the three stars. :) Yola Dove Oct 04 2017 6:45 pm This drama was so completely refreshing! I fell in love with all of the characters! The sets were amazing! The story line kept me guessing and took me off guard at times. The chemistry between the actors really warmed me while their characters storylines unfolded. I was glad that it was not the cliche 'formula' that most Korean Dramas fall into. I know that so many tend to like KDramas because they are predictable but that is one of the main things I hate about them. You want something different then this is it! And I LOVED the ending! Everything that I had hoped for in many other drams but never got! After watching so many disappointing KDramas that had the same thing over and over this is now going to be one of my faves! I cannot wait to watch it again! febria Oct 03 2017 9:19 am Best drama ever. Beautiful friendship. It is unpredictable. It's definitely unforgettable drama. Im Siwan, Im Yoona, and Hong Jonghyun, you did it. and good job for the writer. I’ve also just rewatched for the 4th times. Arihant Oct 03 2017 6:29 am Strange that these lame bad ending shows are getting made.Hope they would have learned the lesson from "scarlet heart" flop show (everyone and their mom knew the bad ending and many stayed away from a show which was beautifully shot,had a super performance from Lee Jun Ki and had superb looking stars throughout.Case in point-love in the moonlight won over viewers with their touching love story and cute stars and had a happy and for it's protagonists The show is a missed opportunity as Goryeo is far more interesting than bland Joseon era stories.I loved the writer's last Goryeo era show "Faith" which created a happy ending superbly! You can't pull a fast one on viewers with titles like "The King loves" and make the second lead be the hero.I am not opposing tragedies (we still love Romeo and Juliet) but writer should give basic respect to viewers intelligence.Also have not seen any recent sad end/hero losing the girl drama to be successful in recent times. Hope better sense prevails going forward! eugene Oct 01 2017 11:26 am Thanks for the good drama, MBC. I love the story and the actors  &  actresses so much. The king loves... sure there's so many loves included. Loves for a friends, for the girl, for the family, for the country. All in one package. That's what am i looking for.For those who said this drama is bad, i do respect for your opinions. Everyone have a different taste or type for anything. But for those peoples who really hate a predictable stories, give it a try. Nothing to lose, guys. drama-critic Sep 30 2017 1:34 pm I watched it because of siwan but I really can't stand Yoona's acting so I dropped it in the after 5 episodes -___- Alan Walker Sep 30 2017 1:43 am Yeahh .. I dunno why !! Still unhappy ending this drama .. Plot this drama make this drama become broke , weak , boring , worth .. Seriously .. I need new writer nim ... Sorry . . YongGi Sep 29 2017 5:24 pm This drama is worth watching.I watched it even if I got spoiled (by the Youtube comments, be careful). It is unpredictable. The characters are fashionably dressed which is nice to see lol.For me it is like the Whisper(drama) of Goryeo because it is a melodrama with intense political issues. The ending is not disappointing as I oppose the couple who ended tgt, it is just realistic. beautiful_ghost Sep 29 2017 3:23 am I just finished watching this drama and for me, it was very amazing and I definitely recommend it. The plot is very different from most of the dramas that I have watched. The 3 main characters really did well in their acting. Actually, everyone played their part very well. Maybe there were just some parts that seem to be unnecessary for the plot(specifically in the episodes before the ending) but overall it was a beautiful drama. The beginning got me really hooked and it was very light and happy but the ending got me to tears T.T.. But it wasn't a bad ending at all, for me that is what the writer is trying to tell us and it was well delivered.For those who haven't watch it yet or still in the middle of watching it, I advise you to watch it till the end. The ending scenes are really good. jayaibe Sep 28 2017 6:50 am I don't know why many people told that this drama is waste of time.It was great for me.I was so excited to know who San(Yoonah) would end up.And this drama makes me so in love with Hong Jong Hyun,he is great actor,he was 3rd prince from Moon lover who was so cruel but in this drama,he's different.He can sue me that he's so nice and love San so deeply. All I want to say is this drama is a new storyline from others that you never know(but can guess) that who will Yoonah end up with.But you will know when you consider that who treat the girl the best and the girl acts honestly how she feels.There's the one the girl love,and the one who is just a friend. Spoiler drama Sep 28 2017 12:57 am Spoiler drama worst ending, only few people like this drama yhats why it has very low ratings and unpopular within national a and international too.... waste of time bebo Sep 27 2017 3:24 am I watched this drama till end was solely because of Yoona and Jong Hyun oppa. I shipped them together since the early episodes (or maybe because I just dont see highly of Siwan and his character in the drama). But it wasnt right. The conflict and causes are just so unreal, the problems arise from things that are too contrived. I really love the couple, the friendship, but, well, I dont think this is it. Ive never been this disappointed to waste my time for watching 40 (or 20 in comparation to regular drama) drama episodes. I watched many dramas which have sad ending but Im still satisfied with them. I also understand very much how in historical dramas there are many people die. But this isnt it. I hope Yoona will be more selective of her next drama offering. Yoona fighting!!Maybe some of you still love this drama, but well, we have our own perspective and preference. I respect that.For those who havent watch the drama you may try it, but I personally suggest you to just stop when you cant get the feel until the half of the dramas. And if you are curious about the ending just read the spoiler rather than watching the remaining episodes. Liz Sep 24 2017 10:11 am To all those commenters who said they don't like the story at all or they hate the ending. I highly respect that. But I do hope you broaden your perspective on how the story goes. And for those who are reading comments first before watching, please do watch this. I rarely watch historical drama. Why? Because I effin' know it will break my heart multiple times. But I can't help but to watch this mainly because of the actors/acresses on this drama. So why not? I was testing the waters and eventually got hooked by this. I won't spoil. I promise! :) I saw different kinds if love here. Not only love for the money, ambition and power but also love for the country, friends and most specially for the family. Which are common in a story. But I was deeply moved on how the story shown what a real "SELFLESS LOVE" is. Some may question Won's sexuality or gender towards Rin. BUT IT IS NOT THAT. It just shows how deep their friendship is and what they are willing to sacrifice for one another. I don't know if you experienced that kind of friendship, but someone or somebody did. And I know they will understand the kind of relationship Won and Rin have. I may sound biased with my comment because I am. I can't express how much I love this drama. I know this is impossible but if I can thank each staff and crew for a job well done, I will. No regrets on waiting every week for this. I have learned a lot of lesson from this drama. Two thumbs up! Ems Sep 23 2017 7:31 pm The ending is just perfect for the story. Great lesson. Some will appreciate it while others not. For me it is perfect and a must watch drama. I've been fan of the cast most specially SIWAN. They all portrayed their roles perfectly. I want to see Siwan in more dramas after his military service. Two thumbs up. Rin  &  San Sep 23 2017 1:32 am For me, this drama is uniq and have a good plot..I dont know why people always hurt when the one that they want as couple will not happen.. Just people didnt see the whole picture of the story.. I really like the ending that unpredictable just like reply 1988...Still this was the best drama and of my favorite drama..We can see the beauiful friendship and beautifull love story...Thanks writer nim for a good script and wonderfull drama..Keep it up.. fighthing on your next project. medical approach Sep 21 2017 9:35 am This would have been the best I ever watched but they hurt my heart and white expectation when they make San fall in live with Lin.wat such nonsense . I hate this film with all my heart .I would rather wait till people comment film next time before I watch kdrama. The film actors were good don't get me wrong .but the story line doesn't make sense. Whoever u want to make as lead ,let the lead lead the love not the second lead. Nonsense Grey Sep 21 2017 4:56 am I think the writer's intention is to leave the readers/watchers hanging. This is so sad. Im in so much pain. ? lin love san Sep 20 2017 10:55 pm i love this drama... and super happy because lin and san are together... This is the wonderful drama ever. KDramaLoverGirl Sep 20 2017 8:49 pm I'm in so much pain. I have watched this kdrama with all sorts of emotions: frustration, love, happiness, sadness, tears coming out of my eyes, anger...Please dont proceed to read on if you havent watched or finished this drama..... After watching the end all i can say is I can feel Won, Rin and San's emotions. Feelings of longing to see Rin and San and reunite with them...reuniting with your first love and your best friend in the whole world. Hesitating to leave because you dont want to leave a friend alone..I just can't T_______T I feel like I lost a best friend or a lover. This drama got me feeling all sorts of emotions atm. Someone mentioned in the comments that, "The best part about this ending is its not about RinXSan but its more about RinxWonxSan because they all wanted to keep their friendship forever." I dont know if I can handle watching another kdrama anymore haha...Its too good...when it ends it leaves me feeling sad and empty. This song nails everything ...The Title: The King Loves....The Ending...Damn, good job to the writers of this song and story, producers, singers, actors/actresses...everyone...Thankyou for making me feel like I can relate and feel the characters' feelings... < 3﻿ Yoona Sep 20 2017 3:15 pm Wow! Bia Sep 20 2017 3:14 pm This was a wonderful drama. I was being misled about the ending by some comments here. I'm glad i finished this drama till the end. The friendship between the trio was restored. The love was also alive. The person whom Eun San loved, she was with him in the end. I don't agree that it was an open ending. The ending was very clear. It was a drama with a satisfying end. I recommend this drama to all. I'd rate this drama 8/10. Have a good day! :) Cathy Sep 20 2017 2:28 pm This is perfect drama I strongly recommend to watch. A very touching story about friendships and loves between the three main characters. Please do not be miss lead by the comments. Most people are just confuse between friendship and loveship. Anyway, it is obvious enough. Trust me, you will enjoy it. PhiLL Sep 20 2017 8:48 am By reading all the comments on the final episodes, I think, I dont want to watch this. Will delete all the recordings. I want to want such a bad story anon Sep 20 2017 8:48 am look, i don't know what y'all are complaining for, they based it off the book almost accurately, the didn't change it up so she ended up with a different person other than rin. yes there were things left out like won's bisexuality but that's an uncomfortable topic in korea. yes, san did confess she liked him, she also said she had no choice, meaning friendship, yall like your friends don't you? just because she says 'like', it doesn't mean romantically. either way, with her actions, she indeed loves rin, it did bother me that it never came out of her mouth though. but the drama overall was executed nicely with a clean ending. the acting was well done, good job to the actors ! i recommend the drama for those who are open minded. Kamryn Sep 20 2017 6:26 am Sooo I had second lead syndrome all the way until it ended and I'm so confused ... like does she choose rin or won ? Madii Sep 20 2017 5:48 am Best ending ever  < 3 Nhr Sep 20 2017 2:29 am San confessed that she likes Won.. Why must she choose Wang Lin? Really hate the ending.. Rhyss ikram, dr Sep 20 2017 12:01 am What a waste. Great acting by siwan.. yoona was ok too. The ending....oh my...have never like story that delves on triangle love where everyone is equally nice... it is too saddening...Hmmm....let's just move on... can't wait for the next story- 20th century boy  &  girl... Bring it on.. Miss Lee Sep 19 2017 11:30 pm hate the ending.... Yumi Sep 19 2017 12:09 pm Cast good(just Yoona and Siwan)but writer and sceneraio is so bad :( Vie Sep 19 2017 8:39 am Woah a happy biding for wang Rin and San but not so for the crown prince huhu. Sad but loved the drama RinSan or None Sep 19 2017 5:34 am Guys.. This is ridiculous! Why can't they choose the second male lead instead of the main lead? This usually happens in all kdramas but i thought this drama will have an unexpected ending. Even in school 2015, just like another person here commented, they did it wrong. That was the main reason i stopped watching that drama. I'll be so frustrated if they don't end up together. This is unbelievable! fagoj Sep 19 2017 2:28 am The next thing is now is they will find a way to eliminate Dan (crown princess) maybe evil Song in will kill her before RinWon arrives to the scene thus opening a way for WonSan in the last two episodes. Since the prince needs a crown princess, its obviously San but that will be spoiler. Rin will now act as if nhe did all wrong by loving San. Love is never wrong and it doesn't have class. Everyone can love anyone irrespective of any situation. He even saw the girl first. He knew who she was first. The respect and everything. He totally deserves her. For those of you saying won has suffered, who hasn't?. All three has. Rin left his whole life to be loyal to him. Those saying he shouldn't keep secrets from him..he is a crown prince for goodness sake and there are things he shouldn't know for his own sake. He just had to trust his 7 year friend. That's it. Finally, Rin was also the first to confess his feelings for San even if he did that to save her we all know he was being sincere at that moment. So he wasn't any fool. I love that guy even as a guy. He had everything, love, loyalty, respect. Kudos to him. fagoj Sep 19 2017 2:12 am RinSan or end this as three good friends we all loved from the onset. Why would the lead characters always end up with the girl. Posters, cast arrangement..these things already says it all even before we start watching. These guys should try something new. This is exactly what happened in school 2015. Even the couple award was between Kim so hyun and yook sung jae (the 2nd lead male). Grow up kdrama film makers. fagoj Sep 19 2017 1:58 am K-dramas always have a way of suppressing the unknown characters and making the known ones shine. Both loves the girl but the appropriate end will be to leave them three as all friends. It will be very unjust if the writer neglects the fact that San loved Lin first and ends with Wonsan. How can they twist the whole scenario by making San confess to liking won in these useless 2 episodes. The queen saw she loved Lin, san's dad too, even San showed he loves Lin then why did she confess to liking won in this episode. She would also be going against the last wish of the father besides won already has a wife he should be faithful to. I would prefer LinSan but I know these biased Korean writers will go for the more popular siwan. The best would still be for them to end as three good friends. That's it. Won san Sep 19 2017 1:32 am Won san always or hate the drama.....b ween Sep 19 2017 12:28 am hrmm..me want WON❤SAN... Rin is ALIVE Sep 18 2017 10:12 am Wow! So happy today.....!!!!! Vern Sep 18 2017 5:57 am Great drama! Must watch! ❤❤❤ B Sep 18 2017 12:57 am Still recovering from the episodes last week but can't wait for the next episodes at the same time ㅋㅋㅋㅋ . This historical drama is really daebakkkkkkkkk! I love the chemistry of the trio! Thumbs up to this Kdrama ❤ Zea Sep 17 2017 4:40 am Won❤san if they dont end ill hate this drama more then any in kdrama Two Last Days Of Drama Sep 16 2017 2:56 pm Oh.. Just two more days and this drama will end. I'm crying just think about it!! Friendship Sep 16 2017 1:17 pm So sad this drama will ending soon :-( I dunno why still cant choose WonSan or RinSan ! I just love this trio :-) I'm sick drama love triangle , This Trio so much have strong and great chemistery on screen and off screen ! nidhi Sep 16 2017 9:23 am Rin wake up for San now its the finale you need to keep your promise ---whatever it takes and wherever you are I will follow you.........Love wang Rin. .....WANG RIN AND EunSan forever. Azzaleah Sep 16 2017 3:03 am I love Wang Rin Uckezzy Sep 16 2017 2:59 am Am still recovering from the last 2 episode. .Please make San stick with Rin,I love those two.I just sense that it will be a bad ending but please don't make like that of Scarlet Heart.. Alya Sep 16 2017 12:53 am This is really one of the best kdrama that ive ever watch!! The storyline, ost are daebakk!! I cant wait for this drama every monday !! Ahhh And i fall in love with wang rin!! I wish i have someone like him. To those who said bitter abt this drama, must be dumb. Anyway i am TeamRinSan since forever!! Jay Sep 16 2017 12:41 am Short note to apologize for my misspelling and what seems poor grammar. I am typing too fast. I try to make be clearer in my comments in the future, and I do love reading everybody's comments too! Thank you everyone!!! Jay Sep 15 2017 11:13 pm I want to share the positives about this drama and there are many! First off the story line is unusual to see a crown prince being the grandson to the Great Emperor, of course the Queen is the daughter of the Emperor that whole dynamic is WONDERFUL!!! To see the King have to consider what the "Emperor" may think is very cool to watch... on that is another good point if ALL THE DRAMA going on... A plot to get rid of them King and install a new crown prince, the below the surface feelings these two men the crown prince and his friend Rin nothing locing they same girl, yes the tension is exetremely high. I was critical of Yoona's acting but at times she does have me convinced she is San. Like I said is my last review, I may be more favorable towards this drama as it moves on and lately WOW, I won't give anything away but WOW stuff is happening at a fast pace... So hold on... A great fan of Historical and Period Dramas, Jay kby Sep 15 2017 6:15 pm Aren't there only 2 more episodes left? 4 35min episodes? I srsly cried when Won did that to Rin. x'O Won is so ignorant! It comes with a position of power! That's why i never shipped him with San.Won got San's parents killed. Rin was stupid to believe those people around the king, but Won refuses to listen to ANYONE! He's taken captive almost everyone! He didn't allow San to pass through with the antidote. He also told her that if she were to say anything, he'd kill Rin. He's horrible! And Selfish!And well, in the end, he's gonna feel shitty because he's gonna realize that he killed his best friend who was never against him (I hope Rin doesn't die though~!) X'O P.S. I really hope San finds out that it was because of Won that her mother had no chance of living! Diasskun Sep 15 2017 5:55 pm Damn! I love chemistry between Rin and San.Both love each other, San realize her feelings towards Rin is LOVE.San feels sad, When Rin told her that he save her because order from his friend (Won).It's different, but while I'm watching this drama, it remind me for White Album2 Diasskun Sep 15 2017 5:45 pm Damn! I love chemistry between Rin and San.Both love each other, San realize her feelings towards Rin is LOVE.San feels sad, When Rin told her that he save her just because order from his friend (Won).Its different, but while watching this drama, it remind me about White Album2. C.d Sep 15 2017 4:46 pm Koreans dramas never change but Rin is better than won groncho Sep 14 2017 5:53 pm Just by watching 1st episode I could tell that it's going to be a mess, the director messed up his last drama I thought he would learn a lesson and brush up on his directing basics but apparently he didn't.I felt like getting an epilepsy from the camera going 360 degrees all the time and the broken storyline, no introduction to the story nor to characters, just fancy shots and visuals and that's it.What a waist of time, money and talent for nothing. won Sep 14 2017 12:23 pm Rin character is so stupid. why can't he explain everything to crown prince who was a good friend of him. If he had explain to him everything on time then it would have been dragged to this situation. I feel sad for won. Fangirl_nk Sep 14 2017 9:25 am Siwan! Love you so much Rin Won't Die Sep 14 2017 4:21 am People who are believing that Rin will die, he won't.It's too early for him to die.I hope they all become friends in the end. Jay Sep 14 2017 1:09 am I have been watching Korean Dramas for many years, I especially love the Historical and Period dramas. Yoona however is not suited for this role. She is NOT believable! Very talented young lady, great dancer, singer, etc. and maybe she was good in a past drama, but it's hard too watch this as she seems to invoke the FEELING LIKE SHE'D Rather be somewhere else that where she is. We have an expression in the USA "she is phoning (calling) in her performance". Terrible seems like such a mean word, but as beautiful as she is, it's not enough to carry her through. Could be the WRITING is not good enough, the actor playing the crown prince seems UNEASY at times on screen. I love the veteran actors like the King and his top ministers and the CAMEO role by the Palaces Swordsman/Guardmans (can't place his name). This is the only period or historical drama on right now, so it's all I have and I will watch it, it's just not up to the usual greatness I find from Hisotrical Kdramas. Maybe I'll feel more positive when it's over... jeanne Sep 13 2017 7:06 pm RinSan FIGHTING!!! definitely ship them, second male lead syndrome is REAL! kisslili Sep 13 2017 4:18 pm I'm so happy after finishing watching the 36th episode. I even changed my mind ... so let the team Rin San be together. Anyway, I only now just love Won and even started to hate San (who I think is so stupid) as much as I hate Rin. Won deserves better in his life. But as Yoona plays the main role, it will not be bad if San ends up with Won even if I think that San really doesn't deserve to be with Won. Can't wait to watch the end of this drama. Plus, I think I will never watched it again because the story is so messy and is too sad by refering the fact that a good friendship ended just for a girl. Bia Sep 13 2017 3:49 pm I want Rin to end up with San but as far I've watched till now but feel like she'll end up falling for Won. Rin isn't at fault. Nor Won is. Both of them love the girl so much.And as much as i know, San knows that there is Wang Dan waiting for the Crown Prince. So, most of the chances are that she'll leave him even if she ends up falling for him. I just hope that she doesn't reject Rin too. If she ends up leaving him too, then the friendship will restore between the three. And it can be a happy and open ending. Nita Sep 13 2017 12:19 pm Love this drama but not sure how much more my heart can stand of this! I'm also hating whats happened to Won and Rin! I hope nothing happens to Rin even tho I'm for Won. I'm not a big fan of Yoona but her character is cool.. annoying but cool! But I wish she would just pick between the two instead of leaving them hanging. (That is if Rin lives. It's too early for him to die anyway... hoping they'll become... friends again. All because of a female!) This is why I hate love triangles, squares and etc! Reen Sep 13 2017 7:02 am My heart breaks into pieces watching the friendship between Won  &  Rin. So heartbreaking. Crying so hard. ellynadd Sep 13 2017 6:33 am I hope that won have a happy ending..he is all alone...of course he is not the only one who loses his parents but he always in bad relationship with his parents until they died..i know that rin is always there for him and also won also be there for rin but rin always keep everything to himself that makes him look like a bad guy to won..imagine that your bestfriend keep secret from you and they said it is for your sake, doesn't it feel like a small betrayal.. love cannot be forced but dont let love get in a way of friendship...dont try to act like a loyal servant but behind try to win your master's woman..rin is a good friend to won but i wish that he always come clean to everything that he have done.. Watch this drama because of SIWAN......this drama is a great drama because it play with your heart?? Kukurikapoo Sep 12 2017 8:37 pm I think Rin is very dumb in the whole story. Because he always kept secret of everything. He always keep it himself. Sourness Sep 12 2017 7:54 pm I mean everyone is looking at the picture around Won, but the other character have also some past who is hurting as much as him, let's take San for an example, she loses her mother when she was twelve, then she loses her father when she's 21, now, its most likely she'll lose her other half. Like they say, twist, I don't think that Rin will die...And yeah, it's hard to be a king, everyone wants your seat, and Rin tried to protect Won till the end... so I don't understand why are you bashing him like that... Truth can't always be the answer, it's like you say I'll tell everything in my life with no lies... #impossible, i mean if you cheat, will you go tell your wife or gf, or husband or bf, hello dear, I sleep with someone else...Rin sacrifices his love, his life for Won... I mean how much more are you waiting for him to give? Honestly, if anyone here can be like Rin, tell me, to give your life away for a friend... I think the answer is no one.If anyone is willing to give away his love, tell me, like you fall in love with someone, and this someone loves someone else, what will you do ? I will say half the people will try to steal that someone, and another half will give up. So you can't blame two people who fall in love with each other... And if that someone is going out with his bf and fall in love with someone else, do you think that you will stay with someone that you don't love anymore? Come on, we're in the 21st centuries already... Aiat Sep 12 2017 7:36 pm Can't wait for the next episode!!! People are hating on this drama just because they want Won and San together, they don't look at the whole story. It's an amazing drama, full of happy and sad moments. She is the King's love, but he doesn't have to be hers. The king's love is not reciprocated. I really love the love story of Rin and San, both of them trying to stop their feeling from growing, unsuccessfully. I like that the three of them are trying to save their beautiful friendship. It's a diverse story, and that's what I like about it. ween Sep 12 2017 6:12 pm wishing that won will end up with eun san..hrmm... kori_23 Sep 12 2017 6:12 pm I thought this drama was about Crown Prince Won  &  his love San but was I so wrong. Why didn't they change the promo poster for this drama. I liked Rin bc he was Won best friend well ONLY Friend. I can't believe how this drama ending up. I just finished ep 36  &  I'm speechless. I'm not going to type any spoilers. All I can say is I have enjoyed SiWan so much in this drama. I keep watching to support him. Song Jina please make happy ending Sep 12 2017 12:51 pm @biz yeah i'm same opinion with you ... Start this drama so interesting , funny but when mid this drama looks so crazy . That's why rating low and low !! And i just wish last week episode pd writer give happy ending ! biz Sep 12 2017 9:20 am Great performance of the actors and actresses are waste by the poor script and plot. Should've got better script writer! Not mind it's getting lower rating by the time Dew Sep 11 2017 7:35 pm Something interesting to me: when will Bi Yeon (San's loyal servant) know that Moo Suk was the man who made scar on her face and killed San's mom. Poor girl. Dew Sep 11 2017 7:28 pm Won is alone now, helpless. So RIN position is an important key, and I guess he will be back soon and help his bestfriend (It's obvious that Rin doesn't like Song In and his agenda). But for the love triangle Won-San-Rin, I'm afraid one must die T_T, and it's not Won. And I'm sure San is not a selfish girl to hurt Dan even though IF she has feeling for Won. Aiat Sep 11 2017 6:59 pm It was a perfect drama untill the queen died, not because she died, it's because she died when she is not in good relationship with her son and not knowing that Rin is really a loyal and a good friend of her son, the Crown Prince. Fans_This_Drama Sep 11 2017 2:16 pm RIP Wangbimama :(  !! Thank you for everthing .. Will miss Wangbimama ! Kriss Sep 11 2017 11:25 am That feeling...that Rin will die.So that will be pleased everyone,Team RinSan that San actually loves Rin and Team WonSan that she will be UNHAPPY but in "CP's CAGE".And this,will be the biggest disappointment ever !Anyway ,RINSAN for me forever  < 3 ... Chickoo Sep 11 2017 9:43 am So pity the queen... The CP too obsess wt the gurl and ignore a lot of other things including his sick mother and helpless father, the king...Even then the girl still running to the other man...Hmmm... its just a drama but feel uneasy to watch all the character now showing a lot of misbehave...As a mom i can feel the queen pain when her beloved son ignoring her until he died alone... So, painful... i guess this is wharlt the writter trying to stress to match wt the tittle King' love... his powerful love for the lady above all the other prority... not happy wt the way the story goes but still hv to watch how it ends... Wonsan Sep 10 2017 11:45 pm I would like if won and San end up together t....i really hope so More .. That Scene Sep 09 2017 11:35 am I wish have more kiss scene soon , When Rin kiss San too much short plus simple kiss (Please give more) I dont care Rin or Won kiss San but please natural kiss form Chemistery !! Kukurikapoo Sep 09 2017 11:24 am I dont care about their shitty romance. I just want to know who will get the throne , grabs popcorn. Tkl Sep 09 2017 6:33 am All i can see in the tiltle of this drama 'the kings love' is he get the woman he love,and become the great king with the love of her people, there are many saeguk drama that become the king but never get the woman he love, and because of the narration of the cp that this is sad and beautiful IMO the friendship and bromance will destroy... Bia Sep 09 2017 4:27 am I haven't watched this drama, yet. However, it's in my list. Lately, it has become a new trend in kdrama land for the main girl to fall in love with the second lead. And i think it's very interesting. Usually, in majority of the kdramas, the arrogant rich obnoxious guy gets the girl, no matter what. And it kind of makes the female lead very easy and stupid. The girl gives in very easily to the jerk main lead in the end. That was always frustrating to watch. ?There are very few dramas in which the main girl ends up happily with the second lead. For example, King of Baking, Kim Takgu, Dream High. ?Even the most famous drama, Boys Over Flowers, i believe Lee Min Ho was the second lead as far the girl's first love was concerned. ?So, the story is different. And unique. I have no idea if this drama will end up in a good note or it will have a bad ending. But I'm sure, it's worth it. ?I'm waiting for this drama to end soon so i can finish up watching this series all in one go. Fighting! ❤️ Pinklanguage Sep 09 2017 2:12 am RinSan Forever ❤❤ Aiat Sep 08 2017 10:37 pm I am RinSan all the way!!! so happy about kiss, although I wished it would look more real. Thanks read my comment Sep 08 2017 10:22 am Love this drama ... Team WonSan please dont have Rin !!! I know u guys mad bcoz Rin kiss San + Won watch .. But please dont hate this drama , all cast !! Fuhhh we have 2 weeks before this drama ending ... I wish pd nim , pd writer SJN give all main character happy ending ! Rhona Sep 07 2017 7:52 pm Reading the negative comments doesn't help a lot, if you love this kind of genre when it comes to kdrama, it won't fail you. It's good and worth to watch :) Laliya Sep 07 2017 8:55 am Wow! finally it happened! I was rooting for San and Rin from the beginning. Don't know whether they would end up together. This is such a nice drama. Though yoona's character is little bit slow.... she is my favorite. Razz Sep 07 2017 8:00 am How dare rin to kiss san.... hate this drama and i will stop watching it totaly waste my time and intrest for this drama hate you HONG JONG HYUN ? Change the titel...Rin in love Sep 07 2017 3:12 am 0nly 8 ep left over there is nothing for CP left over... writer and director took too long time to know that main lead actress is falling for whom.... such a frustrating and annoying drama... CP is total distructed in this drama Dont hate this drama,Please Sep 07 2017 2:38 am Omo .. Rin kiss San !! Rin yaa what u doing ??? But still unclear San fall in love with Who ?? RIN or WON !! Zzz Sep 07 2017 2:06 am Nah, ignore the hate comments. Most of them come from Im Yoona's anti fans anyways. If you hesitant to watch this drama, please watch it! I recommend this. As Song Ji Na's fan I'm really happy she manages to write such a complicated drama! The chemistry between the leads are real! Sometimes, the writing is a bit confusing but imo, the acting from the casts made up for it especially the trio. I'm quite surprise to see Im Yoona's acting in this drama. She definitely is better than when I first saw her in Cinderella Man. Siwan is perfect. Hong Jong Hyun also improves. His character suits him. Anyway, this is a must watch drama if you're a fan of sageuk and romance! Purpfles Sep 06 2017 11:50 pm This drama kinda of suck and slow, especially Yoona character... its too slow.. And also i can see she fail to lead her character... Not interesting at all.. Better watch another drama.. kinda of wasting time to watch this drama.. LEE EUN-JU Sep 06 2017 7:56 pm I hate this kdrama.. cause i don't know who will end up together.. is it wonsan or rinsan.. i love if wonsan will end up together but rinsan is also good being together, they have this chemistry.. and the plot is like they been teaming up together because of the throwback.. and i feel sorry for Prince Won, for sure he will not be ending with Dan.. My heart is aching for the one who will not be chosen by San.. I guess I need to wait till the drama will be completed then I will watch the episodes 15-20.. I was reading the comments hoping to get some ideas what will happened with their love story.. But I get nothing (cause I didn't read all).. kby Sep 06 2017 1:59 pm So like... this is currently my favourite drama :O i see soo many WonSan shippers here and meanwhile I'm RinSan all the way. I'm a bit sad about the fact that everyone around is tryna break the relationship between Won and Rin though :/ While many of you feel more sorry for Won, i feel sorry for Rin- because of his status, he's always given into Won while also considering him a friend. Won went out being the spoiled brat he was, and got San's mom killed because he didn't do what he should have- he just watched for his own curiosity  &  entertainment- only regretting it afterward. Another thing is that he would dare not admit all this to San for fear that she would hate him (which i'm she rightfully should ofc). And just sayin, Rin had eyes on San waaaayyy before Won (jus sayin), but wouldn't say anything cuz of his status and relationship with Won. Being real, it felt like because of Won, Rin could never have or do what he wanted to, other than be by Won's side and protect him. Anyways, RinSan all the way! (RIN'S ADORABLE!) Kathy Sep 06 2017 1:04 pm This drama suck, don't waste your time on it. Yoo Sep 06 2017 11:54 am I dont know why everyone is complaining the love of Rin san is the most bright sight of the drama the way they silently show their feelings is just so adorable i am not against Siwan or anything but the novel is just so right San consider him friend and guys accept the fact thisis the main story of the drama It is really different than other typical dramas where female lead first fall for the second lead and then she leave him and fall for the first lead!!!!! I have watched dozens of dramas like that and i hate that kind of story !!! And i just dont get it why people keep saying we are dropping the drama i am so dissapounted to hear these words full of nonsense this is the best historical drama i have ever seen cant you see Rin San couple is really perfect???? They look perfect together Rin is really charming and elegent just notice it already!!!! Isahata Sep 06 2017 11:04 am The novel was about Won's lonely life so the drama actually up to this point haven't steered far poor Won, but what can we do? the concept is as is XDD liayayayaaa Sep 06 2017 8:31 am Eun San!!!!! Why you received the kiss San ah.. Did the novel also wrote San and Rin together? How about Won? Uri Won heart is breaking to pieces. Noo nooo!! True fan Sep 06 2017 7:02 am I loved this drama cause it's different from any other drama that has ever been made it just makes me keep my guards up every thing is possible I thinkle he ending will be superb .I've been watching movies since I can remember so I developed a sense of predicting the future when it comes to movies I can tell all the events just by watching the trailer ? but this drama is such a challenge to meI just hope that this drama will keep surprising me and San end up with Rin at the end cause I'm always cheering for the second lead although I know he won't get a thing ?Hong jung hyun fighting ✊? won Sep 06 2017 6:17 am This is the first drama in which I didn't like actress liking second lead. I was always looking forward for won and san but alas all my hope was shattered. Poor won his immense love for his lady all went in vain. Won Sep 06 2017 5:32 am Poor won sorry for you.... the director and writer spoil total titel of drama f*** you both.... no more waste of time for this drama dwbi Sep 06 2017 5:09 am This drama is actually worthwhile watching, from the very first episode up until now (personally) heehh! dunna get mad dou! Not gon mention my personal bias but don't we get more interested/curious when we're unsure of something? The drama is actually getting very exciting coz it's almost finished and we're still unsure of San's feelings. (Wait, why are we all after San's feelings?) lmao. TBH I'm more worried bout the bromance btw Won and Rin (plizz stay together even if San chooses one of you) I actually love this drama even though it's making me get very impatient (waiting for San to reveal who she really likes!). Lol even though I have a personal bias, Idrc who ends up with San. I'm really positive because Won and Rin trusts each other so much (growing up), one would eventually give up the San for the other. Idk why I'm more worried bout the bromance than their feelings for each other (Rin, San and Won). lmao heh! don't even read my comment (I'm just playing around) This is why I think it's exciting and it's still worthwhile watching it:- In most of the dramas we watch, at the beginning of the drama we could always predict the end and that makes us frustrated if things doesn't go the the way we wanted it.- I'm pretty sure the writer/director is not even trying to manipulate the fans of Won and Rin to keep on watching! They're just trying their best to make the drama more interesting and exciting as viewers are still waiting for the "confession". ?This is my confession?lmao I play around too much okeeh Stawp!- I just find it really fascinating that even though the drama about to finish (just 8 more episodes!) we can't still predict who San has feelings for. (WHY!!)- Just keep watching and don't give up (fighting!) No matter who San ends up with just try to be happy and remember that this is just a drama and it's not even true!! Don't get depressed or let dis get into prettiful brains! (lmao I do take these dramas to the heart dou and I get depressed for ages) Lastly, plizz don't get mad at me if you just wasted your time reading my durr comment. Stay positive fam! Wasting Sep 06 2017 5:02 am If i know that this story will be like this, i never watch this in the beginning, i wasted my time watching this drama, i fell sorry for the cp... Huali Sep 06 2017 3:34 am I stopped watching this drama half way. Waste of time and emotion. I love HJH, but I want won/san ending up together. Phu Sep 06 2017 2:25 am I just wasted my time by watching this movie until ep 36 hoping that San would be in love with Won. Wtf movie plot. According to the Title, the main male cast is Siwon, it's so sure. I've never seen a movie in which main female lead being in love with the second male lead until this episode. Wtffff. Just disgusted to continue watching this nonsense. Not even a scene of Won and San together in Episode 31 and 32. So distracted. woan Sep 06 2017 2:24 am i feel so sorry for won and queen. They are always lonely . Now everyone is plotting against them. Too bad. N the king is always useless and i think he will always remain useless. always in his pyjamas. PT Sep 06 2017 1:37 am stay away from this drama .. even if san loves rin ...it takes 36 episodes to show the audience that san is in love with rin...such a waste. never seen a kdrama where audience need to guess to the end to whom heroin will fall in love. we all have guesses in various dramas who is gonna end up with who. but at least audience will have clear idea who the heroin actually loves..but this one drama ...crap..disgusting ..no words ..f*** ...all beeps I have to say Kukurikapoo Sep 06 2017 1:01 am Won is pretty much destroyed. Everything was taken including San. Sara Sep 06 2017 12:50 am San love han chun?? Anna Sep 05 2017 8:07 pm WonSan team Kim Sep 05 2017 7:26 pm So so so disappointed with drama and writer plez change the titel of drama still there is few ep left..... ToTal waste of time hope rest of all EP goes NR..... F*ck F*ck rin..... Nina Sep 05 2017 11:46 am So disappointed and annoyed with is drama, feel like I want to stop with this drama moon Sep 05 2017 11:31 am It was waste watching show. Won is the best lover. Nimi Sep 05 2017 8:29 am So dissapointed with drama ...... SheElle Sep 05 2017 8:21 am I cant help feel more discusted whenever the scene of rin and san came up... i even change the chanel. and feel annoyed with the cp playing dumb still trusting his friend rin and his lover san while they both playing lovey dovey behind his back. He even put his mom aside... anyway, just see what happen... nidhi Sep 05 2017 5:24 am RINSAN LOVEFrom where are you looking at me?Are you silently next to me?Do you know that my longing has faded with my tears? Even if you don’t say anything, I’m alrightBecause I already feel youMy tears tell my story insteadCan you hear the sound of my breath? If I draw you out on the sky, in case you comeIn case you come, I’m waiting like thisThe love you left in my embraceI’m afraid it’ll disappear on its ownSo again today, I’m calling out to your face Kisslili Sep 05 2017 4:31 am So disappointed !!!! I was waiting for many years a Segu with Yoona and what I have is a segu which its story is so complicate and which really disappointed me. I really hate Rin now and San naivety. I understand now the title and Won is really the only heros of this drama. I even now appreciate the Queen. I think that I will continue to watch it but with less anticipation and interest. And just because there is Yoona. By the way, Siwon play is really good. min Sep 04 2017 10:40 pm Hopping best ending for Won. Gabriela Sep 03 2017 5:35 pm So I just watched it and l am so in love with this drama !! It is absolutely amazing. I have shipped Eun San and Wang Rin from the beggining. Their chemistry is so strong. I really want them to end up together.... I also don't think that she has very romantic feelings towards the Prince... Their chemistry is one sided, all coming from the Prince... So i am literally praying that they just stay friends and Eun will end up with Rin Aiat Sep 02 2017 10:54 am Amazing drama! But I have mixed feeling, I ship RinSan, but my heart hurts because of Won! It feels like the Reply series, not knowing with who San is gonna stay. reearth Sep 02 2017 9:18 am In real story (not about the novel. But the history.) Won will marry with wang dan. And the story thougt won really loves wang dan. So hope won and dan can marry in drama. And i thought loves ini the title of this drama means beside the friendship won, rin and eun san. adian Sep 01 2017 11:14 am why is there no single romantic scene in this drama. . .really?? why?? the film is ending soon and yet not a single romance is happening?? I'm waiting for it, you know. it's obvious that yoona loves siwan. she's just holding back because of dan. didn't her maid said so, there's a guy that when she speaks about, she smiles, it was siwan!!!!!! she was talking about siwan!!! please!! even a single episode of romance between imxim will do. . . . PLEASE!!!!!!!!!!! Cola-cola Aug 31 2017 9:22 pm WonSan or RinSan i dont care .. Just enjoy this drama !!!And cannot wait next week episode ｡^‿^｡ Nevada Aug 31 2017 1:46 am It is extremely unfortunate to read a lot of illogical comments about the actors, story, writers, titles, etc. The title is to the point as this is a story about the kings love narratively conveyed by the crown prince/king itself to its viewers regardless if it is a sad or happy ending for him. All the actors from guards to the pathetic king are doing an excellent job as required from them. It is obvious that these haters/shippers/fanatics wanted things to go their way which is sad as it shows how limited their mentality is and not looking at a bigger picture. I could not find any fault on the title/plot/actors/writers at all as each one is playing their roles perfectly based on the story provided such as the Sans fathers action for the love of his daughter, Rins situation loving San  &  his loyalty to the crown prince, crowns possessiveness, intelligence, and care for Rin, the denial attitude of the Rins dad against accusation on his son, vested interest of officials, the queens mothers protective action for her son, the brainwashed pathetic king, soldiers following the command of the CP or King, etc. Viewers need to understand this instead of commenting about Rin/San or Won/San instead of the whole package. I do think that this show deserved high ratings. It is obvious that will be met if viewers doesn't have biased attitude instead of enjoying the drama in its entirety. Flower and Dr Ikrams comment are the most logical one I can find in this section. Kori_23 Aug 30 2017 9:54 pm Am I the only one who hates the writing? I thought the love story was between Won  &  San. All I've seen is flirting  &  skinship between Rin & San. Rin is well aware San is the love of Won's life. I adore SiWan too. I have been waiting for this drama. SiWan is such an incredible actor. I keep watching for SiWan Letícia Aug 30 2017 8:05 am I really want that Rin and San stay together in end so badly and please let be they get together end up!!! Because seeing that they love each other... ❤️ Yu Nick Darjo Aug 30 2017 1:16 am Curiuous with the real novel....But can not read Korean T.T..... Can't wait too long to know how it end min Aug 29 2017 10:25 pm Won did many things for San it will be very sad if San end up with Rin. Kisslili Aug 29 2017 8:21 pm T.T I really want Won to be with San ! And I really don't like Rin. My bad, i know by reading the spoil that in the novel they end together. But I hope that the drama will change and let a chance for Won to be with the heroine in this version. If it's were not for Yoona, I think that I will have already stopped watching this drama. ? Cristhee Aug 29 2017 5:31 pm I will be very broken hearted if San ends up with Rin,,, I want Won and San be together in the end please. Mercy Aug 28 2017 11:53 am I feel this week episode pd nim  &  pd writer this drama give too much Sad Scene T _ T I cannot ! ! 123456789 Aug 27 2017 11:52 am Anyway ... I'm team SongSan !! Song In and San ... Yeah No Reason Aug 27 2017 9:07 am I like this drama + All ost so much great !!!!Jeballll next episode please ! TeamWonRinSan Aug 27 2017 12:43 am Love Love this drama ... Can't wait next week episode !!!!! *__* Chingu Aug 26 2017 12:37 am So many tragic this drama between Won Rin San Dan :( So sad !!!Can't let them happy together ??? Please rating up up up !!! K Aug 25 2017 9:42 pm W have 4 weeks again ... To waiting kiss scene !!! If this drama don't have kiss scene i'm done dude xxx ! seyin Aug 25 2017 7:00 pm Its my first time that I am watching Siwan's drama and I am already blown away by his acting and am becoming his fan. He is truly a amazing actor . I like the way he looks at San , the way he shows anger, jealousy, fustration . everything. Bia Aug 25 2017 4:33 am Wow! I'm really interested in watching this series after reading the comments below. It seems that nobody knows yet who the main girl will end up with. And she's in love with with the second male lead.This scenario resembles with "Dream High" in some ways. Whoever she ends up with, I'm going to enjoy this series as it's unpredictable. Fighting! :) Hyun Aug 25 2017 12:13 am Pleasee whts wrong with the tittle if san will be ends up with rin? And i read the comments bfre if rin and san will ends up please change the tittle be Rin in love or watz. Come on! Dont too childish like that. Rin isn't wrong anyways. He's not stupid or obsession about his love but he's still thinking CP feeling as his friend. But wht CP wanna do? He can leave all of tht he hve just for san and also he wanna leave his best friend (Rin) tho? Am so really disappointed at all. But am not to stop watching the drama if WonSan will be together just really hope Rin will get the best for his. Sweety Aug 24 2017 4:38 pm Dear everyone, in the novel, San ends with Rin, we don't know if the drama will do the same.But I hope so ~ Why ? Because Yoona and Hong Jong Hyun look awesome together ~ ?  < 3 < 3 < 3 RinSan lover Aug 24 2017 2:56 pm i hope i really hope san will ending with rin pleaaaaaase it's gonna be boring if the two separated they love each other and this is so obvious ! Yoonhun Aug 24 2017 1:04 pm If this drama doesnt end with rin and san together im gonna cry :'( ssshh Aug 24 2017 12:53 am I wonder why is the rating of this drama like this because this drama is really nice n unique unlike other few dramas that I've watched.Most people in korea are missing this interesting drama.All the actors and actress are amazing but the most captivating for me is Siwan's acting. How can someone be so good to potray the role. Simply mindblowing.. Jennie Kim Aug 23 2017 11:59 pm Anyone else ships Moosuk and Biyeon?? MeMe Aug 23 2017 2:37 pm Rin is a better person than Won. Won rather ruined their friendship to have a girl who obviously likes Rin more than him.Won is very possessive and jealousy that he will use low tactics to get San. Yeah he maybe sacrificing a lot for San but that still doesn't excuse his behavior.For the record, Yoona has better chemistry with Hong Jong Hyun. Support all not come for 1 Aug 23 2017 2:26 pm Guys .. Come on .. Just enjoy this drama and Why so serious ?? WonSan or RinSan not important , But the most important is Enjoy watching this drama !!! I'm tired last year Yoona at K2 fight chemistery with Senior Actress , Scarlet Hong Jonghyun become bad guys and dead .... Please i dont want this tragic !! Anyway .. When you come this drama please dont say i come just for Yoona , I came just for Siwan or I come just for Hong Jonghyun annoying so much when someone give comment like that . Noor Aug 23 2017 12:47 pm WonSan Always❤ Tkl Aug 23 2017 12:07 pm ZEmpireZEA: i totally agree of what u said... SEmpireZEA Aug 23 2017 8:42 am WONSAN IS BETTER COUPLE, ... WON IS BETTER THAN RIN, WON is actually smarter than Rin. ... Won always solving from an intelligent way the problems that Rin tried to solve from a silly way and without success. sorry rin fans, when San was kidnapped, Won was the first to discover that san was in that carriage, Won is an As!... WON is braver than rin, when won did see her hurt made by songIn, Won really got angry because SongIn dared touch her. won tries to save her, to protect her and also punish the guilty (Songin) while Rin just stares without doing anything at that moment. Rin is a complet pabo 바보 (babo)!!. When the soldiers come to protect the king's order, Won still tries to rescue her, despite going against the king's orders. While rin solely remains silent and vaguely tries to deternate him. sorry rin fans, Won is The Man!...Won def offers more love, care and protection to san, than rin does. This is because Won really love San, she is won's priority that is undoubtedly, WON REALLY LOVES SAN because Won knows what he wants and loves, While rin's priority is ambiguous because sometimes is won or san or himself. that 바보 rin. sincerely, I dont like rin, he is very pabo, some say that Rin has loved San for many years before? rin fans said that rin always is gentle and kind? I don't believe Rin loves San as much as Won really loves San, I don't think he's always that gentle and kind with san as much as Won always is so gentle and kind with San, Look at chapter 4 (ep7 + ep8) when she tried to find the snake (killer of her mother) with wonrin help, then during that cold night, san followed wonrin to their residence but Rin stops San before crossing the door, rin even asked her to leave, XD - What kind of "genlteman" asks a girl to leave alone on the middle of the cold night, even knowing there is a dangerous killer near the area- Is that a gentle man? I don't think though XD that is just pabo rin as always, San accepted ein's silly sugerence, then She decides to sleep on a bench in the middle of the street on that cold night, covering herself with a blanket, Rin just stares her with his pabo expression, Rin doesn't even try to invite her to pass inside their residence, but Won quickly realizes that san has nowhere to sleep on the night, Won does not want her to sleep in the street, for that reason Won takes her into the residence. Won always taking care of her, san is won's priority. The drama is about King's love story, not rin's love story. If san is trying to get away from won, this is because Dan is emotionally blackmailing san's heart, Dan is a possessive girl, Dans knows won loves san and san loves won for that reason Dan is so worried that last night Dan kindly let san hides in her room, that kindness has a price, because then Dan said and asked San: "He (won) will be my hunsband soon,... right???" " R-I-G-H-T??". San looks at Dan sweetly and says "Yes", poor san, san is suffering in silence hiding her love for won. San does not want dan to be unhappy. Dan is selfish, while San always thinking about others before herself. When san decides to think about her own happiness, there we will see how she demonstrates all her love hidden for won, Won and San really love each other, but the circumstances, lies, selfishness and ambition of many people are trying to keep them away. Fari Aug 23 2017 7:37 am Based on the novel, the king loves both rin and san. Won is bisexual prince annieme Aug 23 2017 7:35 am i feel so bad about CP and i think this drama is superb. It has a completely different plot and not cliche. I didn't expect that the lead girl is obviously in love with the 2nd lead. Or MAYBE, its because San thought the Rin saved him in his own accord not knowing that it was the CP's order. Possible scenarios that im thinking, either CP will turn to be the 2nd lead and will end up being the antagonist. OR San will discover that CP was the one who ordered Rin for saving her all this time and Rin will betray the CP to protect his family. Hey Aug 23 2017 4:22 am To: people who thinks that San should end up with Won because Siwan is the male lead: really? Why would the cast matter? Can't you all judge by watching the show and observing the chemistry itself? Sure, Won is attracted to San, but after seeing the latest episode, I can finally affirm that Won thinks of San as a possession. Who in the right mind would compare his love one as a bird/flower to be caged in? That's just obsession, and if they'll ever end up together, it'll be toxic. I'd rather have San not ending up with anyone at all (she's a strong woman who needs no man) than her ending up with Won. angel Aug 23 2017 3:29 am rin is better than siwan.. Flower Aug 23 2017 2:23 am This is a great drama, believe me! The plot is refreshing and all the actors did very well portraying their respective characters. After finished watching episode 24, I got goosebumps. I keep thinking that San and Rin are in love with each other (which I would support lol :p ) however, seeing the Crown Prince personality, it would be tough journey for San and Rin if they are really to end up together. Won are madly in love with San and I can see that he would do anything to make San his. Plus, at the end of the episode he said that seeing San's smile made him realize that he will end up giving up everything he has now. And that he would forget about his best friend and also himself just for San. So, it gets me curious how this drama will end up. I don't hate Won, but I totally support Rin and San together bcs of a few circumstances maybe? I do hope that Won will open his eyes and heart for Dan. I agree with a previous comment which says that it is not that Won cannot accept Dan, it is just bcs he has always seen her as his friend's sister and so he believe that Dan should remain as one. He didn't give himself a chance to see how it will work out with Dan. Anyway, I am a supporter of this drama and the ratings didn't give justice towards this amazing drama. Hwaiting TKIL  < 3 yynn Aug 22 2017 11:41 pm this drama is really good ! totally worth it Gaye Aug 22 2017 9:02 pm I really like this drama....especially Siwan he did well portray being the CP.....I dont know why this is NR in Korea ......but for me after LITM ...I guess this is the best Historical drama for 2017 ...... Eunju Aug 22 2017 5:43 pm I think she love Han Cheon, not Won or Rin. The reason she smile is always be Han Cheon. Mita Aug 22 2017 3:32 pm Team WonSan always❤.Main male lead is SiWan. He should end up with Yoona. Won is madly in love with her. I am seriously not getting why San don't like Won yet! Won does everything for the sake of her. Feeling sad for cp.I don't like Rin. Cp orders him to do things and he always get the credit from San. If he really thought Won as his friend then he shouldn't have feelings for San after knowing all about Cp's heart. He is the one at fault.What will someone do if his best friend took his love from him? It's like betray.But a salute for SiWan. He is really good at acting. He looks the younger even though he is the eldest there. Love u? Lucky Aug 22 2017 10:01 am What's wrong with Won? People always say Rin is better, more nice, more charismatic etc.For me Rin just like the one who always pretending like a hero.And about their friendship, I think Rin don't truly assume CP his best friend.In my opinion Rin just afraid cause Won is CP, and Won more power full from Rin. I don't think Rin is a good friend, he always looking chance to take San from his friend either.I think if Rin in the CP position he will take the same way like CP did.Human always like that.. that's a normal to getting jealous. And if you felt like have cheated by your friend, it will more painful and it's normal to getting angry. If it's you, don't you being evil too? ..I don't mean to being evil is right... Tashi Aug 22 2017 9:07 am Hate Hate Hate stop watching this drama f••king rin....Rin in love keep drama name Kim Aug 22 2017 9:03 am Change the titel of the drama??? " The Rin in love " ????? Kriss Aug 22 2017 9:00 am Is She going to find out about what happened to her mother!?!? Poor Rin! ????GOD, Won will try to separate Rin and San! ???? rani rahmawati Aug 22 2017 5:45 am i dont understand why this drama have a low rating???lets up the rating, dont u ever missed please because this drama is f**kin awesome. and then please dont u stop watching this drama just because you prefer WonXSan :( sriza Aug 22 2017 1:23 am can anyone say me the name of the novel please? Kiran Aug 21 2017 11:23 am Hate you RIN !!!!! I m going to stop watching this drama.... at last san like rin hate both.... va Aug 21 2017 9:46 am watching ep 21-22 and seriously, Rin and San should just confess, they clearly like each other Laliya Aug 21 2017 9:26 am Am I the only one who ships Rin and San together? Their chemistry is awesome and natural. YTL Aug 21 2017 8:14 am Actually from what I see, San did not like Won in the romantic way at all. Feels like she's treating Won as a play mate all along. She seems more attracted to Rin. But who knows, maybe she developed feelings towards Won as they continue to bicker along....................? Sorry if my english bad Aug 20 2017 11:31 am Can't this drama have a KISS SCENE ?? Bcoz this drama already in the middle episode guys !! huhuhu :( I'm waiting so long that scene !!! And can't get great rating bcoz Knetz so angry this drama have a low rating . Aranya Aug 19 2017 8:33 am Thank you guys I will continue watching Gaye Aug 19 2017 1:27 am After my favorite k drama Love in the Moonlight ...Here comes another kilig to watch......I love the story especially the role of Siwan the CP.......He play the role well bagay. yung pesonality binigay ng writer sa kanya so with Yoona and the Third Prince ..Job well done ..... aranya Aug 18 2017 10:56 am Stopped watching because imagining if san end up with rin i cannot bear it .From first she is having any feelings for won but to change story suddenly they made it up. how many insults won faced because for her. I hope san will end up with won. Angel Aug 18 2017 10:02 am I noticed in earlier episodes when the CP said that he was being being deceived without his knowledge as he reflected back in time. He was talking about San and Rin . I think she said someone else was in her heart because she didn't want to hurt Rin sister. Remember she stated that she didn't want to break the friendship between the prince and Rin when she realized he liked her. Great drama Conan Aug 18 2017 7:17 am Please ... Next week coming faster !!! I cant waiting next episode . HappyMe Aug 18 2017 4:36 am I read the previous comment before this drama aired and lot of people commented how they dont like yoona as the female lead with those great male actors. Then take a look at current comments, Im so happy that we're busy giving our thoughts and wondering about the plot and character now. No more judging the actress but enjoying the drama. Hwaaaa i love you guys! Im in tears, tho it has such a low rating but I am so into this drama. Please keep watching it guys! And tell your friends:) nuri Aug 17 2017 6:06 pm This drama is well worth to watch. Its getting interesting day by day but why is the rating so low. Poko Aug 17 2017 5:59 pm I'm going to stop watching if they make he CP into a bad person! He does not deserve this! I swear if they put San and Rin together I will not be able to do this. oshini Aug 17 2017 2:35 pm Im just gonna say my doubts about the ending. My point is however much San loves Rin; as a matter of fact we still don't know ?, when San founds out that Rin's brother killed her Mom, i don't thnk she'll be able to forgive them. I know that Rin is soo different from his brother, but still then it's his own blood that killed her. Plus when her father gets to know all this, he'll never ever like Rin.It worsens since as now Rin know the whole truth but keeps quiet from both San  &  Won.And we also know that always the main male lead ends up with the main female lead...So lets just focus on the story  &  wait for its ending... What i mean Aug 16 2017 10:03 pm Hello ... Guys .... Just enjoy and fun with this drama Okey !!! Why u guys now fight between team WonSan or team RinSan ... Better u guys with me team Friendship WonRinSan !!!! So much chill .. Dont fight please !!  :( Poko Aug 16 2017 5:31 pm I feel bad for Dan she's so pretty and truly is in love with the crown prince. I hate that a lot of the good characters in dramas get the short end of the stick. Since people spoiled the drama saying that Rin and San end up together I hope the crown prince wakes up and realizes that the best person for him was right there all along which is Dan. Also Dan reminds me of IU. victoria Aug 16 2017 12:56 pm I'm a little bit disappointed. The drama poster made me have a conclusion that Won and San are the couple of this drama and they will end up together and Rin is the one who in love with San. Before watching this drama I had no idea that San will fell in love with Rin, until this week episodes made me sure both of them are in love. I don't understand why the production team released Won San poster together and Won was hugging San! Why? If they don't want to make it obvious about Rin San just released Won San Rin poster together. As @CindyYan told in the novel San and Rin will ended up together, but we still don't know what will happen in the drama, some said that the drama will be different. Whatever the end hope the best ending for this drama!! Cindy Yan Aug 16 2017 8:51 am SPOILER!!! In the novel... San and Rin ended up/fell in love together and crown prince got furious.... he wanted to destroy them. San and Rin ran away and in the end Cp was left alone Queen Aug 16 2017 5:20 am All 3 characters have depth and the actors are doing an extremely a good job displaying their character. At this moment, I don't and can't hate anyone but the King and all the corrupted people with him. Leena Aug 16 2017 5:03 am San an Rin ship ship the chemistry between in the series and even in real life "conference" is really high ... hooe they end together just like the Novel says Dr Rhyss ikram Aug 16 2017 4:51 am Fani...you did good with your comments there. I agree. There are some commenting and rebutting without much substance (i have read at other pages on Asianwiki for other kdramas) focussing more on just the actors  &  actresses that they are a fan of or not a fan of.... Look at the action  &  the role they play  &  not just the actors... look at the story deeper  &  the messages the writers  &  the directors wish to convey... The smile, the laughter, the sadness  &  all of the moments  &  characterisations give meanings to the entire story. What is worse when one give comments that breach on an actor/actress's personal/physical feature...dehumanizing  &  degrading at times.. sorry for intruding here.But still...many many more comments are interesting, constructing and insightful....at times funny  &  at times simple yet beautifully written.... cutie Aug 15 2017 5:12 pm i love this drama ....i really hope san ends up with won....they look so goos togetehr....i really hope so..i hope its doffrent from the novel....won is better than rin no offence...siwan and yoon look great together adian Aug 15 2017 10:01 am This drama had really good cinematography. I don't know why some people cried because of this drama... It's just the words and naration... sweet time between the couple (female lead with the boys) being together is only in the beginning... Sriza Aug 15 2017 2:33 am Most of them are having second lead syndrome... This really breaks my heart to know that in novel san ends up with Rin. I want San to end up with Won... I ship for Won and San. They look happier together. Iknow Rin too loves her a lot but you knoww siwan is lit... But I have a strong vibe that I will be a heartbroken kid in the end...... goood pleasee nooooooooo!! I dont want rin and san together.. Fugitive Aug 14 2017 9:30 pm Prepare some boxes of tissue guys ~_~ the latest episode gave me sad feeling hmm hopefully they all have happy ending. I don't know am I being greedy or what but after seeing Won chose Dan over San really made me sad. Even though I like RinSan but my heart still kinda like WonSan too since Won look so happy and cheerful when he meet or together with San. It will be sad if actually San like Won but she chose to sacrifice herself for good. The three of them protecting each other well and it is truly beautiful yet pitiful T_T mixed feeling !@#$ TeamRinSan Aug 14 2017 3:07 pm omo ... i need Rin and San ... juseyoooo !! Kiss scene between them ... please pgirlcl13 Aug 14 2017 12:19 pm Outstanding casting members, with such great actors and actresses my opinion the writer and director is lacking putting this storytelling drama together, too many battlefield for love among the young characters not knowing all characters reasons-- meaning not clear friendship, clear who hold the power, young CP life with no freedom  &  overbearing, lacking love from family members etc., I am confused about the way Title  &  action of the drama not summing up meaning how do The King In Love do, don't get me wrong the drama storytelling not bad but lacking. All that watch Father is Strange will know what I mean. Kdrama_Mylife Aug 13 2017 10:14 pm Yoona's and Siwans's acting skills on point. They both deserve to win as Best Actress and Best Actor. The plot is interesting, the cinematography is ok! Definitely, this kdrama is my favorite, finally a great kdrama for this 2017. ofc, Siwan and yoona's visual is not joke, Yoona is the prettiest actress in this kdrama. ofc Siwan is the most handsome in this kdrama. I am happy bcos hongjonghyun is improve his acting, he is making a good job. congrats to them. Joana Aug 13 2017 8:46 am I am developing second lead syndrome right now. I know If i'll continue to watch this, i ended up broken ?? djv Aug 13 2017 6:21 am can anyone tell me whats the song that plays in every trailer for the next episodes its so nice but i cant find it Kriss Aug 13 2017 4:55 am I have never seen a better, stronger and simply intense second lead! God, Siwan is overshadowed by Jong-Hyun so much, if writers have written this story so that Eun San ends up with Wang Won, they shouldn't have chosen a 2nd lead whith so much charisma! Definitely second lead syndrome is on here and it's very hard! Rin is simply incredible and the scene when he is crying and he puts hand on his heart ,while thinking about how hard is his love for her and that he is in terrible situation,was very well done! I'm going to be very disappointed if RinSanCouple will not come true! Liam Aug 13 2017 3:48 am The king loves is really amazing! I watched few episodes and I find it great.. siwan portrayed his role very well.. he really looked like a king same thing with yoona.. i've read some of the comments and according to them rin and san will end up together.. hopefully it will be changed... i prefer won and san together.. ☻ Hehsi Aug 12 2017 11:49 pm I can't say that quickly that Rin is the more deserving man..when Won hasn't even or is just about to show the lengths of his love for San. Even I'm about to root for Rin because his love is the one being focused right now. Gotta wait for Won's time to show his to determine who's more deserving. Belle Aug 12 2017 11:37 pm Park Hwan Hee is so much prettier than Yoona she should have give main role. Only Smile Aug 12 2017 1:52 pm Just like this drama ... Still i dunno which one two ship ... Confuce .Please give Won , Rin , San and Dan happy .... Saconan Aug 12 2017 8:31 am I like how the story goes and how the potrayed every character. Especially Siwan, he's really fit become a prince crown. In the last episode Won have to choose sejabin, I really hope he choose Dan. It's kind a heartbreak for Dan and Rin, if he choose san. Eun san Aug 12 2017 8:00 am Please monday come faster!! I can't wait the moment of RinSan dunow why. But ship san with won too hft. Maybe my soul of Rinsan 60% and Wonsan 40%? I like Aug 11 2017 12:49 am I think Eun San love both Won and Rin as bestfriend .... see Aug 10 2017 3:48 am These days it seems like Korea doesn't like romance that much unless it's some famed screenwriter. They're into thriller, mystery, and law or some corruption theme. Ratings please rise. This story and characters are really interesting and fun to watch. One tv asia Aug 10 2017 3:10 am Popcorn and coke Aug 10 2017 12:43 am In the novel San and Rin ended up together. Just because its about how the King came to love San more than himself doesn't mean San needs to return his love. Not all love are well-received. No, Im not having 2nd lead syndrome but im just stating the facts and the end of novel where this drama was taken. I dont know if the ending will be the same because they are not taking much from the novel and most of the time it is fresh from th writer's mind. I want Won and San together but if that cant happen i still wanna see a drama where a lead will tell us how one sided love becomes and ends. Won is not veing overshadowed by rin because SiWan is portraying the king perfectly. We are still a long way to predict who ends up with who because from what i can see this drama has so much twists and turns. Who knows maybe Won will end up with San or Won will die in the battle because of his love for conquest or Won will watch San and Rin marry! One tv asia Aug 09 2017 11:05 pm I watch TKIL at one tv asia around 9 pm. To my surprise my mom and my brother love this series and keep asking me when is the next episode. Hahaha then, in monday night they remind me "today has the king right?" Yeah hahha welcome to kdrama world! Isahata Aug 09 2017 9:54 pm I think the drama takes a different approach from the novel ya? The novel seems to show how the king lost his loved ones and ended up lonely or something, and there isn't any real romance between the king and the girl from the start it was just a one sided crush.. I hope the drama won't be exactly the same thou cause that would be depressing XDD Jamey Aug 09 2017 5:32 pm I think there are a few people...rate this drama so low maybe below than 10%? Because even you rate 60% it hard to even decrease gradually. These people is so weird...maybe they don't even watch tkil. Sorry if Iam wrong :D btw you can rate this drama at the top of the page 'user rating' Kcris Aug 09 2017 12:02 pm I can't believe the rating is so low. I love this drama! The characters are great and as the story progresses, it becomes more and more interesting..How can I rate this at asianwiki? It deserves a higher rating. dramaanon Aug 09 2017 10:54 am Oh shit! I wish san will end up with rin. Can that happen though?! Rin san pls end up together. I'm sorry won Sasa Aug 09 2017 5:32 am For @dya, you think the title the king in love its mean the ending must san with the king (won)? And tht i know in da novel san will be ends up with rin, And also not just won who hve 'wang' clan but rin too if you watch the drama rin hve opportunities to be the king same like her brother. Am not ship san with Rin or won, just enjoying this drama and wait with whom eun san will ends up. frxzhxl Aug 09 2017 5:20 am Siwan doesn't give me The King vibe. I understand he suppose to be a playful kind of king, but still, he's lack of charisma, and kinda overshadowed by Hong Jong Hyun's i think. Garden Aug 09 2017 3:20 am Great .... Just give kiss scene next week ep ... Please ... Kisslili Aug 09 2017 2:47 am So happy !! I wish that both heroes ends up together !!Love Won and San !! Can't wait to watch the next episode ( > o < )Won is so cute and like his mom said, he needs to be happy.Plus I do not really like Lin even if I admit that he is a good friend. it'sm3 Aug 09 2017 2:34 am Deserves a higher rating ... like it a lot. Crown Prince and Lady San ... and Rin, FIGHTING! Can wait for every week's episodes. Actors are always amazing Siwan  &  HJH you guys are just great! Dramaqueen Aug 09 2017 2:18 am I'm shipping Rin and San soooooooo bad!!!!!!I don't care about won...pls let rin end up with SanWon can have Dan? Flower Aug 09 2017 2:14 am This drama is so underrated. It's a beautiful historical drama. I believe that every character is well portrayed and have their own strength. The actors did justice towards their respective characters. The plot is amazing, it is different from previous saeguk dramas. Am I the only one who feels that this is a very very heartwrenching drama? It started off quite slow, the early episodes, but this drama just got better and better as the plot progesses. And my heart aches so much while watching the latest episode :'( all I can say is this drama is highly recommended! Forget about the low ratings, people! One last time Aug 08 2017 6:40 pm I need kiss scene .... Please pd nim , pd writer give kiss scene dont give sad scene between this Trio ... Hopefully more interesting next week episode juseyoooo !! Tita_Lola Aug 08 2017 6:25 pm Hoping for the best side of Won .. fighting! Go Crown Prince and Lady San. Rin is holding off to his feelings for now looks like sacrificing for his friend but we'll see how the turn of events plays out. That's what the second lead does. Wish Hong Jong Hyun gets his title lead role next time .. he's very good, as well. cutechloe Aug 08 2017 11:34 am 2nd lead syndrome...am i the only one feel that actually san and rin have feelings towards each other? at least so far it seems so to me....while won the crown prince seems like the 3rd party....i like the character of rin a lot, i don't know how the writer going to turn him into along the storyline but please don't mess his character... NATH Aug 08 2017 8:48 am Urgghhhh... i have a mix feeling.. the prince is so good and doing everything to san agashi.. but why my bias towards to wang rin... Minh Aug 08 2017 5:56 am sigh at least i know im not the only one who ships RinSan. I have nothing against Won but UGHHHHH i love Rin... A.R.M.Y Aug 08 2017 2:17 am Do anybody knows the opening song of this drama, What is the title? I couldn't find it at youtube Tu Aug 07 2017 9:28 am This drama gives me lot of mixed feelings:( ughhhhhhh poor rin neleh Aug 07 2017 3:56 am I love this drama. So far this is the most beautiful historical drama I've seen. The characters are so charismatic and all. I love them all, even the antagonist. Miriam Aug 06 2017 2:42 pm I love them both guys. I just hope their friendship will be always the same until the end. Waiting my squad Aug 06 2017 2:12 pm I'm waiting kiss scene :) !!! Can't get kiss scene next episode ???WonSan will do kiss scene first or RinSan will do kiss scene first . Moon K2 Missing Dots Aug 05 2017 4:47 pm Omo . Interesting plot , great drama but low rating ... Chemistery Daebak !!!  :)I cant wait to see new episode this monday K O Aug 05 2017 3:02 am Faster Monday ... I really miss trio this drama .... Ahfy Aug 04 2017 4:36 pm I really like the king. He really knows how to put that minister in his place. Minister asks the King - Then where is the crown prince. King answers - How would I know that? Am I his secretary? Am I his eunuch? lolHe gives straightforward answers and puts everything to place. See how he settled the assassination case with Wang Rin too. Rin, did you shoot the arrow? I didn't your majesty. King to Minister - you heard him, he said he didn't do it. the matter was settled there and there.King, fighting...... Ayer Aug 04 2017 5:04 am Waaaaah I cannot force myself to see Siwan having a sweet moment with Yoona.... ????? Si wan Aug 04 2017 3:34 am Ost1. Starlight (by roy kim)2. But (by lee hae ri)....... I beliave i can fly Aug 03 2017 1:34 pm Actually this drama so much interesting and great .. But the problem is Rating this drama !!! Hey .. Why rating .. Why ...Anyway two bodyguards Wang Won ... Jin Gan  &  Jang Ui so handsome !! Nanad Aug 03 2017 9:29 am Anyone please who know the titles song this drama :,( Queen comeback Aug 03 2017 5:47 am Best drama ... Love TKIL  :) Hwaiting YoonA :) jaket murah Aug 02 2017 9:47 pm i like this drama everywhere can you do it the drama yoona fighting !!! fafadafafafaa Aug 02 2017 5:57 pm lol the summary really doesn't do the drama justic. moon Aug 02 2017 4:22 pm Waa Ep 11-12 just made me more shipping Rin and San ?? sorry Prince... So Hard Aug 02 2017 1:33 pm Please guys help me ... I still dont know which one to choose !!! WonSan or RinSanchemistery between this 3 people so much great !!! Confuse :-/ Holiday Night Aug 02 2017 11:34 am And .. Another must waiting one week before new episode ... Aigooooo Jerica Aug 02 2017 11:29 am I ship WonSan! :-)so cute Im Siwan Jerica Aug 02 2017 11:26 am Wonsan here! kkekekeke Aug 02 2017 10:53 am rinsan or wonsan? this is the hard question for meeeeeeeeeeee ~ The King In Love fighting!!!! Prisca Aug 02 2017 10:14 am This drama so underrated. Fall in love again with Siwan and Jonghyun acting. Lia Aug 02 2017 10:05 am This drama is freaking gooood! Im currently watching 4 ongoing dramas and this drama is the most anticipating one yet the best one out of all ongoing dramas im watching (my opinion ofc).Even my sister who doesnt like kpop/ never wanted to watch drama loves this drama so much!I just cant believe how underrated this drama is! Flower Aug 02 2017 9:13 am Me too me too me too. I ship rinsan so hard. But I dont want to keep my expectation high bcs I am scared the ending might be different :') The King In Love ♡♡♡  < 3 Kamen Rider Aug 02 2017 9:07 am The rating don't prove anything. This drama is underrated like Queen for 7 Days. Both are amazing in their own way! Kudos to production team and actors! I enjoy this a lot although it's been only 12 episodes so far. Am definitely waiting for next episode. As a pure Kdrama fanatic, this is worth watching and is recommended. S.a Aug 02 2017 9:03 am Omaygat. How can i stopped to not like RinSan so much? Its make me so feel depression ?? bvblw Aug 02 2017 7:10 am Yoona and Hong Jong Hyun look so good together! Am I the only one who ships them (bad)? Support This Drama Aug 02 2017 7:01 am Rating so much important ... Bcoz if target rating 15% ⬆⬆⬆ become dream come true so Yoona and Hong Jonghyun can reunion with Siwan !!! Please hope target 15% become true !! I need this Trio reunion again ..... em em Aug 02 2017 5:57 am the user rating is wrong. I was trying to put 100 but my finger slid to 67 so...dont trust it. it is an amazing drama. can't wait for the next episode. I love all of them especially yoona sally Aug 02 2017 3:43 am oh my god i can't wait to watch next week episode! jestine29 Aug 02 2017 2:42 am Should i watch this drama? the ratings seemed to scream 'NO' Yoona is cute...well...but...errr Somebody Aug 01 2017 11:28 pm Watching this drama is like slowly drinking poison, I hope my OTP end up together but I dont know what kind of ending will be Zzz Aug 01 2017 10:06 pm This show is sooo gooooooood I'm crying Haven't had a show tortures me like this show does to me for a while SUPPORT KING IN LOVE Aug 01 2017 9:45 am Hwaaaaa cant choose rinsan or wonsan:( i love both of them. I cant wait for the next eps, but its still next week:( People lets support this more and moreee, its deserve more rating you knowwwww. Siwan, Yoona, Jong Hyun fighting!!!!! Azalea Aug 01 2017 2:19 am So nostalgic, the reunion of Misaeng cast Im Siwan, Oh Min Suk, and Yoon Jong Hoon :) Kinginlove? Jul 31 2017 8:58 am Just watched it!!! Cant wait:(((((( won is so cute aghhhh, but rin Rafaella.dy Jul 31 2017 8:18 am Iam afraid that siwan will die...because in some episodes the episode finish with the phrase this is the story of me who loved you more than my self this phrase sounds me like A person who is going or near to death....I still don't have realize if it is a memory or director just want to explain the story from the star Trio Team Jul 31 2017 2:21 am Best drama ... Excited waiting next ep tonight ... Trio team adian Jul 30 2017 9:35 am I'm for the king's guardian... Ki Do Hoon and Bang Jae Ho... so tall and handsome boy...More than Im Siwan.. Sorry ??? Nanaa Jul 30 2017 2:51 am Im sorry to say this but i seriously want yoona unnie with joon hyun oppa!!! ??????? im depressed because its not fair for him... Because im siwan oppa can freely hold her hands and joon hyun oppa just stare just like that?? im seriously looking forward for this drama and hope friendship of both guys will never fade. KoKoBop Jul 30 2017 2:01 am Guys ... I'm super excited waiting this drama ... Tomorrow ..Monday Night ! Team WonRinSan ! uckezzy Jul 29 2017 12:28 pm love this Drama,Cant Wait for next Episode... Coffee Please Jul 29 2017 1:55 am Huhuhu . So excited waiting next episode .. I think Won , Rin and San will fight with Song in , Moo suk and Jeon !!! So be careful trio. She Jul 28 2017 2:13 pm Like seriously, I like the king. He is...how should I put it... mischievously funny. See how he settled the assassination case with Rin. He just put the minister to his place. I love the drama. Fighting uri Won, San  &  Rin Fulltea Jul 28 2017 1:09 am Seriously this drama makes me laugh and cry at the same time?!! It deserves more recognition. Rise The King Loves!!! Rise!!!!! I can't believe how underrated it is o.0 Super great drama Jul 27 2017 9:40 pm This drama so much cool !!! Fans Yoona , Fans Siwan and Fans Hong jonghyun look so excited who's gonna get Eun San !!! Not like K2 .... K2 many bash Yoona + Jcw must ending with SYA not YoonaI cant beliave that ... Dont know how to respect ... I love this drama :) Xil Jul 27 2017 8:31 pm Its deserve more rating you know!! Yoona siwan johyun fighting!!! I love your drama??? Anjela rai Jul 27 2017 10:47 am My heart is trembling to watch the drama because maybe the Wang rin is going to take the San. I can't clear my doubts until i watch last ep which is impossible for me to stand a day. Have anyone got any clue about the ending ?? Please Wang won must be end with Eun san. WonRin Couple Jul 27 2017 12:48 am @Trish yapp ... Im Siwan is first male lead and Hong Jonghyun is second male lead ... But at the same time .. This two guy is Main Lead :-) Trish Jul 26 2017 11:00 pm Can someone tell who is the second lead?????? Well I really dont know why I am getting this feeling. It looks like Im Si Wan is the main guy, but I am really having this doubt. Or :( Am i just rooting for Jong Hyun..... Se Jul 26 2017 10:34 am Really like this drama!! Til i can't sleep for just waiting and confused abot the next eps. Please monday came to fast! But in here why i more ship Rin and San instead Won and San? ??? but i didn't mean for not like Won San anymore kkk Lanam30 Jul 26 2017 10:20 am I love this drama, i really enjoying it, all the cast are good...fast..fast next ep...and i watch this bcus of yoona... spongebob Jul 26 2017 5:15 am actually this drama is quite good. its very entertaining and fun to watch. for those who wonder about the cast/s acting skill and hesitate about the plot of this drama, i advice you to try it out by yourself. for me, eps1-8 are worth to watch. No name Jul 26 2017 2:49 am @FuzzyWuzzy I dunno why people say like that !! To me in the drama she show 360 ° different character :-) But it's okey your Opinion . Anyway i cant wait next week episode .. Faster ... Faster .... We love this drama Jul 25 2017 10:35 pm Yes ... So much interesting drama ... I like this drama .... To me , So far this is best Yoona drama .... Seriusly ... Yoona so much show different character ..... Not weak !!!! Strong and I love ....So sad must waiting monday next week ... New episode !I can't wait next week . BE_MYSELF Jul 25 2017 10:13 pm Love this drama so far, everything about this drama is so good, actors's visuals, performance, love line etc... Poor me, I need to wait for next week. Hehe Ame Jul 25 2017 5:40 pm I watch on ONE. Omg this drama is so good!!! How to wait until next week ahhh miami Jul 25 2017 8:27 am As expected it is a Song Ji na drama. Every character has their own motivations. You and i Jul 25 2017 3:51 am Best drama .. Trio Won , Rin , San Luna Jul 24 2017 10:17 pm Recommended drama!!! Watch this you guys! The plot is not cliche at all. Aside from the triangle love story, those who are interested in Korean history definitely recommended to watch. The Queen is Kublai Khan's daughter which is Genghis Khan's granddaughter(!!!). This is a story about Korean's first mix blooded King which is Wang Won. The friendship between Won, Rin, and San is worth watching. For those who are interested in romance genre then, this is it! There's a lot more to the plot so yeah, you should watch it. The acting is very nice. The trio has bursting chemistry with each other especially in the latest ep(ep 5,6). Shg Jul 24 2017 6:30 pm Hey stop itI don't like how I'm watching the drama in the different story about the history and I'm not sure how I am not sure why I'm not sure what it is about to be the best thing about this story but I'm sure that it is the first who will remember that story Beybey Jul 24 2017 8:59 am I feel so sorry for a few comments below. Haters gonna hate dude... dont waste your time here..you better do your homework and study diligently in school okay? AIREEN Jul 24 2017 1:13 am i want the second lead......please huhuhuhu Elisabet Jul 23 2017 4:59 pm ehmm...episode 1 and 2 July on 17, episode 3 and 4 July 18. I think before, why the king loves 3 and 4 turn up early. sometimes we only invite say war, justiced and etc without action. NATO ( not action talk only) only comment. if you can, please make your drama which better than this drama I never watching Korea drama because in my opinion all Korea drama bad (sorry). ok, I will say, drama boys before flowers from animation or manga Japanesse. before Korean I had watched Meteor Garden Taiwan. Meteor garden very well. when in remake to Korea drama, so bad. so, if the antiYoona say, Yoona is bad in this drama, I mean you say Korea drama is bad. the first Korea drama I had watched " The King Loves" because in my opinion this drama is good. if the rating as value, all the good drama will lose if get low rating. keime Jul 23 2017 9:49 am who watch it already? I read the summary but its kinda cliche for me .. I love historical dramas but i dont know about this one~ saanjh Jul 23 2017 8:42 am Wang won historical figure Chungseon of goryeo marry princess gyeguk and in original second lead wang Rin end up with San Starlight Jul 23 2017 3:30 am Yes ... Yes ... Yes ... I can' wait next ep this monday ;)Ost Roy Kim .. Ahh falling love dude ... StarlightHope get great rating !! Shishou Jul 22 2017 11:57 pm I'm in love with the two eps already!!! Hurry tomorrow~~! Btw, I really love the OSTs kekeke You guys should watch it. I was skeptical because Yoona stars in it. But this is sooo good, her character is strong here and I like that  > ,, <  I might be her fan after watching this omo kekeke saanjh Jul 22 2017 12:05 pm Can't wait for next episode ....love this drama Rina Jul 21 2017 5:15 pm Hahaha .. That's right Wang Won and Eun San look like Tom & Jerry always fight !!! Wang Rin " guys please stop fight " I beliave pd song jina as Pd Writer this drama will give suprise about this drama .. I cant wait next week ep :) Woowoo Jul 21 2017 2:19 pm First ep is ok, but the next episode so boring. Not better than moon lovers/moonlight, but im still rooting for Mr. Hong ? Anjela rai Jul 21 2017 10:16 am Have you read the novel,nancy? Please can you explain more in detail. I would really appreciate that. Please reply. BEEBEEMYLOVE Jul 21 2017 8:17 am Omg I really love this drama, failing in love with Eun San and Wang Won because they look like Tom  &  Jerry. LOL Can't wait for next EP Call Me Please Jul 21 2017 12:46 am Why ... The Bad Guy want to kill Eun San ????Omg .... That why Wang Won say he always protect Eun San even Eun San dunno why Wang Won do that !!! Love this drama Jul 20 2017 6:06 pm I love this drama ... More please ... Won , Rin and San become friendship :) . So sweet . Lorena Jul 20 2017 2:44 pm Lee Ki-Young has Graves' disease ? nancy Jul 20 2017 11:57 am Totally love this drama love all the character but I ship RIN AND SAN...If everything according to novel...This time second lead get happiness in the end so team up RIN and SAN.I like Won but my top priority Rin (Hong jong hyun ) my self Jul 20 2017 8:27 am fighting!!king loversi hope this drama be a legend Kdramamovie1995 Jul 20 2017 5:43 am YOONA' acting so great, Siwan too, a great duet!!!... Netizen and i-ppl praised about their good and great acting, good plot, excellent chemistry, beautifful visual and beautiful cinematography, Obvious, this kdrama has everything.. Sania Mahem Jul 20 2017 4:18 am Looking forward to watch this drama. I just wish that Hong Jong Hyun was the lead rather than Siwan. He would've done great as one! I hope he gets a lead role soon. Gihonri Jul 20 2017 1:18 am why the rating was drop in ep.3-4 ? ​I think this drama is really good. and I certainly still watching it !! fighting all Yoona Siwan Jonghyun !! hope rating in other episodes be better !! meanie Jul 19 2017 5:16 pm This drama is not boring at all... why would you say Yoona acting is bad? Did you even watch her drama? From my observation, Yoona doing a great job and she tried her best to potray Eun San character. Some of you are so meant to say that she cant act. In fact, she can act very well. Just because her acting is way more different from your favourite actress, doesnt mean she cant act. I am not a kpopers fan but I am just a person who like to watch korean drama. When I watch Yoona acting, I feel fresh because she has fresh face and fresh energy. All the cast also have work hard in this project. Atleast, dont bash her by saying 'why Yoona' but you can give some critics or comment so that she can improve her acting skill. Please be kind to others, others will be kind to you. To Haters Jul 19 2017 3:45 pm Seriously most of the haters are hypocrites. They just hate the drama without even watching since they don't like Yoona. Tbh yoona acting improved a lot and the story line is great. A girl who is apparently the wealthiest man daughter lives as a commoner due to the assassins who killed her mother. However, her identity has not been revealed to the two boys who like her, the crown prince and his life long friend/ bodyguard. To me this drama shows a promising plot and the chemistry between the trio is outstanding. This story is not that all cliche compare to other dramas w/ teens fighting for a girl in their school. grill Jul 19 2017 3:16 pm man.. gonna miss jong-hyun and that thicc eyeliner ???? Good night Jul 19 2017 10:01 am Guys ... I dunno why ... But i'm really waiting kiss scene this drama . sawala Jul 19 2017 4:09 am great plot and actors TKL fighting Zyn Jul 19 2017 3:04 am Lol the drama only airs like 2 episodes and you say it flopped already??? What logic. uri twice Jul 19 2017 2:22 am After watched the first episodes,the story isn't great at all....to be honest it boring. the plot is full of cliches love-triangle. i'm dissapointed:( i droped, i'm not gonna watch this again. and this drama already flop at the second episodes. even yoona popularity can't save this drama, current votes on asianwiki is 65% by 303 voted Team TKIL Jul 19 2017 12:53 am Ouh ... Last night episode ... Why get low rating ?? :(But in fact last night episode little bit boring ... Hopeully next week episode will better and get great plot !!!! Molen Jul 19 2017 12:43 am Aaah..that woman again,not a big fan ?But i love siwan n hjh.. Ost Jul 18 2017 10:33 pm Dont judge it too soon.. good luck for this drama Someone Jul 18 2017 3:14 pm Watch this bc of hong jung hyun, I kinda like the way he dressed in goryeo era (of course I watch scarlet heart XD).. I'm looking forward to this drama's plot ClubKdrama7000 Jul 18 2017 1:56 pm great cast: Yoona  &  Siwan  &  Hongjonghyungreat acting: Yoona  &  Siwangood acting: hongjonghyunperfect visual: Yoona  &  Siwannice visual: hongjonhyungreat chemistry: Yoona &  Siwan, Yoona & Hongjonghyun, YoonaSiwanHongvery godo plotvery good cinematographyvery good direction The King in Love has everything! Great Kdrama 2017 Slow motion guys Jul 18 2017 11:14 am Yoona and Siwan like Tom & Jerry .... But historical version !! HahahaYeah they chemistery perfect ... Hope coming soon plot , rating is Daebakkkkk !! ImIm couple Jul 18 2017 7:10 am i saw this drama,and that is awesome!!yoona made a lot improvement and am very pround of heri hope the king lovers get a high ratings bacause they all are a really good actor & actress:) piscesti Jul 17 2017 10:51 pm hmm another love triangle.. like there's no other topic.. and here comes yoona, not a big fan.. Wiiiii Jul 17 2017 9:03 pm I like the first 2 ep. Definitely one of the drama that I am going to watch until its end. The teaser is tempting ToT and the plot is good... the casts especially the lead actor and actress is so funny. Potatoes Jul 17 2017 8:22 pm i'm only watching this because of im siwan's comeback after taking sooo long on nitpicking dramas. as for yoona, well, i hope she do better. her k2 'acting' isn't impressive. Hopie Jul 17 2017 8:05 pm Anxious to see Nam Da Reum acting once more. Srsly I love this boy. He has a bright future and I hope to see he as lead soon. ♥ umami Jul 17 2017 8:00 pm wow this drama totally catch up my attention. I never watching saeguk drama, but this one is totally different. yoona's acting has improved a lot. I'm so proud of her. i wish this drama always doing good job untill the end of drama. alfa Jul 17 2017 6:10 pm The leads are all beautiful! I think Yoona is better actress -.- compared to the other leads. I dont get it why people criticize her so much even before the drama airing. Yoona fighting!! Szygr Jul 17 2017 4:54 pm ughhh why is yonna the lead... they could have picked a better actress -.- Wanderer Jul 17 2017 12:06 pm Love the main lead actress and actors, love the plot so far. Summer_bee Jul 17 2017 9:05 am @dramafanfyi even yoona's Prime Minister  &  I has played 10 times in my country.. So many ahjumma like that drama BEEBEE Jul 17 2017 3:39 am @Drama Fan You are completely don't know about Korean TV channel rating, let me explain you: The K2 was aired in TVN:1. Decedent of the sun, Good Manager and Innocent Defendant are all from KBS is public TV channel not tvN channel which is cable tv channel (most likely has very low rating compare to public tv because audiences need to pay not free as public tv like MBC, KBS, KBS2, SBS.2. For cable tv has more than 1% is considered as success tv program.3. Go you check Yoona's previous drama like KBS1's You are my destiny drama rating more 40% at the last EP. Her Chinese drama rating more than 2% it's considered as very hug success as in China has high population. Her Movie confidential assignment hit the top box office even beat the movie like The King.4. Even Love rain is low rating in Korea but it was the export to Japan was the most expensive Korean drama to Japan. And sold many countries in Asia and America.5. Just remain you, The king in love pre-sold to many countries already because of Yoona's popularity and previous successful work like The K2, Chinese drama and her movie (Confidential assignment). 윤세나 Jul 17 2017 3:04 am can't wait this drama!! after SongSong couple, there will be ImIm ??? Kim min jin Jul 17 2017 1:40 am Can't wait tonight Namja Pretty Jul 16 2017 11:37 pm Ouh Guys ... I'm waiting this drama tonight !! So excited ...Hope Daebak plot , chemistery , rating .. Look ruler master historical drama but can beat modern drama . Judge Jul 16 2017 5:21 pm Yoona made a lot improvement in The K2.. For cable TV drama, rating above 5% is good and can't compare with National TV drama cause cable TV drama is paid.. And the drama not started, you're all already judge her.. Hahahaha.. If you already watch, you can judge.. You judge her cause she is idol? Wow so jealousy people now for her cause she is idol, beautiful, and have a lot improvement on her acting.. Imcouple Jul 16 2017 8:56 am Dude .. Haters always be haters .. But i cannot wait this drama tomorrow .. Monday :) Joyous Jul 16 2017 5:58 am Will watch for Siwan!! Cause damn his acting is quiet good!Don't care about what others will say about Yoona. Will definitely watch this!! Just Me Jul 16 2017 12:12 am Seriously???Some people still complaining about the Lead Actress. The drama is already finished product now. Whatever complains you write here won't even change a thing. And it would only make people reading your comment think you only just some hater. I read some even compare rating wise of some cable TV drama and national TV drama???? Get your fact and data first before it bites you in the end. It's like comparing apple to orange. Yes, TheK2 rating is not top of the top of cable tv drama. There are Goblin, Reply 88, Misaeng, Signal, and Oh Hae Young above TheK2. But for tv cable drama, since they have different system 5% is considered decent. I watched TheK2, I consider it okay. It's not masterpiece as signal or Reply 88 or as fun and gripping as Oh Hae Young (I only compare it with other 2017 cable dramas) because there are some inconsistencies and plot holes, but the acting and performances of the casts made up for the whole drama. If you watch without some prejudice you'd enjoy it. I'm not Yoona fans, I'm just general kdrama fans who enjoy watching drama. But I do think the bandwagon hate for her and other idol actresses are too much. In the end I won't torture myself to watch drama if I don't like the casts, moreover go to such extent and leave hateful comment online. I'm here because the teaser tempt me. Whether I'll continue watching til the end it depends on the drama itself. But I will for sure check the pilot episodes. Drama Fan Jul 15 2017 11:32 pm First, I agree with Mint, don't watch it.. I know, I won't.. But, Mint, I think others are just wanting a good actress with whom the male actors they like. No reason to get nasty with your comments. I am glad you like K2, the 16 episodes rated out at an average of 5.1% viewership. Examples of better drama's with higher ratings are,1. Descendants of the Sun (16 Episodes, rating on the last week at 41.6% with an average of 30.1%)2. Good Manager (20 Episodes, rating the last week at 17.8% with an average of 16.1%)3. Innocent Defendant (18 Episodes, rating the last week at 29.7% with an average of 23.11%) Xiaorishu Jul 15 2017 4:44 pm Trailer looks sick :) Can't wait! Mint Jul 14 2017 10:57 am @kpoopandcrack Imo, if you don't like her then don't watch her dramas. Easy. And why judge before it even airs? Tbh, I don't understand people who talk shit about actors/actresses before the drama airs. And this apply to every actors. Just watch and see first then you make the comment. And it's up to you whether the acting is good or not. And please if you don't like certain actors just skip his/her dramas. There are tons other dramas with top to notch actors and etc. Oh btw, I'm a fan of her since The K2. And many other people will agree with me that her acting is quite good. Our taste is just different and no need to post a bias comment when your desired actress to play the role might also not be the perfect one to everyone. Kpoopandcrack Jul 13 2017 11:16 pm Yoona...Yoona...Yoona...Im sorry but I don't understand why she gets the main lead in all these amazing dramas with amazing male leads and other actors. I just don't get it...personally her " acting" isn't that good or at least to me it isn't. There are so many actress better fit for this role and yet...here she is....again. " acting". Girl Jul 11 2017 5:51 pm Heol....pls guys Yoona is a good actress too. This is fully a pre-made drama and it will broadcast soon. Just enjoy it! Elle Jul 11 2017 5:56 am It could have been a lot better if it's not yoona haaha umi Jul 11 2017 4:31 am im hoping that yoona will delivers her character well considering that both of male leads are good. siwan was really good in misaeng and jomghyun in scarlet heart. im not expecting much but please i hope it will be good as promising Bonami Jul 09 2017 11:40 am Looking forward to watching this!!!!But what is this ominous feeling? Like, that one syndrome will happen... Second Lead Syndrome ? Oic Jul 09 2017 8:26 am Another drama! ^_^ hope its good and nice like scarlet heart!❤️ fighting!:):):):):) Shawn Jul 08 2017 2:53 am Please .... I need more teaser !!!! Waiting this drama . Ricky Jul 08 2017 12:53 am Omg this looks really good to see asdfg Jul 07 2017 11:11 am why Yoona :v htkmkz Jul 06 2017 1:00 pm I ship ImIm Couple so much ? kkk Jul 06 2017 1:17 am i dont know why but i just ship Yoona with that second lead role..hahahaha neleh Jul 05 2017 7:25 pm The King In Love. I have a hunch that this will be a big hit. I hope this will air in the Philippines too. I love Yoona the most and I also like Jung Hyun  &  Si Wan ofcourse. Fighting!! I'm looking forward to this and so excited ever since I heard that Yoona will be starring in the drama. Waiting this drama Jul 05 2017 3:47 pm I need more teaser about this drama ... Please !!! GoodLuck Jul 05 2017 2:02 pm Omo ... omo .... I dunno why i'm waiting kiss scene form this drama !! Help Me ..Yoona will have kiss scene with this two handsome partner right !!! ??? But But But Cannot wait this drama !! ;) Team this drama Jul 05 2017 1:02 pm Yehet .. Finally i can't wait this drama !! I want watch all episode this drama ..Hopefully this drama will be daebak historical drama all the time !Hwaiting ^ _ ^ Anjela rai Jul 05 2017 11:42 am Finally, finally, i am so happy that it has just 12 days left to be aired because i was so tired of searching king loves since it has started casting and filming. Now i no longer have to wait to see SIWAN, YOONA together as they have been my favourite and very eager to see Siwan playing in drama after MISAENG.. Nothing to say Jul 05 2017 11:04 am I'm so excited this drama ... Friendship or Love ????Good Luck Team TKIL . :) Rooo Jul 05 2017 10:59 am There are a few newcomer actors in the king in love. YoonA_Light Jul 05 2017 12:48 am YoonA Fighting!!! King Loves DaebaaakkkkSaranghaeeeeee Yani Jul 03 2017 9:25 pm the bromance is probably gonna take over the show, but yoona I'm here to watch you. Lucky for you Jul 03 2017 11:10 am Lucky Yoona get two handsome partner ! Hope will be great rating , plot and everthing !!! I'm team this drama . Figthing i need mid july come now !!!!!!! K Jul 02 2017 10:53 pm So as we see in the poster Siwan is the male lead and most likely to get the girl.what a shame:(not that I don't like him or have any hate toward the idea, I just wanted to see Jong hyun get the girl that's all:)it's okay...Hong jong hyun fighting BMW Jun 30 2017 10:19 pm I'm new team support this drama .. Can't wait !!! Hopefully daebak ! Beautiful Jun 28 2017 12:09 am So sad ..... This is last Siwan drama ..... Before going military !! I will miss he so much !!!!! Hope great ! I Jun 27 2017 9:48 pm Yes .... Yoona unnie comeback acting .... Hwaiting hope great drama,great respon . Vic Jun 27 2017 2:37 pm A lot of historial dramas this year not that I'm complaining! I NEED YOU JULY Jun 27 2017 8:20 am July where are you ????? I need you now .... Yani Jun 27 2017 6:16 am I hope this drama hit jackpot. Looks good already. jihoon's trash Jun 27 2017 5:27 am Yoona and Siwan looks so good together, I'm already a shipper of themㅎㅎ Cannot Wait This Drama Jun 26 2017 11:51 pm Sound Great .. Hopefully will get good respon . gdoenrn Jun 26 2017 12:05 pm ..another love triangle(overused) cliche drama? please no I beg :-( i can't take anymore 2nd lead syndrome :-((( at least let the 2nd lead have another love interest pls pls pls pls haqqy Jun 26 2017 3:59 am i already become SLS even before the drama airing.. hong jung hyun so cool.. Figthing Jun 25 2017 8:56 pm I need july coming now !!! Excited between 3 main character !! Milli Jun 25 2017 12:55 am Excited for this.. I've missed Yoona King loves fans Jun 24 2017 7:37 pm I want this drama become epic historical drama this year . Hopefully !Cannot wait chemistery between Yoona and Siwan or Yoona and Hong Jong Hyun . Soon Jun 21 2017 7:39 am Cannot wait to watch this drama ... ;) 100% Jun 17 2017 6:16 pm Huhuhu ... I"m waiting this drama , hopefullly daebak ! Confirm This Drama Will Start July Jun 13 2017 2:01 pm Wah , I'm very excited to this drama !!!! Cannot wait .I hope july come faster please .. Go Keyboard Jun 13 2017 6:08 am To : bvblw Hopefully all of them have good chemistery between each other . I dunno know want to ship yoona siwan or yoona hong jong hyun :) bvblw Jun 13 2017 12:02 am Am i the only one who thinks that yoona and hong jong hyun kinda looks good together? Sorry the drama hasnt even started yet and im already shipping them together! Trexie Ann Jun 12 2017 4:38 am Waiting for this. I Love you Siwan!!!! Kdrama800 Jun 12 2017 2:12 am hong jong hyun is the male lead FakeID Jun 11 2017 7:34 am Omo .. This is first historical drama to YoonA and i'm waiting so longand two handsome partner with Yoona , Siwan and Hong Jong HyunSo hope will be daebak . I'm support team this drama :) Hjo Jun 10 2017 1:16 am To lackey : i think so too. But its okay for me since siwan is also a good actor. Kamsahamida Jun 09 2017 9:25 pm I can wait ... All cast figthing .... Siwan , Jonghyun and Yoona ! Lackey Jun 09 2017 6:14 pm am i the only one that would prefer Hong Jong Hyun as the male lead? I just think he'll be better than Im Siwan Korean Drama Fans Jun 09 2017 12:22 pm This drama in my list to wait and waiting .. look so interesting ... i'm so excited this drama ! Sweet Heart Jun 09 2017 11:51 am OMO , Cannot wait this drama .. July please come faster !! Hope daebak this drama Saya nie Jun 06 2017 2:57 pm Good Luck this drama hope become hits this drama . Moon Jun 06 2017 6:30 am Figthing this drama . TKL FANS Jun 05 2017 7:39 pm I need new photo .... New teaser .... Give something news about this drama ! Random Play Jun 05 2017 4:28 pm Hwaiting all cast .. Me toooo , Look so interesting .Love Triangle .. Zooooom Jun 05 2017 3:03 pm 0h yeah ... Look so interesting this drama !!! Can Wait ... HEllo Jun 05 2017 12:40 pm Waiting ... Waiting !!! W _ W Jun 04 2017 7:23 am Yes yes yes ..... This month June next month July ... Can wait !July , July , July , July .... Bvblw Jun 01 2017 8:52 pm Im quite excited for this drama. Honestly im not fond of historical dramas. Ive watched alot of popular historical dramas but i only liked scarlet heart ryeo. And i think im going to like this too because the plot already sounds amazing #HappyYoonaDay May 31 2017 8:34 am Cannot wait .... YoonA unnie figthing . TingTong May 28 2017 8:15 pm Yeah ... Hope This drama Daebak (: Figthing All Cast . Miss Yoona May 28 2017 8:49 am Ahhhh ... Another interesting historical drama ... One of my list to watch Kdrama !!! Cannot Wait ... Hope Hit Daebak .. Anjela rai May 28 2017 7:53 am I seriously cant wait anymore.I am really looking forward to see Si wan after his drama Misaeng and i was like wow he is a damn good actor. Yoona is my fav. Despacito May 26 2017 1:33 pm Cant wait July ... Hope daebak this drama !! :-) The King Loves Figthing May 25 2017 8:38 am Yapp , Dude ... careful this drama will fight with drama School 2017 KBS , And another drama channel SBS  !!! Hwaiting this drama . Welcome Back Actress YoonA May 25 2017 3:33 am Yeah...I cant wait this drama...Hope will Daebak !! Figthing Yoona , Siwan and Jonghyun . All team . 2YoonA_Fans May 24 2017 1:51 pm Yoona i can't waiting your new drama !! July / 17 / 2017 will start this drama #Confirm  !! Go Go All Cast This Drama Figthing ! torres May 23 2017 11:39 am i can't wait to see yoon acting. i hope this drama would come soon. Joan May 23 2017 9:12 am Gosh!!!! However can I choose!!! Such beautiful men, Siwan and Jong Hyun!!! ❤️ So happy it's set on Goryeo era, missed JongHyun from Scarlet Heart, the heart wrenching and the best period drama of 2016. HunHan May 19 2017 2:59 pm Yoona Unnie i can't wait your new drama ..... Don't listen what Haters say ... Just enjoy and happy shooting this drama !! Auuhhh you are so lucky get two handsome partner !!!! Good Luck all cast !  :) Nana May 17 2017 11:51 am Yoona is so lucky to have two handsome co-stars. She is so shippable kkkk. I hope this drama will get high rating and popularity. Hit the queen May 13 2017 2:22 am I cant wait this drama !!! all team this drama fighting . Dae May 12 2017 3:15 am OMG ... This is real visual couple Siwan and Yoona . #PerfertDrama Hope Daebak this drama !!!!! July take my brain .. Marie May 09 2017 11:24 pm Waiting for this drama! Like to see Siwan... I've just finished watching him in Misaeng! He's a good actor. Yoonah, Siwan and Jong Hyun Good luck! Yeahhhhh May 04 2017 8:17 pm I dont know why historical drama take so much long to making this drama . Everbody cant wait this drama . It's dream come true Apr 29 2017 1:08 pm Yoona unnie Show the new character you get .. Strong Women !! Different drama different character . Fighting ... Waiting ... HUMAN HEART FOUND Apr 26 2017 2:17 pm Good luck Yoona unnie .. i'm will waiting your new drama . T T .... TT Apr 24 2017 6:26 am Wahhhh .. Yoona so lucky get a handsome partner like Siwan and Jonghyun . Can't wait ! AllCall Apr 23 2017 11:39 am Yoona unnie cant wait to see you again in new drama!!!:) Partner King Lovers Apr 23 2017 9:15 am I want to see great chemistry between Siwan and Yoona 0R Jonghyun and Yoona. °_° Fighting All Of Cast . GIF Apr 22 2017 11:39 pm Me too .. I really wanna see Yoona new drama !!! Cant wait.. Happy Go Lucky Apr 22 2017 10:35 pm Can't MBC give more image or video about this drama !! July please come faster like Fast  &  Furious ! Linnaminha Apr 22 2017 4:57 pm Woohooo!! MY body is ready!!!! I wanna to see Yoona's new kdrama. she is my favorite korean actress, her acting is awesome! she is one of the BEST k-actresses. that TRIO (yoona+siwan+hjh) will be legendary. Good! Call Me Baby Apr 22 2017 8:34 am Omo !! Omo !! Cannot Wait To See This Drama ..#HopeDaebak .Yoona / Siwan / Jonghyun / Hwanhee  !! Hwaiting ! KDfilmplay Apr 21 2017 10:29 pm yasss! so excited! I want to see Yoona's new kdrama, she is my fav k-actress, her acting is jjang! Kdramaland2000 Apr 21 2017 10:18 pm the plot is daebak! the cast is very good! Im Yoona's acting is great, she became one of the Best Female K-actors.Im Siwan's acting is great too, He became one of the Best Male K-actors. Even their visual is not joke... definitely a im yoona and im siwan are a PERFECT MATCH! Krissye Apr 21 2017 3:01 pm the cast is good! the plot is itneresting. Yoona and siwan are two of the best korean actress/actor. I really wanna to see → THE KING LOVES! sooner Wang Apr 21 2017 10:23 am Owmy. I haven't move on yet with scarlet heart and now they're character names are Wang??!!??? Yeiria Apr 21 2017 12:58 am I also see the historical drama trending these days.......good ? Yeiria Apr 21 2017 12:55 am Wow! this three together would make a beautiful drama. I can't wait to watch......my beautiful unni and hansome oppas......fighting Interista Apr 20 2017 10:39 pm I can't wait to see Yoona!!So Beatuiful!! Comment . Apr 20 2017 9:55 pm Good to see again Yoona in new drama ! Strong women ! Eu gosto de tudo Apr 19 2017 3:03 pm @OlzDive ... I dont know ... but they will have a love triangle between Yoona , Siwan and Jonghyun ... Hopefully not too similar like Scarlet Heart ryeo !!! And i wish this drama have Happy Ending ! OlzDive Apr 18 2017 5:18 pm Is it a tragic love story? Anyone knows? Like Scarlet Heart ryeo? I can't bear to watch if it is. Too much broken heart. I need happiness. Fast  &  Furious 8 i want watch it Apr 18 2017 3:47 pm In drama strong woman do bong soon we have (ParkParkCouple) in drama descendants of the sun we have (SongSongCouple) and now in this drama we have (ImImCouple) Im Siwan and Im Yoona ... Hope DAEBAK this drama ! X Apr 16 2017 3:20 pm Can Wait This Drama. S / J / Y / H I got a bear Apr 14 2017 11:30 pm Do the best Team The King Loves ... July July please come! She / He Apr 14 2017 3:46 pm Wow good to see Yoona , Siwan and Honghyun 보통 사람들 Apr 14 2017 2:48 pm I can't wait to see plot , chemistery and everthing . JiYoon Apr 13 2017 4:33 am but whyyyyyyyyyyy, why sin´t hong jong hyun the lead roleeeeeee whyyyyy he is so handsome and Beautiful i mean whyyyyyyyyyyy i wish he will get the lead role soon FIGHTING Y Apr 12 2017 7:11 pm Omg... Yoona will be playing new character.. since back then, Yoona well known as quite tomboyish and him(strong) Yoona maybe she can fit this role perfectly. I will watch this for sure. Hwaiting! Fighting! Tingting! Dingding! Lalalalala~I got panda eyes~ Hugoooo Apr 05 2017 11:13 pm Pls I cant wait... oooh July :/ 123456789 Apr 05 2017 9:47 pm I need July come faster !!!! Please !!!! Ooop Mar 28 2017 3:33 pm I need to know when this drama will out !! May , June or July . Yani Mar 21 2017 4:23 pm Finally, fans get to see Yoona in a historical and yay! that she's getting more roles with actors of her age. She's even more veteran than them. Her acting is still a little bit... lacking, but that has never tore apart the drama. Comeback Yoona new drama Mar 20 2017 4:01 pm I believe after shooting this drama ending , She will focus to groupSNSD comeback .... OMO OMO so tired yoona ! work work work Mar 20 2017 3:57 pm Yoona new character ... Strong women .... So please respect Yoona dont tell sheso weak character like TheK2 drama .... Please open your eyes and read synopsis this drama before you guys wanna bash Yoona . Special to HATERS !  :) farafit Mar 20 2017 11:21 am i dont really like saeguk aka historical drama but for Siwan i will be watching then. Daisy Mar 14 2017 7:13 pm WTH yoona pretending to be a guy, omg that the most ridiculous thing I've ever heard, I've been looking forward to watching jong hyun oppa next drama after scarlet heart but if its this then I'll pass, lyk gladly pass. And I think the story of a gal pretending to be a boy has already become lame  &  I'm so damn tired of it, jeez y do all the writers write the same stuffs? I mean they are more stories in this world. Kel Mar 10 2017 2:52 pm Very much looking forward to this. Admit I haven't seen Siwan or Yoona yet, but I thought Jonghyun killed it in Scarlet Heart Ryeo, just fabulous! I don't mind another sageuk, I love them if they're well done. The girl as boy thing may be common convention, but I like it! Plus it's only way to see girl do more progressive stuff because girls don't have as much freedom in that era. Seegorgeous Mar 08 2017 3:39 am I cannot .. Knowing Jong-hyun is being casted (scream inside) . Well i had a good time fantasizing of him in scarlet heart but of course not just him same goes with the others who's jaw dropping and heart wrecking male characters specially (nam jo ) ^^. Gawd.. I can't help but expect too much and hope that it would somehow similar base on my own perception. Perhaps all we need is to prepare our minds ,souls and body(:D) and just absorb everything coming. Cross Finger ** Asiadramalover Feb 28 2017 10:27 pm Already have a feeling that SLS is going to be strong in this one. Ugh. The dreaded Goryeo times that just breaks your heart is coming our way. Anyone else prepared? ?? fnqdiva Feb 24 2017 10:31 pm Does anyone know about the ending from the novel, I mean, i really tired watching for a false hope like the last time, I wish the ending would be different for moonlovers-goryeo.If this an happy ending, I definitely going to watch. Nana Feb 23 2017 12:09 am @Asd San (played by Yoona) Emanresu Feb 22 2017 9:50 am I'm so excited for this. Can't wait to see pretty Yoona in a new show.  :) Asd Feb 21 2017 6:36 pm @Nana who pretends to be a guy? Nana Feb 21 2017 12:35 pm I knew Siwan from The Moon That Embraces The Sun. I can't forget how good looking and charismatic he was on that drama. His acting's unexpectedly good too. Yoona's acting has improved on The K2. Seems like Jonghyun can't move on from Goryeo haha. But honestly I'm not impressed by the plot. Why every sageuk drama that I watched is about the girl who had to pretend to be a guy. They said the novel is popular, so I'm gonna give it a try. The King Loves Cast fighting! arnsk Feb 20 2017 7:00 pm @hairi.ryujin the 'eun' in the title does not refer to the king's name. Sorry, I'm not Korean so I don't know much but Korean adds something at the end of the word thekinglovesfans Feb 20 2017 1:57 am Fighting all cast!! love you yoong always beautiful everyday... Nhe Feb 18 2017 9:39 am I wanna watch this because of jong hyun but knowing who the lead actress made me nervous....she really disappointed me with her previous drama K2...I really don't like her acting....I hope she made some progress this time... Rosé Kim Feb 18 2017 12:10 am Whose the main actor? Anyone know??? Lee Seo Hwa Feb 17 2017 11:51 pm It's funny how Da Reum and Chan Young reunited rival together from six flying dragon again.... Syaxx Feb 17 2017 11:34 am OMG !!! I really can't wait for this drama. Gonna watch it for sure  < 3 Lee Seo Hwa Feb 16 2017 7:38 am This drama almost look familiar to Moonlovers, Moonlovers Yoona version !I'm glad I get to see Yoona from Moonlovers Goryeo era!I hope this doesn't copy scarlet heart ryeo! Azalea Feb 15 2017 7:25 pm Another Goryeo setting for Jong Hyun, guess he can't move on :p luki Feb 11 2017 10:19 am i've been waiting forever for Siwan's new drama! love the historical setting and the casts are good... but why her T.T sigh... Retard Feb 11 2017 5:16 am Little girl be like "The female lead is an idol. Female idol cant act. Siwan and Jonghyun oppa are the best actors in korea. I am a smart girl. My parents are so proud of how smart I am". hairi ryujin Feb 09 2017 5:00 am still confused with title "wangeun saranghanda"but the lead male is not eun but won @_@ who Feb 07 2017 7:23 pm Can't wait for the drama sivia Feb 07 2017 7:21 pm Siwan idol turn into actor, yoona idol turn into actress , hong jonghyun model turn actor. I like visual off the cast. The King Loves cast fighting. Can't wait for this drama. Bagus Feb 06 2017 2:03 am Can't wait this Drama, Yoona-ya Hwaiting♡ Dont listen what haters say ! Feb 06 2017 12:18 am Wow cant wait this drama .. Yoona hwaiting hahaha Feb 03 2017 10:30 pm The male actors sucks too. Stupid fangirl Patience Feb 02 2017 5:42 am I don't care what people say about yoona's acting I believe she is going to do a good job. She keeps improving with every project and I'm sure she knows what expectations people have for her. So watch haters u might end up getting disappointed with urselfYoona fighting!!!! lovelywinnine Feb 01 2017 2:48 am I really like her in the K2 ....her acting is perfectly fit for the character as delicate and yearning for the famliy warmth young woman...she sang amazing grace beautifully....i am looking forward to this one because she's in it....but i hope it will not be a tragic one or a serious love triangle storyline.... Where is my comment Jan 29 2017 4:35 am How many episode this Drama ? And when this drama will be show ?Hwaiting all actor/actress . I cant see you Yoona .... Jealous people to you Jan 27 2017 12:16 pm X - X Dont you give up NaNaNa , i wont give up NaNaNa , Let me love you , Let me hug .. Say what you want Haters ... Nobody listen what haters say ! moon lover Jan 27 2017 10:32 am looking forward this drama bcs hong jong hyun is here. i started to adore him in moon lover and his acting was so good. hopefully my wang yo moon lover gave his best in ths drama fighting! sf Jan 22 2017 3:56 am I love all the main actors but Yoona's presence it gives me some emotions that will turn into panic. I only hope that she will not be again the lean wheel of the drama. Omg_Oppa Jan 21 2017 4:49 am Not a fan Yoona before but after watching Yoona acting in The K2, started loving her acting and become her fan now. I will anticipate this drama for sure. Yoona fighting!!! From now will always cheering for you ❤❤❤ love Jan 19 2017 3:17 pm i literally cant wait for this drama but doesnt anyone else think that the plot is so cliche. i mean cant we get anything different nowadays, we all know who she is going to end up with but for Yoona i will watch this. i just hope that it exceeds my expectations BBLOVE Jan 16 2017 12:59 am Haters still hate Yoona acting? Her recent dramas were doing great job. Her Chinese drama hit #1 during airing time in China and The K2 also top views every week for cable TV until the end. Yoona fighting Bella Jan 07 2017 8:48 pm Seriously, cant people just stop calling yoona as an idol.. seems like she is not recognize as an actress. But I think yoona made acting debut first (since early 2007)... hmm.. she became an actor earlier than siwan and hong jong hyun.. but haters gonna hate. But it is quite sad though. In the k2 she got so much hate... but still she got many applause for the hardwork. Btw I really love her acting in every drama project starting from 'you are my destiny'.. and I am not k-pop fan.. Kim Jan 07 2017 5:26 am Yoona hwaiting don't let the haters get to you because ur perfect hyojinshah Jan 03 2017 11:52 am cant wait for this drama  :)) anjani Dec 28 2016 6:18 am Will Hong Jon Hyun be villain prince again? Like in "moonlovers"Love u Oppa. lptrk Dec 27 2016 11:21 am Why i hope yoona with jonghyun not with siwan kkkk~ but i still watch this drama. Yoona fighting! BNC Dec 27 2016 12:02 am OMG there's Siwan  &  JongHyun i cant wait for this drama drizzle Dec 23 2016 4:50 am make the thing easy guys :)if u hate/don't like/not interesting or whatever in Yoona and her acting ability, so just leave it! don't watch this drama.FYI : with or without you this drama will still going in MBC for next year ^^aaaanndd maybe u should ask to ur heart honestly, why do u hate Yoona so much? because she is beautiful? because she is great at dancing? because she is member of the biggest and the most famous girlgroup in Asia? if the answer is "NO", so i'm sure like 100% sure that you are just jealous of her, but u don't want to confess that hahahaha poor u haters ❤ PearlMilkTea Dec 22 2016 3:57 am Siwan!! I'm anticipating this drama with Siwan! V_V Dec 21 2016 7:50 pm Cant wait to see you in this drama V_V Dec 21 2016 7:49 pm Good luck Yoona .. Sheri Dec 21 2016 6:13 pm Looking forward to this, just hope there is chemistry between Yoona and the leads. Have loved and hated her in other shows. Sheria Dec 21 2016 5:52 pm Yoona as a female lead a sageuk drama... like really?! Personally, I don't think she's the most suitable one to be cast as a lead; a support perhaps?. She is cute and talented though she needs to improve her acting, yes she still has a long way to go. If you guys watched how Do Ha (Ko Sung Hee) performed in Night Watchman's Diary then you'd probably understand why Yoona isn't cut out for this role. suk2014 Dec 21 2016 12:44 am Nam Da Reum meet Yoon Chan Young again!!!!! Ice cream cake Dec 20 2016 5:42 am Hahaha get lost haters .!!! aaahhh kdrama maniac Dec 20 2016 1:07 am seriously there are people considering jin se yeon as female lead? not im yoona's fan but i thought she's great in k2 and prime minister. as for siwan, he's really good. no need for words. i'm a fan of him in misaeng  < 3. hwaiting king loves! Ice cream cake Dec 19 2016 3:18 pm Hahaha .... Haters why so much Jealous ... Please dude Leave Yoona if you guys dont like Yoona !! hryujin Dec 19 2016 2:23 am im really confused of title novel they make into drama.they said "wangeun saranghamnida" mean 'eun i love you'.but why the lead name is won not eun.both eun and won is brother who hv part age just 1years.its like upcoming lovestory of prince wangwon (9th prince)??? Jess Dec 19 2016 12:51 am The plot and female lead is so disappointed... so many good actresses and she comes up again?? hh why did siwan agree to this TT all the cast that hasnt been confirmed yet should not get involved lol Nica marie Dec 14 2016 9:16 am Ohhh my ghaddsss im rooting for this two... this sure makes me crinkle.... yoona fighting!!! K2 you act great on that drama.. love lots. GG. goblin Dec 14 2016 12:57 am lol. i know the haters who talk about yoona cant act is the same person. why must being salty? is she make a mistake to you? just because your idol dont get recognize from k-netz doesnt mean you must blame to yoona. stupid. just leave her alone. wang soo Dec 13 2016 5:12 am wow hong jong hyun!! i've already can see the great chemistry from the cast^^ fighting!! and i cant wait it xD Yoona My Love Dec 13 2016 3:58 am Hong Jong Hyun supposed to be the main actor........... sana Dec 12 2016 7:46 pm Yoona fighting! Do not mind the haters, they're just jealous. Anyway whatever haters say its not gonna effect her because its already confirmed she's gonna be in this drama, so stop hating because no matter what you do, it will not change anything. Yoona has improved so much as an actress and you have no right to judge her. ECA Dec 08 2016 6:32 pm Keep strong Yoona .. After Thek2 ending film you so much Busy become MC , fansign and now another new drama !!! But great to see you become Actress .. So Hwaiting ::::: ............ Nov 30 2016 1:53 pm Good Luck Yoona your new drama ! And still waiting SNSD comeback next year celebrate 10 years anniversary .... Cant someone give me something new about this drama Director , PD nimwhy so secretive about this drama !!!! Who gonna take Rin character ?Won and Rin will battle to get San .... Omo Omo i'm so excited . Sol Nov 30 2016 4:11 am I don't think Yoona should be the female lead. I think actresses like Lee Yu-Bi or Han Hyoo Ju fits the character of San better since they did really great job in their previous historical drama projects before. I'm really excited for this drama because of Siwan but disappointed bec the female lead goes to Yoona. The staff should look more into a deserving actress for the female lead like seriously to be honest I rather choose IU to be the lead than Yoona. Clau Nov 29 2016 12:46 pm I was waiting for a drama with Siwan but I'm not fond of Yoona so I will have to pass this, it happened with Ji Chang Wooks drama I couldn't get trhough it bec of her. Vienna Nov 25 2016 12:25 pm I'm curious about the second lead now. Can't wait! Open your mind Nov 23 2016 12:11 pm Actually about Yoona acting 0key .. But maybe she is member SNSD .. Dude who do know SNSD / GIRLS GENERATION / GG no 1 Girls group Kpop ... Senior group so very limited if she have another drama project ... How about SNSD group So who people say Yoona acting so bad .. Come i'm SLAP you !!!! yuki Nov 23 2016 10:28 am If you also watch Japanese dramas you must have known that Kento is one of the most debatable actors, because he is young, he is handsome but his acting is still very questionable, and above all he continues to get countless live-action roles from good manga, whose fans are afraid that he will destroy the characters' image that they love. I don't know much about Korean dramas but recently I've watched lots of new dramas, and the truth is many idols get main roles. Their actings are little impressive for my taste. In the future how many years more will the Korean film industry continue to intertwine with the kpop industry? Will the idol's new generation get better acting skills instead of relying only on looks? That's what I'm waiting for. A_A Nov 19 2016 12:05 pm Cant wait this drama !!! Hwaiting . Cloud Nov 17 2016 8:33 pm Yoona and Siwan... I hope it turns out good. Cant wait and iam sure will support this drama Pina Nov 10 2016 7:38 am Finally Siwan back to the screen after misaeng and partner with Yoona. I don't care about idol if they act in a drama. As long as they can represent their character, i'll appreciate it. Siwan proved his acting skill in Misaeng, and he's so goood be Jang Geu Rae. No wonder Misaeng got many award. I love this drama. Still waiting Misaeng 2. Yoona proved her acting skill in The K2 and many peoples applause and praise her , including me. I love her, be Go Ah Na. Especially her chemistry with Jcw. The K2 is My Fav drama ever. I am not fans both of them or others idol. But, i will praise every idol who try and work hard to give us a great drama with their acting skill. Every negative comments for them, just waste of time.Dislike, angry, jealousy, abuse.... Only make your heart tired. Yoona, Siwan.... Fighting! I know,both of you can do it! Goodluck! haneul Nov 08 2016 8:33 am I hear Shiwan's character in the original novel is supposedly bi and in love with both his bodyguard and the lady but I doubt they'll keep this part in the drama adaptation. loool Nov 07 2016 12:59 pm LLOOOOLLL goryeo again xD jen Nov 06 2016 9:14 pm omg guys imagine the photoshoot they'll have the three budibdibd King Loves Fan Nov 06 2016 4:07 pm Oh look: YoonA haters again! Lol this girl is sooooo relevant internationally it's incredible! Can't wait until she becomes one of the biggest k-actress: the reactions will be the funniest lol In other news: I am looking forward to another drama set in Goryeo! And yeah for Siwan!! I wonder who is the other lead? (Please BoGum! Hahaha!) Open your EYes haters Oct 31 2016 7:17 am I cant wait this drama Hwaiting Yoona soraya Oct 23 2016 7:17 am I think this drama would be great bc i've watched yoona's acting in THE K2 and her acting is improve so much my melody Oct 23 2016 2:11 am Yeah, Yoona again. I can't wait. Always support Yoona.. Once More For Belle Epoque Oct 21 2016 7:57 am i think every writer got Goryeo Syndrome after Scarlet Heart Ryeo lol hahahaa xD anyway ... it would be great they make drama from other kingdom tooLike BaekJe the oldest kingdom of koreaOr Sillathat would be fun Once More For Belle Epoque Oct 21 2016 7:54 am omg siwan will played as wang eun/won .. Baekhyun character in Scarlet Heart Ryeo??? i am so watching this hahahahaha xD anyway don't judge yoonay'all judge hyeri ... but look now ! Reply 1988 proved her talent and become a hit ! don't judge please Vaanel Oct 12 2016 12:45 pm Why Yoona? Why? So many young and super actresses in Korea. I was waiting for the comeback of Siwan but i think i will wait for his next drama.... z9 Oct 06 2016 9:44 am Oh My God! Look at Siwan!! He is very very handsome! Hyemi Oct 06 2016 8:32 am I don't think that I'll be watching this, but I feel like the main genre of the drama will be romance. Goreyo? Siwan and Yoona? Like, it would be so much better to have a somewhat complicated plot, rather than using idols to attract viewers. I'm not saying that idols can't act, but I prefer actors, actual ones. I'm watching The K2, right now and Yoona is doing a great job portraying the role of Anna. I didn't expect her to be the good. We never know what characteristics San is going to have, so let's not be negative about everything. I'm pretty sure she's doing her best. As for Siwan, I haven't seen him act, so I won't say anything. Peace. Yoona is better Oct 04 2016 6:41 am Saranghae Yoona gis8 Oct 03 2016 1:38 am Oh man... I really love Siwan!! but why does it hv to be Yoona??? I dont really like her acting (well, even after watching K2).. I hope the other lead wont be another idol... berceuse Oct 03 2016 12:59 am Hmm hmmm Lida11 Oct 02 2016 3:21 am Goryeo? Again?!??!! Just like Moon lovers: Scarlet heart ryeo Nina Oct 01 2016 8:29 pm Why do women always have to ruin a good bromance Rose Oct 01 2016 1:39 am i love yoona!! Great. Her acting is very good actually.. Rose Oct 01 2016 1:38 am Omg... i love yoona!! Great. Her acting is very good actually.. SIMA Sep 29 2016 11:26 am omg whyyyy???????/ yoona why why why? she's not good at all there are o many wonderful actress more that her actually i hate her act Deaddi Sep 27 2016 12:04 pm I like siwan he's good but euhfhsjk why yoona?! Might need to watch the k2 to see if I can like her! So many ACTUAL actresses and they end up picking an idol?!?! I hate it when they do that!! Why not kang sora or jung so min etc? Annoying! dindung Sep 23 2016 7:50 am Looks predictable. I wish the series is not only using pretty boy, pretty girl, bunch of idol to gain popularity. I can't trust korean national tv anymore such as sbs, kbs, or mbc. I prefer cable one like tvn for drama, tvn's dramas are on another level melis Sep 23 2016 6:36 am This novel is popular and really good actually..hmm I hope the rest of the cast is good I love Yoona I trust Siwan's acting and of course chemistry of them..so I will watch yasi Sep 21 2016 7:28 am hongbin for the 2nd male lead plzzzz or D.O plzzz Snsd is queen Sep 20 2016 10:27 pm Lol .. When Snsd will COMEBACK ?? I really hope you guys will Comeback before Yoona shooting this new drama .... Maila Sep 20 2016 8:19 pm Siwan  &  YoonA...., both are my favoritecan't wait.... AsianWiki.com . All rights reserved. |  Privacy Policy  |  Contact 