Flyboost Makes Its International Debut at Mojo s Norwich in the United Kingdom with DJ Rob Mac | Flyboost Talk about helping someone at the 11th hour, this was an experience we will never forget! As stated in a  previous blog post , Flyboost s beta period has finished as we ve recently launched our service to the public. We wanted to share a story featuring our last beta tester, an International disc jockey by the name of DJ Rob Mac. Saturday afternoon on February 7th, 2015, #TeamFlyboost was contacted by DJ Rob Mac, who found our site while searching a DJ forum for a live social media display to use at his next gig. The only thing was, that gig was happening in the next four hours! DJ Rob Mac explained that he was the main DJ at the popular nightclub Mojo s Norwich, located in the United Kingdom in a city called, you guessed it, Norwich! The nightclub has a large following on  their Facebook page , and was looking to market themselves more effectively on Twitter and Instagram. Upon getting Flyboost up and running, DJ Rob Mac and Mojo s Norwich threw a selfie contest, ( sound familiar? ) with the prize for best selfie being a bottle of Moet champagne for the winner and their friends to enjoy. When initially chatting with DJ Rob Mac, he expressed that he was a happy MixEmergency user but had previous difficulty attempting to make his own live social media display. He had attempted to solve this issue before, but it had become problematic, and then he found Flyboost. Despite having a short time frame to work with, DJ Rob Mac set up Flyboost in no time as he easily navigated through the interface and ran Flyboost that night with no hiccups. In addition to promoting a selfie contest and running Flyboost that night, it was easy to see why people wanted to stick around. This not only gave Mojo s Norwich a better way to promote their other social media accounts, but provided DJ Rob Mac with a solution to a challenge he was faced with in the past. Not to mention, it seemed like the crowd was having a blast too! Overall, the night was a success. Not only were we happy to help a fellow DJ in need, but we are now happy to announce DJ Rob Mac as the  first International member of #TeamFlyboost! This instance, among others, demonstrates several things: First, Flyboost provides DJs and entertainment professionals with a unique social media experience that is unmatched. Also, Flyboost is easy to use and accessible from wherever you want to use it. DJ Rob Mac was able to reach out, set it up, and run Flyboost without any challenges in less than an hour. Our last beta tester was happy, the venue was ecstatic, and the audience (especially the winner of the free bottle of champagne!) was pumped too. Whether in the United States,  across the pond , or on the other side of the world, Flyboost can make interacting with your audience easier than ever before. This is only the beginning and we cannot wait to see what other amazing success stories come from running Flyboost! 