Kingdom Hearts Keyblade Collection Vol. 1 | Tokyo Otaku Mode Shop US $9.50 If you want to join the ongoing battle in  Kingdom Hearts  between good and evil, you must first have a Keyblade! This collection from  Bandai  grants you a random one from these possible choices: Kingdom Key, Three Wishes, Oathkeeper, Oblivion, and Ultima Weapon. Each charm comes with a ball chain strap and is 2.4”. Series: Kingdom Hearts Manufacturer: Bandai Specifications:  1  random  charm from the lineup (6 to collect) Material:  Diecast Size (approx.):  60 mm | 2.4 " Lineup: ・Kingdom Key ・Three Wishes ・Crabclaw ・Oathkeeper ・Oblivion ・Ultima Weapon ©Disney Canada, United States We ship via fast and trackable shipping services. Packages from our US warehouse are shipped via USPS. Packages from our warehouse in Japan may be shipped via EMS, SAL Parcel, SAL Small Packet Registered, or Air Small Packet Registered. Not all shipping methods are available for every order. Click here  for more information on each shipping method and their limitations. Please note, some countries do not accept EMS or SAL packages. If your country is not listed, please  contact us . Sorry, there were no matches Good Smile Company has reached its 1000th Nendoroid! What are your favorite Nendoroid memories? Talisman gets a Disney spin in 2019! The key to Kingdom Hearts '  secret ending lies in a certain iconic Disney mark. With a release just around the corner, Kingdom Hearts was featured in an exciting 120-second commercial! FOLLOW US Shipping Japan's finest OTAKU goods to the world! That is the Tokyo Otaku Mode Shop mission! To live up to it, TOM's experienced buyers carefully select high-quality, beautifully designed products that are always authentic. Item has been added to the cart. 20,000+ MEMBERS STRONG Your  30-day free trial  will  AUTO-RENEW at $14.99 (for 90 days) . In exchange, you’ll receive  $16.50 TOM Points  each time. This discussion section is a place for TOM members to talk and discuss the product. >Feel free to post your thoughts on any expectations, excitement, etc. regarding this product!< p> Important:  Note that while this section will be somewhat monitored, personal topics related to your own orders, customer support related issues, and requests related to sales and promotion of the item are not guaranteed to be answered in a timely fashion by TOM staff. If you have an inquiry related to the TOM Shop rather than purely about the product, please contact us through the  contact form . Comments that are not in accordance with the Guidelines and/or that violate TOM’s Terms of Use and/or other policies are eligible to be reported or removed. >Comment removal is at the sole discretion of TOM.< p> Please do not: These guidelines may be revised at any time without prior notice. >Please <a href="https: /otakumode.com/inquire">contact us  if you have any questions about a comment or the Guidelines. This discussion section is a place for TOM members to talk and discuss the product. >Feel free to post your thoughts on any expectations, excitement, etc. regarding this product!< p> Important:  Note that while this section will be somewhat monitored, personal topics related to your own orders, customer support related issues, and requests related to sales and promotion of the item are not guaranteed to be answered in a timely fashion by TOM staff. If you have an inquiry related to the TOM Shop rather than purely about the product, please contact us through the  contact form . Comments that are not in accordance with the Guidelines and/or that violate TOM’s Terms of Use and/or other policies are eligible to be reported or removed. >Comment removal is at the sole discretion of TOM.< p> Please do not: These guidelines may be revised at any time without prior notice. >Please <a href="https: /otakumode.com/inquire">contact us  if you have any questions about a comment or the Guidelines. The price in local currency reflects yesterday's exchange rate. Actual cost may vary. Learn More About “Check-out Later” This feature allows you to hold the items in your cart for 24 hours and complete your purchase through email. Your order is not complete until you complete your purchase through your email. For more details, visit our  help center . Delete Review Are you sure you want to permanently delete this Review? Cancel Delete 