President Trump to hold Make America Great Again rally at Hertz Arena in Estero, Florida USA TODAY NETWORK presents VRtually There, a weekly virtual reality series that delivers amazing adventures, extreme nature, sports fantasies and the world's most fascinating people. We don't just tell incredible stories, we let you live the experience in fully immersive environments. Use your VR headset, laptop or smart phone to experience in 360\u00b0 video and virtual reality. Download the USA TODAY app, now with virtual reality and subscribe to our  YouTube page . Three new thrilling VR experiences each week. Immerse yourself. Have an existing account? Already have a subscription? Don't have an account? Get the news Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about Besides touting his record as president, he will campaign for Republican candidates running in Florida. A link has been sent to your friend's email address. A link has been posted to your Facebook feed.  President Donald Trump will hold a Make America Great Rally on Halloween night at Hertz Arena. (Photo: Carolyn Kaster, Associated Press) President Donald Trump will hold a Make America Great Rally on Halloween night at Hertz Arena in Estero. This is the 37th rally that Trump will hold in Florida and the third rally in Southwest Florida since Trump announced his run for president in June 2015, according to his communications staff. More:  Here's how to get tickets to President Trump's Fort Myers rally at Hertz Arena on Halloween Besides touting his record as president, he will campaign for Republican candidates running in Florida. Ron DeSantis and Gov. Rick Scott are in tight gubernatorial and Senate races. DeSantis has touted his close ties with Trump in his campaign. Scott was one of the first politicians to support Trump after he announced his run for president.  President Donald Trump, right, shakes hands with Florida Republican gubernatorial candidate Ron DeSantis during a rally Tuesday, July 31, 2018, in Tampa. (Photo: Chris O ' Meara/Associated Press) Midterms:  These Senate races will decide control in President Trump's Washington The event at Hertz Arena, formerly known as Germain Arena, will begin at 7 p.m. Wednesday. The doors will open at 4 p.m. The president visited Southwest Florida twice during his 2016 campaign. He held a campaign rally Sept. 19 at then-Germain Arena. He held a rally at the Collier County Fairgrounds later that fall. President Trump and Florida Gov. Rick Scott, left, visit Lynn Haven, Fla. (Photo: RICARDO ROLON, The News-Press via USA TODAY Network) He visited Southwest Florida last year after Hurricane Irma. More:  Ron DeSantis campaign refocusing as Florida voting starts More:  GOP candidate Ron DeSantis backs out of meeting with USA TODAY NETWORK - Florida A link has been posted to your Facebook feed.       2019 www.news-press.com. All rights reserved. 