Thermomix recipe: Leek and Four Cheese Risotto with… | Tenina.com Search for recipes. For example: "Chocolate" Become an Insider  to add this recipe to a menu. Already an Insider?  Login. I think you may have heard this before, but I have had a love/hate relationship with  dinner porridge  for a while now. This one? I love. Risotto is really about getting the ratios right, and if you can do that (which this recipe does) then you are away. There is also a lot to be said about using the correct rice. You must use an Arborio or Carnaroli. The risotto becomes creamy as the particular rice grains bump together in the cooking/stirring process. This is why people love the Thermomix for risotto...stirring? DONE. You must also pretty well serve immediately. There is no waiting while someone gets out of the shower/bath/pool or finishes a tv show. When it is done, it has to be eaten, or it just turns to stodge. Hot wet rice, as they say!  Not this recipe. Go and do...enjoy! Are you following me on  Facebook ,  Instagram ,  Pinterest  and  Twitter ? Thanks for reading and please  subscribe  to have each update delivered to your inbox weekly. Or better yet, come  join us on the Insider Club  to have extra Thermomixery each and every month! This is one of our NEW INSIDER recipes added to tenina.com (all previous recipes are still free). Join now for full access to all INSIDER content. Find out more Become an Insider  to add this recipe to a menu. Already an Insider?  Login. Become an Insider  to add this recipe to a menu. Already an Insider?  Login. Become an Insider  to add this recipe to a menu. Already an Insider?  Login. Become an Insider  to add this recipe to a menu. Already an Insider?  Login. Become an Insider  to add this recipe to a menu. Already an Insider?  Login. Become an Insider  to add this recipe to a menu. Already an Insider?  Login. Become an Insider  to add this recipe to a menu. Already an Insider?  Login. Become an Insider  to add this recipe to a menu. Already an Insider?  Login. That's all the recipes! No more recipes to load Tenina Holder is a wife and mum and more recently grandmother, who started cooking for a living back in 2006. Tenina has become the premium go to source for all thermomix expertise and of course fresh and easy recipes that work. Her cooking classes are sold out in literally hours, her cookbooks frequently appear on the Australian best seller lists and her Spin A Dinner app hovers around on top of the charts. Her following is growing and global with people as far away as Chile and Kazakhstan loving her books and sending her email! Tenina is not afraid of salt, butter or sugar and believes chocolate is a health food.   2019  Tenina Holder . Facebook Twitter Email App Pinterest WhatsApp Print AddThis 