Somkele Idhalama, Daniel K. Daniel, Linda Ejiofor, Eric Roberts star in  ' A Soldier ' s Story: Return from the Dead '  | Check out B.T.S Photos | BellaNaija Cookie Consent We use cookies to personalise content and ads, to provide social media features and to analyse our traffic. We also share information about your use of our site with our social media, advertising and analytics partners.    Privacy Policy Your Privacy Strictly Necessary Cookies Performance Cookies Functional Cookies Targeting Cookies More Information Privacy Preference Centre Active Always Active Scoop Music Scoop Sweet Spot Beauty Scoop Sweet Spot Beauty Events Scoop Music News Scoop Music Scoop Sweet Spot Scoop Sweet Spot Scoop Weddings Movies  &  TV Nollywood Scoop Beauty Scoop Published on By The sequel for award winning action-packed Nollywood film,  A Soldier’s Story , titled  A Soldier’s Story: Return From The Dead ”  is set to premiere this december and shooting has commenced! Directed by  Frankie Ogar  and produced by  Martin Gbados , the movie boasts of a star studded cast both from Hollywood and Nollywood. The cast includes:  Eric Roberts ,  John J Vogel Jr ,  Alex Usifo, Akin Lewis, Segun Arinze, Linda Ejiofor, Somkele Idhalama, Michelle Dede, Daniel K. Daniel, Tope Tedela, Baaj Adebule, Samabasa Nzeribe  and more. A Soldier’s Story: Return from the Dead  is set in two African countries: Nigeria and the fictional Watz Republic, as it explores the thematic concerns of love in uncertain circumstances, war, terrorism, insurgency, women’s rights, and emigration. See photos below: Photo Credit :  @soldierstorymovie Kim Kardashian West is Pretty in Pink rocking Latex Vintage Versace Dress Beast of No Nation  Star Strika s Money is safe in a Trust Fund   Management Company Living  &  Celebrating the African Dream!  Catch all the Scoop on  www.bellanaija.com Follow us Twitter :  @bellanaija Facebook :  @bellanaija Instagram :  @bellanaijaonline Funmilola  August 23, 2018 at 1:07 pm I m I the only one who didn t enjoy a soldier s story? Your email address will not be published.  Required fields are marked  * Comment Name  * Email  * Website This site uses Akismet to reduce spam.  Learn how your comment data is processed . Sharon Ooja Egwurube, Toke Makinwa  &  Shaffy Bello Led the Best-Dressed Celebrities At The #YourExcellencyMovie Premiere, See Our Top Looks Funke Akindele-Bello, Mo Abudu  &  Akin Lewis dazzle as Ebonylife Films Premieres  Your Excellency Ini Dima-Okojie  &  Nkem Owoh share a Father-Daughter Moment in  Kpali  The Movie © 2019 BellaNaija. All rights reserved 