Captain Singleton - Wikipedia The Life, Adventures and Piracies of the Famous Captain Singleton  is a  novel  by  Daniel Defoe , originally published in 1720.  It has been re-published multiple times since, some of which times were in 1840 [ 2 ]  1927, [ 3 ]  1972 [ 4 ]  and 2008. [ 5 ] Captain Singleton  is believed to have been partly inspired by the exploits of the English pirate  Henry Every , [ 6 ] [ 7 ]  who operated in the late 17th century. The narrative describes the life of the  Englishman , Singleton, stolen from a well-to-do family as a child and raised by  Gypsies , eventually making his way to sea. The former half of the book concerns Singleton's crossing of  Africa , the latter half concerning his life as a  pirate  in the  Indian Ocean  and  Arabian Sea .  Defoe's description of piracy focuses for the most part on matters of  economics  and  logistics , and Singleton's pirate behaves more like a merchant adventurer, perhaps Defoe's comment on the  mercantilism  of his day. The Life, Adventures, and Pyracies, of the Famous Captain Singleton (1720)  covers both land and sea in one volume, in two neatly composed halves. The first half of the novel includes a remarkable overland  trek  across Africa after the characters are stranded in  Madagascar , and the second half is almost entirely at sea, involving piratical  heists  in the  East Indies . Eventually, Captain Bob and his close friend William Walters return to England with their spoils via  Venice , disguised as  Armenians .' [ 11 ] At the beginning of the novel, Singleton, as a young boy, is kidnapped and sold to a gypsy by a beggar-woman. He is raised as a ward of a  parish , and sent to sea at age twelve. Soon he is captured by  Turkish  pirates, rescued by sailors from  Portugal , and after a two-year stay in that country, sails for the East Indies. By his own account, young Singleton is a  rogue  who steals from the ship's captain and harbors the desire to kill his master. Nearly hanged for his part in an attempted  mutiny , Singleton is set ashore with four companions on the coast of  Madagascar . A score of other sailors from the ship join them and the ensuing narrative relates their efforts to survive on the island. [ 12 ]  The sailors find and rebuild an abandoned boat and eventually decide to pursue a journey through  Africa . In their encounters with African  natives , the  Europeans  prove resourceful but brutal. [ 13 ] During the hazardous trip Singleton becomes the leader of the group by virtue of his fearlessness and ingenuity. He is a cold  pragmatist  whose lack of compassion is exceeded only by his talent for survival. When they find a wounded native, Singleton makes a decision based purely on expediency. [ 14 ]  Singleton makes the decision, after considering to let the native die, that they might find the man useful to them. During the arduous march through lands teeming with  leopards ,  elephants ,  crocodiles , and  snakes , the travellers avoid catastrophe because of their modern  weaponry  and their European belief in reason rather than in magic. The marchers meet an English merchant who has been living with the natives and who persuades Singleton and his companions to stop awhile in order to dig for  gold . Having loaded themselves down with gold and  elephant tusks , the adventurers finally reach a Dutch settlement, where they divide the  spoils  and immediately go their separate ways. [ 15 ] Once Singleton has spent his fortune in England, he sets out again, this time for the  West Indies  where, by his boastful admission, he quickly takes to piracy. Singleton's abilities bring him high command, although his piratical activities encourage the growth of a callousness so pervasive that at times it leads to cruelty. He denies that his men have committed certain atrocities, but calmly admits that "more was done than it is fit to speak of here" (p. 188). In this portion of the novel events pile up rapidly, and there are chases and  sea battles  in which Singleton proves himself an able, courageous, and imaginative leader. From the Indies the scene shifts to the East African coast and Madagascar where the pirates continue to  plunder  and sail restlessly in search of new conquests. Defoe draws a portrait of men whose love of gold is less urgent than their need for  adventure . This lust for  novelty  takes Singleton and his men into the  Pacific  as far as the  Philippines , before they trace their way back to the  Indian Ocean  and  Ceylon . [ 16 ] Friend William, a  Quaker  surgeon, becomes the center of the narrative as he outwits a Ceylonese King and rescues a Dutch slave. William displays further resourcefulness by succeeding in  trade  negotiations with English merchants in  India . He serves Singleton loyally and bravely as a kind of  man Friday : he is, moreover, a  Christian humanist  and healer who ultimately persuades his captain that a life of piracy leads nowhere. When Singleton contemplates suicide in the throes of  repentance , William convinces him that the idea of taking one's life is the "Devil's Notion" (p. 332) and therefore must be ignored. [ 17 ] When they return to England, they make the decision to stay together for the rest of their lives. Singleton marries William's sister, a  widow , and the story ends rapidly on a note of domestic peace. [ 17 ] 