Dog Boarding Commerce | Dogtopia Commerce Dogtopia main site One Night Home Style Crate Boarding: $54  One Night Luxury Small Suite: $50  One Night Luxury Medium Suite: $65  One Night Luxury Large Suite: $70  Our friendly and attentive team will do everything we can to ensure your pup enjoys their own vacation while you’re away.  Our boarding dogs spend the day having fun with our  daycare dogs , only your dog will enjoy more even hours of play so they will be happy but tuckered out when they turn in for the night. We re dog parents ourselves and are very attentive to our guests. They will receive the same amount of TLC they would at home. We love all the dogs that come through our doors and treat them like family. When you drop your pup off for boarding at our location, they will feel like a VIP! We offer a private drop off as well as private parking for you.  There s also ample parking available at the front of our facility, as well. Our three playrooms provide all the fun of a dog park with the additional safety of trained professionals in a clean, brand new facility. When your dog stays with us, they will enjoy many hours of play each day, including plenty of potty breaks and time outside. A unique feature of our facility is our double zoning doors. Even if your pup is an escape artist, they won t get far! That s just one of the many precautionary measures we have in place to keep your dog safe and secure. The only times your dog will be crated during their stay with us is during meal time and their well-deserved afternoon nap following a morning of play. They will stay busy and get plenty of exercise by running, sniffing and jumping with the other dogs for the rest of the day before being put into their crates at night. Our doggy guests sleep in spacious home-style crates designed for their comfort. To combat homesickness, we encourage dog parents to bring a favorite blanket, piece of bedding or a non-squeak toy. Having something familiar from home will ease your pup’s anxiety and make their stay with us more enjoyable. Dogtopia of Commerce s brand new facility opened in April 2016 and boasts many features that make it the area’s go-to destination for dog parents looking for a place to board their dogs for an overnight, weekend or extended stay: Our filtration system is highly beneficial for dogs who suffer from allergies. The air is even cleaner than it is outside! An environmental biologist certified the cleaning procedures we use at our facility so you can rest assured your dog will be staying in a healthy and hygienic environment. Dogtopia s friendly team is always willing to accommodate almost any requests you may have. If your pup has a favorite dog food, feel free to bring it. If your dog likes it prepared a certain way, we will follow your instructions to a tee. Is your dog on medication? Our team is very knowledgeable in all the ways to get your dog to take it and will administer it at no extra charge. Our playroom attendants receive the best training in the industry on how to recognize dog behavior and manage large groups. Ensuring your dog has a safe and fun time when they stay with us is our top priority. Our team members are certified in Pet First Aid and CPR through The Humane Society of America’s Disaster Animal Response Team. Dogtopia offers full transparency. All three of our playrooms and our outdoor play area come equipped with high definition  webcams . Check in on your pup any time during regular business hours; all you need is a device that is connected to the internet! A day at the spa is an essential part of any vacation. Since your dog will enjoy their own vacation when you board them with us, be sure to include spa services as part of their stay. When you pick your dog up, they will be clean and happy! If you re planning to board your dog with us, please schedule a meet and greet with our staff. This will let us determine if they are the right fit for our open playrooms, and give your dog a chance to get familiar with our facility.  Contact us  to book your free, no-obligation tour or fill out our  enrollment form . Kitchen and Food Services A Happy Boarding Guest Boarding Suites Kitchen and Food Services Please complete the form below and we will get right back to you! We keep your information safe. We do not sell or share your information. By clicking above, I acknowledge that I have read and agree to the  privacy policy . The Dogtopia Foundation enables dogs to positively change the world. To accomplish this, we currently are funding programs focused around three worthy causes:  Service Dogs for Veterans, Youth Literacy Programs and Employment Initiatives for Adults with Autism. 