Let the journey begin... | Horizons Unlimited A Travel Story by Gail Baillargeon Hello and welcome to my blog. I'm Gail Baillargeon, I retired from the US Navy (EOD) on 01 April 2013 and am now embarking on a life's ambition of traveling around the world on a motorcycle. No set destinations or time schedule, just want to see the world.  My journey started in Lyndon, VT on 23 April 13 with Ushuaia, Argentina and all points in between as the first leg of the adventure. Start date, 23 April 13, Lyndon, VT. Just had my 24K completed at European Cycles Sports in Plano, TX. Highly recommended if you need any bike work. George, the mechanic was on top of it. Decided to stay here for the night and get an early start tomorrow. Looking forward to getting, South of the Border! Just outside of Mapimi, Durango there is a suspension bridge at an old mining sight, Puente de Ojuela. It's famous in Mexico. From  Mexico Crossed into Mexico on May 10th, Presidio, TX - Ojinaga, Chihuahua. Spent the first night in Creel and the next day headed for Batopilas in the Copper Canyon. Submitted by  brazeagle  on Wed, 13/09/2017 - 04:16 Hello and thank you for sharing this awesome adventure. i am heading to Guatemala City, Through Mexico, I want Mexico to be a fast pass by, as I want to enjoy the company of friends in Guatemala first. i will be crossing the boarder from Texas, maybe Laredo or Brownsville, I kindly need a suggestion about boarder Crossing and fastest and safest highways to cross Mexico to La Mesilla border with Guatemala. thank you again Luiz 1-954-2184435 Submitted by  Grant Johnson  on Wed, 13/09/2017 - 17:04 Luiz, the best place to ask this sort of question is on the  HUBB  as this is a users blog - they may respond or they may not, whereas on the HUBB lots of people wll see your post. My answer is pretty simple to your question, just take the main roads, any crossing is fine, there is no reason to be greatly concerned. Plan the most direct route and enjoy, Mexico is a wonderful country! Beautiful town. Not much into cities but this is real nice. Most of the streets are narrow with lots of small shops and street vendors selling things to eat and drink, my favorite way to eat. Found a few nice Cantina's! The road from Guanajuato to the coast was a great ride. Stopped in Autlan De Navarro along the way for the night. Scenario: one way street, two lanes, no traffic. I'm in front of the hotel as close to the curb as I can get. A woman in a mini van pulls behind me and stops. She then starts honking her horn, I motion for her to go around. No, she pulls up closer to the bike and honks the horn again. No other traffic, two lanes. She is now to close to go around so I move the bike forward and motion for her to go around again. May 27 2013  Visitied Chichen Itza today, quite impressive! It was on my bucket list. (16 photo's)  Staying in the town of Piste one kilometer away from the site. Not much going on here. THe lady that owns the place is an American from the Pittsburg area. Her father built the place 45 years ago and she came down to help out and he died and she stayed.  They stop selling beer at the Oxxo store at 9 pm, no good. Having a little trouble getting photo's to upload into Picasa. It requires a good internet connection and I'm finding that a bit difficult to find. Making blog entries has been the most challenging part of the trip so far.  Excuse the mix of past, present or future tense mixed together. Crossed into Belize on May 29, 2013. Simple procedure, they wanted to see passport, copies of bike title and registration. Other than a weeks worth of insurance, $14.50 US there are no other expenses.  Planned on stopping in Beize city however when I got there it didn't look very inviting. It was a great day for riding so I kept going, ended up in San Ignacio. I was here back in '07 with my brother and decided to stop. It's touristy place, lots of young Americans just hanging out. Lots of crunchy's. Entries are in reverse order but I'm going with it. I have internet that works, well sometimes. May 31, 2013  Got up early and headed for Guatemala. The border is 11 miles from San Ignacio so I arrived before much was going on. Departing Belize is a pretty simple process, pay 37.50 Belize departing tax, turn in the bike permit and get a couple stamps. Entering Guatemala is also a simple process however the border agents are in no hurry at all. Spent the day walking around exploring the city. It was very overcast this morning, I was hoping to see the top of the volcano but it kept hidden most of the day.  Going to put the captions first and then the photo and see how that looks. Still getting the kinks out. I spent the day just riding slow on back roads and meeting people. Didn't take many photo's, just rode and visited. The weather was very hit or miss and I had to stop because of rain often. It was still a great day for riding. When I stop I often get out my map and start asking directions, even if I know where I am and where I'm going, everyone seems to like being involved and I usually get some good information. Jun 07, 2013 June 10, 2013  Still in El Tunco hanging out. Been meeting a lot of travelers doing the bus/back pack thing, it's fun sharing travel stories and learning about places to visit. Not sure how much longer I'll be here but plan on heading to Honduras soon. I'll do one more stop before the border and get a couple day plan together.  Finally washed my riding gear today, damn it was dirty. Song of the day: End of the Line, Traveling Wilburys  Jun 17, 2013  Didn't sleep much last night and was up early this morning, wasn't doing so well. As good things happen, the lady that owns the hotel speaks good English and has a private doctor that comes to the hotel for her and the guests when needed. 20 minutes later the Doc arrives, diagnosed with an inner ear infection and a prescription is written. I've had this before so I suspected that's what was going on. Started feeling better within a few hours and managed to get out and take some pictures. I'll probably hang out for another day or two to make sure everything is good. Was feeling pretty good this morning and decided to head for San Juan Del Sur. It's was a short ride so I went pretty slow and stopped a few times to visit and for the rain. Anyone heading south has to take this road and it looks like they keep it nice along here. Everything was clean and the road sides were well kept. Song of the day: Good Feeling, Flo Rida Jun 18, 2013  Met up with Montazuma today, and he was one pissed off Aztec. Spent a good part of the day apologizing. What makes me so angry is the fact, I didn't do anything to the bastard.  No photo's. June 23, 2013  Great time at the fiesta last night! Ran into a couple people I met in Granada.  Just hanging out today, the big fiesta finally is tonight and I want to be part of it. Not sure when I'll make it to Costa Rica. Meeting a lot of good people and having lots of fun! June 24, 2013  The pole is up and greased, black axle grease. From  June 25, 2013 June 23, 2013  Today is Sunday and tomorrow is the last day of the festival and there is lots of preparations taking place. Tonight will be one big street party.  Ripcord Rescue Travel Insurance™  combines into a single integrated program the best  evacuation and rescue  with the premier  travel insurance coverages  designed for adventurers. Led by special operations veterans, Stanford Medicine affiliated physicians, paramedics and other travel experts, Ripcord is perfect for adventure seekers, climbers, skiers, sports enthusiasts, hunters,  international travelers , humanitarian efforts, expeditions and more. Ripcord  travel protection is now available for  ALL  nationalities, and travel is covered on  motorcycles of all sizes ! Global Rescue  is the premier provider of medical, security and evacuation services worldwide and is the only company that will come to you, wherever you are, and evacuate you to your  home hospital of choice. Additionally,  Global Rescue  places  no restrictions on country of citizenship - all nationalities are eligible to  sign-up !  Travel medical insurance is also available,  currently the limit is 90 days . See all events   Important : For more information on what  World Nomad's policies cover, read this Prices  &  Benefits page  for residents of various countries. Grant says : ALWAYS read the policy CAREFULLY to be SURE you are covered on your motorcycle. There are exceptions and variations depending on home country, where you're going and a lot of other things. For example, UK residents are not covered for motorcycle touring!  "No Touring or where a motorbike is the main mode of transport. No Personal Liability Cover." READ THE POLICY AS IF YOUR LIFE DEPENDED ON IT - IT DOES! All text and photographs are copyright © Grant and Susan Johnson, 1987-2019 or their respective authors. All Rights Reserved. 