Horse Country Caledon Country Homes Luxury Real Estate King City Moffat Dunlap An equestrian property set on 48 rolling acres, with a tastefully renovated 4 bedroom farm-house. Indoor and outdoor arenas, 10 stalls, set up for 7 more, 8 paddocks, 3 car detached garage and long private driveway to the handsome homestead. In the heart of the Pan Am Games Equestrian venues   15 minutes to both Palgrave and the Pan Am Games Eventing venues (north on the same street as The property!) The exterior is in red brick with fieldstone.  A previous owner ran a B & B from the property with the result that there is a large 2nd Master suite at the west end of the house. The farm kitchen is a large space including a full dining table for informal family meals.  This room is particularly attractive with French Doors that open onto the east facing porch and has long views across the paddocks. For extra coziness in addition to the high efficiency propane gas furnace, an efficient pellet fired stove is in one corner of the room. Conveniently situated, adjacent to the kitchen, is a large dining room, perfect for large Thanksgiving and other celebrations. Hardwood floors exist through most of the house.  The living room, being on the east side of the house also has French Doors opening onto the porch.  It has an original fireplace which is not operational but could be fitted with a propane fireplace insert. The huge family room is in a newer extension and has a wall of glazing facing south, a propane stove, and a magnificent stone wall that was once the original exterior wall of the house.  The main floor laundry and a 3 piece washroom are down a corridor towards the side entrance. The present owners ride over the rolling back section of the farm as well as down the dead end country road into Hockley Valley. Set in the countryside on a dead end road, the property is conveniently just minutes to major retailers, a new hospital, public and private schools, restaurants and just 45 minutes to Pearson Airport. This is a must-see property. The Listing Agent is relying on information supplied to him by the Vendor and other sources. The Listing Broker accepts no responsibility for the accuracy of this fact sheet. Moffat Dunlap  Real Estate Limited,  Brokerage 16630 Dufferin Street King City ON L7B 1K5 905 841-7430 