7 Most Beautiful Female Anchors In Cricket Shows   Page 3   CricketTimes.com Cricket nowadays has its own terminology. It has turned totally  360  degrees from what it used to be. With the introduction of the new laws and some really mind blowing regulations, cricket has been fun for the players as well as for the fans. There has been pre-matches and post matches show which really analyze the format of the game and the teams playing the match. But when these shows have some gorgeous anchors, a man cannot resist seeing those shows even if he is not at all interested in cricket. Yes, these female anchors have been the USP of the broadcasters to gain the TRP for the channel. They have been eye-catchers for the men who are interested in the game or not. Here the top 7 beautiful female anchors in cricket shows across the world: 7.) Ambrina Sarjeen Ambrin Ambrin is the lead anchor of the Bangladesh Premier League (BPL). She was one of the top 10 contestants of Lux-Channel I Superstar 2007. Ambrin is related with presentations in several Bangladeshi TV channels like NTV, Desh TV and RTV. Her popularity has soared in among the fans post her appearances in the premier T20 tournament. 6.) Mayanti Langer Mayanti Langer is an Indian TV sports journalist for broadcasting channel Star Sports. She first started her career with hosting football shows during the FIFA world cup. Later She hosted the ICC Cricket World cup 2011 along with Charu Sharma and gained widespread popularity and since then he has been a regular face of the channel during India series. Her charming looks and attractive speaking ability did gain her immense respect. Mayanti is married to Indian all rounder,  Stuart Binny . 5.) Laura McGoldrick Laura is a TV presenter, radio jockey and an anchor of cricket show. The cricket show is New Zealand s only cricket magazine television programme. The stunning blonde is married to Kiwi batsman  Martin Guptill . McGoldrick has played cricket herself during high school. According to Martin, she has a vast knowledge of the game. 4.) Mel McLaughlin Mel McLaughlin is an Australian sports presenter who joined Network Ten in 2013. She hosts the day coverage of Australia premier T20 Tournament, Big Bash League. McLaughlin has previously worked for Fox Sports where she hosted multiple football (soccer) shows including Kick off, Indian Super League and Fox Sports FC, while also being a regular on Fox Sports News. 3.) Karishma Kotak Karishma Kotak is a British Indian model, actress and a TV presenter. She was a contestant in Big Boss 6. She has acted in some music videos like Jay Sean s  Me against myself . She was the co-anchor in the sixth edition of IPL where she was one of the known faces. Her interactions and interview with some famous players did mark her great achievement and also developed a strong friendship with some international cricketers. Karishma has also hosted T20 leagues in Dubai, Nepal and domestic leagues   Karnataka Premier League, Mumbai T20 League in India. 2.) Zainab Abbas Zainab Abbas is a cricket analyst who is affiliated to the Pakistani news channel  Dunya News. She is also the female presenter for Pakistan Super League (PSL). Zainab became a popular face among fans during the ICC Champions Trophy 2017 held in England, where she clicked selfies with star cricketers- Virat Kohli, AB de Villiers, Rohit Sharma and others. 1.) Archana Vijaya Archana is one of the most remarkable cricket anchor. She was first signed up on Neo Sports which had the right to telecast international matches for India. She also hosted shows such as  Tour Diary for extra cover  and  Cricket- Masala mar ke . Archana then jumped to the IPL which was the big breakthrough for her.  This article was first published on  CricketTimes.com .  For latest cricket news and updates, visit  https://crickettimes.com  or follow us on  Google News . 