TOP 8 QUOTES BY MICHAEL FRANZESE | A-Z Quotes I've seen many lives destroyed. I've seen more people have problems with gambling than I have with drugs and alcohol. And there are some serious consequences if you get in over your head. I say, "This is my objective" and when I stick to it, I succeed. When I deviate, I'm in trouble. Do what you do best and delegate the rest. There are things I do better than others, and there are things I'm horrible at and I delegate those. You can't micromanage. People who try to do that often fall on their faces. Incentivize those who work with you so you get the best work you can. Every career is a team effort, even if you're the one in front. God has a purpose and plan for your life and nothing can stand in the way of it - except you. Are you ready to listen? It's time to stand up and be bold for Jesus. Unlike stocks, where in our country, you go to sleep, everyone tells you everything is wonderful, you wake up and everything is gone. There are ways you can find people to help you market your company on the Internet. If you have the right people helping you, you can get the word out. Newspaper and TV ads are expensive. If you can get the word out through social media, that's a big advantage. I'm the strongest advocate you can imagine for doing things honestly and paying your taxes. Take advantage of every tax break you're legally entitled to. But I follow the letter of the law, because the consequences are severe if you're caught. I was a perpetrator at one time and suffered severe consequences. It is difficult in some places, but if you live in places like California, move somewhere else to save some money. People going into a business have to have a plan. It's helpful to write it out, even if you're the only one there to see it and execute it. It's your bible. Stick to it, unless things happen in the market that cause you to change your plan. I do that myself. Follow AzQuotes on Facebook, Twitter and Google+. Every day we present the best quotes! Improve yourself, find your inspiration, share with friends or simply: or simply: 