The Times boys basketball top 10 | NWI Preps Boys Basketball | nwitimes.com © 2019 Lee Enterprises Terms of Service   |   Privacy Policy Some clouds. Low 66F. Winds light and variable.. Some clouds. Low 66F. Winds light and variable.  Updated: June 29, 2019 @ 6:36 pm The Times' sports staff ranks the Region's top boys basketball contenders. Last week: 1 | Record: 1-0 Valparaiso started with a dominant win over Hobart last Wednesday, as Brandon Newman exploded for 36 points and 15 rebounds. The Vikings don't play again until Saturday against 21st Century. Last week: 2 | Record: 2-0 Munster won big against Bishop Noll last Wednesday and earned its first road win of the year at Portage on Saturday. The Mustangs host Hammond and Morton this weekend. Last week: 4 | Record: 2-0 The Trojans earned an impressive opening win over 21st Century last week, and a talented Lowell team could test Chesterton on Saturday. Last week: 5 | Record: 1-0 Merrillville opened with a road win over E.C. Central and could be tested by South Bend Riley at home on Saturday. Last week: Not ranked | Record: 1-0 West Side breaks into the Top 10 after a home win over previously ranked Marquette Catholic and a comfortable road win against Gavit. The Cougars' trip to Michigan City on Friday should be one of the weekend's best games. Last week: 6 | Record: 2-0 Andrean hosts Michigan City on Tuesday in its only game this coming week. Wins over Lake Central and at Morton are nice, but the Wolves will provide a new challenge. Last week: 9 | Record: 2-1 The Cougars rebounded from a competitive loss to Chesterton with wins over Indianapolis Tindley and Roosevelt. Johnell Davis poured in 21 points against the Trojans. Last week: Not ranked | Record: 2-0 Michigan City has a huge week ahead with a pair of Top 10 opponents on the docket. Big man Rayshon Howard leads the Wolves, but Michigan City's guards might be underrated. Last week: 10 | Record: 0-0 Griffith stays toward the bottom of the rankings for now, and a busy week awaits: The Panthers visit Clark on Thursday before hosting Lake Station on Saturday and 21st Century on Tuesday. Last week: Not ranked | Record: 1-0 Lowell started its season with a win over Hanover Central, as Dustin Hudak and Christopher Mantis combined for 38 points. Saturday's visit to Chesterton will give an idea if the Red Devils can challenge Munster in the NCC. Bowman Academy (2-1); Convenant Christian (2-0); Crown Point (1-0); Kouts (2-0) Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device. 