Managing Oracle Virtual Directory Entries and Schema Table of Contents Subject From       Anonymous  (or  Sign In ) Comments, corrections, and suggestions are forwarded to authors every week. By submitting, you confirm you agree to the  terms and conditions . Use the  OTN forums  for product questions. For support or consulting, file a service request through  My Oracle Support . Facebook Twitter Email Print Gmail AddThis Categories This chapter explains how to manage Oracle Virtual Directory entries and schema using Oracle Directory Services Manager. It contains the following topics: Managing Oracle Virtual Directory Entries Using Data Browsers Managing Oracle Virtual Directory Schema Using Oracle Directory Services Manager This topic describes Oracle Virtual Directory data browsers and how to use them to manage Oracle Virtual Directory entries. This topic contains the following sections: Understanding Oracle Virtual Directory Data Browsers Managing Oracle Virtual Directory Entries Using the Client View Data Browser Searching and Viewing Oracle Virtual Directory Source Entries Using the Adapter Browser Oracle Virtual Directory provides the following types of data browsers: Client View browser Adapter browser Both the Client View and Adapter browsers are automatically created when you define a new Oracle Virtual Directory server. Oracle Virtual Directory uses DSMLv2 over its administrative gateway to retrieve the data presented by the browsers. Client View Browser The Client View browser allows you to view and search the entire virtual directory tree (defined by all configured adapters) after Oracle Virtual Directory has performed all data mapping and transformation. Think of the Client View as the  after  view what the data looks like after it is virtualized by Oracle Virtual Directory. You can also import and export LDIF files to and from the Oracle Virtual Directory using the Client View data browser. LDIF is an industry standard textual interchange format designed for exchanging data between LDAP servers. LDIF files are typically used to import and export batch data and schema configuration changes. Adapter Browser The Adapter Browser allows you to search data as it exists in LDAP Adapter connected repositories, and view data as it exists in both LDAP and Database Adapter connected repositories. Think of the Adapter Browser view as the  before  view what the data in LDAP and database repositories looks like before it is virtualized by Oracle Virtual Directory. When using the Adapter Browser to view databases, tables and fields appear as they exist in the original database, including sample table rows to assist in data modeling. Note: The Client View browser allows you to view and search the entire virtual directory tree (defined by all configured adapters) after Oracle Virtual Directory has performed all data mapping and transformation. You can also use the Client View browser to import and export LDIF files to and from the virtual directory. This topic explains how to perform the following Client View browser tasks: Searching the Virtual Directory Tree Viewing Oracle Virtual Directory Entries Importing an LDIF FIle Exporting an LDIF File You can search the virtual directory tree using the Client View data browser. There are two types of searches: simple and advanced. A simple search will search only the cn, uid, sn, givenname, mail, and initials attributes. An advanced search allows you to specify the search scope depth and other detailed search parameters. To perform a simple search, perform the following steps: Log in to Oracle Directory Services Manager. Select  Data Browsers  from the task selection bar. The Data Browsers navigation tree appears. Select the  Client View  entry in the Data Browsers tree. Enter the keyword you want to search for in the search field at the top of the Data Browsers tree and click the Simple Search  >  icon. To perform an advanced search, perform the following steps: Log in to Oracle Directory Services Manager. Select  Data Browsers  from the task selection bar. The Data Browsers navigation tree appears. Select the  Client View  entry in the Data Browsers tree. Click the  Advanced  button at the top of the Data Browsers tree. The Search Dialog box appears. Enter the starting point for the search in the Root Of The Search field. Enter the maximum number of entries for the search to return in the Max Results (entries) field. Select the depth scope for the search by selecting one of the following options from the Search Depth list: Base : searches only the entries at the location specified by the Root Of The Search field. One Level : searches all entries one level under the location specified by the Root Of The Search field. Subtree : searches the location specified by the Root Of The Search field and includes all entries under that location. Enter in the maximum number of seconds for the search to execute in the Max Search Time (seconds) field. Enter the Search Criteria as follows: Select the attribute to search for by selecting the attribute name from the list of attributes. Select a matching rule from the list of matching rules. Enter a value for the matching rule in the Specify Matching Value field. You can delete a search criterion by clicking the  Delete  button next to it. Note: Click  Search  to execute the search. Perform the following steps to view entries in the Oracle Virtual Directory using the Client View data browser: Log in to Oracle Directory Services Manager. Select  Data Browsers  from the task selection bar. The Data Browsers tree appears. Expand the  Client View  entry in the Data Browsers tree. The namespaces of the entries in the virtual directory appear. Navigate to the content you want to view by expanding the appropriate namespace. Click the entry you want to view. The properties screen appears displaying the attributes and objectclasses for that entry. You can adjust which attributes are shown and which attributes are hidden in the properties screen by clicking the  Show All  or  Hide Empty Values  option at the top-right of the screen. Perform the following steps to import LDIF files into the Oracle Virtual Directory using the Client View data browser: Verify the LDIF file you want to import has a valid version number in the first line in the file. Oracle Virtual Directory requires all LDIF files that will be imported to contain this version number at the beginning of the file. If the file does not have a version number in the first line, add  version: 1  to the beginning of the file. Log in to Oracle Directory Services Manager. Select  Data Browsers  from the task selection bar. The Data Browsers tree appears. Expand the  Client View  entry in the Data Browsers tree. Select the location where you want to import the LDIF file to by clicking the appropriate namespace in the Client View entry in the tree. Click the  Import LDIF  button at the top of the tree. The Import File dialog box appears. Enter the path of the LDIF file you want to import in the Select an LDIF File field, or click the  Browse  button and navigate to the file. Click the  OK  button on the Import File dialog box to import the LDIF file. Perform the following steps to export LDIF files from the Oracle Virtual Directory using the Client View data browser: Log in to Oracle Directory Services Manager. Select  Data Browsers  from the task selection bar. The Data Browsers tree appears. Expand the  Client View  entry in the Data Browsers tree. Select the location where you want to export the LDIF file from by clicking the appropriate namespace in the Client View entry in the tree. Click the Export LDIF button at the top of the Data Browsers tree. The Download LDIF File dialog box appears. Note: Open the LDIF file in your browser by clicking the  Click here to open the LDIF file  link in the Download LDIF File dialog box. Note: After clicking the  Click here to open the LDIF file  link in the Download LDIF File dialog box, the LDIF File appears in a new, separate browser window. Use your browser's Save command to save the LDIF file. The Adapter Browser allows you to search data as it exists in LDAP Adapter connected repositories, and view data as it exists in both LDAP and Database Adapter connected repositories. The Adapter Browser allows you to see what data looks like before it is virtualized by Oracle Virtual Directory. This topic explains how to perform the following Adapter Browser tasks: Note: Searching Oracle Virtual Directory Source Entries Viewing Oracle Virtual Directory Source Entries You can search data as it exists in LDAP and Database Adapter connected repositories using the Adapter Browser. There are two types of searches: simple and advanced. A simple search will search only the CN, UID, SN, GIVENNAME, MAIL and INITIALS attributes. An advanced search allows you to specify the search scope depth and other detailed search parameters. To perform a simple search, perform the following steps: Log in to Oracle Directory Services Manager. Select  Data Browsers  from the task selection bar. The Data Browsers navigation tree appears. Select the  Adapter Browser  entry in the Data Browsers tree. Enter the keyword you want to search for in the search field at the top of the Data Browsers tree and click the Simple Search  >  icon. To perform an advanced search, perform the following steps: Log in to Oracle Directory Services Manager. Select  Data Browsers  from the task selection bar. The Data Browsers navigation tree appears. Select the  Adapter Browser  entry in the Data Browsers tree. Click the  Advanced  button at the top of the Data Browsers tree. The Search Dialog box appears. Enter the starting point for the search in the Root Of The Search field. Enter the maximum number of entries for the search to return in the Max Results (entries) field. Select the depth scope for the search by selecting one of the following options from the Search Depth list: Base : searches only the entries at the location specified by the Root Of The Search field. One Level : searches all entries one level under the location specified by the Root Of The Search field. Subtree : searches the location specified by the Root Of The Search field and includes all entries under that location. Enter in the maximum number of seconds for the search to execute in the Max Search Time (seconds) field. Enter the Search Criteria as follows: Select the attribute to search for by selecting the attribute name from the list of attributes. Select a matching rule from the list of matching rules. Enter a value for the matching rule in the Specify Matching Value field. You can delete a search criterion by clicking the  Delete  button next to it. Note: Click  Search  to execute the search. Perform the following steps to view data as it exists in the remote, underlying repositories for each adapter defined using the Adapter Browser: Log in to Oracle Directory Services Manager. Select  Data Browsers  from the task selection bar. The Data Browsers tree appears. Expand the  Adapter Browser  entry in the Data Browsers tree. The names of the adapters that are connected to data repositories appear. Expand the entry for the adapter that contains the source entries you want to view. The entries for the adapter appear. Click the entry you want to view. The source data for that entry appears in the properties screen. By default, the properties screen displays only the attributes for the entry that have values. Select the  Show All  option to view all attributes for the entry. This topic explains how to manage Oracle Virtual Directory schema and contains the following sections: Managing Oracle Virtual Directory Schema Attributes Managing Oracle Virtual Directory Schema Object Classes Note: Oracle Virtual Directory expects schema keywords (such as  name ) to be in all capital letters ( NAME ). Oracle Virtual Directory does not support the  ldapmodify replace  operation when modifying schema. This section explains how to manage Oracle Virtual Directory schema attributes and contains the following tasks: Creating New Schema Attributes Creating "Like" Schema Attributes Modifying Schema Attributes Deleting Schema Attributes Perform the following steps to create new Oracle Virtual Directory schema attributes using Oracle Directory Services Manager: Log in to Oracle Directory Services Manager. Select  Schema  from the task selection bar. The Attribute Types and Object Classes navigation tree appears. Expand the Attribute Types entry. A list of the existing schema attributes appears. Click the  Create  button. The New Attribute Type dialog box appears. Enter the following information in the New Attribute Type dialog box fields: Enter the name of the attribute in the Name field. Enter a unique object identifier specified by ICANNS in the Object ID field. If not registered, any unique value will suffice. Oracle recommends registering all custom attributes by using a unique object identifier. Optionally, enter a description for the attribute in the Description field. Select the format for the attribute value by selecting one of the options in the Syntax list. Oracle Virtual Directory uses parent syntax values only. Enter the bytes length of the attribute in the Size (bytes) field. 0 or no value (empty) implies unlimited. Oracle Virtual Directory does not enforce this attribute definition. Select a standard from the Usage list for how the attribute can be used. Enter an Object ID matching rule in the Ordering field for ordered searching. Oracle Virtual Directory does not use this attribute definition. Enter a matching rule Object ID in the Equality field for equality. Oracle Virtual Directory does not use this attribute definition. Enter a matching rule Object ID in the Substring field for substring searching. Oracle Virtual Directory does not use this attribute definition. Enable the Single Value option if the attribute may hold only a single value at a time. If this option is not enable, the attribute may hold multiple values. Optionally, select a parent attribute for the new attribute by selecting one of the existing attributes from the Superior list. Click  OK  on the New Attribute Type dialog box to create the attribute. The new attribute appears in the Attribute Types tree. Oracle Directory Services Manager provides the ability to create new Oracle Virtual Directory schema attributes that are similar  or "like" an existing attribute. This ability is known as "Create Like." When you create a new attribute like an existing attribute, you select an existing attribute to base the new one on and then you modify the base attribute's definitions to make it unique. Perform the following steps to create a new attribute like an existing attribute using Oracle Directory Services Manager: Log in to Oracle Directory Services Manager. Select  Schema  from the task selection bar. The Attribute Types and Object Classes navigation tree appears. Expand the Attribute Types entry. A list of the existing schema attributes appears. Click the existing attribute that you want to base the new attribute on. Click the  Create Like  button at the top of the tree. The base attribute's definitions appear. Modify the base attribute's definitions as desired to create the new attribute. You must modify the base attribute's Name and Object ID definitions to create a valid new attribute. Note: Click  OK  on the dialog box to create the new attribute. The new attribute appears in the Attribute Types tree. Perform the following steps to modify existing Oracle Virtual Directory schema attributes using Oracle Directory Services Manager: Log in to Oracle Directory Services Manager. Select  Schema  from the task selection bar. The Attribute Types and Object Classes navigation tree appears. Expand the Attribute Types entry. A list of the existing schema attributes appears. Click the attribute in the list that you want to modify. The attribute's definitions appear. Modify the attribute's definitions as desired. Refer to step  5  in  "Creating New Schema Attributes"  for more information on attribute definitions. Click  Apply  to save the changes. Perform the following steps to delete existing Oracle Virtual Directory schema attributes using Oracle Directory Services Manager: Log in to Oracle Directory Services Manager. Select  Schema  from the task selection bar. The Attribute Types and Object Classes navigation tree appears. Expand the Attribute Types entry. A list of the existing schema attributes appears. Click the attribute in the list that you want to delete. The attribute's definitions appear. Click the  Delete  button at the top of the Attribute Types tree. A dialog box appears asking you to confirm that you want to delete the attribute. Click the  Delete  button on the confirmation dialog box to delete the attribute. The attribute is removed from the list of existing attributes in the Attribute Types tree. This section explains how to manage Oracle Virtual Directory schema object classes and contains the following tasks: Creating New Schema Object Classes Creating "Like" Schema Object Classes Modifying Schema Object Classes Deleting Schema Object Classes Perform the following steps to create new Oracle Virtual Directory schema object classes using Oracle Directory Services Manager: Log in to Oracle Directory Services Manager. Select  Schema  from the task selection bar. The Attribute Types and Object Classes navigation tree appears. Expand the Object Classes entry. A list of the existing schema object classes appears. Click the  Create  button. The New Object Class dialog box appears. Enter the following information in the New Object Class dialog box fields: Enter the name of the new object class in the Name field. Optionally, enter a description for the object class in the Description field. Oracle Virtual Directory does not enforce this object class definition. Enter a unique object identifier string in the Object ID field. Oracle recommends registering all custom object classes by using a unique object identifier. Enable the Obsolete option to mark the object class as obsolete for administrative purposes. Oracle Virtual Directory does not enforce this object class definition. Select the type of object class by selecting one of the following options from the Type list. Oracle Virtual Directory does not enforce this object class definition. Select  Abstract  if the object class represents object classes that will be inherited by another class and not intended to be used directly by an object. Select  Auxiliary  if the object class will be used to add additional attributes to an existing object (based on a structural object class). Select  Structural  if the object class can form an entry. Select a parent object class for the new object class by selecting one of the existing object classes from the Superior list. If you do not select a parent object class the new object class must be descendant from top. Add attributes that must be present in the object class by clicking the  Add  button in the Mandatory Attributes field, selecting an attribute from the list of existing attributes in the Mandatory Attribute Selector dialog box, and clicking  OK . You can delete Mandatory Attributes by selecting the attribute and clicking the  Delete  button. Add attributes that may optionally be supplied in the object class by clicking the  Add  button in the Optional Attributes field, selecting an attribute from the list of existing attributes in the Optional Attribute Selector dialog box, and clicking  OK . You can delete Optional Attributes by selecting the attribute and clicking the  Delete  button. Click  OK  on the New Object Class dialog box to create the object class. The new object class appears in the Object Classes tree. Oracle Directory Services Manager provides the ability to create new Oracle Virtual Directory schema object classes that are similar  or "like" an existing object class. This ability is known as "Create Like." When you create a new object class like an existing object class, you select an existing object class to base the new one on and then you modify the base object class's definitions to make it unique. Perform the following steps to create a new object class like an existing object class using Oracle Directory Services Manager: Log in to Oracle Directory Services Manager. Select  Schema  from the task selection bar. The Attribute Types and Object Classes navigation tree appears. Expand the Object Classes entry. A list of the existing schema object classes appears. Click the existing object class that you want to base the new object class on. Click the  Create Like  button at the top of the tree. The base object class's definitions appear. Modify the base object class's definitions as desired to create the new object class. You must modify the base object class's Name and Object ID definitions to create a valid new object class. Note: Click  OK  on the dialog box to create the new object class. The new object class appears in the Object Classes tree. Perform the following steps to modify existing Oracle Virtual Directory schema object classes using Oracle Directory Services Manager: Log in to Oracle Directory Services Manager. Select  Schema  from the task selection bar. The Attribute Types and Object Classes navigation tree appears. Expand the Object Classes entry. A list of the existing schema object classes appears. Click the object classes in the list that you want to modify. The object classes's definitions appear. Modify the object classes's definitions as desired. Refer to step  5  in  "Creating New Schema Object Classes"  for more information on object class definitions. Click  Apply  to save the changes. Perform the following steps to delete existing Oracle Virtual Directory schema attributes using Oracle Directory Services Manager: Log in to Oracle Directory Services Manager. Select  Schema  from the task selection bar. The Attribute Types and Object Classes navigation tree appears. Expand the Object Classes entry. A list of the existing schema object classes appears. Click the object class in the list that you want to delete. The object classes' definitions appear. Click the  Delete  button at the top of the Object Classes tree. A dialog box appears asking you to confirm that you want to delete the object class. Click the  Delete  button on the confirmation dialog box to delete the object class. The object class is removed from the list of existing object classes in the Object Classes tree. Scripting on this page enhances content navigation, but does not change the content in any way. 