Parent/Staff Communication policy | Wilkinstown National School - Navan Rationale:  To provide information and guidelines to parents and staff. Introductory Statement:  The family and home are central to the social and intellectual development of the child and the nurturing of good moral values. The school and the family strive to be mutually supportive and respectful of each other so that the child’s education can be effective. All the community stakeholders aim to work in the child’s best interests. Staff:  The Code of Professional Conduct for Teachers (2012) applies to all teachers in Scoil Naomh Barra. The role of the teacher is to educate. The ethical values of respect, care, integrity and trust underpin the standards of teaching, knowledge, skill, competence and conduct. Respect: Teachers uphold human dignity and promote equality and emotional and cognitive development. In their professional practice, teachers demonstrate respect for spiritual and cultural values, diversity, social justice, freedom, democracy and the environment. Care:  Teachers’ practice is motivated by the best interests of the pupils/students entrusted to their care. Teachers show this through positive influence, professional judgement and empathy in practice. Integrity: Honesty, reliability and moral action are embodied in integrity. Teachers exercise integrity through their professional commitments, responsibilities and actions. Trust:  Teachers’ relationships with pupils/students, colleagues, parents, school management and the public are based on trust. Trust embodies fairness, openness and honesty. Parents:  Parents are the primary educators of their children. In the best interests of their child, parents are encouraged to: Structures to Facilitate Communication and Consultation: Procedures:  Positive and respectful communication is of high importance in our school. This not only extends to the children but to all of the stakeholders, teachers, staff, parents and the wider community. Anyone entering our school building should feel safe to do so. While the behaviour of children in our school is of vital importance, adults in the school community also have a responsibility to ensure their own behaviour models the types of behaviour expected of our pupils and detailed in our Charter and Code of Behaviour. All stakeholders are responsible for their own behaviour in the school building. REFERENCES: All content (c) copyright - website is for educational purposes only. Designed by  Handyweb.ie  | Powered by  Handyinfo.ie By using this website, you consent to the use of cookies in accordance with the  Handyweb.ie  Cookie Policy For more information on cookies see our  Cookie Policy  or close this banner. By using this website, you consent to the use of cookies in accordance with the  Handyweb.ie  Cookie Policy For more information on cookies see our  Cookie Policy  or close this banner. 