Llangollen International Eisteddfod’s 2018 Concert Series | Calon FM The Llangollen International Musical Eisteddfod is a music festival which takes place every year during the second week of July in the beautiful town of Llangollen, North Wales. The Llangollen International Musical Eisteddfod has announced its star-studded concert line-up for 2018, featuring performances from best-selling artist, Alfie Boe, prolific recording artist, Van Morrison, renowned baroque instrumental group, Red Priest, and award winning Welsh folk band, Calan. The Festival will run from  Tuesday 3 rd  July   Sunday 8 th  July 2018  and tickets for the main concert series are now available to Festival Pass holders and Friends of the Eisteddfod. Tickets are also now on sale to the general public online at  www.llangollen.net  or via the box office on 01978 862 001. Alfie Boe in Concert The 2018 event will open on  Tuesday 3 rd  July , with one of Britain’s biggest selling, most popular and best loved vocalists of a generation, Alfie Boe. The hugely successful recording artist and West End, Broadway sensation will be joined by his ensemble of stellar musicians, showcasing his best loved songs and communicating his joy of music, promising spectators an unforgettable evening of showmanship. We have 2 x tickets to Alfie Boe in Concert as part of the Calon FM 10th Anniversary Prize Draw.  Click here for details   The Classical Collection On  Wednesday 4 th  July , finalists of the renowned  International Voice of the Future  Competition, which aims to advance the career of young singers, will entice the audience with breathtaking performances as they compete for the prestigious title and a share of the £10,000 prize fund, which has generously been donated by Pendine Park and the Bryn Terfel Foundation for the second year in a row. While the judges deliberate on the finalists’ performances, the Llangollen International Musical Eisteddfod’s newly appointed Music Director, Vicky Yannoula, will take to the piano alongside acclaimed pianist Peter Jablonski in a moving collaboration inspired by the power and magic of the piano – so be prepared for musical fireworks! International Celebration with special guests Calan International competitors from across the globe will unite on  Thursday 5 th  July , promising an immersive sea of vibrant colours and eclectic sounds, as they weave through the audience with their giant flags in the captivating Procession of the Nations. The evening will explore the International Eisteddfod’s unique founding values of sharing music, dance, peace and friendship, with children from a local school presenting a message of goodwill to the world in the delivery of the 2018 Peace Message. Special guests for the evening award winning band, Calan, will set feet tapping with their quirky interpretation of Welsh folk music. The five-piece band will come with accordion, harp, guitar, fiddles and Welsh bagpipes, to entrance the audience with their beautiful and haunting melodies. An Evening with Van Morrison Friday 6 th  July  will see the unparalleled vocal and songwriting talent, Van Morrison, take to the iconic Royal International Pavilion stage, to perform music from his revered musical catalogue. One of the most prolific recording artists and live performers in music history, Van Morrison weaves myriad musical influences into his music, including street poetry, jazz improvisation, Irish folk, Afro Celtic Blues wailing, blues, pop, rock, R & B, country and gospel, captivating audiences – it will be an evening not to be missed.   Choir of the World with special guests Red Priest The Festival s competitions will reach their exciting climax on  Saturday 7th July , with the winners of the international choral competition competing for the titles of  Choir of the World  2018  and the prestigious Pavarotti Trophy. Those taking part in the dance categories will participate in the  Dance Champions of the World 2018  finals. Baroque instrumental group, Red Priest, will also contribute to the excitement of the evening as the International Eisteddfod’s special guests. Renowned for their dynamic, charismatic and visionary performances, the talented foursome will captivate the audience with their technical wizardry and showmanship. Llanfest 2018 The Festival will draw to a close on  Sunday 8 th  July  at Llanfest 2018, with exciting headliners and support acts to be announced in the new year. Music Director of the Festival, Vicky Yannoula, said: “It s been an exhilarating first few months in my role as Music Director at Llangollen International Musical Eisteddfod and a real joy to curate my very first concert series, which I feel reflects the musical excellence and diversity of this fantastic event. “We are proud that this year’s Festival line-up spans genres and generations, crossing the boundaries of age, culture and creed. There really is something for everyone and we’ll be adding even more early in the new year, with the announcement of our Llanfest headliners for 2018.” Throughout the week there will also be live performances from emerging bands, musicians and street performers from across the globe, as well as activities to entertain the children and food, drink and local craft stalls. Festival Pass holders and Friends of the Eisteddfod are able to book tickets from today, via a special booking form. Tickets will be on sale to the general public from 9.30am on Thursday 14 th  December online at  www.llangollen.net  or via the box office. To become a Friend of the Eisteddfod and access priority booking, please telephone 01978 862001 or visit  www.international-eisteddfod.co.uk/get-involved/become-a-friend . For regular news and updates about the Festival follow us on Twitter @llangollen_Eist or like our Facebook page Llangollen International Musical Eisteddfod. Comments are closed. 9am -   Breakfast 11am -  Empowerment Hour 12pm -  The Business Community 3pm -  Mindful Musings 10pm - Arran Hodges   Email the studio - studio@calonfm.com Click here to follow individual shows . 