6 week wait for Breast Clinic. I ' m slightly freaked out! | Irish Cancer Society Questions or concerns about cancer? Contact the Cancer Nurseline Mon - Fri  9 am - 5 pm Email Donate now Hello! I've been lurking on this site for a little while now and have read a lot of your incredible stories and battles. What brave women you all are.  This month has been a bit crazy, as I'm in the middle of a few different doctor assessments. One is for heart related problems I've been having, and the other is for a lump I found in my left breast about a month and a half ago.  I gotta say, the heart thing hasn't been all that scary, but the lump issue has been my undoing. I'm 31 and a mother of two young children. I came across the hard lump myself about a month and half ago, but waited to see if it changed with my cycle. It didn't. So I casually mentioned it to the GP while I was having my 3 year cervical check done. They ordered blood tests for me (because of issues I'm having with my periods) and a referral for me to the Breast Clinic in Beaumont. I got the appointment today - but it's not until the 1st of March!! For the past week, I've had a lot of internal emotional highs and lows (one minute I've got myself dead and buried....the next minute "I'll be grand!") I've avoided telling anyone except my very nearest family so as not to make a big deal of it. But inside I feel a bit panicked. And I'm wondering how I'm gonna be able to push it out of my mind for another 5 weeks!! Did any of you have to wait that long? How did you manage to not go mad with the waiting game?  Whatever the results are, I can deal with them. It's the not knowing that's driving me crazy! You're very welcome to the site. Sometimes I don't feel so brave but we've great support here. I'm no doctor but is imagine if they thought it was anything you'd be seen well before that date.  I went to my local gp at the end of July and have found out since that she knew straight away it was something I got an appointment in Vincent's in the triple assessment on the 7th August and was told that day  by the surgeon that it was 'suspicious' but that I'd come early and it hadn't spread and they could deal with it and could I come back the following Friday the 17th August and that was they day they told me I had a malignant tumour and I started chemo on 10th September, had my lumpectomy last Monday and get results tomorrow . That's how fast it happened for me and all because my gp new it was serious apparently they can tell by shape and size and feel of the lump.  Yes the not knowing is awful but I only had a week of that. Bit anxious about tomorrow but hopefully everything will be ok xxx My mum had an egg sized tumour in her breast removed when she was around my age that was benign.  I'm sure it's nothing, but I keep having the what-ifs. About 6 years ago, I had a stint with mastitis that was so bad it put me in hospital for a week. For awhile, the docs thought it could have been IBC because my body wasn't responding to the antibiotics at all and the skin on my rugby sized breast looked like an orange peel. As it turns out, it wasn't IBC. Funnily enough, the breast that has the lump is the one that had the mastitis though.  I hope everything goes well for you tomorrow WicklowLady. My thoughts are with you. I have to ask... I keep reading online that cancer lumps are painless. Have you any of you found that to NOT be the case? Did you have pain with your lumps? I don't have any pain with my lump. But I do sometimes have a slight pulling sensation under my left armpit. It's not painful. Just slightly uncomfortable at times. When it starts up, it radiates over the top of my breast. Thanks hopefully ill be posting good news tomorrow. The women on here are fantastic. I had no pain whatsoever only found it by accident. God you've been through the mill and hopefully this'll be nothing. Can't see them leaving you that long if they thought it was malignant they like to get in their fast and get rid. Hi RuBoJu, For years I had breast cysts that came and went and which could be painful at times. 18 months ago I had a painful cyst in my left breast.  Of the real danger - the two tumours in my right breast I was blissfully unaware. They were totally painless. I agree with the other ladies here. If the doctors were really worried you would have got an appointment sooner. However, it's very reassuring that even though they may not be worried themselves, they are nonetheless listening to your concerns and not leaving any stone unturned. You are in good hands. Good luck Kath Oh my goodness...that must have been such a shock, Kathleen.  Reading your post has brought on another newbie question from me though: When you go into the breast clinic, as a general rule, do the doctors automatically check both of your breasts? Or just the one that you have a lump in? Hi RuBoJu, Sorry younhave such a long wait. Am a Beaumont girl so know ALL the ins and outs. You probably have a six week wait as your doc does not think it urgent. Am pretty sure I had at least a three week wait as my doc thought is was post breast feeding clogged duct. One thing you could do is chance your arm and ring the secretary to see if you can bring date forward saying you were due to be away but nothing booked, obviously don't get her to push it out further! You will hopefully have a mammo on the day or soon after if they have concerns. They did mammo on my two boobies. You may also have an ultrasound and maybe even a biopsy. They try to do everything on the one day but is not always possible so you might have consult and then asked to return a few days later for mammo, US and biopsy (I havd all of these on one day!). Hopefully it is absolutely nothing. Mine was not sore at all. Found it by accident. Final suggestion to you is to stay away from Dr Google. Until you know what if anything you are dealing with, it will be no help to you, only give youbsleepless nights. I say this from experience by the way. Best of luck, really hope it is just a little cyst. Lindylu I had biopsy on both boobies consequently the biopsy on the good boob as there was was no tumour just tissue the surgeon thought was unusual but didn't think it was anything but it had to be checked and it bruised dreadful ended up like an aubergine. Dreadfully painful., but it's fine now.  The only website you should be on is this one.  I didn't google on advice from others. You'd have yourself dead and buried after reading some of the sites.  Yes, I'm beginning to see just how true that is. Thank you all for your kind words and reassurance. I'm gonna do my best just to carry on as normal until I get seen properly. I will keep you all posted.  Again, thank you. xx Irish Cancer Society, 43/45 Northumberland Road, Dublin, D04 VX65, Ireland Tel +353 (0)1 2310 500 |  info@irishcancer.ie CRO 20868; CHY 5863; CRA 20009502 © Irish Cancer Society 1999-2019 We use cookies on this site to enhance your user experience. By clicking any link on this page you are giving your consent for us to set cookies. 