100 best places to live and launch - 31. Leesburg, Va. (31) - FORTUNE Small Business Nestled in the foothills of the Blue Ridge Mountains, Leesburg is known for its natural beauty, Civil War battlefields - and start-ups: The town boasts almost 3,000 businesses and welcomed 451 new ones in 2006.  Major industries include healthcare, real estate, retail, construction and education, though no single industry dominates the economy. The city's combination of affluence and proximity to both Dulles Airport and the original America Online headquarters draws a mix of international firms, technology startups, retail boutiques, and, more recently, a growing medical industry sector. Many of these businesses find a home in the historic downtown, which the National Register of Historic Places cites as among the most picturesque in Virginia. The town serves as the seat of Loudoun County, which posted some of the country's strongest employment and earnings growth since 2000.  Residents and visitors benefit from 17 parks and more than two dozen vineyards. Downtown retailers, restaurants, galleries and other consumer businesses benefit from monthly "First Friday" celebrations, complete with live music and other performances. Residents also have access to the cultural activities of the nation's capital, just 40 miles away.  -Kelsey Abbott Interactive map: Leesburg, Va. Find homes for sale in Leesburg, Va. NEXT: 32. Carlsbad, Calif. Most stock quote data provided by BATS. Market indices are shown in real time, except for the DJIA, which is delayed by two minutes. All times are ET. Disclaimer. Morningstar: © 2018Morningstar, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. 2018. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile Association: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S & P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S & P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard  &  Poor &# x27;s and S & P are registered trademarks of Standard  &  Poor &# x27;s Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices © S & P Dow Jones Indices LLC 2018and/or its affiliates. © 2018Cable News Network. A WarnerMedia Company. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service is provided to you.  Privacy Policy. Do Not Sell 