Helping People Through the Most Trying Times | Symantec Blogs Symantec’s Volunteer of the Quarter initiative highlights and rewards those employees who dedicate their time and talents to those in need.We have a long and proud history of encouraging our employees to volunteer. While the driving force of our efforts is largely altruistic, there is even more to volunteering than giving back to our communities. Volunteering makes our company a better place to work, so employees are helping both Symantec and the organizations they volunteer for. Today we highlight our Volunteer of the Quarter Marcelo Oliveira , Senior Director of Product Management, in our Mountain View, CA office. When I was just 10 years old, my grandpa, who was a second father to me, passed away after a brutal and quick battle with cancer. When he was diagnosed, I thought doctors could fix everything. I could not understand why my mom and my grandma were so concerned; until he was gone. I didn’t know the seismic impact that cancer would have on our entire family. On my grandma, as she cared for him every day, and on all of us as we tried to learn how to live without him. Ever since then I’ve been looking for ways to help. In 2014, I learned about a program at Berkeley Haas that connected students and alumni to non-profit boards. When I heard about Cancer CAREpoint and their mission, I was immediately drawn to them. Cancer CAREpoint is dedicated to transforming support for cancer patients, survivors, family members, and caregivers in Silicon Valley through personalized, one-on-one Counseling, Assistance, Resources, and Education. All services are provided at no cost to patients and their families, no matter where they receive medical care or their cancer type. I joined Cancer CAREpoint as a Board Fellow, leading a project on revenue diversification. During this time, I had the opportunity to interview a number of clients and donors. I was deeply moved by their stories and how much the organization helped families through the most trying times of their lives. In early 2016, I was invited to join the board of directors. In this role, I advise the organization and volunteer my time on technical and business matters. Whether planning and setting up large scale Wi-Fi networks for fundraising events, or helping with the online marketing strategy, I know that every hour and dollar I give goes to improving the lives of cancer patients, survivors, and their families in our community. It’s amazing to know that what I do impacts so many. Symantec makes it easy to volunteer with programs like Symantec Service Time, which provides employees with the flexibility to volunteer, and Dollars-for-Doers grants, which financially support organizations you volunteer with. I encourage you to find a mission that you believe in. This experience has raised my feeling of self-worth and has added a new dimension to my life. Cancer CAREpoint supported 1,633 cancer patients and their families in 2017, 93 percent of which reported feeling less stress and anxiety after receiving their services. The organization started in San Jose and has been growing and expanding both its services and its reach over the past few years. Cancer CAREpoint has been with me every step of this difficult journey- when I'm scared, when I'm joyful, when I'm sad. Walking into Cancer CAREpoint is like stepping into open arms. - Maria You can learn more about Cancer CAREpoint and the incredible work they do at https://cancercarepoint.org. The Corporate Responsibility team works to create a secure and sustainable future. From employees to nonprofits to environmental experts, hear about the people, passions and powerful technology that come together daily to make the world a better, safer place. We encourage you to share your thoughts on your favorite social platform. 