Global Care | Companion  &  Homemakers Grab your visitors' attention front and center on your homepage, then give them an action to take. Get Started Our caregivers are screened and carefully selected before going through detailed professional training that meets state and federal regulations. In order to enhance the lives of aging adults and their families, we offer our clients healthcare based on their individual needs, while providing exceptional healthcare professionals they can rely on. Our Veterans Assistance program offers Veterans a variety of services including case management and help with activities of daily living free of charge. Examples include help with bathing, dressing, fixing meals or taking medication. This program is designed to provide support for veterans as well as their families. Global Care Companion  &  Homemakers has extensive experience in helping individuals and their families live with Alzheimer's disease and other types of dementia. Our staff's goal is to establish long term, highly compatible care relationships between clients, their families and their caregivers. Consistency is key.  We provide care ranging anywhere from 3 hours visits up to 24 hours long term care, seven days a week including holidays. Global Care Companion  &  Homemaker team is always available to meet the needs of our clients.  "Great service, on time sections, friendly nurses, what else more can I say, Global Care Companion  &  Homemakers leads the way!" — Michelle. Everyday, our team of Nurses, Office Professionals and Home Health Aides aim to deliver appropriate high quality home care to our clients while treating them with compassion, kindness, dignity and respect. When it comes to home care, you have a choice. We understand that choosing the right home health care agency for you or your loved one can be difficult, which is why Global Care Companion  &  Homemakers is here for you every step of the way. The Global Care team of professionals will customize our services to fit the needs of our clients to make sure our clients receive the most compatible and the best quality of home care. With Global Care Companion  &  Homemakers you are in good hands! Global Care Companion  &  Homemakers is a non-medical home care agency that is here to provide you and your family with the service, comfort, and peace of mind you deserve. Our services allow you or your loved ones to remain independent in the comfort of home with just the correct amount of support from a committed caregiver. We pride ourselves in providing quality care with honor, dignity, and piety. "We serve all of Connecticut"! Global Care Companion  &  Homemakers is 100% committed to providing comprehensive, high quality homecare services to our patients through coordinated efforts of strong partnerships with families, discharge planners and specialized medical teams. We believe in building a team of caring professionals whose goal is to deliver the highest standard of care and promote continuous quality health improvements that are patient centered. Phone (860) 529-2273 (CARE) Fax (860) 529-2999 1850 Silas Deane Highway Rocky Hill, CT 06067 USA 