Top Tracks: Lil Wayne  &  XXXTentacion ' s  " Don ' t Cry "  Hits #1 mixtapes-icon news-icon songs-icon top100-icon videos-icon x-icon This past Friday, after years of delays, legal setbacks, and label in-fighting, Lil Wayne finally released his long-awaited album Tha Carter V . It's a momentous occasion for a number of reasons, including Wayne gaining independence from Cash Money Records, setting some streaming records, and linking up with a whole host of talent young and old. Top Tracks is not immune to the Weezy onslaught, as this week's top two tracks are both Carter V album cuts. Wayne is the only artist with multiple songs in the Top Ten this week. New songs barely missing out on spots include  Young Thug  and 6LACK's "Climax" (#11), Desto Dubb, Lil Uzi Vert,  Lil Pump ,  Smokepurpp , and 03 Greedo's "Bank Teller" (#12), Kevin Gates' "Adding Up" (#13), and A Boogie Wit Da Hoodie's "Retaliation" (#14). 10. Dave East - Yes Indeed (East Mix) IN the past, Dave East tackled songs by artists like The Weeknd and Jay-Z in his "East Mix" series, and his latest addition comes in over a hot track from earlier this year, Drake and  Lil Baby 's "Yes Indeed." His take on the Harder Than Ever single debuts at #10.       DAVE EAST     Yes Indeed (EAST MIX) Share SoundCloud cookie policy Cookie policy 9. Lil Durk Feat. Young Dolph  &  Lil Baby - Downfall Speaking of Lil Baby, the Atlanta rapper guests (along with Memphis' Young Dolph) on Lil Durk's latest track, "Downfall." One of a small handful of tracks Durk's dropped since getting out of his Def Jam deal, this one debuts at #9. Lil Durk 1.8M subscribers Subscribe Lil Durk - Downfall ft. Young Dolph  &  Lil Baby (Official Audio) (Lyric Video) Watch later Share Copy link Info Shopping Tap to unmute If playback doesn ' t begin shortly, try restarting your device. Your browser does not currently recognize any of the video formats available.  Click here to visit our frequently asked questions about HTML5 video. More videos on YouTube More videos Share Include playlist An error occurred while retrieving sharing information. Please try again later. An error occurred. Try watching this video on www.youtube.com , or enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser. 8. Jacquees - Trip (Quemix) Here on Top Tracks, we mostly see tracks in their first week of release. Sometimes, if they're really big, we see second-week tracks. But fourth-week tracks? Almost never. Jacquees' take on Ella Mai's sleeper hit "Boo'd Up" initially debuted within the Top Ten when it was released in early September, but has seen a resurgence in searches since it was taken down about a week ago. In its fourth week out, "Trip" is up 12 places from #20 to #8. 7. Kodak Black - If I'm Lyin I'm Flyin Outside of a collaborative track with Gucci Mane and Bruno Mars, Kodak Black hadn't released any new music since getting out of jail this summer until "If I'm Lyin I'm Flyin." This one, presumably taken from his upcoming album, debuts at #7. Kodak Black 5.9M subscribers Subscribe Kodak Black - If I ' m Lyin, I ' m Flyin [Official Video] Watch later Share Copy link Info Shopping Tap to unmute If playback doesn ' t begin shortly, try restarting your device. More videos Your browser does not currently recognize any of the video formats available.  Click here to visit our frequently asked questions about HTML5 video. More videos on YouTube Share Include playlist An error occurred while retrieving sharing information. Please try again later. Switch camera 0:00 0:00 0:00  /  3:01 Live An error occurred. Try watching this video on www.youtube.com , or enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser. 6. DJ Snake Feat. Selena Gomez, Ozuna  & Cardi B  - Taki Taki For his latest single, DJ Snake collected three of the hottest artists of Latin descent in the world. "Taki Taki" features American sensations Selna Gomez and Cardi B, as well as Puerto Rican hotshot Ozuna. It debuts at #6. 5. Logic Feat. Method Man , RZA , GZA , Raekwon , Ghostface Killah , Inspectah Deck , Masta Killa , Cappadonna & Jackpot Scotty Wotty - Wu-Tang Forever Back in the run-up to his album Nothing Was the Same , Drake claimed to have a song featuring every living original Wu-Tang Clan member called "Wu-Tang Forever." When the album surfaced, they were nowhere to be found. Logic decided to actually carry through on that promise, grabbing nine members of the Staten Island collective. His "Wu-Tang Forever" debuts at #5. Visionary Music Group 1.4M subscribers Subscribe Logic - Wu Tang Forever ft. Wu Tang Clan (Official Audio) Watch later Share Copy link Info Shopping Tap to unmute If playback doesn ' t begin shortly, try restarting your device. Your browser does not currently recognize any of the video formats available.  Click here to visit our frequently asked questions about HTML5 video. More videos on YouTube More videos Share Include playlist An error occurred while retrieving sharing information. Please try again later. An error occurred. Try watching this video on www.youtube.com , or enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser. 4. T.I. Feat. Young Thug - The Weekend T.I. and Young Thug have several collaborations under their belts at this point, including early single "About The Money" and several Bankroll Mafia cuts, but it's been a while since they linked up on a song. "The Weekend" is a single from Tip's upcoming album The Dime Trap , and it debuts at #4. 3. Juicy J Feat.  Travis Scott  - Neighbor Juicy J and Travis Scott also have quite a fruitful past working together, and not only that, but the Juiceman also has a track record of  great songs about neighbors . He kills two birds with one stone on his latest song, "Neighbor," which debuts at #3. TheJuicyJVEVO 930K subscribers Subscribe Juicy J - Neighbor (Official Audio) ft. Travis Scott Watch later Share Copy link Info Shopping Tap to unmute If playback doesn ' t begin shortly, try restarting your device. Your browser does not currently recognize any of the video formats available.  Click here to visit our frequently asked questions about HTML5 video. More videos on YouTube More videos Share Include playlist An error occurred while retrieving sharing information. Please try again later. An error occurred. Try watching this video on www.youtube.com , or enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser. 2. Lil Wayne Feat. Kendrick Lamar - Mona Lisa One of the more noteworthy Carter V  tracks on first glance is this collab with Kendrick Lamar. "Mona Lisa" finds both of the top-tier lyricists at the top of their games, and it debuts at #2. Mona Lisa (feat. Kendrick Lamar) Lil Wayne 0:00 -0:00 1. Lil Wayne Feat. XXXTentacion - Don't Cry It's honestly a bit surprising that this XXXTentacion collab got more views than "Mona Lisa," but then again, every bit of posthumous music that's trickled out since his death has been met with an absurd amount of hype. "Don't Cry" debuts at #1. x-icon x-icon or with your email Get the hottest music, news and videos delivered directly to your inbox. 