1964 National Co-Champion team holds reunion - Sam Houston State Bearkats Athletics AddThis Members of Sam Houston's 1964 squad that won the Lone Star Conference championship and tied 7-7 with Concordia College in the NAIA National Championship game in Augusta, GA, will gather at Elliott T. Bowers Stadium Saturday, Oct. 31, when the Bearkats play host to Northwestern State. After rolling through the regular season with an 8-1 record, the Bearkats defeated Findlay College 31-21 in the NAIA semifinal game to reach the finals. Halfback Ted Minyard and defensive tackle Frank Fox were NAIA first team All-America selections following the season. First team All-Lone Star Conference honorees in 1964 included halfback Billy Arlen, guard Keith Collins, center Don Murray, guard Benny Sorgee, linebacker David Martin, halfback Edward Bittick along with Fox and Minyard. Fullback Joe Ed Lynn and linebacker Dave Smith were All-Lone Star second team selections. Defensive back Thel Walters was an honorable all-conference honoree. Collins, Martin, Norman Peterson, Arlen and Lynn received NAIA All-America honorable mention. Other members of the 1964 team were Don Bates, William Black, Michael Bobo, David Colburn, Keith Collins, James Connor, Buddy Daniel, Delton Fick, Michael Fleming, Gary Gilbreath, Glenn Gray, Tom Johnson, Leslie King, Robert Kramer, Lloyd Long, Johnny Lowe, Tommy Luker, Leroy McAlister, John Mathews, Alan Miller, Sam Oates, Larry Peil, Glenn Phillips, Paul Pierce Jr., Claude Reinke, Carl Semler, Kenneth Tatum, Mack Tyler and A. J. Veselka. Paul "Red" Pierce was head coach of the Bearkats in 1964. His assistant coaches were Bob Britt, Ronnie Choate, Tom Page and Billy Tidwell. Sam Houston started the 1964 season with eight straight victories, defeating Tarleton State, Corpus Christi, Howard Payne, Texas Lutheran, Southwest Texas, Stephen F. Austin, East Texas and Texas A & I. Sul Ross spoiled the perfect mark with a 14-7 upset on the last Saturday of the regular season. 