Cool Fonts - Cool Font Generator So you are looking for a cool font? Different people have different purposes when looking for a cool font so they may have different opinions on what a cool font is. For example, a cool font for graffiti and a cool font for logo design may be very different things. To make things easier for you and help you find the cool fonts for your project, we would like to suggest you browse our font collections first, generate a preview of them. Depending on different projects, you might take a look at our popular pages like tattoo fonts, graffiti fonts, cursive fonts, etc. Graffiti Classic by Robert Arnow As for downloading, there are many font websites where you can download cool fonts for your projects. But it takes the time to find cool fonts that are free yet of high quality. In this case, we suggest that you have a look at  myfonts.com , where there are thousands of quality fonts that we found cool. For example, one font we like is  Graffiti Classic , which is a graffiti-inspired font that blends the improvisational urban quality of graffiti and regularity of typography. If you don’t want to download and install a font on your computer but just want to use cool fonts for simple text-based designs. Check out our tool below. Create text-based logos or images with Cool Fonts Below is a collection of cool fonts. The following tool will convert your desired text into images using cool fonts. Simply enter your text, select your desired color and size, and hit  GENERATE  button. You can save your image by right-clicking on the image, or get codes to embed your images on the web by clicking on the  EMBED  button. Check out free fonts below, download them or create text images and logos with them online. You can click  here  to refresh with a new set. Check out fonts used in brand logos, film titles, TV logos and more. Font Meme is a fonts  &  typography resource. The " Fonts in Use " section features posts about fonts used in logos, films, TV shows, video games, books and more;  The " Text Generator " section features simple tools that let you create graphics with fonts of different styles as well as various text effects;  The " Fonts Collection " section is the place where you can browse, filter, custom preview and download free fonts. 