The 10 best serviced apartments in London, UK | Booking.com Loading Choose your preferred language. We speak English and 42 other languages. Newham, London The  aparthotel  offers a seating area with a flat-screen TV and a private bathroom with free toiletries and shower in each studio. A microwave, a toaster and fridge are also offered, as well as a kettle. Excellent room, friendly staff and centrally located Whitechapel, London Offering stylish accommodation with free WiFi, Leman Locke is located in Shoreditch, London, 900 metres from both the Tower of London and Brick Lane. ><br >Each accommodation has city views, a dining area and seating area with bespoke furniture and a flat-screen Samsung Smart TV and Apple TV Box. The staff were extremely helpful, going above and beyond to help with things like arranging a courier to send my extra bag back to Sydney on my behalf after I had left. Camden, London Set in London, 2.7 km from Lord's Cricket Ground and 4.3 km from Portobello Road Market, Messina Studios offers accommodation with free WiFi, air conditioning and access to a garden. ><br >London Zoo is 5 km from the  aparthotel , while Madame Tussauds is 5 km away. The nearest airport is London City Airport, 21 km from Messina Studios. Ideal location, comfortable and brilliant facilities.. Great all round... Westminster Borough, London Set in London, near Westminster Abbey, Houses of Parliament and Big Ben, Sonder — The Arts Council features free WiFi. ><br >Popular points of interest near the  aparthotel  include Churchill War Rooms, Banqueting House and Buckingham Palace. The nearest airport is London City Airport, 15 km from Sonder — The Arts Council. The check in system was so easy .. all informations needed in the application .. love it City of London, London Located in London in the Greater London region, The Chronicle provides accommodation with free WiFi. ><br >Each unit comes with a seating area, a flat-screen TV with Sky TV and GoldKey Media, a well-fitted kitchen, and a private bathroom with free toiletries. There is also a dishwasher, oven and a coffee machine. ><br >The  aparthotel  offers a fitness centre. Value of money, modern, comfortable and bid room,  clean, very nice staff.  The  property is very near station and shop. If we come to London again, this property will be our next stay for sure. Covent Garden, London Situated in London, near Arts Theatre, Savoy Theatre and Royal Opera House, Sonder — King Street features free WiFi. ><br >Popular points of interest near the  aparthotel  include Covent Garden, Lyceum Theatre and Theatre Royal Drury Lane. The nearest airport is London City Airport, 14 km from Sonder — King Street. -Sparkling Clean-Great Heating and Cooking-Fantastic Washer Dryer-Great Lighting -Lots of storage-Wonderful Bathroom-Comfy Bed-Very Quiet-Excellent Location-Strong Wifi-Great TowelsOverall perfect. This is my second stay here and without a doubt one of the best accomodations I have ever stayed in. Highly recommend it. Southwark, London Providing a fitness centre, Native Bankside is set in London, not far from Borough Market and London Bridge. Complimentary WiFi is provided. ><br >All apartments come with air conditioning, a flat-screen TV, washing machine and kettle. I found this place as my second home while I was away from my home country. Whitechapel, London Rockwell East-Tower Bridge is an  aparthotel  located within 600 metres of the Tower of London featuring free Wi-Fi. ><br >The 1-bedroom and  studio apartments  have a dining area and seating area with bespoke furniture and a flat-screen TVs. Staff was friendly, helpful and got to know me and addressed me by name, which helped me feel secure and safe. Entrance and elevator use was with card access, another modern security feature. The kitchen was equipped with brand new facilities, making me comfortable to make what I needed. Bloomsbury, London Set in London, near British Museum, Royal Opera House and Dominion Theatre, Sonder — Museum House features free WiFi. ><br >Popular points of interest near the  aparthotel  include Arts Theatre, Covent Garden and Lyceum Theatre. The nearest airport is London City Airport, 14 km from Elegant West End Suites by Sonder. Location, New, Clean, Spacious. City of London, London SACO - The Cannon is set in London, 1.1 km from Tower of London. Tower Bridge is 1.4 km from the property. ><br >All units include a dining area and a flat-screen TV. There is also a kitchen, fitted with an oven. A microwave and kettle are also offered. Every unit features a private bathroom with free toiletries and a hair dryer. Towels are provided. Convenient location to all of central London.  The immediate area is pretty banker oriented, but you can find some good pubs.  A Sainsbury’s nearby lets you stock the kitchen easily, and I got a great haircut at the barbershop across the street. To access more lively parts of London, you can walk to several tube stops on different lines to limit changing trains.  Southwark and Borough Market are easily walkable by crossing the river.  If you don’t mind walking about a mile, you can make the pleasant and scenic walk east to Tower Bridge / City Hall / Tower of London and west to Covent Garden / Soho.  Ubers or Taxis back from most places cost 10-20 GBP.  Gatwick is easily accessible via the Thameslink to London Blackfriars (the train runs often and the ride takes about 35 minutes, and London Blackfriars is an easy 10 minute walk to the apartments).  Apartment staff were friendly and accommodating.  The common area on the ground floor is cozy, with a well-stocked Nespresso coffee maker and a TV.  Rooms have free and fast WiFi. Bathroom were top notch with L’Occitane amenities.  All in all a great place to stay if you want a good home base to explore the City of London. Serviced Apartment in London Popular with guests booking serviced apartments in London Serviced Apartment in London Popular with guests booking serviced apartments in London Serviced Apartment in London Popular with guests booking serviced apartments in London Serviced Apartment in London Popular with guests booking serviced apartments in London Serviced Apartment in London Popular with guests booking serviced apartments in London Serviced Apartment in London Popular with guests booking serviced apartments in London Newham, London Roomzzz London Stratford provides a fitness centre, as well as accommodation with free WiFi and a kitchenette in London, 1.6 km from Olympic Stadium.  Excellent room, friendly staff and centrally located Camden, London Set in London, 2.7 km from Lord ' s Cricket Ground and 4.3 km from Portobello Road Market, Messina Studios offers accommodation with free WiFi, air conditioning and access to a garden.  Ideal location, comfortable and brilliant facilities.. Great all round... Golders Green, London Featuring free WiFi, MStay Golders Green offers accommodation in London.  Location excellent, Very clean apartment and good value for money, good cancellation policy. Deptford, London Around 10 minutes’ walk from Greenwich, Staycity Aparthotels Deptford Bridge Station provides self-catering accommodation in south east London.  Very modern and the station just outside so easy for travel. Highbury, London Located 5 minutes’ walk from both Finsbury Park railway station and tube station, these apartments offer easy access to central London, 15 minutes’ tube journey from the property.  Feel free to stay.The staff is friendly though we were late. Westminster Borough, London Located in London’s fashionable Bayswater, 39 Studios offer stylish, modern apartments in an elegant Victorian period building. Just a short walk from Bayswater Tube Station, there is free Wi-Fi.  This hotel was amazing. The location was fantastic. The staff was unbelievably friendly. Newham, London Offering a shared lounge, Dockside Apartments at Excel is set in the Newham district of London, 8 km from Olympic Stadium and 8 km from O2 Arena.  Bed comfortable.  Really nice staff.  Big rooms. Huge bathroom. Five minute walk to Excel. Hampstead, London This stylish and modern hotel-alternative is a few minutes from West Hampstead Station, which offers fast and easy access to London city centre.  The location was great for us 👍 Kensington, London Perfectly located in the heart of Kensington and Chelsea, the Cheval Gloucester Park offers self-catering accommodation with private parking and free Wi-Fi.  Chelsea, London Located in London in the Greater London region, with Buckingham Palace and Victoria and Albert Museum nearby, Sonder — Sloane Square provides accommodation with free WiFi.  An excellent new property in a great location. We will be coming back! Mayfair, London In the heart of Mayfair, Marriott 47 Park Street offers luxurious Edwardian suites furnished with works of art and crystal lighting. Guests can relax with satellite TV and CD / DVD players.  comfy bed, plush pillows,  &  fluffy towels. Tower Hill, London Located next to the Tower of London, and overlooking the River Thames, Cheval Three Quays offers modern apartments with free Wi-Fi, and an on-site fitness centre.  Well fitted out. Clean, modern and spacious.  Nice view over the river. Kensington, London Cheval Harrington Court at South Kensington offers luxury 4-star apartments and studios in the heart of South Kensington and 2 minutes '  walk from South Kensington Tube Station.  Spacious, comfortable and friendly, helpful staff Kensington, London Ideally located in the heart of Kensington, Cheval Thorney Court offers self-catered accommodation with free Wi-Fi, a fitness centre and 24-hour front desk.  Nothing to complain about, absolutely enjoyed every minute of our stay there, would definitely... Southwark, London Located 700 metres from Borough Market in London, Sonder — Southwark Residence provides accommodation with air conditioning and free WiFi.  All was just great. Amazing flat!!! City of London, London SACO - The Cannon is set in London, 1.1 km from Tower of London. Tower Bridge is 1.4 km from the property. All units include a dining area and a flat-screen TV.  Convenient location to all of central London. Kensington, London No1 The Mansions is a self-catering accommodation situated within a 10-minute walk of Earls Court Exhibition Centre and Tube station.. Free WiFi access is available throughout.  Everything was perfect, the arrival with the check in was very fast, we had an apartment with my... Hammersmith, London room2 Hammersmith is a boutique apart-hotel offering accommodation within a 5-minute walk from Hammersmith Tube Station, Hammersmith HMV Apollo and Shepherd ' s Bush Empire theatres.  Location is fine, 2 min. walk to Hammersmith station. Kensington, London Just a few hundred metres from Earl ' s Court London Underground Station, this aparthotel offers free WiFi and stylish, modern air-conditioned apartments with a fully-equipped kitchen.  Great studio with kitchen and a fantastic shower conveniently located a 5 minute walk to Earls Court... Canary Wharf and Docklands, London In an ultra-modern building, these 5-star apartments feature an on-site fitness centre and free Wi-Fi in public areas.  The bed was cosy, loved the room however there should be a mirror in the bedroom but overall... Greenwich, London Situated just 5 minutes’ walk from Greenwich Train Station, Staycity Aparthotels Greenwich High Road offer modern apartments with onsite parking and free Wi-Fi.  Cleaness, smile from receptionist, location, facilities West End, London Located just 10 minutes’ walk from Covent Garden , the contemporary Citadines Holborn is surrounded by shops, old pubs and well-known restaurants. Holborn Tube Station is just 2 minutes '  walk away.  Location is perfect for tourists. It ' s like being in the mix of Central London crowd but away... Islington, London Citadines Apart ' hotel Barbican offers modern self-catering apartments, a 2-minute walk from Barbican Underground Station and a short taxi-ride to London Liverpool Street Train Station.  It ' s actually my second time staying at this apart-hotel. Whitechapel, London These luxurious apartments are set within London ' s financial and fashion districts, 5 minutes’ walk from Aldgate East Tube Station.  Forget Airbnb which is becoming increasingly unreliable in London, this apartment was fantastic! The average price of a serviced apartment in London for this evening is £183 (based on Booking.com prices). The average price per night for a serviced apartment in London for this weekend is £183 (based on Booking.com prices). Central London ,  Westminster Borough  and  Kensington and Chelsea  are popular with other travellers visiting London. Leman Locke ,  Roomzzz London Stratford  and  Cheval Harrington Court at South Kensington  are some of our most popular serviced apartments in London. Many families visiting London enjoyed staying at  Cheval Three Quays at The Tower of London ,  B’Shan Apartments  and  Templeton Place . On average, a serviced apartment in London costs £171 per night (based on Booking.com prices). Cheval Gloucester Park at Kensington ,  Sonder — Southwark Residence  and  Cheval Three Quays at The Tower of London  have received great reviews from guests in London regarding the views from these serviced apartments. For serviced apartments in London that serve up a highly-rated breakfast, try  Rockwell East-Tower Bridge ,  Leman Locke  and  47 Park Street - Grand Residences by Marriott . These serviced apartments in London are highly rated by couples:  47 Park Street - Grand Residences by Marriott ,  Cheval Gloucester Park at Kensington  and  Sonder — Sloane Square . 7.9 Good 2,684 reviews It was self catering  no breakfast. The location is perfect for arriving by Train at Euston. 7.9 Good 2,684 reviews The location is brilliant for access to central London attractions and facilities. Major transport hubs minutes away.The staff were friendly and approachable.The premises were clean and at least on the 5th floor surprisingly quietAs long as you don ' t plan on spending any significant length of time in the accommodation it ' s a decent option. The self catering facilities are okay for coffee and breakfast and maybe a microwave ready meal 9.1 Superb 2,606 reviews We spent the weekend for my husbands birthday and Maria from hotel services arranged balloons cake and fizz for our room which made my hubbys birthday extra special.  Hotel was lovely and we would def stay again  7.7 Good 1,195 reviews Liked - space to hang clothes - self-catering facilities - cleanliness. Good double glazing to cut out road noise. 8.5 Very good 6,627 reviews Thank you all at the hotel service was great from reception right through to the barman. 8.0 Very good 2,104 reviews excellent location, spacious quadro serviced apartment with excellent view, breakfast facility was best and friendly staff. Space of the apartment is rare in London center. 8.6 Fabulous 5,906 reviews Excellent apartment hotel close to Waterloo. Very contemporary interior.  7.2 Good 4,916 reviews Location in Chelsea was deal for me. It was a short walk to Kings Road, the Thames Path, Sloane Square Tube. I was given an upgrade without cost to a serviced apartment when I had booked a standard double. This was great as it enabled a bit of self-catering and had laundry facilities. The service at reception was friendly and efficient. They cheerfully held my luggage as I was not moving on until much later than checkout.  Refer a property List your property Booking.com is part of Booking Holdings Inc., the world leader in online travel and related services. We have more than 70 million property reviews, and they're all from  real, verified guests . 1 The only way to leave a review is to first make a booking. That's how we know our reviews come from real guests who have stayed at the property. 2 When guests stay at the property they check out how quiet the room is, how friendly the staff are and more. 3 After their trip, guests tell us about their stay. We check for naughty words and verify the authenticity of all guest reviews before adding them to our site. If you booked through us and want to leave a review, please sign in first. Check-in date Check-out date By clicking anywhere on our website or "Accept", you agree to the use of cookies and other technologies to process personal data.  Manage your privacy settings here . Cookies are used by us and our trusted partners to enhance, analyse and personalize your experience across Booking.com. Additionally these cookies are used for advertising tailored to you, both on and off our site. 