Slumberland Furniture | Wake 5 Piece Dusk Left Chaise Sectional Your browser's Javascript functionality is turned off. Please turn it on so that you can experience the full capabilities of this site. Price reflects 20% off! Buy now  &  save! Price reflects 20% off the Slumberland Low Price.  Excludes sale/advertised items, Tempur-Pedic, Stearns  &  Foster, Posturepedic Hybrid, special purchases, as is items, closeouts and HOT BUYS. Brand exclusions may vary by market. Not valid on prior purchases, the purchase of gift cards, taxes or delivery and warranty charges. The Wake living room furniture group is made for contemporary life. Designed for multiple configurations, its upholstered in a great neutral shade called dusk. The seat and back cushions are reversible for longer wear, and print accent pillows add the perfect finishing touch. The Comfort Grid seating design features a chamber-cut foam grid topped with gel-injected foam to equalize pressure points and give you custom comfort. Made in the USA. Available as a 3-pc. sectional or 4-pc. sectional. Add the accent ottoman for the perfect finishing touch. by  PowerReviews 5 Stars 1 4 Stars 0 3 Stars 0 2 Stars 0 1 Star 1 Submitted   3 months ago  By  David  From  Minneapolis, MN Verified Buyer Verified Buyer Verified Reviewer The couch is so comfortable, but it wears very poorly. Ours was worn out looking less than a year after we bought it. The pillow stuffing is not contained in a case within the couch pillows, so when you remove covers to wash them you have all this loose stuffing. Wish they offered this couch in leather, because the cloth is not resilient to everyday use. Bottom Line  No, I would not recommend to a friend  Was this review helpful to you? 0 1 Submitted   1 year ago  By  Tay  From  Moscow Mills, MO Verified Buyer Verified Buyer Verified Buyer Comments about Wake Ash 5 Piece Left Chaise Sectional This couch is VERY comfortable. Also came with 9 pillows! Great color and looks amazing in our house. We love it! Bottom Line  Yes, I would recommend to a friend  Was this review helpful to you? 1 1 Displaying Reviews  1-2 