My Hitfilm 4 Express Is acting very slow and freezing alot when I try to edit video. — FXhome Forum We use cookies to personalise your content, analyse our traffic and improve your browsing experience. You consent to our cookies if you continue to use our website. Read more about our use of  cookies . Understand your data by reading our  Privacy policy . So as stated in the title, my hitfilm will freeze and become unresponsive for quite some time when trying to edit my video. When i load my audio to add to the video everything is fine, however when i add the video thats when it starts to freeze. I have recently read that it may be the format the video is in, and i think thats why it may be doing this. I tried other videos recorded in the same format and they froze hitfilm as well. The Format is H.264/mp4. I have no idea how to change it, or how to operate software that does. could i please get some assistance as i am kind of new to most of this . If anyone needs more information on this i will be happy to provide it. EDIT:  it only freezes when i move the video onto the timeline. Ok, let's start with your comp specs. CPU, GPU, OS, RAM and storage. Are you running Antivirus software? Where is the footage from? DSLR? Screencast? Phone? Sorry I havent been quick to respond, my Ac was out for a while. But my Specs are: Gigabyte G1 Gaming 980 Samsung 850 evo Intel I7 4790k Corsair Pro Vengeance 16Gb 1866mz RAM Windows 10 The footage is from Xsplit Broadcaster, and yes I have Nortan running. @justRICHTOFEN  If Xsplit Broadcaster is outputting variable frame rate video (which I suspect)  then you will need to transcode to constant frame rate.  Variable frame rate does not play well with HF. See:  https://hitfilm.com/forum/discussion/40639/how-to-work-with-edit-video-game-footage-in-hitfilm#latest @Stargazer54  I have my recording settings set to force constant framerate though, is there anything else that could be causing this, The codec is NVENC H.264 and the output is MP4.  The reason this is stopping me from making videos is because i have to add the audio separate, and with it freezing it stops me from doing this.  Is there anything else I might be doing wrong? There are so many flavors of H.264 that perhaps the codec itself is an issue.  HF currently supports mainstream codecs. I would definitely give HandBrake a try per Simon's first tutorial on the link mentioned above.  You can jump in at around 5:00 to skip the other bits for the step by step. If you continue to have problems you might consider letting HF do the convert by dragging your footage onto the timeline, clicking the Export tab and selecting mp4 as your output.  Then re-import the transcoded footage. @justRICHTOFEN Grab Mediainfo and use it to generate a report on one of your clips. Once it's installed right click a clip and select Mediainfo. Once it opens click View and select Text. Now you can copy and paste the whole thing to a post here. There are two entries you can check right away though, Frame Rate Mode and Frame Rate. I know you have force constant frame set but let double check it and make sure. Next thing is NVENC produces files that can be pretty harsh to deal with under the best of circumstances so even if you do have a constant frame rate you probably still want to run your clips through Handbrake using NormanPCN's optimized settings. That's covered in the second video in the thread  @Stargazer54  posted @ 8:05 or so. You have successfully subscribed to the newsletter. You can  unsubscribe  from newsletters at any time.  2018 FXhome Limited. All rights reserved. "FXhome", "PhotoKey", "Imerge" and "HitFilm" are trademarks of FXhome Limited. By continuing to browse our website, you agree to our  Cookies  policy.  Terms and Conditions  apply. Understand your data by reading our  Privacy policy . 