Wine Club | Cooper’s Hawk Winery  &  Restaurants Reservations mm/dd/yyyy Our Cooper’s Hawk Wine Club is an all-inclusive membership where you will not only receive our winemaker’s newly released wine each month, but also enjoy many great benefits including invitations to members-only events, exclusive discounts, points on purchases, birthday rewards, and our Wine Club Newsletter with information on new wines, special events, and great recipes. Members Get It View our Wine Club Brochure. Download Variety Membership As a Variety Member, you will receive the alternating red and white wines each month. Red Club Membership As a Red Club Member, you may choose any wine during a red wine month (an additional charge will apply to Cooper's Hawk Lux Wines, special release wines, and Ice Wine). White Club Membership As a White Club Member, you may choose any wine during a white wine month(an additional charge will apply to Cooper's Hawk Lux Wines, special release wines, and Ice Wine). Sweet Club Membership As a Sweet Club Member, you may choose any fruit, sparkling, romance or holiday wine each month. Gift Membership Our Wine Club Memberships make great gifts for friends, family members, loved ones or as a corporate gift. Gift Memberships are available in 3, 6, or 12 month periods. In addition to choosing a membership type, you also have the choice of receiving one or two bottles each month. Wines may be picked up at any Cooper’s Hawk Winery  &  Restaurant location or shipped directly to your home or business. Wines are shipped and billed quarterly. An adult 21 years or older must be present to sign for the delivery. Delivery option is available only in select  states . Receive monthly wines, insider tasting notes, and delicious recipes not available to the general public. Earning Points is Fast, Easy, and Free For every 350 points earned, Members will receive a $25 Reward to be used at any Cooper’s Hawk location. Read more the full  rewards terms . Membership Pricing Wine Club Members receive a 10%* discount on retail wines sold at Cooper’s Hawk Winery  &  Restaurant (1-5 bottles), a 15%* discount when purchasing a half case or more (6-11 bottles), and a 20%* discount when purchasing a case (any 12 bottles) or more. Members also receive a 10% discount on all carryout orders and a 10% discount on featured retail products. *where allowed by law Exclusive Promotions Enjoy exclusive promotions for Wine Club Members such as limited bottling offers and other special incentives. Birthday Offers Wine Club Members and spouses also receive a complimentary entrée during their birthday month for being part of the club (value up to $15). Monthly Tastings Included in the 2-bottle Membership is a monthly tasting experience for two in our tasting room (a $16 value). Members-Only Events Wine Club Members are allowed access to  Members-Only parties , classes, domestic and international  wine trips , and events. Read the  terms and conditions . Because you are a valued Wine Club Member, we want you to feel at home when you dine with us. With  Member Signature , we'll charge the card already on file for your account, so all you need to do is provide your Member card or ID, sign the  Member Signature  section at the bottom of your check, and you'll be on your way! Click  here  to learn more. Ready to Join? Sign up for the Wine Club today. Join Now Stop by our Napa-Style Tasting Room and sample one of our latest wine selections. A tasting includes seven to eight different wines and no reservation is necessary. View Tasting Room Notes A vertical sign emblazoned with a single word welcomes guests to 58 E. Oak Street in Chicago. It’s Esquire, the name of the theater that entertained Chicagoans for decades and the label of our December Wine of the Month. For this release, we’ve chosen Cabernet Sauvignon as the main player—the most popular red wine in the world—known for age worthiness, super concentration, and a bold body. Watch Video Emily Wines is one of only 149 Mas­ter Sommeliers in the Americas and one of 15 professionals who have been awarded the prestigious Remi Krug Cup for passing all three sections of the exam on her first attempt. Learn More Our wine trips take Wine Club Members to celebrated locations around the world for unique and unforgettable guided experiences. Join Us  2019 Cooper's Hawk Winery  &  Restaurants All rights reserved.  Privacy Policy . 