Does gold have any scientific value other than just being used for jewelry? - Quora a eVN d dN q b EVGO y lN xBGfy D KpbdW u hjl c Hsu k Hwco D qEcF u kqLh c OwxAQ k pvAH G A o zFFgr Aside from its high degree of chemical inertness, gold coatings also produce some of the most efficient infrared reflectors. It is also used to produce the reflective surfaces of x-ray optics. Deposited by way of vacuum vapor deposition, gold is being used for mirror coatings in the  James Webb Space Telescope . Gold also is used as a dye to create some of the most intense colors of red glass. Gold is one of the most ductile elements there is. Drawn into a wire that is one micron in diameter,  twenty ounces of gold  will encircle the Earth . A single ounce can be stretched to 1250 miles long. As ... Aside from its high degree of chemical inertness, gold coatings also produce some of the most efficient infrared reflectors. It is also used to produce the reflective surfaces of x-ray optics. Deposited by way of vacuum vapor deposition, gold is being used for mirror coatings in the  James Webb Space Telescope . Gold also is used as a dye to create some of the most intense colors of red glass. Gold is one of the most ductile elements there is. Drawn into a wire that is one micron in diameter,  twenty ounces of gold  will encircle the Earth . A single ounce can be stretched to 1250 miles long. As others have noted, the very highest reliability (i.e., satellite grade integrated circuits) use gold wire bonds . The high density of gold makes it very resistant to  electromigration -related failures. The malleability of gold enables smiths to create some of the most amazing jewelry. The following image is of a masterwork from the  " Gold of Ancestors "  exhibit at the Ayala Museum in Manila. It is a world-class display of artifacts that demonstrate how the Philippines had a high-functioning artistic culture  long before any Spanish colonization . Anyone traveling to Manila cannot afford to miss this treasure trove.  Watch all eight parts of the video and you will be amazed. A mere twenty grams of gold can be hammered into a sheet that will spread over six square meters. Gold can be wrought so thin that light will pass through it. It also comes in many colors according to how it is alloyed. 7,370 Views 1,257 Views 6,212 Views 1,332 Views 22,066 Views Yes, gold has many scientific purposes that provide value. Gold is a very good electrical and thermal conductor.  It is very ductile and it does not oxidize, corrode, or tarnish.  These properties make it extremely useful in electronics and you can find gold in every computer and cellular phone on the market today.  --from  Wire bonding Au is used in the aerospace industry due to its reflectivity in the infrared frequencies thus providing thermal protection to critical components.  It is even used as a lubricant and again its non-corrosive properties make it ideal for contacts in electrical-m... Yes, gold has many scientific purposes that provide value. Gold is a very good electrical and thermal conductor.  It is very ductile and it does not oxidize, corrode, or tarnish.  These properties make it extremely useful in electronics and you can find gold in every computer and cellular phone on the market today.  --from  Wire bonding Au is used in the aerospace industry due to its reflectivity in the infrared frequencies thus providing thermal protection to critical components.  It is even used as a lubricant and again its non-corrosive properties make it ideal for contacts in electrical-mechanical parts such as relays. --from  Apollo Lunar Module Gold is used in the medical field for things such as dental fillings, implants, and even radioactive versions for diagnostics.  Since it is non-magnetic it can also be used around MRI machines when other metallic objects cannot.  Uses of Gold in Industry, Medicine, Computers, Electronics, Jewelry s GJJeX p gzC o jMO n jUQJ s qDQ o qT r RMe e h d aBc RuyL b Y y cgI w R xOJg a gSPbq g sFJf i WZATd n qVqV g uRrW Yd B dmCMA u ms l AUIwr l dFgB , PW U L Byu L EEF C TBRD Gold has many scientific, medical, industrial and practical uses, here are websites that explain some of them:  http://www.usfunds.com/slideshow...  ,  Uses of Gold in Industry, Medicine, Computers, Electronics, Jewelry  ,  Why Gold | Gold Properties | World Gold Council  ,  http://www.kitco.com/commentarie... Because it ' s made of gold, it can always be melted down and used in something else, from industrial uses to a gold coin. This happens frequently to unused and sold jewelry. But keep in mind that gold is more about money than anything else. As I outline in this article, gold is valuable for 5 reasons--check out the list of its financial advantages:  Why is Gold Valuable? The 5 Reasons Most Investors Overlook s iy p fXh o B n pc s sAr o GMd r cOue e yt d yy E b OY y Mx PzI S uV c PuU r kUbnL i epY b bAAj o imzN l Dt XcGt P OA u a b CrbsS l sDH i J s KCtP h cz i TQgdn n j g PFNjO 1,257 Views 12,549 Views 1,332 Views 32,311 Views 2,487 Views 3,946 Views 479 Views 3,250 Views 475 Views 390 Views 7,007 Views 563 Views 4,300 Views 234 Views 3,827 Views 