Watch CEO Jonas Samuelson’s speech at the AGM 2018   Electrolux Group Electrolux shapes living for the better by reinventing taste, care and wellbeing experiences, making life more enjoyable and sustainable for millions of people. Our approach to sustainability is integrated into our company purpose  Shape living for the better . Electrolux Investor Relations offer a wide range of information for the financial community, including extensive current statistics as well as archived reports. Visit our section for key highlights. Electrolux aims at implementing strict norms and efficient processes to ensure that all operations create long-term value for shareholders and other stakeholders. This involves the maintenance of an efficient organizational structure, systems for internal control and risk management and transparent internal and external reporting. Visit our career site to search for jobs and learn more about life at Electrolux Electrolux is committed to providing a quick response to all inquiries from the media. Local newsrooms Founded in Sweden in 1919 by entrepreneur Axel Wenner-Gren, Electrolux has shaped living for the better for 100 years by reinventing what great taste, care and wellbeing experiences mean for our consumers. This is our story.   The Annual General Meeting of AB Electrolux was held on Thursday, April 5, 2018, at Waterfront Congress Centre in Stockholm, Sweden. English :  Watch CEO Jonas Samuelson’s speech at the AGM 2018 Swedish :  Watch CEO Jonas Samuelson’s speech at the AGM 2018 Read more about our  Protection of your personal data. Electrolux shapes living for the better by reinventing taste, care and wellbeing experiences, making life more enjoyable and sustainable for millions of people. Through our brands, including Electrolux, AEG, Anova, Frigidaire, Westinghouse and Zanussi, we sell more than 60 million household and professional products in more than 150 markets every year. AB Electrolux, SE-105 45 Stockholm, Sweden. Company registration number 556009-4178 This website uses cookies. By continuing to browse this website without changing your web-browser cookie settings, you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Find out more by reading our  cookie guideline . 