Does Russia Matter?: European Institutions, Strategic Framing, and the Case of Stateless Children in Estonia and Latvia: Problems of Post-Communism: Vol 64, No 5 Through an analysis of parliamentary debates concerning naturalization procedures for stateless children in Estonia and Latvia from independence through 2015, this article explores how Russia has influenced policymaking toward Russian-speakers. By shifting the focus from policy outcomes to the policymaking process, operationalizing policymakers as their own field of contestation within the “quadratic nexus” framework, and treating external pressures as strategic opportunities for domestic policymakers, I find that Russia has been utilized as both a motor and a brake on reform in these cases. Nationalizers in both states have used Russia’s activism to discredit European recommendations and to deflect responsibility for Russian-speakers, explaining the delays, controversies and suboptimal outcomes surrounding the passage of simplified procedures in1998, despite the use of EU conditionality. While Russia’s kin-state activism has been used primarily to justify exclusionary preferences in post-accession Latvia, it has been harnessed as a motor for reform in Estonia, contributing to the passage of an amendment granting citizenship to stateless children at birth in 2015. Research for this article was made possible by generous support provided by an Association for the Advancement of Baltic Studies Emerging Scholars Grant and the Severino A. Russo Endowed Faculty Development Award, Duquesne University. The author would like to thank the participants at the Association for the Study of Nationalities Annual Conference in New York, April 23–25, 2015, as well as Philippe Roseberry, Zsuzsa Csergo, Ada Regelmann, the editors at  Problems of Post-Communism , and anonymous reviewers for their valuable feedback, and Annette MacKay for her research assistance on this project. See more details Registered in England  &  Wales No. 3099067 5 Howick Place | London | SW1P 1WG We use cookies to improve your website experience. To learn about our use of cookies and how you can manage your cookie settings, please see our  Cookie Policy.  By closing this message, you are consenting to our use of cookies. 