Keanu Reeves' Directorial Debut, Man of Tai Chi™, Spins Into IMAX® Theatres Across China Beginning July 5 | IMAX LOS ANGELES ,  June 27, 2013  /PRNewswire/ --  IMAX Corporation  (NYSE:IMAX; TSX:IMX), in partnership with  China Film Group ,  Wanda Group  and Village Roadshow Pictures, today announced that  Man of  Tai Chi ,  Keanu Reeves'  highly anticipated directorial debut and the first Mandarin-language film to be directed by a Western actor, will be digitally re-mastered into the immersive  IMAX ®  format and released in  IMAX ®  theatres across  China  beginning  July 5 , with the possibility of expanding to other territories. (Logo:   https://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20111107/MM01969LOGO )  This action-packed contemporary drama shot in  Beijing  and  Hong Kong  depicts the spiritual journey of a young martial artist as he struggles to maintain his traditional values and beliefs against the pressures of modern society.  Targeted for his fighting skill, he is lured into the dark world of underground combat by menacing forces that seek to corrupt him with money, glamour and the promise of power. "We're happy to be back in business with our longtime partner  Keanu Reeves , an advocate of The IMAX Experience® and a global star who has already proven to be very popular with our audiences," said  Greg Foster , Chairman and President of  IMAX Entertainment . "We look forward to working closely with Keanu and our good friends at Wanda,  Village Road Show  and  China Film Group  on this blockbuster title." The  IMAX  release of  Man of  Tai Chi  will be digitally re-mastered into the image and sound quality of The IMAX Experience ®  with proprietary IMAX DMR ®  (Digital Re-mastering) technology.  The crystal-clear images, coupled with  IMAX's  customized theatre geometry and powerful digital audio, create a unique environment that will make audiences feel as if they are in the movie. About  IMAX Corporation IMAX , an innovator in entertainment technology, combines proprietary software, architecture and equipment to create experiences that take you beyond the edge of your seat to a world you've never imagined.  Top filmmakers and studios are utilizing  IMAX  theatres to connect with audiences in extraordinary ways, and, as such,  IMAX's  network is among the most important and successful theatrical distribution platforms for major event films around the globe.  IMAX  is headquartered in  New York ,  Toronto  and  Los Angeles , with offices in  London ,  Tokyo ,  Shanghai  and Beijing.  As of  March 31, 2013 , there were 738  IMAX  theatres (606 commercial multiplexes, 19 commercial destinations and 113 institutions) in 53 countries. IMAX®, IMAX® 3D, IMAX DMR®, Experience It In IMAX®, An IMAX 3D Experience®, The IMAX Experience® and IMAX Is Believing® are trademarks of  IMAX Corporation .  More information about the Company can be found at  www.imax.com .  You may also connect with  IMAX  on  Facebook  ( www.facebook.com/imax ), Twitter ( www.twitter.com/imax ) and  YouTube  ( www.youtube.com/imaxmovies ).  This press release contains forward looking statements that are based on  IMAX  management's assumptions and existing information and involve certain risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward looking statements. These risks and uncertainties are discussed in  IMAX's  most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and most recent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. For additional information please contact: Media:  IMAX Corporation - New York Ann Sommerlath 212-821-0155 asommerlath@imax.com   Entertainment Media: Principal Communications Group  - Los Angeles Melissa Zukerman/Paul Pflug 323-658-1555 melissa@pcommgroup.com paul@pcommgroup.com Investors: IMAX Corporation –  New York Teri Loxam 212-821-0110 tloxam@imax.com   Business Media:  Sloane  &  Company  – New York Whit Clay 212-446-1864 wclay@sloanepr.com       SOURCE   IMAX Corporation This website uses cookies to improve our website, provide more personalised services to you and analyse our traffic. To find out more information about our use of cookies please read our  Cookies Policy . 