Sclerosing Angiomatoid Nodular Transformation of the spleen in a four-year-old with anemia - ScienceDirect ScienceDirect Sclerosing Angiomatoid Nodular Transformation (SANT) of the  spleen , first reported as a distinct histopathological entity in 2004, is exceedingly rare in children. The clinical progression and pathophysiologic features of this disease are poorly described in the literature. We performed a literature review of reported cases of SANT. Out of 258 reported cases, only five were in children. We present a sixth case of SANT in a four-year-old boy who presented with chronic anemia and elevated inflammatory markers. The relative variability in case presentation and the clinical concern for malignancy, warrant further disease characterization and discussion of management. Sclerosing Angiomatoid Nodular Transformation Erythrocyte sedimentation rate Ultrasound Computed tomography Not available Lactate dehydrogenase Fluoro-2-Deoxy- d -Glucose  positron emission tomography Sclerosing Angiomatoid Nodular Transformation (SANT) is a rare benign  vascular lesion  of the  spleen . It was first reported by Martel et al. in 2004 as a distinct histopathological entity with a series of 25 patients [ 1 ]. Most cases are incidentally detected on imaging and frequently present with vague abdominal pain [ 2 ]. SANT can be associated with a variety of unrelated coexisting conditions including, metachronous or synchronous malignant tumors, or hematological conditions including polyclonal  gammopathy  and myelodysplastic syndrome [ [3] ,  [4] ,  [5] ]. A four-year-old male presented with unexplained recurrent vomiting. He was initially diagnosed with  iron deficiency anemia  and was treated with iron supplements. Due to persistent  microcytic anemia  with positive fecal occult blood, he underwent  gastrointestinal endoscopy  which revealed only mild  esophagitis . A year later persistent anemia was noted despite good adherence to oral iron supplements. Labs were notable for a high  erythrocyte sedimentation rate  (ESR), and an elevated  C-reactive protein  level. An abdominal ultrasound (US) was obtained which revealed a mass in the  spleen  ( Fig. 1 A,B). Fig. 1 .  (A) A longitudinal view of the  spleen  and hilar mass on abdominal ultrasound with arrow pointing to a calcified wall. (B) The splenic hilar mass is iso-echoic compared to the surrounding splenic tissue with a hypervascular rim (arrowhead). (C) CT abdomen revealing a 5.9 cm solid splenic mass (marked with *) with a calcified wall (arrow). The mass appears heterogeneous and of low density compared to the spleen (marked with x). (D) Cross-section of the spleen shows a 6.0 × 5.3 × 4.8 cm well-circumscribed tan and red-brown mass. (E) Non-encapsulated  vascular lesion  formed by multiple angiomatoid nodules of varied sizes, separated by fibrosclerotic septa containing  hemosiderin  and multinucleated giant cells (Hematoxylin  & Eosin , 20X). (F) The nodules are composed of well-formed capillaries distributed in a lobular arrangement, sinusoid-like spaces,  inflammatory cells , and numerous  histiocytes . No cellular atypia or areas of  necrosis  are identified (Hematoxylin  &  Eosin, 200X). By  immunohistochemistry  (200X), the well-formed capillaries are positive for CD31 (G), CD34 (H), and CD30 (I) but negative for CD8, CD21, D2-40,  Factor VIII ,  lysozyme , ALK1, and Epstein-Barr encoding region  in situ hybridization  (not shown). The patient was referred to our institution and underwent an abdominal  computed tomography scan  (CT) which revealed a well-circumscribed 5.9 cm solid, heterogeneous splenic mass with a densely calcified wall and minimal enhancement after intravenous contrast ( Fig. 1 C). Four weeks after splenic  vaccinations , the patient underwent an uneventful single-port laparoscopic  splenectomy . Pathology examination demonstrated a 184  g, 11.0 × 6.8 × 5.6 cm intact spleen containing a 6.0 × 5.3 × 4.8 cm well-circumscribed mass ( Fig. 1 D) with morphological and immunophenotypic features consistent with SANT ( Fig. 1 E-I). The patient had an unremarkable recovery and was started on a prophylactic daily dose of oral  penicillin . He was discharged with continued  hematology  follow-up. Splenic masses can be divided into primary and secondary neoplasms. Primary  splenic neoplasms  are further subdivided into lymphoid and non-lymphoid/vascular neoplasms arising from the white and red pulp, respectively. Primary benign vascular tumors include hemangiomas,  lymphangiomas , and  hamartomas . Littoral cell  angioma ,  hemangioendothelioma , and  hemangiopericytoma  have an intermediate malignant potential, whereas  angiosarcomas  are malignant [ 6 , 7 ]. The commonest  benign neoplasms  of the  spleen  are hemangiomas. However, SANT of the spleen is a rare benign  vascular lesion  arising within the red pulp of the spleen. It was previously described by multiple names such as splenic hamartoma and multinodular hemangioma [ 2 ]. Most case reports describe it as a solitary mass, but there are descriptions of multifocal lesions [ 3 , 8 ]. Since its first description in the literature in 2004, there have been a total of 258 reported cases, with only five in children ( Table 1 ). We report the sixth case of pediatric SANT in a four-year-old boy who presented with chronic anemia and elevated inflammatory markers. Table 1 . Reported cases of Sclerosing angiomatoid nodular transformation of the Spleen—SANT in Children. ESR,  Erythrocyte sedimentation rate ;  LDH ,  Lactate dehydrogenase ; CT,  Computed tomography ; N/A, not available. The exact etiology of SANT remains unclear. Various theories have been postulated including de novo development, arising from an Ebstein-Barr virus infection [ 9 , 10 ], occurring in the context of IgG4-associated disease [ 3 , 11 ], or representing the final common morphologic evolution of a variety of benign splenic conditions, including  inflammatory pseudotumor , and hamartoma [ 4 , 12 ]. Some authors suggest that SANT develops secondary to  vascular obstruction  from  venous congestion ,  anoxia , and its local metabolic effects [ 1 ]. The granulation tissue formation and  fibrin deposition  seen in SANT can be produced in response to endothelial damage [ 1 , 8 ]. A common manifestation among pediatric cases is the presence of elevated inflammatory markers [ 6 , 13 ]. Although the exact etiology of SANT has not been elucidated, several authors suggest that at least a subset of patients can develop the lesion through an immune-mediated process, which correlates with the histological findings of  inflammatory cell  infiltration including  lymphocytes  and IgG4+  plasma cells  [ 3 , 6 ] and is consistent with the theory that SANT and inflammatory pseudotumor may represent a continuum [ 8 , 10 , 12 , 14 ]. Given the description of cases from pediatric patients whose follow-up has shown a rapid mass progression, it is possible that pediatric SANT corresponds to a more aggressive variant of the disease [ 6 , 12 ]. It is not possible to reliably differentiate SANT from other benign and malignant splenic lesions based on imaging alone [ 15 ]. US can show an iso- or hypoechoic heterogeneous mass with a hypervascular rim and vessels within the central portion of the tumor [ 16 ]. Whereas CT imaging frequently describes a low-density single mass that displaces the normal  parenchyma  with a vascularized edge with or without calcifications [ 8 , 11 , 16 , 17 ]. On intravenous contrast-enhanced CT, SANT appears heterogeneous, but has a well-demarcated border ( Fig. 1 ) [ 18 ]. SANT of the spleen can present as a hypermetabolic lesion on the Fluoro-2-Deoxy- d -Glucose positron emission tomography/computed tomography (FDG-PET  CT) scans , raising the concern for malignancy [ 4 , 19 ]. The elevated standardized FDG uptake value compared to hepatic and surrounding normal splenic uptake in some cases of SANT could be related to the inflammatory activity degree of the process [ 17 ]. Microscopically, SANT of the spleen is composed of multiple vascular nodules in slit-like vascular/angiomatoid spaces with interstitial hemorrhage surrounded by fibrous  stroma . Lack of  tissue necrosis  is a characteristic finding [ 1 , 3 , 4 ]. The degree of contour demarcation of nodules by collagen and the amount of the intervening stroma is variable [ 5 ]. SANT is similar to a splenic hemangioma, although SANT is a mixture of three types of  blood vessels , splenic hemangioma consists only of  sinusoids . The immunophenotype of the  endothelial cells  within the angiomatoid nodules exhibit three distinct patterns of CD34, CD31, and CD8 expression: cord capillaries (CD34+/CD8-/CD31+), sinusoids (CD34-/CD8+/CD31+), and small veins (CD34-/CD8-/CD31+), recapitulating the composition of the normal splenic red pulp [ 1 , 3 ]. Asymptomatic patients with benign vascular splenic lesions can be treated conservatively. Considering that SANT is benign with no reports of  malignant transformation , it could be followed non-surgically. However, a definitive diagnosis can only be achieved with  splenectomy , which is favored particularly when encountering a large bulging splenic lesion below the capsular surface, raising concerns for malignancy and the potential for  splenic rupture . Non-surgical follow-up has been reported for benign splenic masses with suspected SANT that later progressed in size or demonstrated FDG uptake on the FDG-PET CT scan, leading to splenectomy [ 6 , 14 , 15 , 20 ]. Most reports of SANT have reached the diagnosis through histopathological study after splenectomy. However, some authors have published partial splenectomy as a method for histological diagnosis [ 9 , 12 ]. Percutaneous core biopsy has also been reported to making the diagnosis of SANT [ 14 , 16 ], and seems safer than it has been classically considered [ 7 , 20 ], with a reported hemorrhagic complication rate of 0–2% [ 7 ]. In our case, splenectomy was performed safely by single-port laparoscopy through a QuadPort (Olympus, Center Valley, PA), with the specimen extracted through the same periumbilical incision intact. Considering the possibility of malignancy, it is advisable to resect the complete specimen intact. SANT of the  spleen  is a benign  vascular lesion  that has been previously described under different terms more than three decades ago [ 8 ], and has recently been characterized as a distinct entity with a  characteristic morphological  and immunohistochemical profile. The exact  pathogenesis  and etiology of SANT remain uncertain. Imaging does not reliably differentiate SANT from other benign or malignant splenic lesions, and is an FDG-avid lesion. The diagnosis of SANT of the spleen may be established by  percutaneous biopsy  in adults; a procedure increasingly performed in children [ 20 ], but it is fraught with potential complications in the presence of a large vascular splenic lesion. To date, there are no reports of SANT biopsy in children. Considering the limited literature of SANT in pediatric population, and the possibility that it could present a more aggressive course compared to adults, our recommendation whenever possible is to perform a  splenectomy . The St. Jude IRB regards such limited case report preparation as an educational activity, and thus it is permissible under the Privacy Rule as a part of health care operations (45CFR164.501). This report does not contain any personal information that could lead to the identification of the patient. No funding or grant support. All authors attest that they meet the current ICMJE criteria for Authorship. The following authors have no financial disclosures: M.D., A.F., Y.E., A.A., T.S., M.M., S.H., A.M., A.D. Elsevier We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content and ads. By continuing you agree to the  use of cookies . Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. or its licensors or contributors.  ScienceDirect ® is a registered trademark of Elsevier B.V. ScienceDirect ® is a registered trademark of Elsevier B.V. 