Dr. David S Woo MD Reviews | Gainesville, GA | Vitals.com Dr. David S Woo, MD is a doctor primarily located in Gainesville, GA, with another office in Gainesville, GA. They have 22 years of experience. Their specialties include  Urology . Dr. Woo has received 2 awards. The overall average patient rating of David S Woo is Great. David S Woo has been rated by 24 patients.From those 24 patients 10 of those left a comment along with their rating.The overall rating for David S Woo is 4.0 of 5.0 stars. Best Dr I have had to have a real conversation with me about my condition.  Gave me options. Did a good job with TURP .  I felt he really cared.  I highly recommend Dr Woo. Dr Woo is as good as they get. He goes over reports and let's you know what is going on. I highly recommend him. Dr Woo helped me with my OAB problem by performing a urethra dilation. I had unsuccessfully tried all of the medications for this issue. He suggested the dilation might help and that we could try  Botox. A previous urologist’s office told me that if the meds didn’t help, they didn’t have any other options.  I’m happy to report that I no longer have the strong, sometimes painful frequent urges to urinate.  I am so pleased with the results and to have my life back without the frequent bathroom visits and having to plan outings around how long I had between needing to urinate.  I highly recommend Dr Woo if you are having OAB problems. I can say Dr Woo did. Great job with me I had a blocked urinary system and a Cather in place for 32days until Dr Woo did Turp on me. And relieved my problemThank God for him thank you. Randall  Graham Patients' Choice recognition reflects the difference a particular physician has made in the lives of his/her patients. The honor is bestowed to physicians who have received near perfect scores, as voted by patients. Castle Connolly is America's trusted source for the identification of Top Doctors. Their physician-led research team reviews and screens the credentials of tens of thousands of physicians who are nominated by their peers annually, via a nationwide online process, before selecting those physicians who are regionally or nationally among the very best in their medical specialties. Castle Connolly believes strongly that Top Doctors Make a Difference & trade;. Graduated in 1997 Our physicians and staff are committed to providing you the best medical care.  Our doctors are experienced, board-certified Urologists who are involved in ongoing medical education and proven, advanced healthcare techniques for urological benefit.  Gainesville Urology treats a variety of urological disorders involving the prostate and kidneys.  We also perform vasectomies. Ms. Colleen McCoy Urology Gainesville, GA 0.00 mi Dr. Lawrence E Lykins Urology Gainesville, GA 0.00 mi Dr. Thomas M Fassuliotis Urology Gainesville, GA 0.00 mi Copyright © 2019 Vitals Consumer Services,LLC. US Patent No. 8, 694, 441. All Rights Reserved. As more fully set forth in this website's terms of use .(1) nothing contained on or offered by or through thiswebsite should be construed as medical advice andshould not be relied upon for medical diagnosis or treatment.Vitals Consumer Services, LLC ( " Vitals " ). the provider of thiswebsite, does not recommend or endorse any particularhealthcare provider whose information or ratings appearon this website; and (2) Vitals has granted you a limitedlicense to access and use this website for your ownnoncommercial use. You are not permitted to copy, reproduce,distribute, transmit, mirror, frame, scrape,extract, wrap, create derivative works of, reverse engineer,decompile or disassemble any part or aspect ofthis website. 