85 Best Computer-Animated Movies Ranked by Tomatometer  < <  Rotten Tomatoes – Movie and TV News In Theaters Waves In Theaters Knives Out On DVD  &  Streaming Ready or Not The Mandalorian: Season 1 Ever since the 1995 release of  Toy Story , when feature animation bounded from paper reams and into the domain of the digital, it s been to infinity and beyond in creative storytelling. We ve traveled the sky by house and balloon ( Up ), crossed dimensions with Spider-Man ( Into the Spider-Verse ), swam the deepest oceans ( Finding Nemo ) while learning the value of family along with super glue ( The Lego Movie ). In these feats of imagination,  Cars  rule the world, superheroes and villains can turn their lives around ( The Incredibles ,  Despicable Me ), and a squirrel chasing an acorn becomes a Sisyphean myth. It s where we can believe in fairy tales again ( Frozen ,  Brave ) while having a good laugh at their expense ( Shrek ). We ve also witnessed processed meats do some things in  Sausage Party  we d rather not speak of again. A whole industry of is supported by this medium, including the previously mentioned Pixar, Blue Sky Studios ( Ice Age ), Illumination ( The Secret Life of Pets ), and Sony Pictures Animation ( Hotel Transylvania ). And let s not forget DreamWorks Animation ( How to Train Your Dragon ), whose latest film  Abominable , tells the tale of the famous Yeti of lore, spotted in Shanghai, and the three young kids who guide him back to his family on Mount Everest. Wherever the story takes us from , we ve ranked the most critically approved films  of the genre in our list of the best-reviewed computer-animated movies. Each entry had to reach at least 20 reviews before we put them up for consideration, where we then ranked them by Tomatometer. So, enjoy our guide to the 75 best computer-animated movies ever made.  The Best Movies of 2019 (So Far) – Best New Films of the Year  55 Best Christmas Movies of All Time   Classic Christmas Films  Lupita Nyong o Wins Best Actress at the 2019 New York Film Critics Circle Awards  200 Best Horror Movies of All Time  80 Essential Slasher Movies  140 Essential Action Movies To Watch Now  Adam Sandler and  Uncut Gems  Cast Talk Getting Wild with the Safdie Brothers December 9, 2019  2019 Is the Best Year For Horror in Four Decades, According to the Tomatometer December 9, 2019  All Felicity Jones Movies Ranked by Tomatometer December 9, 2019  The 54 Most Anticipated Movies of 2020 December 9, 2019 