Paranoid Mixed Breed Chapter 2, a paw patrol fanfic | FanFiction Here's chapter 2 Enjoy! Déjà vu Rocky: NOOOO! (Chase Wakes Rocky up from his nightmare) Chase: Rocky, wake up, wake up! Rocky: Chase! Oh god! (He looked up to see Chase and the others look at him worriedly), Am I dead?, am I in heaven that looks like the lookout? Chase: No Rocky, You're still alive. Skye: You're not dead yet Rocky. You're just having a really bad dream. Ryder: We heard you screaming and whailing, so we came inside and checked out what happened to you. (Rocky looks at the skies and found out that it was morning, then he checked himself, he was alive everything that had happened was just a nightmare after all, he than run up to Ryder to hug him) Rocky: Oh Ryder, It was horrible, I dreamt that it was Halloween, then everybody begin to die nastily, I thought that we're all really die in the most gruesome way, I'm sorry if I made a mistake to all of you, I thought we're really in heaven right now! Ryder: Relax Rocky, we forgave you for everything. After all, it's just a nightmare after all. Now let's go and have a nice breakfast. Rocky: okay. (A couple of minutes later, Ryder came and pours their food to their bowls, while He had his own breakfast on the table on the observatory) Rubble: So Rocky, how is that dream of yours look like anyways, judging from your condition, I think it must be really scary. Rocky: Heuhh..i don't know, i mean the dream is kinda scary, but I lay it off to you guys, it goes like this… (Rocky begins to recount the story to everyone, from when they witness the ghost ship passing the moon, to the part where all of the people who witnessed it getting killed in the most gruesome way. Such as Ryder getting his Head chopped of by robo-dog, Zuma getting eaten by a shark, and when Blood Beard tricked his mind into thinking that it was all a dream and getting stabbed in the back, unknown to them, Ryder overheard their conversation from the top of the lookout) Chase: Wow, I had to admit that it was kinda creepy. Rubble: Thank god it was just a dream, if Robo-dog really did chopped Ryder's head off in front of us, and if the rotation's mechanism really malfunction, we would've piss in the floor for sure. Ryder: Which I don't think will really happen (Just then, Ryder's pup-pad ring) Ryder: (Picks up) Hello, Ryder here Mayor Goodway: Ryder, I need your help, I was watching my favorite tv show earlier and then all of sudden everything went off, I don't think it's because I forgot to pay the taxes because I just did recently,I think it's the fuselage, can you and the paw patrol check it out? Ryder: Sure Mayor Goodway, we'll fix your problem, No job is too big, no pup is too small. (Ryder calls the pups) Ryder: Paw Patrol, to the lookout! Pups: Ryder needs us. (The pups ran to the lookout, only for Marshall to slipped on a banana peel and the pups dodged just in time before he hits them all) Chase: Phew, that was close. (A few minutes later, the pups were in their designated spots as per usual) Chase: Ready for action Ryder sir Ryder:Okay Paw Patrol, Mayor Goodway just called, she said that all the electricity just died all of a sudden and she thought there must be some sort of damage in the fuselage on her house because she just paid her taxes recently. (Rocky suddenly felt a deja vu upon hearing this, he knew that the electricity in her house died just a few hours before Chickaletta and the mayor Got killed in his dream) Ryder: Rocky, I need your tools if the fuselage were really damaged Rocky: (No answer, apparently he's still frozen In place) Ryder: Rocky, hello? Are you there? Rocky: What? Oh , green means go (or not) Ryder: Marshall, I need you just in case If a fire suddenly broke out Marshall: I'm Fired up. Ryder: Alright Paw Patrol is on a roll. (Ryder went down the pole to his atv, while Rocky and Marshall took the slide to get to their trucks when something rather bizarre happens) Marshall: What the?why am I on Rubble's rig (he apparantely lands on Rubble's rig) Rocky: And why am I on Marshall's truck? (he apparantely lands on Marshall's firetruck) (A few minutes later, after a switch of vehicles, Rocky and Marshall arrived at Mayor Goodway's House) Ryder: Hey guys, what took you so long? Rocky: Sorry about that Ryder, but we have some...technical issues with the rotation mechanism back there, as a result we got the other pups vehicle instead of our own. Ryder: Oh really, well there must be some sort of a glitch in the system, maybe Rocky and i should repair it once we got back. For now let's just focus on the mission. Rocky: Okay Ryder (Once again, Rocky felt another déjà vu, because the rotation mechanism was the one that causes Rubble to get killed by skye's Helicopter in his dream) AN: Seems like Rocky suffers a déjà vu feeling of his dream in real life, how will his day go on, will it get better, or worse? Tune in for the next chapter to find out! 