Acona Biconbi - Red - Moon Picnic $ 23.00 Out of stock by Bruno Munari A toy, a game, a sculpture This geometric paper toy was first conceived... We ve tried to make the delivery  &  return process as easy as possible. You can track your parcel or submit a quick free return request. • We deliver worldwide from CA, USA and England, UK. • All US orders placed on this site (US) will be dispatched from California. • If you re ordering from Europe, please use  our UK site  for the correct low shipping rates. We ll send you an email with your tracking link so you can keep an eye on your parcel. We endeavour to dispatch all orders in 1-2 days. Please add these to your schedule. You can return your order to us within 30 days for a full refund and we ll cover the return cost. Please see below for the conditions. Simply fill in our return form. We ll get back to you with a return slip  &  your pre-paid shipping label. • We can only accept returns of products that are unused  &  in their original packaging. • Free return applies to US orders and for the return of the entire order only, not partial items. It doesn t apply to the return of sale items or international orders.  • Books  &  magazines are exceptions and can be returned at the customer s cost. Furniture  &  Lilian Dollsvilla are final sale items and can t be returned. • We can t receive unsolicited returns, so please always submit the return form and wait for us to get back to you. Unsolicited returns will be rejected and not refunded.  Bruno Munari (October 24, 1907 in Milan – September 30, 1998 in Milan) was an Italian artist, designer, and inventor who contributed fundamentals to many fields of visual arts (painting, sculpture, film, industrial design, graphic design) in modernism, futurism, and concrete art, and in non visual arts (literature, poetry) with his research on games, didactic method, movement, tactile learning, kinesthetic learning, and creativity. Bruno Munari joined the  Second  Italian Futurist movement in Italy led by Filippo Tommaso Marinetti in the late 1920s. During this period, Munari contributed collages to Italian magazines, some of them highly propagandist, and created sculptural works which would unfold in the coming decades including his useless machines, and his abstract-geometrical works.[2] After World War II Munari disassociated himself with Italian Futurism because of its proto-Fascist connotations. See more from Bruno Munari OUR BRAND WHOLESALE ><a class="info" href="https: /moonpicnic.com/moon-picnic-catalogue/">CATALOGUE CONTACT US ABOUT US SHIPPING FAQ TERMS PRIVACY POLICY CONTACT US ABOUT US SHIPPING FAQ TERMS PRIVACY POLICY WHOLESALE CATALOGUE Continue Shopping Are you visiting from the UK or Europe? Please  sign up on our UK site  instead. or Maximum upload file size: 32 MB. Suggested image dimensions: {{data.suggestedWidth}} by {{data.suggestedHeight}} pixels. Remove video track No items found. 