savdhaan india india fights back | Tellychakkar.com Looks like the moral policing is at work already. Recently the film Haraamkhor won a landmark case when they were cleared with an UA certificate... Filmmaker Karan Johar, whose latest film "Ae Dil Hai Mushkil" was caught in a controversy for featuring Pakistani actor Fawad Khan, says while he... Director:  Gaarth Jennings Voices of:  Matthew McConaughey, Reese Witherspoon, Seth MacFarlane, Scarlett... She had a dream debut in Bollywood opposite superstar Shah Rukh Khan in "Rab Ne Bana Di Jodi", but her ride in showbiz has been bumpy with several... Bollywood's evergreen comedian Govinda celebrated his birthday by launching the trailer of his film "Aa Gaya Hero" here on Wednesday. "... Actor Varun Dhawan, who has a huge fan following in India, says he is always ready to bring a smile on his fans faces and will never disappoint... Actress Sakshi Tanwar, who found popularity through television serials and will soon be seen in Aamir Khan starrer biographical sports drama " ... Actress Parineeti Chopra thinks despite the brief presence in the trailer of the much-talked Hollywood film "Baywatch", Priyanka Chopra is going... Actress Yami Gautam has started shooting for filmmaker Ram Gopal Varma's upcoming film "Sarkar 3". The actress has donned a serious... Versatile actress Vidya Balan, who will clock four years of marital bliss with producer Siddharth Roy Kapur on Wednesday, says she finds balancing... Directors:  Will Speck, Josh Gordon Cast:  Jennifer Aniston, Jason Bateman, Olivia Munn, T.J. Miller,... Cast:  Ranveer Singh and Vaani Kapoor Rating:  1.5/5 Few days back, during the promotional interviews... Costume designer Sheetal Sharma, who has done the look for Shah Rukh Khan in his film "Raees", says that the superstar will be seen in three... Cast:  Mark Wahlberg, Kurt Russell, John Malkovich, Kate Hudson and Gina Rodriguez Rating:  3.5/5 Few... This is some solid good news for all Aishwarya Rai-Bachchan fans! The blue-eyed beauty is said to be collaborating with Sanjay Leela Bhansali in... Copyright © 2018 Tellychakkar.com. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without permission is prohibited. 