Market Today Fatafat ET Now: BSE Sensex up 285 points; Yes Bank share price dips 8%; top 26 stocks in action | Business News New Delhi:  Indian stock markets extended morning gains after opening higher on Friday with BSE Sensex rising as much as 285 points following the improved sentiments over fresh foreign fund inflows and recovery in Indian rupee value. The S & P BSE Sensex jumped 285.31 points to an intraday high of 35,545.85 with shares of blue-chip companies -- Bharti Airtel, Reliance Industries, HDFC, HDFC Bank, State Bank of India and ITC -- gaining 1 to 6 per cent. Market Today Fatafat ET Now: Top 26 stocks in action Jet Airways share price:  Shares of India s second largest air carrier Jet Airways jumped 10 per cent on reports that Tata Sons may mull Jet Airways takeover at today s board meeting. Jet Airways share price jumped 25 per cent on Thursday after ET reported that Tata SIA Airlines is looking for an all-stock merger of Jet Airways with Vistara. Indiabulls Housing share price:  Shares of Indiabulls Housing Finance fell 4 per cent in the trade today. LKP securities has given a stop loss At Rs 760 levels, with immediate support. ONGC share price:  Shares of ONGC dropped 2.6 per cent on Friday on news reports that the government may sell shares in ONGC, IOC  &  OIL. Yes Bank share price:  Shares of India s fifth-largest private sector lender by assets Yes Bank dipped more than 7 per cent on Friday after OP Bhatt resigned as the External Expert from the Search  &  Selection Committee of Yes Bank. OP Bhatt has tendered his resignation with  immediate effect citing that there may be a potential conflict of interest." TCS share price:  Shares of India s IT behemoth TCS (Tata Consultancy Services) surged nearly 1 per cent in the trade today. The global research and brokerage firm CLSA has said that large-deal wins should sustain. CLSA has reiterated a  buy  and has given a target price of Rs 2,600. Please watch Market Fatafat video to see all the 26 stocks in action today 