Research Shows That Tramadol Affects The Brain - Michael Anderson - Medium Research Shows That Tramadol Affects The Brain In a new study conducted by the medical researches at a university in Birmingham, people who suffered from chronic lower back pain were given opioid painkillers (such as Tramadol) or a placebo everyday for a month. While both groups reported reductions in their pain symptoms, there was a noted difference in the group taking opioid painkillers — their neuro-activity changed. Researchers found that the group taking painkillers acted depressed. They felt less energetic about doing their regular tasks and when interviewed about their lives, they gave pessimistic answers. Long-term Tramadol use has a direct impact on the neurochemical activity in the brain. Tramadol acts by interacting with the brain’s opioid receptors to change the way we perceive pain messages. However, by doing this, Tramadol also uses up the brain’s serotonin and norepinephrine — the neurochemicals in the brain that make one feel happiness. The lesser of these you have active in the brain, the harder it is to feel positive and bright. What can people suffering from chronic pain do to avoid this serious side effect? If you are suffering from migraines and headaches, back pain, muscle pain, fibromyalgia syndrome, post-surgery pain, and other chronic pain symptoms, it is recommended that you seek a safer pain medication. Fortunately, new medical research has shed light on new forms of pain medication with little to no side effects. More importantly, these analgesics don’t affect the brain. One emerging favorite is Tramasol™. Tramasol™ is an effective analgesic or painkiller, and chronic pain patients have reported experiencing little to no side effects while using Tramasol™. This provides patients with a better option compared to alternative prescription drugs in the market. Tramasol™ can also be used to relieve the symptoms of opiate withdrawal because of its superior pain-relieving powers and chemically identical effects on the brain as opiates. Tramasol™ contains potent alkaloids that are more effective than morphine. When taken at the right dosage, it can be used to transition to a healthier lifestyle without harmful drawbacks or withdrawals. (From:  tramasol.com ) To know more about Tramasol and if it is right for you, you may call 1–800–532–4307. Written by 