M-59 (Hall Road) reconstruction update: Garfield Road will close at M-59 for 10 days Facebook Twitter Email AddThis Having trouble viewing this email?  View it as a Web page . FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE                                               MONDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2018   CONTACT: Rob Morosi, MDOT Office of Communications,                       morosir@michigan.gov   M-59 (Hall Road) reconstruction update: Garfield Road will close at M-59 for 10 days   COUNTY: Macomb    HIGHWAY: Garfield Road   COMMUNITIES AFFECTED: Clinton and Macomb townships   CLOSURE DATE: 7 a.m. Wednesday, Oct. 3, 2018   REOPEN DATE: 7 a.m. Saturday, Oct. 13, 2018   OVERALL PROJECT END DATE: November 2018   UPDATES: As part of ongoing work on M-59 (Hall Road), Garfield Road will be closed at M-59 for approximately 10 days starting Wednesday, Oct. 3. During this work, M-59 will remain open while all through-traffic on Garfield Road will be detoured. In addition, M-59 traffic will not be able to access to Garfield Road.  Drivers should follow posted detours (21 Mile Road or 19 Mile Road to Hayes Road) and are reminded that it is illegal to use private property to avoid construction closures.   Project location:  https://bit.ly/2omHpAS   Access to businesses will be maintained, although entry may need to be adjusted during the project.    PROJECT DETAILS : The Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT) is continuing its $60 million investment to reconstruct M-59 (Hall Road) between Dalcoma Drive and Romeo Plank Road in Macomb County.    The project includes improving drainage, upgrading ramps to be compliant with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), and installing new sidewalks to fill in the missing gaps along M-59. Work also includes installing new modern traffic signals, replacing signs, enhancing landscaping, and adding decorative crosswalks.   For additional project details, go to  www.MovingMacomb.org , which also provides updates on lane restrictions, access to businesses, and traffic times to travel through the work zone.   SAFETY BENEFITS: This project will maintain safety with a smoother driving surface, improved drainage, and updated road signs. Pedestrian access will be improved as well.     ###   Visit MDOT's Mi Drive website for traffic information:  www.michigan.gov/drive   www.MovingMacomb.org  |  www.twitter.com/MovingMacomb  |  www.facebook.com/MvgMacomb     The Michigan Department of Transportation:  Providing the highest quality integrated transportation services for economic benefit and improved quality of life.  www.michigan.gov/mdot   |   www.michigan.gov/drive   |   contact MDOT     