Add SANE scanner support for OS X 10.2, 10.3 - Mac OS X Hints My HP Scanjet 2200c is listed as supported, but doesn't seem to work.  SANE sees the scanner and everything, but doesn't seem to be actually loading the driver for it. Same here. I have a Canon N670U, listed as supported using the plustek backend. The command  " sane-find-scanner "  finds the scanner, but the  " scanimage -L "  command gives an error. I tried editing the backend configuration file (plustek.conf), but it didn't help. I have the original Canon driver installed. Maybe there's a conflict between the manufacturer's driver and sane. :\ At least, it's great to know that someone is porting sane to OS X. Keep up the good work. ;) --- :: Jedi Knight :: -- Mac Rules! -- I have SANE running on a Gentoo Linux box with the actual scanner (AGFA snapscan e50) attached to it via USB. I have the SANE backends installed on my mac (they were actually relatively easy to compile - I'm surprised there wasn't a package already...) and am able to use the SANE scanner as a network scanner - pretty sweet.  Now just need a release of Kooka (KDE scanner software) that will link properly... I got much further after installing libusb from source from http://libusb.sf.net. I can scan on UMAX 1220U from the commandline, not yet from TWAIN, then the console complains: /tmp/TWAIN-SANE-Interface.build/MakeControls.cpp:35: failed assertion `oserr == noErr' if your scanner connected to your linuxbox is working, just edit the /usr/local/etc/sane.d/net.conf on you MAC and add the hostname of you linuxbox. then the twain driver will look remote aswell works with adobe acrobat / photoshop etc. If you read the sane mailing list, you will see how beta this is. I couldn't get my Epson 636U working either. The find utility sees it, but scanimage -L does not. I played with debug levels because many on the list say that tweaking those affects timings and sometimes allows it to work. It didn't help me. Hopefully this will be solved some time soon. The configuration files are apparently important, and since OSX has no scanner devices in /dev it uses the libusb (for USB scanners anyway). I suspect my main problem may be with the config file, but the documentation is sparse and I don't know where to go. I posted to the list, but it seems mostly Linux folks read it. --- Mark Moorcroft ELORET Corp. - NASA/Ames RC Sys. Admin. Hello! I had problems getting the TWAIN SANE interface working for my UMAX 1220U. So I wrote a little app instead as a frontend to the driver from SANE. It is available at http://www.geo.uu.nl/~kool/software.shtml Please note that if you have trouble getting the SANE driver to work it might be a good idea to use the latest libusb avialable from http://libusb.sf.net Good luck! Johan Kool Thanks so much. I suspect I'm about your Dad's age so consider it tested again. Worked at 150 and Auto, but at 600 I got a very distorted image. Perhaps the answer is in a hint on Ellert's web page: http://www.ellert.se/twain-sane/faq.html " One common reason that backends that works on other platforms does not work on MacOS X is that they use a fork to create a reader process. This does not work on MacOS X and the backend should be reimplemented using pthreads instead. " I installed the components from his page and tried using graphic convertor with my Epson GT-7000. The right driver appeared, but didn't scan. Scanner is recognisable, but won't scan: $  sudo sane-find-scanner ... found USB scanner (vendor=0x04b8 [EPSON], product=0x0101 [Scanner GT-7000]) at libusb:003:002-04b8-0101-ff-ff   # Your USB scanner was (probably) detected. It may or may not be supported by   # SANE. Try scanimage -L and read the backend's manpage. On a single occasion, scanimage recognised my scanner, many other times it did not: $  sudo scanimage -L device `epson:libusb:003:002-04b8-0101-ff-ff' is a Epson GT-7000 flatbed scanner So if someone knows how to implement  " pthreads "  instead of  " forks "  in the backend, that might fix it. Further poking around has revealed the bug might lie somewhere else. (perrhaps in USB routines). Hopefully those working on the SANE project who know more about these things willl be able to fix it soonish. More detail is in the SANE bug tracking pages. Ian. I haven't yet tried using SANE on OS X (I think I'm about to). But a glance here revealed a lot of negative posts, such as  " ...how beta this is " . I wanted to point out that, on Linux, SANE is the standard scanning system (there isn't really any other) and it works fine with the majority of scanners, little configuration, and good integration with the rest of the system. It may not be so slick on OS X, but it was never intended to be. If you're struggling with SANE on OS X, blame Apple for not supporting your scanner rather than the SANE folks for not supporting your OS. Pete Firstly to say that I must have been imagining things when I wrote about negative comments. And secondly, to say that Mattias's Sane interface and distribution worked perfectly. Installation was a matter of three double clicks, and there it was in the Acquire menu of the Graphic Converter. Apple really ought to investigate officially folding Sane into OS X as it has with Apache and Samba. If I hadn't known that my scanner was supported in Sane from using it with Linux, and gone to see if Sane could be made to work with OS X, I would have concluded that my oh-so-graphical Powerbook could not be made to work with my scanner. That does not look good for Apple. By making an OS X native SANE front end, they get to use all the continuing effort and dedication of the SANE team, a resource far greater than Apple could devote in-house to scanner compatibility. Pete Lost your  password ? Visit other IDG sites:  