You Can &# x27;t Understand Haiti &# x27;s Protests Without Understanding History | Cognoscenti Close 90.9 WBUR More Close WBUR facebook Twitter Support the news Twitter Twitter facebook Email Life in Haiti slowed to a standstill last month when national protests began, once again, in the face of a rising cost of living and a national currency in free fall. Outside of Haiti, media coverage of the crisis has focused primarily on  violence ,  looting  and  corruption . Interviews with foreign volunteers, tourists and missionaries highlight that they are trapped or stranded, and that in some cases they have been evacuated by helicopters as if from a war zone. The U.S. Department of State has urged citizens not to travel to Haiti “ due to crime and civil unrest .” The Core Group --representatives from the U.N., European Union, Organization of American States and six countries including the U.S.   issued a statement deploring violence and property damage and stressing that “ change must come through the ballot box .” We are doctors who divide our time between Boston and rural Haiti, where we work in HIV clinics staffed by Haitian physicians, nurses, pharmacists, social workers and community health workers, supported by  Partners In Health  and its sister organization, Zanmi Lasante. We have witnessed the impacts of the worsening economic state in Haiti over the past few years, and we were in Haiti during the most recent protests and during those in the fall of 2018. We believe that the prevailing characterizations of the deteriorating situation in Haiti by the American media and government are inadequately informed by history and that a broader view reframing of the crisis is essential. Although some of the demonstrations have turned violent, most have been peaceful. The demonstrators are calling for the resignation of Haiti’s president, Jovenel Moïse, arguing that he has failed to deliver on promises to improve the country’s economic conditions. At the center of the anti-government movement are accusations of  mismanagement and the theft of $2 billion  from PetroCaribe, a discount oil program operated by Venezuela and intended to generate savings to fund socioeconomic development. However, it is clear that the PetroCaribe corruption is just one of many factors that have led to the economic despair voiced by the thousands of Haitians who have taken to the streets or  desperately sought refuge outside of Haiti . The impoverishment of Haiti has not been accidental. It cannot be explained only by the recent actions of corrupt Haitian government officials, and it cannot be understood without examining historical events. Since Haiti won its independence from France in 1804 -- the only nation founded as the result of a slave revolution   a series of policies by foreign entities have stifled development and precipitated economic catastrophe. In 1825, France, in exchange for recognizing Haiti’s sovereignty,  extorted today’s equivalent of $21.7 billion  from Haiti, paid over a period of 122 years, as compensation for lost property   the bodies of the Haitians themselves. Haiti's subsequent crippling debt prompted the U.S. to  invade Haiti in 1915  and occupy the country for 19 years. The U.S. expropriated the holdings of Haiti’s treasury, designated 40 percent of Haiti’s national output towards debt repayment, enforced a system of forced labor, and murdered thousands of Haitians who resisted the occupying forces. The impoverishment of Haiti has not been accidental. Haiti’s more recent history has been marked by substantial involvement of foreign states in its democratic processes. For the past three decades,  the U.S. --  consistent with its practices throughout Latin America  -- has  wielded foreign aid ,  forced tariff reductions  and  financed coup d'etats  to ensure that Haiti remains aligned with U.S. interests. The current protests can be understood, in part, as the demonstrators’ lack of confidence in an electoral process they view as  fraudulent  and  influenced by outsiders . Current international events have also influenced Haiti's protests. President Trump has made  offensive, stigmatizing and false statements  about Haiti and Haitian-Americans, and his administration’s Haiti policy can be summarized by an attempt to  end Temporary Protected Status (TPS)  for some 59,000 Haitians who have lived and worked legally in the U.S. since the 2010 earthquake in Haiti. Although the U.N. has admitted responsibility for introducing cholera to Haiti, creating an epidemic that has killed more than 10,000 Haitians,  U.N. countries have pledged a pitiful amount of funds to address the problem . Finally, many Haitians see their government’s recent vote to no longer recognize Venezuela’s president -- a  decision they view as a political maneuver , orchestrated by the U.S., against Haiti’s long-standing ally -- as another reason for the ongoing protests. To describe the Haitian protests as merely “anti-corruption” is to willfully ignore the complicity of the U.S. in installing and upholding corrupt leaders in Haiti for its own benefit. To focus on the impact of “violent” protests on a few Americans and Canadians in Haiti is to obscure the structural violence that U.S. policies have levied on Haiti throughout its history. The current crisis can only be understood after acknowledging the culpability of foreign countries and centering the discussion on the experience of Haitians who are disadvantaged by complex systems of power. We stand in solidarity with our Haitian colleagues, patients and friends who live the daily reality of the conditions brought about by the centuries of history we have only briefly touched upon. As guests in Haiti, we hold ourselves accountable for interrogating the ways in which the “ Republic of NGOs ” undermines Haiti’s development, and we are committed to working to support public institutions. As Americans, we petition our government to reverse the unjust termination of Temporary Protected Status for the Haitian people who are now a part of our communities. We implore the American media and public to pay close attention to our government’s  ongoing role in the events that are unfolding  and to insist on accountability when warranted. Anne Beckett Cognoscenti contributor Anne Beckett is a resident physician in the Doris and Howard Hiatt Residency in Global Health Equity and global health equity and medicine-pediatrics residency program at Brigham and Women &# x27;s Hospital, Boston Children &# x27;s Hospital and Boston Medical Center. More… Aaron Richterman Twitter Cognoscenti contributor Aaron Richterman is a resident physician in the Doris and Howard Hiatt Residency in global health equity and internal medicine at Brigham and Women’s Hospital. More… Twitter facebook Email Some 35,000 Massachusetts residents will lose access to food stamps as a result of a new Trump administration rule. It ' s counterproductive, writes Erin McAleer, and it’s also cruel. The prince is implicated in the Jeffrey Epstein scandal. And his defense is hardly surprising, writes Lauren Stiller Rikleen. As children learn the painful lesson that human nature is complicated, we also want to preserve their hope and capacity to trust and to dream, write Robert Brooks and Nancy... Democrats need to deliver a clear and simple narrative, and counterpunch unrelenting Republican lies. They should start by speaking in plain English. In choosing to lionize Edward Gallagher, the president is showing us, yet again, the kind of America he envisions. Support the news A new bylaw in Brookline, Mass. bans gas and oil heating in new construction. It ' s a hopeful signal that people recognize the urgency of a transition to clean energy, writes... By overestimating how unpleasant it will be to engage with those we disagree with, writes Timothy Phillips, we wind up tuning out the other side altogether. Aine Greaney came to the U.S. from her native Ireland in 1987. Back then, Thanksgiving, like America, felt foreign. But now -- three decades later -- she believes her adopted... After the impeachment hearings, we know two things for certain: Donald Trump pressured a foreign leader for his own political gain. And, the GOP has no intention of holding him... Bill Littlefield teaches a literature class to men on parole, sharing as equals their reactions to poems and stories with the folks they’ve previously known only as representatives of the... Ditching the T when the weather gets bad might temporarily alleviate some of your stress, writes Miles Howard, but it will feed Boston’s mounting transit crisis. Twitter facebook More 