Questions about common damage and repairs seen in old violins - The Pegbox - Maestronet Forums Forgot your password? By  GeorgeH ,   February 6, 2017  in  The Pegbox First, I was wondering why many old violins show dents and surface damage under the strings in back of the bridge and in front of the end of the fingerboard. It seems to me to that this would be one area that would be protected against bangs and bumps. Is it from bridges bending and ultimately snapping? Anything else? Second, why do so many old violins have button repairs in the back? Besides an impact to the neck, what else causes a button to break-off like that?  Are you talking about replaced buttons, or ebony collars on buttons?   Some damage and dents in back of the bridge that I have seen are from fine tuners in the tailpiece that is too low, or that had been carelessly allowed to "flop" around when strings were removed.   Are you talking about replaced buttons, or ebony collars on buttons   I mean buttons that are broken off entirely as if the neck was snapped off. Sometimes they are replaced or the original one is restored. ome damage and dents in back of the bridge that I have seen are from fine tuners in the tailpiece that is too low, or that had been carelessly allowed to "flop" around when strings were removed. I am thinking about the damage often seen on the other side of the bridge. Do you have a photo? I mean buttons that are broken off entirely as if the neck was snapped off. Sometimes they are replaced or the original one is restored. I am thinking about the damage often seen on the other side of the bridge. Often? I've never seen something like that. The button has a constructional weak connection (a  Sollbruchstelle)  to the back due to the purfling grove, but is stressed in many regards: Shrinkage of back, neck root or ribs, removal from the neck or block for repair or neck reset/grafting, a long leverage from the neck etc., so there's no wonder if it's cracked off very often. Dents or marks before the bridge can be caused by unedequate cleaning methods to remove rosin (fingernails for instance). Do you have a photo? Here two examples. I wonder where they come from? Seems like more than poor cleaning methods, but maybe people are rougher with their instruments than I can imagine.       The button has a constructional weak connection (a  Sollbruchstelle)  to the back due to the purfling grove, but is stressed in many regards: Shrinkage of back, neck root or ribs, removal from the neck or block for repair or neck reset/grafting, a long leverage from the neck etc., so there's no wonder if it's cracked off very often.   That all makes sense, thanks. Do luthiers usually glue the button to the neck? ...Do luthiers usually glue the button to the neck? Not usually.  Always. Not usually.  Always. Maybe not always. A friend of mine had the neck of her violin pull off due to the violin becoming overheated in the case (left in sun). The button was fine, and did not appear to have been glued to the neck, which is one reason that I asked about this. It was a fine modern violin made by a contemporary maker (not a factory instrument). So I was wondering if the button was not glued to the neck as a way to keep buttons from breaking off if the neck is otherwise snapped. Some of it's due to moving the bridge up or down on the violin, sometimes I've seen a rather large span of distance, relatively speaking, in bridge placement over the life of a fiddle   Good photos, George, but this chewed up surface I have not seen before.  Perhaps very thick rosin dirt over the ages, some of which "ate" into the wood, and eventually cleaned out by too vigorously cleaning?  Or years of moving the bridge in various places from rough spots to smoother spots?  A friend of mine had the neck of her violin pull off due to the violin becoming overheated in the case (left in sun). The button was fine, and did not appear to have been glued to the neck, which is one reason that I asked about this. Probably an indication of the glue on both the neck joint and the button being too weak, or some kind of alternate type. Hot glue won't normally release with heat alone. Think the button issue has been covered. Re the deterioration of the table around the bridge, I agree that it's to do with the build-up of rosin and subsequent weakening of the varnish and or wood. I wonder if large rosin deposits aren't a bit of a moisture trap ... Here two examples. I wonder where they come from? Seems like more than poor cleaning methods, but maybe people are rougher with their instruments than I can imagine. Complete shot in the dark but I wonder if some might not be bow scratches and some might not be due to the bridge slipping feet forward as it's being pulled back. Just my two cents. my guess... fingernail marks from straightening the bridge. cheers, Mat Could be rosin sitting on it for years - it is corrosive enough to corrode metal on bow frogs, so it can't be good for varnish! some might not be due to the bridge slipping feet forward as it's being pulled back. I was also thinking a bridge break or slip during adjustment because these indentations often look like impact marks. Probably an indication of the glue on both the neck joint and the button being too weak, or some kind of alternate type. Hot glue won't normally release with heat alone. I was thinking that thermal expansion of the wood might have applied enough mechanical force to break the glue bond, but you may be right about weak glue. Nevertheless, there was not any glue on the button or the base of the neck. Maybe that was a contributing factor to both the neck coming loose and the button not being pulled off. David, have you ever heard of not glueing the neck to the button? The fingerboard did put some nasty marks in the top, but did not crack it, fortunately. And surprisingly none of the bouts sprang lose or seams opened. We had one customer who had left some pretty deep fingernail gouges (and marks from the bridge feet) from obsessively moving the bridge almost every time he played, looking for the best sound (similar to what Mat mentioned). I have also seen a person or two who would "store" the bow by inserting it under the strings, when the fiddle was laying flat or hanging on a wall. Sounds strange, but you still get a few people who will do odd things like hanging a violin from the music stand during breaks.        David, have you ever heard of not glueing the neck to the button? No, I haven't, but it doesn't mean that someone couldn't have tried it. Correction: I've seen it on necks which were meant to be removed for transport, and on some necks which were meant to be adjustable via some mechanism, mostly on basses. But on these, I think is was more common to have the button attached to the neck, and not integrated with the back.     ...Sounds strange, but you still get a few people who will do odd things like hanging a violin from the music stand during breaks... More than just a few still ...lol... You can post now and register later.If you have an account,  sign in now  to post with your account. Note:  Your post will require moderator approval before it will be visible.  Pasted as rich text.  Paste as plain text instead  Only 75 emoji are allowed.  Your link has been automatically embedded.  Display as a link instead  Your previous content has been restored.  Clear editor  You cannot paste images directly. Upload or insert images from URL. No registered users viewing this page. Copyright 2019 Maestronet Powered by Invision Community 