Becozinc Capsule Uses Side-effects buy price discount Reviews composition | Online Marketpalce Store India Sorry, this product is unavailable. Please choose a different combination. CALL/WHATSAPP:  +91-9266229292 or +91-9582929295(India) +1-917-688-4202 (USA) Email:  Mail@omsi.in Timing:  Mon- FRI(10am to 7pm) No products in the cart. No products in the cart. If you don't find any product on our website, call us on +91-9266229292(India)[Mon-Fri(10am-7PM)] / +1-917 688 4202(USA) or send us an email at mail@omsi.in or  click here to fill this form . Cash On Delivery is only available in Delhi in Urgent Delivery on certain products. Call/whatsapp us +91-9266229292(India) if you want cash on delivery. Rest may pay via card, NEFT, Bank Deposit. We update our shop as much as possible and 99% prices are accurate. However it s humanly impossible to update all the products and their updated prices. Because we don t stock, Actual Price may vary when we acquire it from one of our 3000 vendors. If it changes, order total may change and you may have to pay extra. We don t stock so once acquired, we can t return the product so order can t be cancelled. If we haven t received the product from the vendor, we can refund. Cancellation charge of Rs. 100 or 10% whichever is higher will apply on such orders. Out of your order profit we share a large percentage to acquire medicines for poor people and their treatment. 24.00 Becozinc contains calcium pantothenate , folic acid , niacinamide , vitamin B1 , Vitamin B 12 , vitamin B2 , Vitamin B6 , Vitamin C , zinc sulphate monohydrate . Becozinc  15 Capsule in Strip Zinc (54.93mg) INDICATORS Pregnancy:NA Lactation:NA Lab:NA Food:NA TYPICAL USAGE Zinc is used for treatment and prevention of zinc deficiency and its consequences, including stunted growth and acute diarrhea in children, and slow wound healing. It is also used for boosting the immune system, treating the common cold and recurrent ear infections, and preventing lower respiratory infections. It is also used for malaria and other diseases caused by parasites. Zinc is also used for an eye disease called macular degeneration, for night blindness, and for cataracts. It is also used for asthma; diabetes; high blood pressure; acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS); and skin conditions such as psoriasis, eczema, and acne. SIDE EFFECTS Taking high amounts of zinc is likely unsafe. High doses above the recommended amounts might cause fever, coughing, stomach pain, fatigue, and many other problems. DRUG INTERACTION Tell your doctor of all prescription and nonprescription medication you may use. Do not start or stop any medicine without doctor or pharmacist approval. MECHANISM OF ACTION Zinc is needed for the proper growth and maintenance of the human body. It is found in several systems and biological reactions, and it is needed for immune function, wound healing, blood clotting, thyroid function. Zinc plays a key role in maintaining vision, and it is present in high concentrations in the eye. Zinc deficiency can alter vision, and severe deficiency can cause changes in the retina (the back of the eye where an image is focused). Vitamin B1 (10mg) INDICATORS Pregnancy:C Lactation:L3 Lab:NA Food:NA TYPICAL USAGE Lung cancer and pancreatic cancer, mild chronic deficiency, severe deficiency, thiamine deficiency prophylaxis, thiamine deficiency treatment. SIDE EFFECTS Nausea, urticaria, Gi bleeding, angioneurotic edema, restlessness, pruritis, pulmonary edema, hemorrhage, cyanosis, dizziness, ataxia, nausea, anorexia, lethargy, sweating, somnolence, faintness, heaviness, soreness. DRUG INTERACTION Vitamin B1 is known to interact with other drugs like aluminium hydroxide and oxide, amiloride (HCl), bumetanide, chlorthalidone, estradiol (Valerate), estrogens conjugated, fluorouracil, magnesium carbonate, magnesium oxides and hydroxides, metformin (HCl), phenobarbital Sodium, phenobarbitone, triamterene, vecuronium (Br). Always consult your physician for the change of dose regimen or an alternative drug of choice that may strictly be required. MECHANISM OF ACTION Mechanism of action of thiamine on endothelial cells is related to a reduction in intracellular protein glycation by redirecting the glycolytic flux. Thiamine is mainly the transport form of the vitamin, while the active forms are phosphorylated thiamine derivatives. There are five known natural thiamine phosphate derivatives: thiamine monophosphate (ThMP), thiamine diphosphate (ThDP), also sometimes called thiamine pyrophosphate (TPP), thiamine triphosphate (ThTP), and the recently discovered adenosine thiamine triphosphate (AThTP), and adenosine thiamine diphosphate. Vitamin B2 (10mg) INDICATORS Pregnancy:A Lactation:L2 Lab:NA Food:NA TYPICAL USAGE Arabinoflavinosis, Vitamin deficiency. SIDE EFFECTS Discoloration of urine, Swelling of face, Difficulty breathing, Swelling of lips and tongue. DRUG INTERACTION None mentioned. MECHANISM OF ACTION Binds to riboflavin hydrogenase, riboflavin kinase, and riboflavin synthase. Vitamin B2 is the precursor of flavin mononucleotide (FMN, riboflavin monophosphate) and flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD). The antioxidant activity of riboflavin is principally derived from its role as a precursor of FAD and the role of this cofactor in the production of the antioxidant reduced glutathione. Reduced glutathione is the cofactor of the selenium-containing glutathione peroxidases among other things. The glutathione peroxidases are major antioxidant enzymes. Reduced glutathione is generated by the FAD-containing enzyme glutathione reductase. Online Marketplace Store India mail@omsi.in +91-9266229292(India) +91-9582929295(India) +1-917-688-4202(USA) Mon- FRI(10am to 7pm) Buy Online Laptops Buy Online Desktops Buy Online Cars Buy Online Bikes Buy Online Furniture Buy Online Books Buy Online Toys Buy Online TV Buy Online Laptops Buy Online Desktops Buy Online Cars Buy Online Bikes Buy Online Furniture Buy Online Books Buy Online Toys Buy Online TV Buy Online Laptops Buy Online Desktops Buy Online Cars Buy Online Bikes Buy Online Furniture Buy Online Books Buy Online Toys Buy Online TV Designed by  Top Website Designing Company in Delhi, India 