Our Services | BTTSI BTTSI s network of agents are located internationally within key cities and ports around the world. We provide service DDU, DDP, Door/Door, Port/Port, at your convenience. We accept Reefer Cargo, Dangerous Goods, and Other Special Cargo you may need. We are located in key ports in the Philippines. We do door to door, port to port, stuffing and unstuffing, warehouse and trucking, surveying and other services to meet shippers '  and consignees '  convenience. Our southbound and northbound, east and westbound services aim to please, and provide ease of trading. Our customs brokers are professionals with extensive clearing experiences all over the country. They provide deep customs specialization for our clientele. We will help you bring out your cargo from seaports and airports. We can also assist in setting up your import licensing should you start being importers. We broker for buyers and suppliers, manufacturers and processors, exporters and importers to meet their needs. From farmers, suppliers of raw materials, logistics services, warehousing, processing and storage, shipping and trucking, foreign port clearing, and delivery to final warehouse destination via our services. We cover nationwide trucking works for all kinds of shipments. Dry, perishables, DG, bulk, grains, animals, reefers, etc. are our capabilities. We also have a variety of trucks and trailers: Boom Trucks, Wing Vans, Closed Vans, Open Sides, Low Bed Trailers, Triple Axles, etc. to cater to you depending on your cargoes. Heavy Lifts and irregular shipments are specializations we offer to our customers. We handle ships, breakbulks, irregular containers and shipments, overweights, bulks, and tankers. We offer specialized containers. We charter ships, barges, lighters, and varied equipments and tools for your shipments. We offer Container Sales and Leasing, may it be dry or refrigerated containers. You can choose between Brand New and Used containers and we can get inventory from the different key ports in the Philippines. We are also able to deliver them in most areas of the Philippines directly to your site, unloaded to ground. We also customize your shipping containers and turn them into Offices, Houses, Warehouses, etc., Depending on your requirements. We can convert them, Stack them, and convert them into smaller containers. We can go according to your design, or we can design one as per your specs. Exporters and Importers, carriers and institutional distributors are offered our best container positioning services in the Philippines and abroad. Should you wish to move your containers across domestically, or internationally, we will move them so you can conveniently use your containers where you need them. We provide alternative services for carriers, consignees and shippers for their container terminal needs, rentals, storage, reefer management, repairs and maintenance. We also provide services to monitor and assure timely entry and pullout of the containers from the terminals upon delivery or pullout of our clients. Heavy Lifts and irregular shipments are specializations we offer to our customers. We handle ships, breakbulks, irregular containers and shipments, overweights, bulks, and tankers. We offer specialized containers. We charter ships, barges, lighters, and varied equipments and tools for your shipments. Makati Office 4813 2nd floor Monfortino Building Valderama Street Pio Del Pilar Makati City Telephone No.: +63 2 843 1001 / 1002 /1202 Fax No.: +63 2 843 1001 loc 104 Main Office #32 1st Ave., Gonzales Subdivision, Bula, General Santos City Telefax: +63 83 553 2678 Philippine Port Offices General Santos Manila Davao Cagayan De Oro Cebu Zamboanga Bayside Terminal and Transportation Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 2016 