 Remote Access: At Home Passwords Power Library:    EBSCOhost, Grove Art and Music, Biographies - Use the barcode number   from the back of your public library card. Gale/Infotrac :   Gale Virtual Reference Library  password: raiders Ferguson’s Facts on   File  &  Career Center : username and password: raiders ProQuest:    SIRS Researcher, CultureGrams, World Conflicts Today, Learning Literature,   History Study Center, SIRS Decades   login:  PL1894  password: 16823 Encyclopedia Britannica :   login: bahslibrary  Password: raiders  Atrium (Online Library   Catalog) : no password needed – just click on the at-home access.    See me to get an account to renew, reserve, build bibliographies, and   pay fines. Power Library:    EBSCOhost, Grove Art and Music, Biographies - Use the barcode number   from the back of your public library card. Gale/Infotrac :   Gale Virtual Reference Library  password: raiders Ferguson’s Facts on   File  &  Career Center : username and password: raiders ProQuest:    SIRS Researcher, CultureGrams, World Conflicts Today, Learning Literature,   History Study Center, SIRS Decades   login:  PL1894  password: 16823 Encyclopedia Britannica :   login: bahslibrary  Password: raiders  Atrium (Online Library   Catalog) : no password needed – just click on the at-home access.    See me to get an account to renew, reserve, build bibliographies, and   pay fines. Power Library:    EBSCOhost, Grove Art and Music, Biographies - Use the barcode number   from the back of your public library card. Gale/Infotrac :   Gale Virtual Reference Library  password: raiders Ferguson’s Facts on   File  &  Career Center : username and password: raiders ProQuest:    SIRS Researcher, CultureGrams, World Conflicts Today, Learning Literature,   History Study Center, SIRS Decades   login:  PL1894  password: 16823 Encyclopedia Britannica :   login: bahslibrary  Password: raiders  Atrium (Online Library   Catalog) : no password needed – just click on the at-home access.    See me to get an account to renew, reserve, build bibliographies, and   pay fines. Power Library:    EBSCOhost, Grove Art and Music, Biographies - Use the barcode number   from the back of your public library card. Gale/Infotrac :   Gale Virtual Reference Library  password: raiders Ferguson’s Facts on   File  &  Career Center : username and password: raiders ProQuest:    SIRS Researcher, CultureGrams, World Conflicts Today, Learning Literature,   History Study Center, SIRS Decades   login:  PL1894  password: 16823 Encyclopedia Britannica :   login: bahslibrary  Password: raiders  Atrium (Online Library   Catalog) : no password needed – just click on the at-home access.    See me to get an account to renew, reserve, build bibliographies, and   pay fines. 