Montana is growing, but not proportionately. Here's how rural communities are coping with population decline | State  &  Regional | missoulian.com © 2019 Lee Enterprises Terms of Service   |   Privacy Policy Partly cloudy. High 44F. Winds light and variable.. A few clouds from time to time. Low near 25F. Winds light and variable.  Updated: November 2, 2019 @ 2:41 am Between 2000 and 2015, the number of jobs in Montana grew 20 percent. But just five counties — Missoula, Flathead, Gallatin, Lewis and Clark and Yellowstone — account for three-quarters of it. In much of rural Montana, residents are slipping away — especially the children and families that towns need to support their schools. So, last year, journalists from the Missoulian and newsrooms throughout western Montana, as well as High Country News and the Solutions Journalism Network, got together to ask the question: What are Montana communities, especially rural ones, doing to respond to this trend? And what could they learn from the experiences of others? The result is a series of stories called The Montana Gap, publishing over the next month, that examines how places like Choteau, Seeley Lake and Libby, as well as Missoula’s nearby neighbors in Frenchtown, Lolo, Bonner and East Missoula, are grappling with their uncertain future. Article with images For much of rural Montana, brain drain has been a fact of life for decades.  Article with images CHOTEAU — Blair Patton returned to his family’s ranch outside of Choteau after living many years in Lewistown. He operated a sports clothing a Article with images PHILIPSBURG — As the holiday season gets its start on a clear morning in late November, Main Street here looks like something out of a Hallmar Article with images Devin Jackson, chairman of the Lolo Community Council, wants his hometown to get a new school. The current one is an aging jumble of buildings Article with images For many in the small rural towns surrounding Missoula, the local schools are truly the emotional center of the community. People rally behind Article with images Bonner and Frenchtown are, in many ways, like two sides of the same coin.  Article with images For Lee Bridges, a 35-year homeowner in East Missoula, and board member on the East Missoula Community Council, a big part of the path toward  Article with images CUT BANK — Shelby Schools Superintendent Elliott Crump knows firsthand about the teacher shortage in Montana.  Article with images MANHATTAN — An image from 1921 hangs in one of Manhattan’s largest downtown businesses. The scene in black and white shows women in dresses an Article with images Leigh Ann Valiton watched a customer meander the aisles of the Blackfoot Commercial Co. in Ovando. Valiton’s store, and attached Inn, is open  Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device. 