48 Best Cities in the World to Visit in 2019 By entering your email address you agree to our  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy  and consent to receive emails from Time Out about news, events, offers and partner promotions. Thanks for subscribing! Look out for your first newsletter in your inbox soon! By entering your email address you agree to our  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy  and consent to receive emails from Time Out about news, events, offers and partner promotions. Thanks for subscribing! Look out for your first newsletter in your inbox soon! By entering your email address you agree to our  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy  and consent to receive emails from Time Out about news, events, offers and partner promotions. Thanks for subscribing! Look out for your first newsletter in your inbox soon! icon-chevron-right What s the greatest city in the world? It s not an easy question to answer   after all, cities are full of people and people are full of contradictions. Some urbanites want world-beating restaurants  and  unforgettable things to do  at every turn. Others prefer affordability, good public transport or friendly neighbours. Still, we think we ve found a way to discover what makes a city great   and which cities are leading the way as more and more of the world s population joins the great urban migration. How? By quizzing thousands of city-dwellers all around the world for the  Time Out Index survey . In partnership with Tapestry Research, we asked almost 34,000 anonymous city-dwellers   from  Melbourne  to  Madrid ,  Chicago  to Cape Town  and  Tel Aviv  to  Tokyo  about food, drink, culture, nightlife, community, neighbourhoods, overall happiness and other factors, such as their city s beauty, affordability and convenience. Then we put the same set of questions to Time Out s global network of editors and experts: people who know their cities like nobody else. Finally, we crunched the numbers to create the definitive ranking of the world s best cities in 2019. Read on to discover them all, and prepare to scrap your travel plans: these are the places to be right now. Don t agree with our list? Have your say next time! Follow  Time Out Everywhere  on Facebook,  @timeouteverywhere  on Instagram and  @timeout on Twitter , and you ll be the first to hear when we launch our next global survey. No hablas ingl s? No te preocupes, puedes leer el art culo en espa ol. Vous ne parlez pas Anglais? Pas de souci, vous pouvez lire l article en Fran ais ici. N o fala ingl s? N o se preocupe, pode ler este artigo em portugu s. They don t call NYC the capital of the world for nothing. Other cities beat it for specific factors, but it was the Big Apple that came out on top overall   in large part thanks to its ongoing diverse and accepting vibes. As the rest of America struggles with a rising wave of isolationism, New Yorkers voted their city the most diverse in the world, as well as number one for culture and two and three respectively for eating and drinking. Lady Liberty would be proud.  Will Gleason,  Time Out New York We already knew that Melbourne had more live music venues per resident than any other city on Earth, but the Time Out Index proves we re obsessed: one in four Melburnians went to a concert in the last week. No surprise, then, that we re rated the world s second most creative city. But we re also the second happiest and among the best for food, drink, fun and multiculturalism: a great all-round combination which propels us to second place in the global ranking.  Cass Knowlton,  Time Out Melbourne Chicago is second to none when it comes to food and drink: the Midwestern metropolis was ranked number one in the world for supping and sipping. But between Italian beefs and slices of deep dish pizza, we make time to hit the gym: 52 percent of us can t get through the week without exercise. And it seems that our balanced lifestyle leads to happiness, with more respondents reporting genuine contentment than anywhere else.  Morgan Olsen,  Time Out Chicago Londoners rave about their city   especially its culture, food and live music scenes  despite the UK capital hitting global headlines for political turmoil and rising crime. Only 6 percent of us said they had felt unsafe in the last 24 hours, compared to almost 80 percent who felt happy. Moreover, the Big Smoke came out as one of the most dynamic, diverse and creative cities on the planet. Brexit? What Brexit?  James Manning,  Time Out London It turns out that some of the stereotypes are true, but we ll gladly own up to them: Angelenos are happy, mindfulness-practising residents of a blossoming city that the majority describe as diverse, dynamic and creative. We ll credit a hearty slice of that to a tremendous food scene that has only recently caught the world s attention, but which Angelenos have always been hungry to explore   after all, we dine out more than the residents of any other US city.  Michael Juliano,  Time Out Los Angeles A top destination for letting your freak flag fly, Montreal is one of the best cities in the world to just be yourself   and the vast majority of Montrealers are steadfast in their pride for the city s diversity, dynamism and creativity. Combine its status as a cultural hub full of self-expression with being the second most affordable city on the planet (with the second shortest working hours), and it s no wonder that 79 percent of locals report feeling happy.  Jean-Pierre Karwacki,  Time Out Montreal When Berlin s city government recently pledged  1 million to soundproof the city s nightclubs and so safeguard their future, it showcased the importance of nightlife culture to the German capital s global appeal. Ordinary Berliners agree: 84 percent call the city s  partyleben  amazing and its culture and live music scenes score highly too. Berlin also stands out as one of the most inclusive, creative and affordable cities in the world, giving its citizens access to the things money can t buy: freedom and happiness.  Duncan Madden It s comfortably the smallest and rainiest city in the top ten, so Glasgow s lofty ranking may surprise some. But not residents, who love Scotland s biggest metropolis for its dynamic music, clubbing and food scenes and its daft wit and gregariousness. It s number one in the world for both friendliness and affordability, and 55 percent say it s changed for the better   higher than almost anywhere else. If only Glasgow s weather looked as bright as its future.  Malcolm Jack The French capital s reputation for culture is secure: 87 percent of Parisians consider their city s arts scene to be amazing, and we go to museums and galleries the most often in the world. But it s not all chin-stroking here. Like last year, Paris comes out as a world capital of debauchery: Parisians have more sex than anyone else, go out most often on weeknights and frequent bars the second most. It seems Paris s days as a  city of sleep  are over.  Houssine Bouchama,  Time Out Paris The upcoming 2020 Olympics have injected a much-needed sense of internationalism into Tokyo. This new burst of energy   coupled with the existing rich Japanese traditions, vibrant dining scene (people eat out more often here than almost anywhere else) and overall convenience   has earned us the coveted spot as the best city in Asia. With all this buzz, it s no wonder this is also the city most people around the world want to visit in 2019.  Chee Wah Lim,  Time Out Tokyo For yet another year, the Spanish capital proves no one can outdo us when it comes to drinking and nightlife. Madrile os are the world leaders when it comes to going to clubs and bars and drinking beer   which may explain why we re also the least stressed city on the planet. Party-seekers, get planning your next trip to Madrid!  Marta Bac,  Time Out Madrid Most visitors to South Africa come for safaris, and Cape Town doesn t really cater to that taste   but don t overlook this instantly likeable and captivating city. Nine out of ten Capetonians agree that their city is beautiful, with Table Mountain forming one of the most stunning urban backdrops in the world, and few other cities can offer mountain hiking, lazing on a beach, and checking out a vibrant food and drink scene all in one day.  Lizzie Williams A recent predilection for casino demolitions is a sign of change in Las Vegas. Sin City has become a dining destination (71 percent rated it  amazing  for food), an unlikely hockey town and a hipster haven for those who venture off-Strip. Vegas claims thirteenth spot thanks to its world-beating ranking for nightlife; it also has a greater taste than anywhere else for cocktails, vaping and workplace romance. Maybe casinos are sexier than anyone gives them credit for.  Krista Diamond Despite a quarter of people in the Mexican capital continuing to feeling unsafe, locals are proud of their city, especially its food (which is among the top ten in the world) and cultural scene. Residents see more art than anyone except Parisians   which is no surprise, since Mexico City is said to have the second most museums in the world and dedicates an entire month to celebrating cultural institutions.  Mariana Guill n,  Time Out Mexico City Thanks to its legendary (and growing) bar and club scene, Manchester is an oasis for party people   and sure enough, around two thirds of locals say their city is amazing for nightlife and drinking. But what goes up must come down: residents here have more hangovers than anywhere else. Maybe that explains why two in five Mancs can t make it through the week without a comforting cup of tea.  Ian Jones When asked  Which city do you most want to visit in 2019? , few city-dwellers elsewhere opted for Philly. But its thriving restaurant scene suggests serious foodies should give it a second look. The City of Brotherly Love ranks sixth in the world for food and seventh for drink, and that only promises to improve when the new East Market brings a brewery and host of hip fast-casual joints to the heart of the city.  Josh Middleton There s no question that in Barcelona we re a critical bunch: most of those surveyed think the city is not as great now as it was a few years ago. But it does have its charms and we recognise them, especially when it comes to the local cultural and gastronomical offering and our latest favourite neighbourhood: Gr cia. Why not drop in to one our world-famous music festivals and stick around to discover the lesser-seen side of the city?  Mar a Jos  G mez,  Time Out Barcelona The Argentine capital is renowned for classic architecture, tango music and a passion for meat. But don t be fooled: Buenos Aires today is as trendy as they come. The city s nightlife is the sixth best in the world, and Porte os have broadened their palate with a vibrant and diverse culinary scene (97 percent have good things to say). The city boasts a big heart as well, with locals volunteering with charities and community groups more than anyone else.  Pedro Camacho Despite mounting public transport delays and increasing rents, Lisbon remains a great place to live for fans of good weather, good food and good laughs, and the vast majority of Lisboetas believe that the Portuguese capital has changed for the better. Only one in five said they had felt lonely lately, compared to seven out of ten who had felt happy, and locals named it among the most friendly, beautiful and safe cities in the world.  Raquel Dias da Silva,  Time Out Lisbon Residents of the US capital prize the city s free museums and walkability, and respondents praised its diversity and food scene   they just want someone to share it with. DC is a Tinder hotbed, with the world's highest rate of dating app use. It seems meeting people offline is hard for workaholic Washingtonians, who log more hours in the office than any other American city and can t fathom a week without checking email.  Kate Gibbs Tel Aviv has a notorious reputation as a wild non-stop city with a great nightlife and music scene, and the Time Out Index supports that: almost 40 percent of Tel Avivians admit to having taken drugs in the past week, more than anywhere else. Our hard-partying ways mean we re also the most likely city-dwellers to have had a one-night stand (and also to have cheated on a partner, though we re not proud of that).  Nadav Neuman,  Time Out Tel Aviv The home of Bollywood is a hub for theatre and cinema lovers   people here go out to see films and drama more than anyone else   and a sociable place, with eight out of ten saying they went out with friends in the past week. If you want to stay in, that s great too: fuelled by a wave of new delivery services such as Swiggy, Mumbai also orders online food delivery more often than any other city.  Diksha Basu From first glance, sprawling Toronto may seem like any other concrete jungle whose bustling inhabitants pass without a smile. But don t be fooled by our stoic fa ades: we re happier and friendlier than the global average (despite the awful performance of the TTC public transit system). Visitors willing to take a closer look will find Canada s biggest city has the world s fourth most diverse cultural make-up and an ever-evolving culinary scene, which two thirds of Torontonians rate as amazing.  Sandra Osojnik Like a concrete and terracotta David Bowie, England s second city continues to reinvent itself. Birmingham  which locals rated as one of the most diverse and multicultural cities in the world   is transforming as new venues open and the 2022 Commonwealth Games approach. But the city remains welcoming and friendly  so friendly, in fact, that a third of Brummies have sent naked pictures to someone they haven t met.  James Brennan Sure, Dublin is a city filled with great pubs (and 64 percent of Dubliners have visited one in the last week), but it offers so much more than just booze. New restaurants are popping up every other week, and there s a young, creative buzz around town. You can be sure of a good welcome, too: three quarters of locals describe Dublin as friendly, and a similar number couldn t get through the week without a good laugh.  Nicola Brady Although 38 percent of S o Paulo locals reported regularly feeling unsafe, Brazil s business capital ranks in the top five cities worldwide for food and nightlife. Paulistas seemingly know better than most the value of taking a little break and heading to one of their hometown s many great restaurants, or off to the clubs and bars of the city centre and Rua Augusta, usually accompanied by a friend or fifteen.  Biju Belinky Traffic, hurricanes and soaring rents are no match for resilient Miamians: about 80 percent of us reported being happy within the last 24 hours. These glass-half-full kinds know how to have a good time, voting the city third in the world for cocktails and eighth for nightlife. And we re not afraid to spread the joy to tourists: Miami ranks second in the world for locals having shacked up with someone from out of town. Talk about southern hospitality.  Virginia Gil,  Time Out Miami The sun doesn t always shine in Porto, but when it does, Portugal s second city can be incredible. Unsurprisingly for the town than invented port, we drink more wine than anyone else. Our riverside city is one of the world s most beautiful, and our culture is vibrant and artistic. And despite an increasing lack of locals in the city centre and rising property speculation, Portuenses are more likely than anyone else to say their city has changed for the better.  Mariana Morais Pinheiro,  Time Out Porto You can call Singapore many things   the cleanest, safest and second most green city on Earth, for starters   but it s definitely not boring. Singaporeans are chuffed with the city s food and drink offering: we re more willing than any other city to queue for our favourite eats, and dine out at restaurants more often than the world average too. And to balance out all that gluttony, two thirds of Singaporeans work out every week.  Nicole-Marie Ng,  Time Out Singapore You re so vain, Edinburgh, you probably think this poll is about you. More people here than anywhere else praise their city s beauty. It s not just skin-deep, either: 97 percent of those polled rated the  burgh as good or amazing for dining out and culture, rising to 99 percent for bars and pubs. Cheers!  Niki Boyle San Francisco has suffered growing pains in the last few years as this once quirky enclave for artists and activists has grown wealthier and more flashy. Despite all the changes, though, the city sparks joy in four out of five locals each day. Plus, there s one major upside to SF s gentrification: the food. Whether it s a quick Mission burrito or Michelin-starred fare, San Francisco s culinary scene ranks among the best internationally.  Shoshi Parks,  Time Out San Francisco In a city built for Instagram, one of our most surprising findings was that fewer than half of Dubaians are fussed by the idea of going a week without checking social media. Elsewhere, a reported high cost of living by those polled (with the average night out costing upwards of $130) failed to deter Dubaians from going out   82 percent of respondents had eaten in a restaurant in the past week. With almost 100 new eateries opening here every month, that s good news for prospective restaurateurs.  Holly Sands,  Time Out Dubai Munich s reputation is founded on its status as a very modern city which at the same time closely cherishes its past, and sure enough, a slight majority of M nchners say the city has hardly changed since they have lived here. With numerous fabulous green spaces and countless beer gardens, it s easy to see why locals named Munich the greenest city in Europe; it s also the cleanest and safest.  Paul Wheatley Although Vienna is notorious in Austria for its  grant  (grumpiness), it s a sociable place: three quarters of Viennese respondents had met up with friends in the past week. Locals rate the culture scene too, although the city of Klimt, Schiele and Mozart was more likely to stimulate those over 35 than younger residents. And Vienna s beautiful Baroque architecture may have been what prompted more locals than anywhere else to say their city had hardly changed.  Susanne Garber Shanghai is a blend of the past and the future in the present, with towering skyscrapers juxtaposed by leafy lanes   but while locals were among the most likely in the world to say the city had changed since they arrived, far more thought this had been for the better than for the worse. Rating their hometown much more highly for fun, cleanliness and convenience than Beijingers, Shanghainese respondents were also more likely to feel happy than those in the Chinese capital.  Adam Hopkins,  Time Out Shanghai The Russian capital is an undoubted cultural hotspot: 99 percent of Muscovites rate the arts scene positively. This huge city has become greener, more modern and more convenient, and Muscovites have noticed the difference, with more than half saying Moscow has changed for the better in the time they ve been living there. But when it comes to relationships, they re in favour of preserving the status quo   a third of Muscovites are single and planning to stay that way.  Marina Likacheva,  Time Out Moscow It might lack the glitz of Mumbai, but Delhi more than holds its own when it comes to food and family. The gastronomy-packed Indian capital scored first-place honours for tight-knit kinship, with Delhiites connecting with relatives almost once a week on average. Don t expect only quiet dinners at home, however: the city claimed the number one spot worldwide for staying up until sunrise. And it has a romantic streak too: Delhi is the least favourable city for one-night stands.  Ariel Sophia Bardi Seattle s rapid growth over the past couple of decades has been tied to the big corporations headquartered here, like Starbucks and Amazon. That s probably why Seattleites felt the most stressed of any city in our survey. But 79 percent also reported feeling happy in the last 24 hours, likely thanks in part to the city s strong live music scene and green living. In fact, fear of missing out runs high here   possibly because there s so much to do.  Megan Hill Five years since the notorious  lockout laws  were introduced, Sydneysiders are feeling bereft of after-dark culture: we rated our city worst in the world for nightlife. But what we lack in late-night spontaneity, we make up in health and happiness: 79 percent of us feel content and 71 percent hit the gym, beach or pavements each week, making us the fittest city in the world. And we re not just buff beach bodies: almost two thirds said there s usually something good on when it comes to culture.  Emma Joyce,  Time Out Sydney The capital of the UAE is often in the shadow of its neighbour Dubai, but according to the Time Out Index it has at least one thing that Dubai doesn t: the world s highest number of people going dairy-free. Apparently, Dhabians also work harder than everyone else, with respondents currently in employment clocking up 51 and a half hours a week. And it s a city of change for the better, coming fifth in the world for cities that have improved the most.  Paul Clifford,  Time Out Abu Dhabi Dim sum, egg tarts and fatty roasted pork: there are plenty of delicious eats to be enjoyed in well-fed Hong Kong, where more than 90 percent of respondents eat out at least once a week. Hongkongers also know how to kick back with a good drink: nearly all of us praise the local bar scene. But don t let that fool you   we re also fitness freaks, with two thirds working out regularly. It just goes to show how diverse this city is.  Dorothy So,  Time Out Hong Kong Formerly a meat-and-potatoes town, Boston is now home to a cornucopia of health-minded eateries offering vegetarian, vegan, and coeliac-friendly offerings: in fact, we re the most gluten-free city-dwellers in the world. And despite our notoriously fickle weather, health-minded Bostonians would rather do anything other than sit in the dark for two hours: how else to explain the fact that we visit movie theatres less often than anyone else?  Eric Grossman,  Time Out Boston Rio de Janeiro gets a bad rap for crime and violence, with respondents ranking it the world s most unsafe city, yet that doesn t stop thousands of tourists and locals flocking each year to its unforgettable, party-centric Carnival. Perhaps that s why residents rated Rio the most fun city in South America, as well as the friendliest and most beautiful (those incredible beaches!). Its nickname of  the Marvellous City  seems well deserved.  Sarah Brown Marseille doesn t have a great reputation   and sure enough, locals rated it the worst in the world for cleanliness (and number one for not being able to get through a week without cigarettes). But there is much more to the Phocean City: it ranks as the most sociable on the planet, and 73 percent of Marseillais felt happy in the last 24 hours. Who wouldn t in this sunny, multicultural, slightly crazy Mediterranean playground?  Elisabeth Blanchet Tensions are high in Bangkok due to the impending general elections, the first since the 2014 coup, but that s not stopping us from doing the two things we love best: eating and socialising! Bangkokians step out to enjoy street food or eat at food markets almost twice a week on average, and are more likely to make new friends and start new relationships than anyone else. Friendly people and abundant food options are just two good reasons to plan a visit.  Top Koaysomboon,  Time Out Bangkok Kuala Lumpur isn t the happiest city in the world right now, due to the lingering 1MDB scandal and the confusion of a new political era, but KLites are socialising with gusto: each week more than two thirds meet up with friends and another third go on a date. The Malaysian capital s deliciously thriving dining scene sees it taking second place for frequency of dining out globally   and number one for brunching.  Tze Yuen,  Time Out Kuala Lumpur With its population of over 20 million people, it s little wonder that Beijingers find the city a great place to meet new people. Around 85 percent of those surveyed regularly make new friends and meet up with old ones, and Beijing ranked overall as the third best city to start a new relationship. Beijingers also find the Chinese capital a safe and dynamic place to live, though it s short on green space.  Katie Cundale,  Time Out Beijing Even following years of excessive development, Istanbul retains its beauty and remains as sociable as ever, with 86 percent saying that they had a night out with friends in the last week. As the lira s value has dropped, the city has become a considerably more affordable destination for travellers (though less so for locals). And if you like coffee, even better: 97 percent of Istanbulites drink the stuff, more than anywhere else.  Yusuf Huysal,  Time Out Istanbul We quizzed more than 15,000 people around the world to come up with what we reckon is the definitive list of the planet s cultural and culinary hotspots. [title] Paid content By entering your email address you agree to our  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy  and consent to receive emails from Time Out about news, events, offers and partner promotions. Thanks for subscribing! Look out for your first newsletter in your inbox soon! By entering your email address you agree to our  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy  and consent to receive emails from Time Out about news, events, offers and partner promotions. Thanks for subscribing! Look out for your first newsletter in your inbox soon!  2019 Time Out England Limited and affiliated companies owned by Time Out Group Plc. All rights reserved. Time Out is a registered trademark of Time Out Digital Limited. By entering your email address you agree to our  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy  and consent to receive emails from Time Out about news, events, offers and partner promotions. Thanks for subscribing! Look out for your first newsletter in your inbox soon! 