Crea Tyler Scam : DeFranco Hopefully we can get some notice to this ie Phil clarify all of this Video of why i am so great etc.  https://youtu.be/RZiANEJHMGg This is from a comment on one of his videos I stumbled upon this guy few days ago and did a lot of research. Everything is not how it seems. He might be in trouble. Backstory: Tyler made a video in high school during 2014-2015, where he and his friends went on a beach and had fun and that video got some attention in the news. He sold it to a TV company and got some money out of it. 2015 he quit college after attending a few months then and moved to LA. He moved in with 2 guys Adam Horowitz and Charles DeWitte already living in a West Hollywood mansion. These two guys are known to be scam artist from Cape Town South Africa who run shady businesses selling instagram marketing tools and webinars. Tyler probably did not know these guys are cons but keep reading. Charles DeWitte runs a shady business called Advancers which consults people “how to get rich”. Adam has a similar pages where he sells instagram marketing tools and webinars. One tool reviewed as a scam by this site  https://stoppingscams.com/mobile-monopoly-v2-0-is-loud-and-proud/ . In around March, Tyler, Adam and Johnny Elles (surfer) started to produce a youtube channel called “New Yewth” (videos have been removed ), about their life in this mansion in West Hollywood and travelling. I’ve found some of those episodes still from youtube showing Tyler and Adam in LA, Ibiza, St. Tropez and Mexico. In most of the episodes Tyler is clearly on drugs, I think Meth and Weed with his buddy Adam and Johnny. And the video content, well, there hardly is none. The show was quickly removed from youtube. I suspect because of drug use and lack of content and failed negotiations with a TV production company. Rumours of the use of view bots were also commented by someone. 2 months ago In November Tyler moved out of the West Hollywood mansion to his rented studio with all the production gear. November 10th Brandon Amato contacted Tyler because he had stumbled on Tyler on youtube. Now Tyler is running a publicity stunt to get teenage instagram followers to buy his membership crap.  https://creatyler.club/  He is selling memberships to his Exclusive Club. Your trying to lure teenagers to get to buy your designs, so you could get rich and famous without first actually doing anything else than spending a year partying. You are actually scamming teenagers who think you are something cool and make them really sad because they want to be rich too. Business plan: 1. Get teenagers instagram contacts. 2. Lure them to proceed to your “exclusive site” 3. Promise exclusive stupid stuff and let them think they are part of some movement 4. Sell the “normal 350$ memberships” at discount price 49,90$ 5. 14000+ job applicants + 5 tagged friends = 70 000 customers 6. 70 000 customers * 39,90$ = 2.7 million dollars of sales revenue Getting their instagram information from the job applications + 5 of their friends. This scam he got from his con buddies Charles and Adam. Rest of this is speculation: Tyler might make some money out of instagram. He claims to co-own the @earth name, with 3 million followers (and also millions with @earthpix and so on…). I don’t know anything of this Co-owner Andy. Tyler claimed he was talking with him in one of the new episodes and then said to have lost the footage. That made me think it might be some kind of scam as well. Tyler has probably spent most of his money on the gear, the mansion rent and travelling expenses (and the private Jet) and drugs. He also have been scammed by his flat mates. I think the app he claims to be doing might actually be Adam’s app, because I know Adam was trying to sell it to Justin Escalona (Tyler’s friend running a channel called Daily Docs “PlayTheGameFilms”) in one of the episodes. You can see Tyler in many of Justin’s Daily Docs episodes and this is also why I got to know so much about him. Now: He went to Miami for new years, probably scored some Meth and is running out of ideas. He took out the newest video of him in Miami because I had exposed him in the comments. Please like this and comment. Tyler if you are reading this, please stop everything it’s not too late. Sorry that I laid everything out there, but I had to. Your 15 year old fans get a totally wrong idea about youtube, life and everything. They look at Jay Alvarrez and Alexis Ren clips and think that’s all given. You are not a good role model right now. Get help chill out for a bit and regroup. It’s ok to fail. You learn by succeeding and failing, that’s life. It’s not the end of the world. You’re not the only one who’s been scammed or who is scamming. And kids! Stay in School!﻿ Edit:(comment from this video:  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jl893IVsV0U ) saw this about this creatyler guy. some info about him and you &# x27;ll get a kick out of it lol. the guy is a scheme artist for sure! https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zbVHDBTc8q4 & t=4s Came here to suggest this! amazing post 71.3k Beautiful Bastards 128 Getting philed in May 20, 2011 Cake Day 