18 Best Restaurants in Prague Right Now icon-chevron-right icon-chevron-right icon-chevron-right icon-chevron-right Think Czech food, think meat and potatoes? There s so much more to eating out in Prague than just stodge. Three decades after the Velvet Revolution opened the country s borders to the world, international influences can be detected everywhere, and traditional Czech recipes have been twisted into an infinity of delish fusion plates. Whether it s the gaggle of pho bars  run by the long-standing Czech-Vietnamese community, or the growing band of veggie and vegan addresses that draw inspiration from across the globe, surprises are plentiful around here. Looking for somewhere to chill out (and stock up) after a long day exploring this city s array of brilliant  things to do ? Our pick of the very best restaurants in Prague has you covered. Just remember to book in advance   they re an oddly proactive bunch in these parts. Eaten somewhere on this list and loved it? Share it with the hashtag #TimeOutEatList. You can find out more about  how Time Out makes recommendations and reviews restaurants here . Recipes based on a 19th-century Czech cookbook, but refined to impress any of today s gourmands   that s what La Degustation Boh me Bourgeoise has achieved, and so it s no wonder the folk at Michelin have come a-lauding (and awarding). The chef changes the menu daily, so come here ready to just relax and let the artfully prepared small plates arrive at your table. Price:  High-end Prague s second 2019 Michelin star belongs to Field, which attempts to source locally while creating an exciting, Scandinavian-inspired menu. You have the option of ordering their ten-course tasting menu or eating   la carte, and both give you choices like kohlrabi and quark or various fish creations you ll be hard-pressed to find elsewhere in the landlocked Czech Republic. In addition to wine pairings with the taster menu, Field also features non-alcoholic drink pairings   mostly vegetable juices. Price: Mid-range/high-end Treat your taste buds to a wide selection of meats, freshly butchered and cooked to your tastes (which you specify on a hand-written order form). Seats fill up fast in this elegant former bank building, so you might need to eat on your feet at a long communal standing table in the lobby. If you re up for an adventurous, waste-no-part-of-the-animal approach, reserve a spot for dinner with the butcher every Monday through Wednesday. Price:  Bargain It s a bit of a stretch to refer to Na e Maso (which translates as  Our Meat ) as a restaurant   really, it s a butcher s shop with a few coveted tables. You can always count on the meat being fresh, locally sourced and treated with loving care from the team of butchers in the back. Although this is a physically tiny member of Prague s Ambiente restaurant group, it still thrills crowds daily. Price:  Bargain/mid-range The painted starry sky, meat-free menu and peaceful vibe of Lehk  Hlava (meaning  clear head ) has kept Prague s vegetarian community smiling for more than a decade. As vegan and vegetarianism continue to grow in popularity among younger generations, reservations have become more and more essential at this small neighbourhood favourite near the river side of the Old Town. A glossary of meat alternatives at the back of the menu helps to clarify the latest additions to staple ingredients like tofu, tempeh and quinoa. Price: Mid-range Many of Prague s best restaurants focus on meats and butchery, but for moreish carby treats, an array of killer Czech bakeries can also deliver. An aroma of fresh baked bread tempts passers-by into Eska s warehouse space decorated in light, Scandinavian-inspired design in the Karl n area. Chlebi ky  (open sandwiches) and speciality coffee make for an ideal snack, but the seasonal tasting menu using farmers  market finds is a feast worth booking for. Price:  Mid-range At first glance, the medieval decoration at U Modr  kachni ky   think armour, lush maroon velvet, lots of mahogany   might strike you as kitsch. But once you re treated to the welcoming service and creative d gustation menus filled with duck and wild game, it all becomes rather more endearing. Pairing each course with wine will teach you a thing or two about Czech vino. Make sure you save room for dessert. Price:  Mid-range/high-end For a multi-sensory gastronomic experience, you can t beat perennial favourite Terasa U Zlat  Studn . This small, elegant restaurant in the Golden Well Hotel, just below Prague Castle, serves a selection of Czech and European classics. It also comes with a view like no other. Come here on a warm evening, indulge in the tasting menu, enjoy a bottle of wine or two, and watch the sun set over the city. Price:  High-end A burger place ranking as one of the top restaurants in a Central European capital? Before you scoff, have a look at Hillbilly Burger s short but oh-so-sweet menu of burgers and a few other pub favourites. How about a goat s cheese burger with honey and rocket, for example? Rather than cornering vegetarians into just one or two choices, Hillbilly will also happily slap replace any meat burger with a veggie patty. Price:  Mid-range Vietnamese food should really be one of Prague s top attractions. Pho Vietnam Tuan  &  Lan provides the city s most basic   and outright delish   versions of Vietnamese classics, whether it s pho to warm up after a day of sightseeing or a couple of spring rolls to enjoy on the square across the street. You ve got two seating options at this joint   either come prepared to stand at one of the counters, or take the food elsewhere. Price:  Bargain You ll notice La Bottega Linka s sleek lighting and design from the street when you walk by, but the quality of the Italian meal is what you ll remember as you leave. They use a special charcoal fired  X-Oven  that cooks the meat, fish and veg to perfection and leaves them with a particularly woody flavour. The space was home to one of the city s most beloved delis during the Interwar period. Price:  Mid-range/high-end Prague is a city known for its skyline of spires and towers, so why not try dining inside one? At Restaurant Zvonice, you literally sit around the bells at wooden tables inside Jind i sk  Tower, just down the street from Wenceslas Square. They do traditional Bohemian Czech food just right   trust us and try the sauerkraut soup   and the atmosphere is intimate and homely. Price:  High-end Engawa s sushi rolls, ranging from classic to creative, are impossibly fresh and beautifully presented against a backdrop of muralled walls, peacock feathers and dim lighting. Hot pots and grilled meats are there to placate any friends who wrinkle their noses at the thought of  raw fish . Price:  Mid-range/high-end We know what you re thinking. A restaurant next to Prague s famed (and heavily trafficked) Charles Bridge couldn t possibly focus much on taste, right? Ml nec, however, emphatically breaks that pattern with a modern, seasonal Czech menu (we re talking veal tartare, duck confit) mixed with more international flavours (vegan tempeh, seared scallops). The sommelier can help you pair with the best that Moravia   the Czech wine region   has to offer. Price:  Mid-range/high-end Cafefin fast made a name for itself on Instagram with its colourful, shabby-chic interior, avocado toast and tasty b nh m  sandwiches. They ll also set you up with a quality midday coffee fix, but far more interesting   if less caffeinated   is their passion fruit lemonade. Price:  Bargain Snagging a seat at this popular brunch spot requires good timing and luck, but their fluffy eggs benedict and Florentine souffl s are absolutely worth waiting for. Pair yours with a palate-pleasing espresso or fresh homemade lemonade. Eclectic wood furniture softened with retro cushions make this caf  a favourite of freelancers and hip young parents in no hurry to give up their seats. Price:  Bargain Run by a sweet Korean couple who warmly greet regulars and first-timers alike, Bibimbap Korea will give you an unforgettable culinary tour of its namesake country. You d be remiss not to at least try the  bibimbap,  a traditional rich dish topped with sliced meat and veg. Their Korean fried chicken is also memorable, but your best bet is to order family-style and try as much as possible. Price:  Bargain/mid-range Bright, minimalist d cor welcomes visitors to Fresh  &  Fat Bistro when you walk in, though the menu is anything but minimalist. Seasonal risottos? Beetroot and goat s cheese salads? Fresh pok  bowls? They re all here, and more. This bistro in the And l neighbourhood is busiest at lunch, while dinners are relatively quiet. Price:  Mid-range Whatever neighbourhood you re in, for a truly traditional experience in Prague, pivo (beer) is the drink of choice. But if small-producer wines are more your thing, several more intimate venues will deliver the goods. The crux is, you re in for an excellent time whatever s your tipple.  Na zdrav ! [title] Paid content By entering your email address you agree to our  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy  and consent to receive emails from Time Out about news, events, offers and partner promotions. Thanks for subscribing! Look out for your first newsletter in your inbox soon! By entering your email address you agree to our  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy  and consent to receive emails from Time Out about news, events, offers and partner promotions. Thanks for subscribing! Look out for your first newsletter in your inbox soon!  2019  By entering your email address you agree to our  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy  and consent to receive emails from Time Out about news, events, offers and partner promotions. Thanks for subscribing! Look out for your first newsletter in your inbox soon! 