Davina Diaries Fiction: Hadiza Forever S2- Eps One - Davina Diaries Hi, guys, this is a continuation of the story  Hadiza Forever  in case you missed it you meant what to catch up so as to enable you to flow with this.  Click here to check it out.    Hamza’s Desire S1- Eps One Sukura is a plain land ruled by an iron king, Emir Hamza the 30 th . Sukura has three large cities: The Capital, where the king resides; Mahal – the trade city where most members of the ruling class reside; and El Kabar – the slavedom. The Emir is the most powerful person but his powers could be checked by the council of chiefs and elders, the “Akbaru”. They crowned the king and if he was doing something bad, they had the power to remove him. The members of the Akbaru all went by the title “Haida” which meant ‘wiser.’ ‘Long live your highness’ Haida El Radeen bowed before the king. He was the oldest and most powerful Haida and all the others were subject to him. ‘Speak on El Radeen’ King Hamza urged him on. ‘My lord, it is exactly a year since you locked your mother Hajia Alilat, Umaru the usurper and Aisha in the dungeon; I think it is time to execute judgment’ Haida El Radeen said. ‘He is right my King! Let the sinners be punished, let them pay for their sins. Even Allah is a righteous judge’ another Haida, Nestak, seconded. ‘The sinners must pay’ members of the Akbaru stomped their feet. ‘Enough! Hamza yelled authoritatively. Hamza’s mind was a swirl of emotions. He thought about his mother and all the things she had done; he knew she deserved to die for plotting Hadiza’s attempted rape but he could not imagine giving her the death penalty. She was still his mother.   ‘One more thing my lord’ Haida El Radeen raised his hand. ‘Yes Haida?’ Hamza raised his brow. ‘It has been a year since you married Queen Hadiza, the people grow impatient; they need to know what the king plans for the future. The people of Sukura are restless’ El Radeen paused as one of the King’s guards whispered swiftly into his ears. ‘This meeting is over’ Hamza thundered angrily. He glared darkly at the man who had just reminded him of Hadiza’s barrenness. Fear filled him as he rushed out of the throne room, he had just received disturbing news about her health. ‘Did you have to bring up that issue just yet?’ Haida Nestak fired at El Radeen. ‘If I don’t bring up the issue now, when are we ever going to discuss it?’ El Radeen fired back. ‘I don’t know what you are up to but I know the people have no problem with Emir Hamza, he is the best thing that has happened to Sukura. In just one year, the gap between the wealthy of Sukura and the poor has been bridged; the people are no longer hungry, there is enough grain for all and they are not made to pay taxes. I don’t understand your agitation’ Nestak pointed a finger at El Radeen. He was the only Haida that could stand up to the ruthless and fierce El Radeen; the other Haidas cowered before him. Nestak would have none of that; he believed in justice, equity and serving Allah in honesty and humility. ‘How dare you point that rotten finger at me! I speak the mind of the people, we need an heir or he gets a new wife’ El Radeen stamped his feet. ‘I see. I guess your daughters are ripe for marriage, hence your agitation, you filthy scum’ Nestak was raged. ‘It is your whole family that are made of scum, bastard of Mahal’ El Radeen hissed. ‘You calling me a bastard won’t change a thing; it won’t cause the truth to stagger’ Nestak ignored his insult. ‘And what cannot be changed?’ El Radeen lifted a brow. ‘The fact that Hamza is better than Danjuma and Lafa; he is the best king we have had in ages. You should be grateful to God for that. Whatever happened to patience, El Radeen? Instead of mounting so much pressure on the king, your job is to pray and offer sacrifices’ Nestak advised. ‘Scum and bastard, utter fool!’ El Radeen hissed angrily and walked out of the palace. ‘May you find yourself in Al-Gor, mad man’ Nestak hissed.       She had fought this pain that had grown inside of her; she had fought the tears from falling down her face but she couldn’t hold back anymore. She screamed and her maids and guards rushed to her rescue. ‘My angel, what is it, how do you feel?’ Hamza held his breath as he stared at his wife’s pale and weak frame. ‘I…’ Hadiza let the tears flow freely on her face. ‘My angel, please talk to me’ Hamza fell on his knees beside her. ‘I lost the child’ Hadiza cried. ‘Haba! This is the fourth pregnancy you’re losing in one year; why are the gods so unkind?’ Hamza’s eyes brimmed with tears. Each time she lost a child, it took her days to recover from the pain and the bleeding; he had offered sacrifices and prayed for this fourth pregnancy but things remained the same. ‘I don’t know what to do, maybe I am cursed. Maybe your mother was right, we should never have gotten married’ Hadiza wept against his chest. ‘Please don’t say that Hadi, you are not cursed. You are a blessing to me, a special gift sent from Allah. Please don’t cry, God will give us another child’ Hamza caressed her face. He was greatly terrified; already the people had started asking questions and if care wasn’t taken, someone was going to usurp him. ‘Why do you look so angry?’ Hadiza observed he wasn’t in a good mood. ‘Nothing’ Hamza replied, how could he tell her what El Radeen had asked of him? ‘My lord? You promised never to hide a thing from me, please don’t lie to me’ Hadiza braced herself for this news that troubled him. ‘I met with the Haida today…’ he paused, not knowing how to begin. ‘And what did they say?’ Hadiza asked. ‘They are calling for the death of a mother, Aisha and Umar’ Hamza replied. ‘Please spare you mother and Aisha my friend, I know they both wronged me but I am willing to forgive them’ fear gripped Hadiza as she imagined Aisha getting beheaded. She would never forgive herself. She still loved Aisha very much; Aisha was like a sister to her and she was willing to take her back in. ‘She is not your friend. That wayward girl cannot be your friend. Have you forgotten how she told Mallam Metu lies about me? Aisha does not have your best interests at heart’ Hamza pulled back from her. ‘I know. Even your own mother hated me too and I know deep down that you are not willing to see her head on the pike; Why don’t you spare Aisha too? Your mother committed worse crimes? She poisoned Fatma, almost poisoned me and planted Aimal, your guard to rape me. Tell me, husband, did Aisha do all these?’ Hadiza asked. Hamza was silent for a while, he understood where she was coming from and she was quite right. His mother deserved to die even more than Aisha, but he couldn’t kill her. He was the king and his decision was final. ‘So is that what made you upset?’ She pressed on. ‘Yes’ he lied and avoided her eyes. ‘Don’t worry my angel, everything would be fine. Always remember my smiling face when you are sad’ Hadiza smiled weakly and caressed the fine tiny beards on his face. ‘I love you with all my heart Hadi’ he planted a soft kiss on her lips. ‘Someone is at the door’ Hadiza noticed the shadow that lingered. See Also: Davina Diaries Fiction: Hadiza Forever S1- Final Episode   To be Continued….     beautiful beginning. Yes so glad its back. Nice beginning DD Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. This site uses Akismet to reduce spam.  Learn how your comment data is processed . 