D7200 shutter count: Nikon DX SLR (D40-D90, D3000-D7500) Talk Forum: Digital Photography Review I purchased a refurbished D7200 a couple of months ago with a shutter count of 2065. The file names are set to sequencial and i don ' t remember changing it. According to the last file number subtracted from the current shutter count equals 2089. 24 higher than it should be. Am I missing something. Just curious why the discrepancy? Could it have missed writing some shots on Ch? Use an EXIF reader and find the recorded shutter count. Or you can upload here a JPEG straight from the camera (without any processing) in your post to verify the shutter count. Victor Bucuresti, Romania http://picasaweb.google.com/victorpetcu69/ http://picasaweb.google.com/teodor.nitica/ http://picasaweb.google.com/vpreallize/ http://picasaweb.google.com/v.petcu.gci/ http://picasaweb.google.com/vpetcu.gci.arhiva/ http://picasaweb.google.com/v.petcu.poze/ http://picasaweb.google.com/millenia.advisory/ http://s106.photobucket.com/albums/m268/victor_petcu/ I use  http://www.myshuttercount.com/ hilsat wrote: I purchased a refurbished D7200 a couple of months ago with a shutter count of 2065. The file names are set to sequencial and i don ' t remember changing it. According to the last file number subtracted from the current shutter count equals 2089. 24 higher than it should be. Am I missing something. Just curious why the discrepancy? Could it have missed writing some shots on Ch? Using live view can add shutter counts beyond the number of pictures taken. I believe simply entering live view and then exiting it counts as one shutter actuation. 24 isn ' t a crazy discrepancy; After 5 years, my D7000 has a difference of over 400 right now (16475 pictures, 16929 shutter activations). LeftyAce wrote: hilsat wrote: I purchased a refurbished D7200 a couple of months ago with a shutter count of 2065. The file names are set to sequencial and i don ' t remember changing it. According to the last file number subtracted from the current shutter count equals 2089. 24 higher than it should be. Am I missing something. Just curious why the discrepancy? Could it have missed writing some shots on Ch? Using live view can add shutter counts beyond the number of pictures taken. I believe simply entering live view and then exiting it counts as one shutter actuation. 24 isn ' t a crazy discrepancy; After 5 years, my D7000 has a difference of over 400 right now (16475 pictures, 16929 shutter activations). That may be it. I haven ' t used live view but my have inadvertently gone into live view mode. I use exiftool to get my shutter count. I shoot raw. I did shoot some with raw and jpg but I wouldn ' t think that would raise the count. Not a big deal just got me a little curious. Thanks to all. Martin The Olympus OM-D E-M5 Mark III is the company's latest Micro Four Thirds camera; it looks great, feels great, and takes beautiful photos. There's a lot to like, but there are a few things we'd change. Find out more in our full review. Sony's flagship APS-C camera, the a6600, is a refinement of its predecessor and now includes industry-leading autofocus and battery life. But is that enough to earn it top marks? We think Sony could have pushed the boundaries a little further - find out how in our full review. With the EOS M6 Mark II, Canon has taken its midrange mirrorless game up a notch. Offering the highest-res APS-C sensor on the market, 4K video, super-fast burst shooting and comfortable ergonomics, the M6 II is compact and a real pleasure to shoot with. Get all the details in our full review. The PowerShot G7 X Mark III doesn't stray from the formula that made its predecessors well-liked, at least on the outside. Its feature set, however, has been greatly improved, with live YouTube streaming being the highlight. The Fujifilm X-Pro3's new viewfinder, new screen and titanium construction all make for an appealing camera, but perhaps only for a certain type of photographer. If you're looking for a high-quality camera, you don't need to spend a ton of cash, nor do you need to buy the latest and greatest new product on the market. In our latest buying guide we've selected some cameras that while they're a bit older, still offer a lot of bang for the buck. What s the best camera for under $1500? These midrange cameras should have capable autofocus systems, lots of direct controls and the latest sensors offering great image quality. In this buying guide we ve rounded up all the current interchangeable lens cameras costing less than $1500 and recommended the best. Looking to get in on the instant camera fun? We tried every model and think the Fujifilm Instax Mini 70 strikes the right balance between price and feature - the Instax Wide 300 is our choice if you crave a larger format. Long-zoom compacts fill the gap between pocketable cameras and interchangeable lens models with expensive lenses, offering a great combination of lens reach and portability. Read on to learn about our favorite enthusiast long zoom cameras. 'What's the best mirrorless camera?' We're glad you asked. 