Arica - Wikitravel Arica  is a seaside resort town, known for its surfing beaches (170,000 pop) located at the tip of  Northern Chile . Arica has a mild, temperate climate year-round with some of the lowest annual rainfall rates anywhere in the world.  It's quiet, relaxed and safe, with several nice beaches and sun virtually every day of the year. You will rarely find any clouds in the sky above Arica. This city is the northern gateway to  Peru  and  Bolivia . Numerous buses arrive daily from centers further south in Chile, for instance  San Pedro de Atacama ,  Calama  and  Iquique .  Daily buses come in from Bolivia,  La Paz ,  Cochabamba  and  Oruro . Not to those coming from Ororo: there are no direct buses, so you will also have to get a bus to Patacamaya to transfer to the bus to Arica.  It may be easier to go to La Paz first and transfer there. Colectivos (shared taxis) arrive and depart continually from Peru during border opening hours 24 hours day  &  night, taking passengers from the International Terminal in Arica to the International Terminal in  Tacna , Peru. From the National Terminal (alongside) buses come in from other centers in Peru. Note there are no direct buses from  Arequipa ,  Cuzco  or  Puno  to Arica or viza versa.  From the airport, there is a private transport service asking 4.000 CLP for a shared taxi and 14.000 CLp for a (private) taxi to your hotel in Arica. Transportation to the airport is offered by the same company, simply call for a pick up. An uber should´t charge more than 10.000 CLP to the city (Dec 2018). There are railway lines coming from La Paz (Bolivia) and Tacna (Peru) but neither are operational as of January 2013. Update 2019: The train from and to Tacna is in service again and runs twice a day, departing from Arica at around 9 am and 7 pm. Tickets are available for 3800 Pesos (2019). Book in advance due to the limited seat capacity. Walking will get you most places in town, although numerous buses run along the major avenues for those in a hurry. They are also handy for getting to and from the bus station. The fare is $400 CLP (June 2019). They will have their general route listed on a sign on the windshield. Colectivos are also extremely numerous and cost 500- 600 CLP per trip. They are small or mid-sized black and yellow cars (usually Hyundais and Kias) and can be hailed at bus stops labeled PARADA MIXTO.  The number which you can see on a sign on the roof indicates the route their driving. While buses stay on the route, these taxis will drive you to the exact place close to their route. You can check the routes of the different buses and taxis here:  www.sitpa.cl/SITPA/ Taxis and radio taxis are also an option. Taxis will have a blue light on in the windshield which says LIBRE if they are free.  Radio taxis can be called by restaurants and hotels. Uber is available aswell, but officially not permitted in Chile. Vibrant night life - a good night out for every night of the week.You can also enjoy a world-class caipirinha or other beverages in the menagerie of bars peppered around the town centre. You can rent bicycles at  Norte Outdoor  and ride following San José River upstream to see the Azapa Valley attractions: Geoglifos de Cerro Sombrero (free), Pukará de San Lorenzo, San Miguel de Azapa Archaeological Museum (admission fees apply, Open 10am-6pm daily). You could also take a colectivo to the valley instead of riding a bicycle. You can also reach the historic village of Poconchile by bicycle, but it takes big efforts over a couple mountain passes. Poconchile can also be reached by riding the train, operated by  FCALP EFE Ferrocarril Arica - La Paz  on specific dates. Purchase tickets online at  Tren Turistico EFE FCALP . Buses and shared taxis (colectivos) to Tacna, Peru leave regularly all day and take 1.5 to 2 hours. These can be caught from the international bus terminal, which is only about 100 meters from the main bus terminal, across the car park. As of January 2018, the price for a bus is 2.000 while colectivos cost 4,000 pesos, or 18 Peruvian soles. They leave as soon as they are full: Colecivus (4 or 5 passengers) and bus (34 passengers); the driver also helps you through immigration and customs. Buses cost a little bit less, but take longer. On the other side, you´ll have more space in busses than in colectivos. From Tacna, buses go regularly to Arequipa, Lima, and Puno. For Cusco, it is necessary to change buses in either Arequipa or Puno. The bus from Tacna to Arequipa is around 30 Soles. One day tours from Arica cost $20,000 pesos, for travel guide and meals, but you will probably only spend at most three hours in the park. The rest of the time is travel, visiting interesting sites en route and eating meals. You also can book tours in Putre whixh reduces travel time during the day. The price for two days to Chungara and salar de surire incl. hostel and lunch is 90.000 (2019). 