Zoella Celebrates Eight MILLION YouTube Subscribers: Her Biggest Achievements To Date! She’s the biggest YouTuber in the UK. But 24-year-old Zoe Sugg aka  Zoella  has proved herself to be way more than just someone that who films herself in front of a handheld camera. So in celebration of landing eight MILLION subscribers on YouTube today (April 27), we’ve championed Zoe’s five biggest moments so far… Woken up to see everyone tweeting using  #Happy5YearsZoe  as my first video "60 things in my bedroom" hits its 5 year birthday! ☺️ thanks guys 1 Mental Health Ambassador She’s been very vocal about suffering from anxiety, appearing on ITV’s This Morning to raise awareness of the issue. But she took this role one step further by becoming mental health charity Mind’s first Digital Ambassador, to raise vital awareness of anxiety and panic attacks in young people. 2 Book Deal Ghostwriting controversy aside , Zoe’s debut novel ‘Girl Online’ topped the Amazon bestseller list and broke the record for the highest first-week sales for a debut author since records began, even outselling Harry Potter author JK Rowling. 3 Beauty Babe Following in Tanya Burr’s footsteps, Zoe launched her debut beauty range ‘Zoella Beauty’ in September 2014. The collection, consisting of bath and pampering products, trended on Twitter on the day of release. She’s also appeared in British Vogue as ‘Queen of the Haul’, focusing on her beauty videos.  4 Awards Central Zoe doesn’t just have UK appeal. Aside from winning the Best British Vlogger at the Radio 1 Teen Awards two years in a row, she’s also taken home the Teen Choice Award for Choice Web Star: Fashion/Beauty and the Nickelodeon Kids Choice Awards for UK Favourite Vlogger. Pretty impressive stuff for a twenties girl from Somerset. 5 Band Aid 30 Zoe made history as the first non-musician to appear in Band Aid, joining Band Aid 30 in 2014 to raise much-needed funds for the Ebola virus epidemic in West Africa. She starred alongside boyfriend Alfie Deyes (PointlessBlog), with the song storming to number one - becoming the year’s fastest-selling single. [ Who is Zoella? ] [ Zoella exclusive interview ] How well did your election prediction go? Wide of the mark, perhaps, like mine.Well, here’s a travel prediction for you that I believe will come true over the next few months and years. It will have a profound effect on the aviation industry, or at least on those airlines that devote themselves to cosseting passengers with premium products. And I haven ' t stopped wearing my  ' new '  jumpers Wearing a sleeveless black top, Ratajkowski made sure to show off the statement on her arm.  Weinstein, accused of offences ranging from sexual harassment to rape, won’t have to admit wrongdoing or pay his own money.  Today Harvey Weinstein and his former studio made a $25 million deal with his victims. After receiving backlash for her portrayal of real-life journalist Kathy Scruggs in Clint Eastwood’s new film Richard Jewell, Olivia Wilde is speaking out.  The movie, which was helmed by Eastwood and written by Billy Ray, tells the true story of Richard Jewell, a security guard working at the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta when he discovered a backpack full of bombs.  Jewell told police of his discovery and helped evacuate the area, saving many people. Say what you will about Rihanna and her lack of new music (and boy, do her fans have a lot to say), but the woman knows business.  Fenty’s first limited-edition 24-piece collaboration with the emerging London-based label Asai, a brand beloved by the kind of young creative people who tend to be on the cutting edge of trends.  “The alignment feels really symbiotic,” designer A Sai Ta tells British Vogue. Welcome to Money Diaries, where we ' re tackling what might be the last taboo facing modern working women: money. We ' re asking a cross-section of women how they spend their hard-earned money during a seven-day period – and we ' re tracking every last penny.This week:  " I’m a 22-year-old living and working as an English teacher in a high school in Shenzhen, China. I moved here from Scotland three months ago after graduating from university because I wanted to travel and try my hand at teaching. ... As Christmas approaches, people often feel pressured to spend well beyond their means on gifts and food, and frequently end up in debt as a result.  A recent study by debt charity StepChange found that two thirds of people are already struggling to afford Christmas.  Christmas is spoken of as a ‘magical’ time but it also brings financial pressure, with nearly a third of families using borrowed money to buy food and gifts throughout the holiday period. The most beautiful clutch bag I own was an 18th birthday present.  The party invites would follow soon, I assumed – tumbling through my door like Hogwarts letters – and off I would go with my clutch bag, into the night, both of us glittering. Whether that’s the NHS amassing medicines that we might not be able to access readily in the event of a no-deal Brexit, or individuals leaving Sainsbury’s with trolleys full of tinned food.  Which perhaps says more about the state of our politics than whether prepping is something we should all consider.  Forty-four-year-old Dr Sarita Robinson is a principal lecturer at the University of Lancaster’s School of Psychology. Biopics are one of our favourite ways to get lost in a story.  Hollywood has come a long way since the days when biopics only told the stories of older white men.  Movies like Hidden Figures and Erin Brockovich give us a glimpse into gutsy, hardworking women whose fascinating life stories would have gone untold otherwise. 24 September - 23 October 23 November - 22 December 24 August - 23 September 20 February - 20 March 22 May - 21 June 21 March - 20 April 23 July - 23 August 22 June - 22 July 21 April - 21 May 23 December - 20 January 21 January -19 February 24 October - 22 November " Self-love isn’t being delusional.… " Aa Aa Aa Aa Aa 