Open Shelves with a live edge, made by Real Wood Works, from kiln dried tree sections recovered from riparian restoration efforts a… in 2019 | Shelves, Wood shelf brackets, Live edge shelves Floating Timber Shelves These beautiful shelves are available in a number of standard sizes or can be made to a custom size. 100% Australian timbers Finished in Treatex Natural hard wax oils. Shelves are supplied with steel rods. Shelves are sold individually Floating Shelf Live edge shelf wood slab for open shelving. Tree section recovered from a local horse farm after the swollen river downed the tree. Priced separately at $310 EACH, the tree has been cut into slabs, KILN DRIED, sanded, color washed with a warm stain and then oiled, and finally, sealed with several coats of hard matte wax. The highly figured grain is most excellent - NOTE: the beautiful madder dark  " squiggles "  that look like dark brown ink randomly occurring through the wood… Hang two shelves with one set! Each bracket is bent in a C shape to allow for one shelf to be set on the top and one to rest on the bottom. Our heavy duty brackets are finished with a protective clear coat to prevent rusting. The natural steel tone gives these brackets a great industrial look. The PRODUCT DETAILS Overall Dimensions: 12 "  x 18 "  (table top)| 12 "  x 24 "  (base) Knotty Pine, Solid Wood Top  &  Shelves Black Steel Pipe  &  Fittings All-natural beeswax finish Ships disassembled OPTIONS 4 Stain Colors: Dark Walnut (as seen in photo), Ebony, Classic Gray, Natural Pine Choose your clearance by measurin Add a little touch of class to your wall decor with these golden or copper brackets! Each steel shelf bracket is bent by hand and finished with your choice of metallic gold or copper enamel. The gold finish has a beautiful, natural gold tone while the copper has a tint of pink or rose gold color Wall Shelf Ideas - Open shelving is low-cost, sensible, and fashionable. Exactly what &# x27;s more, it leaves your space feeling open as well as spacious. Live Edge furniture designed with simplicity in mind allows the individual beauty of each element to be fully appreciated. Our Natural 51 "  Acacia Wood  & ... Our floating wall shelves save space and bring a custom feel to any room! Kitchen, bathroom, living room, kids room, playroom, residential or commercial, I have tons of sizes to fit any space. I use reclaimed, recycled, leftover, salvaged, and new woods to build my shelves. Our goal is to give you Trees live on with this hand crafted wooden shelf. Functional art at its finest, as artisan furniture maker, Scott Myers, utilizes reclaimed, air-dried woods. This listed table has sold. I specialize in live edge table design and currently have a wide variety of live edge slabs in many different species and sizes available. Contact the shop for a one-of-a-kind live edge table made to your exact specifications. This stunning live edge table is crafted The Bradgate Park Live Edge Bookcase has four live edge shelves that are finished with a catalyzed conversion varnish that helps this piece looking beautiful for years to come. Wall Shelf Ideas - Open shelving is low-cost, sensible, and fashionable. Exactly what &# x27;s more, it leaves your space feeling open as well as spacious. Our floating wall shelves save space and bring a custom feel to any room! Kitchen, bathroom, living room, kids room, playroom, residential or commercial, I have tons of sizes to fit any space. I use reclaimed, recycled, leftover, salvaged, and new woods to build my shelves. Our goal is to give you Find many great new  &  used options and get the best deals for OAK FLOATING SHELVES SHELF NATURAL EDGE SOLID OAK 200MM x 35MM *FREE SHIPPING* at the best online prices at eBay! Free delivery for many products! Natural edge. Display books, photos and other prized possessions in style with our Reclaimed Wood Shelf. It pairs easily with any of our brackets for a look that &# x27;s entirely you. • Reclaimed pine. • Natural finish. • Various sizes. • Wipe… Get 25% off any order over $120.00 shop wide today! -- FREE SHIPPING!!! No coupon required, promotion applied during checkout (domestic shipping only). Single heavy duty wide steel shelf bracket. 2 wide by 3/16 thick for a wooden shelf. Choose either a natural raw metal or a hot waxed blackened 