Adopt Don ' t Shop! Meet Zeus the Pitbull + Wendy the Black Cat - PAMI His Stats : Name   Zeus Age   Young Breed   Pitbull In His Own Words: Hi there! I m Zeus. That s a mighty powerful name and that s because I am powerful; powerful in the sense that I love really hard! I ve also got some mighty big paws, the better to run with you with  A mighty big smile, because, well I m super charming. Keep scrolling up and look at my face, is there any denying that I m just the sweetest boy out there? I think not. I m off the charts friendly, smart, and I love to play! I get along with other dogs, however, since I m a bit on the strong side, I only like to play with children around 14 and up, just so they can keep up. Enough about me, I want to meet YOU! Come by the  SPCA of Westchester  and email me at shelter@spca914.org. Rumor has it, that I m easy to fall in love with, so come prepared. Her Stats : Name   Wendy Age   Two-Years-Old Breed   Domestic In Her Own Words: I know what you re thinking. I m bad luck, well I ll have you know, that s not true, and you can see for yourself by reading more about this phenomenon and change your mind,  here . I ve taken the liberty to list a few reasons why you should come visit me and take me home. Top 10 Reasons To Adopt A Black Cat 10. You ll save $$ on their Halloween costumes 9. You can always find them in the snow 8. Holding a black cat is very slimming 7. Black cats will match any decor 6. A lint brush isn t required for a black-tie affair 5. When you love a black cat,  Luck  is on your side 4. Black cats are like onyx, a beautiful gem 3. Hey, they don t care what color you are! 2. Love knows no color And the number one reason to adopt a black cat 1. They are the least likely to be adopted Do you see why it s so important to love me? Besides the fact that I will be your best friend from the jump, I also want to be your only best friend. I get greedy, and only do well with humans, not other furries. I guess you can say that s my only flaw  I don t like to share. Interested in meeting Zeus or Wendy? Please contact the SPCA of Westchester or simply stop by! 914.941.2896 info@spca914.org Make sure you let them know Maria from Pami + Me sent you! x.mc Your email address will not be published.  Required fields are marked  * Comment Name  * Email  * Website Notify me of follow-up comments by email. Notify me of new posts by email. Current ye@r  * Leave this field empty Westchester, NY 