Hotel Mogul: Las Vegas APK 1.7.0 Download - Free Games APK Download App Rating : 3.8/5 based on 258 reviews Facebook Twitter WhatsApp AddThis This is an original apk file fetch from google play. It is safe to download and free of any virus. Hotel Mogul: Las Vegas App Infos Hotel Mogul: Las Vegas Screenshot About Hotel Mogul: Las Vegas Hotel Mogul: Las Vegas APK helps you playing a game,killing time. If you need match three,puzzle game,strategy game,hidden object, Hotel Mogul: Las Vegas APK is the best pc version,fun addicting,past time,challenging levels,relaxing game. Hotel Mogul: Las Vegas is a  Casual game developed by Alawar Entertainment, Inc.. The latest version of Hotel Mogul: Las Vegas is 1.7.0. It was released on . You can download Hotel Mogul: Las Vegas 1.7.0 directly on Allfreeapk.com. Over 258 users rating a average 3.8 of 5 about Hotel Mogul: Las Vegas. More than 10000 is playing Hotel Mogul: Las Vegas right now. Coming to join them and download Hotel Mogul: Las Vegas directly! What's New Create a hotel empire in the heart of Las Vegas, complete with five-star accommodations, upscale restaurants and glamorous casinos!  With colorful graphics, levels packed with animation, and hours of addictive time management action, Hotel Mogul: Las Vegas hits the jackpot of fun! To many people, Las Vegas is "The City of Lights" or "The Entertainment Capital of the World".  But to you, Las Vegas is a city of opportunity!  Buy low and then sell high in a winner-takes-all competition for land, money and bragging rights.  Outsmart the competition as you acquire new properties, purchase supplies and hire workers.  And upgrade your holdings until the city shines like the diamond in the desert it was meant to be! The original Hotel Mogul was the No. 1 game and the No. 2 paid application on the U.S. AppStore.   GAME FEATURES: ◇ 39 thrilling levels ◇ Five vibrant settings ◇ 30 glamorous buildings ◇ 25 compelling shop upgrades ◇ In-game tutorial ◇ OpenFeint online leaderboards and achievements Hotel Mogul: Las Vegas Permissions Hotel Mogul: Las Vegas APK Identity: find accounts on the device Hotel Mogul: Las Vegas APK Contacts: find accounts on the device Hotel Mogul: Las Vegas APK Phone: read phone status and identity Hotel Mogul: Las Vegas APK Photos/Media/Files: modify or delete the contents of your USB storage,read the contents of your USB storage Hotel Mogul: Las Vegas APK Storage: modify or delete the contents of your USB storage,read the contents of your USB storage Hotel Mogul: Las Vegas APK Device ID  &  call information: read phone status and identity Hotel Mogul: Las Vegas APK other: full network access,prevent device from sleeping,view network connections Find accounts on the device: Allows the app to get the list of accounts known by the device. This may include any accounts created by applications you have installed. Full network access: Allows the app to create network sockets and use custom network protocols. The browser and other applications provide means to send data to the internet, so this permission is not required to send data to the internet. Modify or delete the contents of your USB storage: Allows the app to write to the USB storage. Prevent device from sleeping: Allows the app to prevent the device from going to sleep. Read phone status and identity: Allows the app to access the phone features of the device. This permission allows the app to determine the phone number and device IDs, whether a call is active, and the remote number connected by a call. Read the contents of your USB storage: Allows the app to read the contents of your USB storage. View network connections: Allows the app to view information about network connections such as which networks exist and are connected. Hotel Mogul: Las Vegas APK Can access your contacts Hotel Mogul: Las Vegas APK Can access your accounts Hotel Mogul: Las Vegas APK Can access your USB storage Allows applications to open network sockets. Allows using PowerManager WakeLocks to keep processor from sleeping or screen from dimming. Allows applications to access information about networks. Allows an application to write to external storage. Allows an application to read from external storage. Allows read only access to phone state, including the phone number of the device, current cellular network information, the status of any ongoing calls, and a list of any PhoneAccounts registered on the device. Allows access to the list of accounts in the Accounts Service. Hotel Mogul: Las Vegas APK OpenFeint: Social gaming network for both Android and iOS, see global leaderboards and unlock achievements. Hotel Mogul: Las Vegas APK History Versions Recently Downloaded Apps Liga de bádminton Toon Blast Pooking - Billiards Ciudad APUS Security - Elimina Virus,Antivirus,Acelerador GIF, Emoji, Temas, Emoticones - Teclado Emoji Matchington Mansion wetter.com - Weather and Radar Free 8ball pool coins Who Viewed My Profile? Screen Recorder With Audio And Editor  &  Screenshot TikTok  Dibujo para colorear para adultos Rider South Park: Phone Destroyer™ Street Racing 3D MoChat(Clone App)--Clone Multi Parallel Accounts Hustle Castle: Castillo Mágico Flappy Dunk Fast Followers Boost! Tips for Instagram Likes  &  Followers Juegos de anime y manga: Historia de amor Left vs Right: Ejercicio Mental Who Viewed My Profile? Followers Insight Plus Free Bitcoin - BTC Miner Mega Tags for Likes - Boost Views  &  Real Followers Música gratis para YouTube Music - Music Player KUBOOM 3D: FPS Shooter Drag'n'Boom Búsqueda De La Palabra Mi Imperio panadería – Haz, Decora y Sirve Tortas Puzzledom - classic puzzles all in one Similar Apps Alabama Smith Free Alabama Smith Alabama Smith Lite Dark Tales: Buried Alive Free Echoes of Sorrow Farm Frenzy 3. Farming game Farm Frenzy 3: Ice Domain Free Farm Frenzy 3: American Pie Farm Frenzy: Hurricane Season Haunted Legends (Free) The Lake House Free. Hidden Objects. Treasures of Mystery Island Stray Souls Free. Mystical Hidden Object Game El Misterio de la Isla 3 Treasures of Montezuma 3 Free. True Match-3 Game. The Golden Years: Way Out West Weird Park: Tonada rota. Hidden Object Puzzle Game Hotel Mogul Hotel Mogul HD Hotel Mogul Lite Top Apps in Category Idle Crafting Empire We Are Illuminati – Simulador de conspiraciones Battle of Arrow : Survival PvP Steam Legend : Marble Quest RULES OF SURVIVAL Last Battleground: Mech Shadow Fight 3 Dune! World War Heroes: WW2 Shooter Liga de bádminton Toon Blast Pooking - Billiards Ciudad Matchington Mansion  Dibujo para colorear para adultos Rider South Park: Phone Destroyer™ Street Racing 3D Hustle Castle: Castillo Mágico Flappy Dunk Juegos de anime y manga: Historia de amor Trending Apps in Category The Grand Wars: San Andreas Kill 'em All Xtreme Highway Traffic Race 3D Diversión en la granja The Grand Wars: San Andreas Kill 'em All Xtreme Highway Traffic Race 3D Diversión en la granja The Grand Wars: San Andreas Kill 'em All Xtreme Highway Traffic Race 3D Diversión en la granja The Grand Wars: San Andreas Kill 'em All Xtreme Highway Traffic Race 3D Diversión en la granja App market for 100%working mods. Accelerated for downloading big mod files. What is HappyMod? How does it work? 