Pokémon Pocket Monsters - Bulbapedia, the community-driven Pokémon encyclopedia Pokémon Pocket Monsters  (Japanese:  ポケットモンスター Pocket Monsters ) is a  shōnen Pokémon manga  based on the  Pokémon games  by  Kosaku Anakubo . It was also the first true Pokémon manga. It stars a  Pokémon Trainer  named  Red  and his rude  Clefairy . It is chiefly a gag manga, using crude humor and slapstick. It has six sequels:  Pokémon Ruby-Sapphire ,  Pocket Monsters DP ,  Pocket Monsters HGSS ,  Pocket Monsters BW ,  Pocket Monsters XY , and  Pocket Monsters Sun Moon . Pocket Monsters was serialized in  CoroCoro  magazine. Including its sequels, it is the second longest running manga in CoroCoro. It is also the longest running Pokémon manga ever based on its starting date. It started with  The Strange Pokémon Pippi  (ふしぎポケモンピッピ) in the April 1996 issue of CoroCoro Comics' sister magazine, CoroCoro Special.  The series diverges somewhat from the Pokémon video game and anime canon in that most Pokémon can speak human language and regular animals (like birds and fish) appear alongside Pokémon.  Evolution  is also significantly different in Pokémon Pocket Monsters. Pokémon can evolve at any time, and they are also able to reverse the evolution.  Green's Charmander  also seems able to skip the  Charmeleon  stage and evolve directly into  Charizard . Red, his Clefairy, and his  Pikachu  make a cameo appearance in the  anime  episode  Lights, Camerupt, Action! . They are the only characters from any Pokémon manga to make an appearance in the anime. Pokémon Pocket Monsters was translated into English by  Chuang Yi  in  Singapore , as well as its first sequel,  Pokémon Ruby-Sapphire . This translation is now out of print, although it is still listed on Chuang Yi's website. Chuang Yi announced a planned North American release in the late 1990s; however, this never happened. The series and its sequels have never been translated into English by  VIZ Media  in Western regions. There is much speculation by fans as to the reason for this, as the manga is quite popular in Japan. Theories range from the fact that the art style is so different (many of the Pokémon and characters can be unrecognizable) as well as the fact that Red and Clefairy's genitalia are visible at the end of the  second chapter . In  Greater China , the manga was translated by Da Ran Culture to Traditional Chinese (Taiwan version) under the title  神奇寶貝  and to Traditional Chinese (Hong Kong version) under the title  寵物小精靈  by its Hong Kong subsidiary, Da Ran Culture (Hong Kong). However, Da Ran went out of business in 2005, and only published the first seven volumes. Later on, Ching Win took over the publication, but only published  Pokémon Ruby-Sapphire  in Hong Kong under the title  爆笑寵物小精靈R·S編  and  Pocket Monsters DP  in Taiwan under the title  神奇寶貝歡樂祭 鑽石·珍珠篇 . In 2005, the first eight volumes were also translated by Jilin Publishing Group in Mainland China under the title  神奇宝贝 , with the first six volumes using the translation provided by Da Ran. Volume 9 to 14 were also translated by Jilin under the title  神奇宝贝【金银·篇】 . In 2006, Jilin also translated the first five volumes of  Pokémon Ruby-Sapphire  under the title  神奇宝贝 红宝石·蓝宝石篇 . Pokémon Pocket Monsters has been translated into  Indonesian  by Elex Media Komputindo since 2001. Unlike the other translated manga, most Pokémon names are changed based on their pronounciations in Indonesian. After  Volume 12  was released in April 2003, the manga was not continued for several years until the last two volumes were released in 2010. The series has also been translated into  Korean  by Daewon C.I.. Volume 13 cover artwork in Indonesian 