BBC News | SPORT | Countdown to Tyson fight A sell-out crowd of 21,000 is due in the MEN arena, in Manchester, on Saturday night, to witness the heavyweight clash between former world champion Tyson and British champion Francis. Mr Straw made his decision after being persuaded that to scrap the fight at such short notice would severely affect several UK businesses. Tyson's arrival at Heathrow Airport was chaotic, with a woman taken to hospital after being hurt in the crush to see the boxer. He also managed to upset council leaders in Brixton by staging a walkabout, despite their telling him he was unwelcome. And he got on the wrong side of Royal Parks' police by illegally jogging in Hyde Park while it was shut. A report in one British newspaper said that Tyson had threatened to fly back to America, storming to Manchester airport after apparently claiming to have "had enough". Other reports suggested that the 33-year-old fighter went to meet a relative or that he wanted to use a prayer room at the airport set aside for Muslim travellers. After arriving in Manchester to an enthusiastic welcome on Wednesday, Tyson has kept arelatively low profile. His stay at the city's four star Midland Hotel has been quiet and fans were left disappointed when he failed to turn up at a mosque inthe city on Friday. Pre-fight confidence An earlier visit to the Central London Mosque in Regent's Park ended in mayhem after scuffles broke out when his minders blocked the entrance to the building. On Thursday Tyson and Francis held a joint press conference at the MEN Arena and both were bullish about their prospects. Tyson described himself as a "ferocious fighter" and said he was an "animal" in the ring. Francis, 36, said he believed he would win: "I have trained hard for this". Both boxers had their official weigh-in at the Midland Hotel on Friday, with Francis having the weight advantage - weighing in at 17st 6˝lbs to Tyson ' s 15st 13ľlbs. Tyson brushed aside the weight difference, cheekily labelling his opponent "fat". < ="" div=""> 