WATCH: Crash tests,  ' zero-star cars '  in SA - How safe is your vehicle on the road? | Wheels24 Take a look at this cool A to Z guide of everything you need to know about the iconic race. Win a set of 5 VIP double tickets or a set of four general access tickets to the Kyalami 9 Hour season finale on November 23. Image: Global NCAP The latest crash test results in the  #SaferCarsForAfrica  campaign, released by Global NCAP and Automobile Association earlier in November, has revealed that Nissan's NP300 "Hardbody" received a zero-star safety rating.  Zero star rating Global NCAP Secretary General, David Ward, and AA South Africa CEO, Collins Khumalo, have written to the UN Economic Commission for Africa and the African Development Bank, calling for urgent action by African governments to "prevent the sale of zero star cars such as the  Nissan NP300 ". Ward said: "The zero-star result of the NP300 is particularly troubling as the car is fitted with dual airbags and this might encourage consumers to believe that the car has a good level of safety." Compliance with the NCAP standard is voluntary in SA and the organisation first began testing cars sold in for crash worthiness in 2017.  We've included the results of the latest crash tests for SA later in this article. WATCH: Picanto, Yaris and i20 hatchback - here's how some of SA's most popular cars fair in crash tests Carte Blanche takes a look at crash testing and what vehicle safety means for South Africa: What do you think of the Global NCAP and AA's call to prevent the sale of "zero star" vehicles? What do you think can be done to improve vehicle safety and curb SA's road death toll?  Email us Four models were tested in Global NCAP's 2018 series. They show a wide range of safety performance, from zero to three-stars for adult protection and child protection. Crash tests for SA cars: The NCAP safety conundrum Watch how four vehicles sold locally perform in 2018 crash tests: 1. Toyota Yaris (2018) 2. Hyundai i20 (2018) Global NCAP 23K subscribers Subscribe The Hyundai i20 achieves three stars Watch later Share Copy link Info Shopping Tap to unmute If playback doesn ' t begin shortly, try restarting your device. Your browser does not currently recognize any of the video formats available.  Click here to visit our frequently asked questions about HTML5 video. More videos on YouTube More videos Share Include playlist An error occurred while retrieving sharing information. Please try again later. An error occurred. Try watching this video on www.youtube.com , or enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser. 3. Kia Picanto (2018) 4. Nissan NP300 (2018) Global NCAP 23K subscribers Subscribe Shocking Zero for the Nissan ‘Hardbody’ Watch later Share Copy link Info Shopping Tap to unmute If playback doesn ' t begin shortly, try restarting your device. Your browser does not currently recognize any of the video formats available.  Click here to visit our frequently asked questions about HTML5 video. More videos on YouTube More videos Share Include playlist An error occurred while retrieving sharing information. Please try again later. An error occurred. Try watching this video on www.youtube.com , or enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser. 'This little five-door proved that a true adventure wagon could be affordable. French. And good',.writes Lance Branquinho. For those gamer petrolheads wanting to treat themselves this festive season, these cool racing games will keep you busy right into the new year. Read Wheels24’s Comments Policy Nissan has launched the latest edition of its iconic GT-R to celebrate 50 years of the firm's iconic Skyline GT-R. Sean Parker drove the 408kW Japanese performance car in Gauteng.  With winter approaching and Eskom in crisis mode, how will blackouts impact first-time electric vehicle owners? Wheels24 on your mobile phone The latest headlines delivered to you Sign up to Newsletters 