Parisima Taeb: Candidate for Florida House Rep, District 78 USA TODAY NETWORK presents VRtually There, a weekly virtual reality series that delivers amazing adventures, extreme nature, sports fantasies and the world's most fascinating people. We don't just tell incredible stories, we let you live the experience in fully immersive environments. Use your VR headset, laptop or smart phone to experience in 360\u00b0 video and virtual reality. Download the USA TODAY app, now with virtual reality and subscribe to our  YouTube page . Three new thrilling VR experiences each week. Immerse yourself. Have an existing account? Already have a subscription? Don't have an account? Get the news Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about Taeb: "I am running for this office because there are multiple public health issues that our community is facing, and I want to make our community safer and stronger." A link has been sent to your friend's email address. A link has been posted to your Facebook feed.  Dr. Parisima Taeb is Democratic candidate for Florida House District 78. (Photo: File) EDITOR'S NOTE: The following is an interview conducted via questionnaire by The News-Press with Lee County election candidates for their respective races. All of the answers were submitted to The News-Press by the candidate and are available to our readers to show the candidates' position and priorities on the issues. Candidate name:   Parisima Taeb Political position sought:  State Representative, District 78 Occupation:  Board certified internal medicine physician Education:  Medical School Residence:  Fort Myers Why are you running for this office? I am running for this office because there are multiple public health issues that our community is facing, and I want to make our community safer and stronger. What makes you stand out from your opponent(s)? I am not a politician or a corporate attorney. As a physician, I will use evidence-based facts to implement bills to make a stronger and safer community. Previous elective office/ elective office experience: I have never held an elected office. Do you have a criminal record? Have you ever been found to have committed any other civil or ethical violations?  No. Would the state of your health impede you from serving in this position? No. What are your three most important priorities if you are elected or re-elected? Priority 1 Toxic Algae Crisis Priority 2 Opioid Crisis Priority 3 Quality and Affordable Health Care How would you implement Priority 1? Once elected, I will make sure that the polluters are held accountable for the mess they have created. I will tax the polluters fairly and appropriately; I will implement bills that will put strict regulations on the number of chemicals being dumped into our waterways. The two parties need to work together to make sure we buy the land necessary for the reservoir.  I will also reinstate the Harmful Algae Bloom Taskforce which will allow scientists and to monitor and test our waters to help prevent these toxic algae crisis from happening. How would you implement Priority 2? Our district’s opioid crisis has worsened by 800% in the last 4 years. We must have more medically assistant treatment centers for patients addicted to opioids. We must train more physicians in addiction medicine so they can be available to treat these patients. And we also must have needle exchange programs which will allow patients to exchange their dirty needles for clean needles, and at these centers, there are counselors to help the addicted patients, and there is also Narcan available. We also must make sure all first responders have Narcan available in case a patient is overdosing on opioids. Unfortunately, opioid addiction in our district is correlated with a high percentage of babies born with NAS. It is also causing our foster homes programs to be in full capacity due to children who are neglected or abused, and human trafficking and sex trafficking is also linked to the opioid crisis. How would you implement Priority 3? Healthcare is a human right, not a privilege. Every person must have affordable and quality healthcare. As a physician, I see patients every day who lack health care coverage due to its high costs. People are not getting the preventive work up studies needed for cancer screening.  Those who lack health care coverage are at a higher risk of ending up in the emergency department due to their progressively worsened medical condition, and this uses tax payer’s money for their ER visit. Also, patients with pre-existing conditions must be able to have health care coverage and once elected, I will make sure to protect this coverage. Do you support open records and open meetings laws? Would you ever support any exemptions to the public's right to access information? Would you support efforts to expand these laws? Yes, I do support open records and open meeting laws. We also need to make sure that public’s right to access information is not jeopardizing someone’s safety. Do you support drug testing of elected officials? Why or why not? Yes, I do support drug testing of elected officials. If an elected official is under the influence of drugs, it interferes with their decision making and thought process. Elected officials have an obligation to protect the community by implementing bills and policies for the best interest of their people. When the elected official is under influence of drugs, they are unable to fulfill this duty. READ:  More candidate questionnaires at news-press.com/election  2019 www.news-press.com. All rights reserved. 