VW: Who were the Nicolaitans? site navigation free newsletter -- H.A. Ironside: "...we have the introduction of wrong principles within -- the teachingof the Nicolaitanes. Others have often pointed out that this is anuntranslated Greek word meaning, 'rulers over the people.'Nicolaitanism is really clerisy* -- the subjugation of those who werecontemptuously styled 'the laity' by a heirarchical order who lorded itover them as their own possessions, forgetting that it is written, 'Oneis your Master, even Christ, and all ye are brethren.' In the letter toEphesus the Lord commended them for hating the deeds of theNicolaitanes, those who, like Diotrephes, loved to have the preeminenceamong them.  But, in the Pergamos letter, we have Nicolaitanismdesignated as a distinct system of teaching. It was then that clerisywas accepted as of divine origin, and therefore something that must bebowed to." *Webster defines "clerisy" as: The literati, or well-educated class.*Webster defines "literati" as: Men of letters.This may only mean those who had the ability to read and write. Or, itcould also include those who not only could read and write but wereadvancedly educated in fields of literature and possibly here intheological disciplines, whether doctrinally biblical or unbiblical. --The following is from The New Bible Commentary. "The Nicolaitans were reputed from early times to have been thefollowers of Nicolaos of Antioch, one of the seven (see Acts 6:5). Wegather from 2:14,15 that they held the same error as the Balaamites,viz., teaching to eat things sacrificed to idols and to commitfornication. These were the chief matters condemned by the decree ofthe apostolic council (see Acts 15:29). It is noteworthy that Balaamand Nicolaos share more or less the same etymology (Balaam--'he hasconsumed the people'; Nicolaos--'he overcomes the people'). If this isthe teaching so strenuously resisted by the Ephesians (see verse 2),then it must have been widespread indeed." --Revelation by George Eldon Ladd writes: "The false teachers resisted at Ephesus are further defined as theNicolaitans. These constituted a heretical sect in the early churchabout which we know nothing apart from the references in theRevelation.  Ancient church fathers, beginning with Irenaeus,speculated that they formed a heretical sect which was founded byNicolaus, a proselyte of Antioch (see Acts 6:5) who was one of theseven. But we have no sure information to this effect. John refersagain to these false teachers in the letter to Pergamum where he givesus more information about them." "Although the Pergamum Christians had held fast to Jesus' name and did not renounce their faith in him(sic) under the pressure of threatenedpersecution, they allowed pagan morals to influence them. A party hadarisen in Pergamum which held the teaching of Balaam. Balak, king ofMoab, threatened by the Israelites, had invited the prophet Balaam tocurse them. Balaam had been restrained by God and to Balak's disgusthad blessed rather than cursed (Num. 22-24). Subsequent to this,however, Israel had let herself become involved in harlotry and in theidolatrous worship of Baal or Peor (Num. 25:1-3), and this sin wasattributed to the advice of Balaam (Num. 31:16). In our text Balaam isa prototype of those who promote compromise with paganism in idlolatryand immorality." Ladd goes on to talk about the problem of Christians eating meatsacrificed to idols puchased at market or possibly attending feastsconducted in the temples in honor of the various gods. Ladd believesthat since there was a restriction being placed on these believers thenthe latter was probably at issue ('it is impossible to drink the cup ofthe Lord and the cup of demons). Paul had dealt with the problem ofeating meats offered to idols in ICor. and had said there was noproblem as long as it did not go against the conscience of the believeror causes a block of stumbling.  Ladd further states that the words'practice immorality' may refer to the practice of sexual laxity (Acts15:20). There may have been a party in Pergamum "which advocated a laxattutude toward pagan customs, including both temple feasts and sexualimmorality." Ladd: "The teaching of the Nicolaitans. The languagesuggests that we are not to think of the Nicolaitans as constututinganother sect, but as giving further definition of the 'teaching ofBalaam.' It was the Nicolaitan heresy which promoted laxity toward thepagan practices.  "Repent then, that is, of laxity toward the teachingof the Nicolaitans. The entire church is summoned to repent for a sinof which only a few were actually guilty. The sin of the Ephesians washarsh intolerance; the sin of the Pergamum church was tolerance andlaxity.  "To him who conquers a promise of reward is held out, that is,to those who resist the teaching of the Nicolaitans and who remain trueto Chtist." --NICOLAITANS: Twice mentioned in the NT (Rev 2:6  &  15) as a sect whose works werehated by the ascended Lord and by the Ephesian Church but whoseteaching was upheld by some professed Christians of Pergamon, andapparently tolerated by the Church there. Nicolaitan doctrine isassociated with the teaching of Balaam,'who taught Balak to cast astumbling-block before the children of Israel, (inducing them) to eatthings sacrificed to idols, and to commit fornication ' (Rev 2:14). AsNicolaitan teaching is said to be held 'similarly', we may concludethat the Nicolaitans were a kindred antinomian sect, who abused thedoctrine, emphasized by St. Paul, of Gentile liberty from the MosaicLaw. In defiance of that apostle's warnings (1 Cor 6:13-20, 8:9 & 10, 10:28) as well as of the decree of the Council of Jerusalem (Acts 15:29) they permitted participation in heathen feasts connected with idolatry and in the fornication which frequently accompanied such feasts.  The Nicolaitans represent a more advanced and aggressive state of antinomianism than that which was found in the Corinthian Church. They are organised into a sect with a 'doctrine,' and stand in a nearer relationship to the 'false teachers' referred to in Jude 4,11,12  &  2 Peter 2:1,2,14,15, who 'turned the Grace of God into lasciviousness, 'denied even the Master' (probably through countenancing idolatry), and 'followed the way of Balaam,' 'running riotously in his error.' It has been doubted by some writers whether any sect actually calledNicolaitans existed. The Bk. of Rev, it is argued, is allegorical, and'conqueror of the people,' may be regarded as a symbolical name, theGreek equivalent of Balaam  which is held to signify either 'destroyerof the people' or 'lord of the people'. But apart from the fact thatthe two names are not quite equivalent, and that the Balaamites andNicolatians, although associated, are not identified, the numerousearly references to the sect and to its claim to have a real Nicholasas its founder, indicate that the writer of Rev describes hereticsreally so called. According to Irenaeus, they lived 'lives ofunrestrained indulgence', teaching that 'adultery and eating thingssacrificed to idols' are a matter of 'indifference'.  Clement of Alexandria speaks of their souls as 'buried in the mire of vice'.  Tertullian stigmatizes them as destroying the happiness of sanctity in their maintenance of lust and luxery, 'those falsely-called Nicolatians' are characterised as 'impudent in uncleanness'. 'Ignatius' (longer recension) brands them as 'impure lovers of pleasure', and as 'addicted to calumnious speeches. So far, we have merely an echo of what we read in Rev; but other early references indicate that, in addition to immorality, the Nicolatians were tainted with incipient  Gnosticism. Irenaeus states that the Cerinthian doctrines of a Demiurge distinct from the Supreme God, and of a Doketic Incarnation, had already, before Cerinthus, been disseminated by the Nicolatians, whom accordingly he describes as a 'fragment of the Gnosis falsely so-called'. Tertullian writes of the Cainite Gnostics of his time as modern Nicolatians. Hippolytus also and Philastrius include the Nicolatians among Gnostics. For the relation between the Nicolatians and Nicolas of Antioch (seeNicholas). There appears to be no sufficient reason for rejecting thetraditionary explanation of the connexion as supplied by Clem. of Alex.(without accepting all details). We know, from other instances, theanxiety of early heretics (e.g. the Basilidians and the Valentinians)to father their views upon some apostle or associate of the apostles.At the same time it is possible that a different Nicolas was the realfounder of the sect, and was confusd afterwards with the better known 'deacon'. Cassian states that some in his time (A.D. 420) held that the founder was some other Nicolas; and in the "Lives of the Prophets,Apostles etc., ascribed (erroneously) to Dorotheus, bishop of Tyre, inthe end of the 3rd Century, Nicolas of Antioch is identified with abishop Nicolas of Samaria who is said to have become a heretic incompany with Simon Magus. Ps.-Doroth, (c.  6th Century) is not atrustworthy authority; but the connexion with the 'father ofGnosticism' is suggestive; and since Nicoals of Antioch is nowhere elsereferred to as a bishop, or as associated with Samaria, the traditionmay indicate the existance of another Nicolas, with whom thepseudo-Dorotheus confounded Nicolas of Antioch Notes: 