Tibetan Zodiac Tibetan Zodiac and Lunar Houses Tibetan astro-science recognizes the twelve classical zodiacal constellations or  lagna , with most representing similar animals and figures to the Greco-roman zodiac. Three interesting exceptions are Cancer, which is seen as a frog, Leo, which is a mythological snow lion, and Capricornus, which is a dragon-headed fish. The twelve signs are as follows: Lug - sheep gLang - bull Kh'rig - couple Karta - frog Sengge - snow lion Bhumo - girl Srang - balance sThig - scorpion gShu - bow and arrow Chusrin - dragon-headed fish Bhumpa - water-bearer Nya - fish More important than the constellations of the zodiac are the lunar houses or mansions, which are calculated by the stars seen rising before the sun at different dates within the lunar month.  The Tibetan system differs from the Indian system in normally having 27 constellations rather than 28, and from the Chinese system in having the constellations be relative to the ecliptic rather than the celestial equator. This is due to the importance placed on the north celestial pole as the seat of the emperor in Chinese astronomy. When 28 houses are used, one of the 27 is divided into two. The twelve  " signs "  are used for horoscopes, while the lunar houses are used in calculating the calendar. Each lunar mansion is divided into four pieces called a  step . Nine  steps  make up one sign of the zodiac. The Sanskrit names of the 27 houses are found in primary text  Ornament of Stainless Light.  The below list with both Tibetan and Sanskrit names is adapted from that source and http://www.lotsawaschool.org/astrological_terms.html  (with minimal astronomical corrections) Astro Department (1995) Tibetan Astronomy and Astrology - a Brief Introduction . Dharamsala, India: Tibetan Medical and Astro Institute. Gyatso, Khendrup Norsang (2004)  Ornament of Stainless Light: An Exposition of the Kalachakra Tantra . Boston: Wisdom Publications. Tibeto-Mongolian Astrology and Karma Tibetan Astro Sciences Tibetan astrology terms 