Pick One - University of Wisconsin - River Falls Browse the categories below to find one thing you love! There are many academic-based organizations for students to capitalize on their academic involvements outside of the classroom. Further explore organizations using  FalconSync! Is international study right for you? Want to explore a domestic program? Explore the study abroad opportunities offered by Global Connections! Take the opportunity to learn the ins and outs of outdoor recreation! Some of the clinics include cross country skiing, rock climbing, and even horseback riding! Campus Tutoring provides tutoring using study groups for most classes. Help Rooms are available for math, chemistry, physics, agricultural, writing, and English Language Transition. Want to find a campus job? Log into the  Hire-a-Falcon  job positing system to find on-campus employment! Are you confused about the difference between  work study and student assistance ?  Financial Aid  can answer any work study related questions. Each semester Career Services offers a variety of on and off-campus events to help students explore career options and enhance their professional skills such as resume writing and interview preparation. To learn more about our events, visit our  events website . Schedule an appointment with Career Services!  We can help you: Contact Career Services at 715-425-3572, to schedule an appointment today! Fraternity and Sorority Life plays an integral part of an undergraduate students '  development and learning. Programming aimed in the areas of service, academics, social networking and leadership development are encompassed in this lifetime commitment and experience. Our national organizations housed at UW-River Falls provide support and education to all of their members, annual conferences, tuition scholarships for both undergraduate and graduate work and various leadership positions that take place before and after a student graduates. Show your falcon spirit by playing or supporting a UW-River Falls athletic team! Check out their online  upcoming events schedule . Sign up as a team or as a free agent to play in UW-River Falls intramural sports! We offer recreational, competitive, and co-ed teams. Sports include: Don ' t miss out on the open recreation opportunities that are mostly free to UWRF students! We offer many outdoor adventure trips that provide you the chance to engage in an unforgettable experience at a minimal fee! All Sport Clubs at UWRF are recognized student organizations which means they are student-run and organized. Sport Clubs offer a more competitive, organized environment than that of campus intramurals. Sport Clubs are available to all UWRF students. Our sport clubs include: LEAD (Learn. Experience. Act. Develop.) is a first-year leadership program on campus for students interested in exploring their leadership potential, as well as making a positive social change in their community, whether on campus or off. Participants begin exploring their own strengths and concepts around leadership and think about ways they want to become an involved leader during their time at UW-River Falls. RHA serves as the primary student governing body for residence hall policy, procedures, and decision-making. RHA provides leadership by representing the voice of all on-campus students. Through RHA, students may get involved in a number of leadership positions, committees, or regional, local, and national leadership and conferences. Student Senate is the official government body of students at UW-River Falls. There are many different opportunities to voice your opinion such as sitting on a student senate or faculty senate committee. Another way is to run a campaign and become a representative for senate yourself. Our media organizations spread news and information throughout campus. They include our campus television, campus newspaper, and campus radio. Further explore organizations using  FalconSync! The political-based organizations allow you to share your opinions and take a stand! Further explore organizations using  FalconSync! Our identity-based student organizations play an integral role on campus by providing students an opportunity to learn and grow through interaction with one another. Identity-based organizations are open and welcoming to ALL students! These organizations also plan marquee events that raise awareness within our campus community. The Global Partner Program matches native speakers of two different languages. Students then learn language from each other and help one another to learn. The religion and spirituality organizations at UWRF provide the perfect outlet for students seeking fellowship with other students who share their beliefs. Religion and spirituality organizations are open and welcoming to ALL students! These organizations also plan events that spread their message in our campus community. SSS provides qualified students with personal, academic, and career support.  Click here  apply. UW-River Fall ' s most popular fitness class is the spinning class, which is free to students. Anyone can spin. This is a class where you really can do your own thing. Resistance and degree of difficulty are up to you, but get ready to sweat, burn calories, and work those muscles! Experience a wide variety of booths, demonstrations  &  giveaways from campus and community businesses and organizations. The annual Health Fair occurs in April. Don ' t miss out on the open recreation opportunities that are mostly free to UWRF students! Need a little canine comfort? Come relieve some stress with therapy dogs the first Friday of each month! All weekly activities and events sponsored by Student Health  &  Counseling are FREE! No sign up necessary, come to as many classes as you like. Weekly events include Tai Chi and varieties of Yoga. Free online wellness program, join as an individual or team to get great prizes! The challenge takes place during February and March of each year. Homecoming Weekend connects students, families, and alumni through a series of events and activities.  " Falconize "  yourself with red, black, and white while we cheer on the Falcon Football team! Don ' t miss out on the fun! Sign up as a team or as a free agent to play in UW-River Falls intramural sports! We offer recreational, competitive, and co-ed teams. Sports include: Don ' t miss out on the open recreation opportunities that are mostly free to UWRF students! We offer many outdoor adventure trips that provide your the chance to engage in an unforgettable experience at a minimal fee! The RADD Jazz Series features the UW-River Falls Jazz Ensemble, directed by Professor of Music David Milne, as well as national and regional touring jazz artists. Looking for something to do on Friday and Saturday nights in River Falls? Student Life plans events in a relaxed/casual atmosphere for many Friday and Saturday nights! Weekend Programs events are a way for you to be socially, physically, and educationally involved in programs on campus. Student Life offers a variety of activities that are almost always free! The Wyman Performing Arts and Lecture Series provides programs that encourage broader perspectives for the River Falls community. The largest category of organizations at UW-River Falls is Hobby and Social. These range from gaming or collection clubs to various interest groups. The wide range of these organizations offer something for everyone! Further explore organizations using  FalconSync! If acting, dancing, singing, or even playing instruments interests you, then the performing arts organizations are calling your name! These organizations focus on providing performances both on-campus and off-campus. Further explore organizations using  FalconSync! Just Local highlights local service opportunities and sustainability efforts throughout our community. This event occurs Thursday afternoon of Week of Welcome each year. Attend to earn a t-shirt and get your photo with the giant traveling cow, Coleen the Dream! Don ' t miss out on a huge event occurring in the Spring! The Opportunity Fair will not only highlight on-campus employment, part-time jobs, and summer camps; but also volunteer opportunities in and around the River Falls community! River Falls Community Volunteer Connections is a collaborative effort designed to connect people with volunteer opportunities in the greater River Falls community. Take a step and make a change by joining a service and social action-based organization. Many students in these organizations share a passion for putting others before oneself. Further explore organizations using  FalconSync! We Bike River Falls promotes bicycle friendly transportation and recreation options through education and awareness programs for a safe, healthy, and sustainable community. The various events engage a broad group of university faculty and staff, students, River Falls citizens, city officials, and others. Don ' t have a bike? Rent one from the  Bike Shop! more less Third-Year Student more less Fourth-Year Student more less Fourth-Year Student more less Fourth-Year Student more less Fourth-Year Student The Division of Student Affairs at the University of Wisconsin-River Falls embraces the mission of the university by providing programs, services, facilities and resources to students in support of academic, professional and personal growth. University of Wisconsin-River Falls 410 S. 3rd Street, River Falls WI 54022 USA Campus Information 715-425-3911 Log onto the online system FalconSync 2014  University of Wisconsin-River Falls . 