KONE Elevator &  Escalator Maintenance Discover how KONE provides world-class services and innovative solutions for new buildings – all you need for smooth people flow   Discover KONE Lifts for various building types and building needs. Click to read more! Discover our industry-leading escalators and moving walkway solutions, which set the standard for safety, quality, eco-efficiency, and visual design.  Discover our high-quality solutions for the maintenance and modernisation of elevators and escalators– all from one trusted supplier. KONE Ireland offers different maintenance and service packages for elevators and escalators  Click to read more! Discover how we tailor our wide range of maintenance services for your site and equipment. Discover how we tailor your maintenance plan to uniquely match your site and equipment, whatever the brand or type. Read more about the individual services that make up our KONE Care™ packages for lifts and escalators Different modernisation options for elevators: full, modular or upgade specific components. Click to read more! Discover our eco-efficient full-replacement solutions and a hassle-free process that keeps your project on time and on budget while minimising disruption to life in your building. With modular modernisation you can upgrade entire systems and significantly improve the performance of your lift. Read more! Discover our wide range of lift upgrades covering things like the lift door operator, signalisation, and lighting system. Discover our range of escalator modernisation solutions that will increase the lifespan of your escalators, giving you the flexibility of replacing the entire installation or just individual components. Discover our two options for escalator replacement: We can install a brand-new escalator and truss, or replace everything except the truss. With our escalator upgrade and modular modernisation solutions you can renew individual components or complete systems. Visit us! Discover our retrofit lift solutions for buildings currently without lifts. Discover our solutions for access and destination control, as well as communication and equipment monitoring. Downloads Codes and standards Glossary What does city life mean for people in the world’s different urban environments? Our stories look for answers. You can find all the latest press releases by choosing a category and year from dropdown boxes.  KONE is proud to present these selected achievements from around the world. As a global leader in the elevator and escalator industry, KONE provides elevators, escalators and automatic building doors, as well as solutions for maintenance and modernization, which add value to the life cycle of any building. Safety is top of the agenda at KONE, and it is our strong belief that all accidents are preventable. We strive to foster a collaborative culture where co-workers trust and respect each other and leaders inspire people to deliver the best results. We are proud to offer a range of total reward elements that engage and motivate our employees and help us make KONE a great place to work. Get a head start on your career at KONE, one of the world’s leading elevator and escalator companies. Whether you are a business or engineering professional, find your own role in meeting the most interesting challenges of today: urbanization, the efficient flow of goods and people, more efficient use of space, and the latest architectural trends.  General recruitment process consists of an application, an interview and a final selection round. Do you want to work at KONE? Apply now! FAQ on KONE ' s recruitment process For general inquiries, fill in the form below. This site uses cookies in order to provide you with the best user experience. You consent to the use of cookies by continuing the use of the site without changing your browser settings. You can change your browser settings and preferences at any time. For further information on cookies, please see our  privacy statement . KONE Ireland Unit G7 Calmount Park Calmount Avenue D12 NP64 Tel +353 14296200 Please use this number to place a service request or to report an emergency call out only: Republic of Ireland: 1890 566 347 Northern Ireland: 0844 332 6973 For any queries please contact the following: Republic of Ireland: +353 (0) 14296200 Northern Ireland: +44 (0) 28 90 735900 You can reach us Mon - Thurs (0830-1700) and Friday (0830 - 1600) Service that’s made for you. Watch the video to find out more. The lifts and escalators we maintain are available on average over 99% of the time. Our service teams are on call day and night, and they solve most problems within one day. We keep you informed on equipment status, maintenance schedules and on-site work. Our maintenance packages for lifts and escalators include a wide selection of services, making it easy for you to choose the most appropriate level of care. We’ll work with you to create a maintenance plan that’s tailored to your site and equipment. Safety compliance for those who don ' t want to worry about lift maintenance. Support that makes planning and management easier for you. Comprehensive care to secure the performance and availability your business needs. KONE 24/7 Connected Services intelligent services for lifts and escalators are here!  Understanding of your maintenance requirements: choose from our three maintenance packages the level of care you need. KONE Modular Based Maintenance helps us find and fix potential faults before they can cause downtime, helping you ensure quality service and improve end-user safety. KONE has a long history of maintaining and repairing non-KONE equipment. We take care of all brands of elevators, escalators and automatic building doors.   With its three cascading towers crowned by a connecting Sands Skypark, the multi-use resort defines the city’s skyline and offers an extraordinary experience for leisure and business travelers from all over the world. Located near the historic commercial center in Chicago, Illinois, the high-rise at 300 North LaSalle is a showpiece of urban architecture, state-of-the-art technology and eco-efficiency. A high-rise hub worthy of Milan’s reputation for style has sprung up in a formerly neglected space in the heart of the city. It is arguably the most ambitious urban renewal project Italy has ever seen. As awe-inspiring as the mythical bird after which it is named, Beijing’s Phoenix Media Center lifts China into an unprecedented era in steel innovation.  The S8 metro line in Nanjing heralds a new era in the ancient capital, setting new records as the longest and fastest urban rail transit in China. Metrotown Properties – a dazzling commercial development in Vancouver – is reinventing Canada’s urban experience. Metrotower III, a 29-floor LEED®-certified Platinum “AAA” Class office building, is at the heart of it all.  When a relationship lasts 15 years, the chemistry must be right. KONE’s partnership with Metro de Madrid assures a smooth ride for three million daily commuters in the Spanish capital. Seven million visitors are expected to enter the spectacular arch of Rotterdam’s new indoor food market annually. A steady stream of fresh produce meanwhile is transported from the dispatch center located on the lower ground floor. When Madison Square Garden calls itself “The World’s Most Famous Arena”, few disagree. It has a rich history of hosting nearly every major name in music, all-star athletes, national political conventions, and numerous world-famous shows and events.  Amman – capital of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan – is a city steeped in history. When construction on the Le Royal hotel was completed in 2002, it was ultra-modern, yet its tower-like structure sits comfortably in a metropolis whose history stretches back more than 3,000 years. This site uses cookies in order to provide you with the best user experience. To see what cookies we serve and to set your preferences, please visit our  cookie consent tool . 