Bison look to upgrade backup talent | College | bismarcktribune.com © 2019 Lee Enterprises Terms of Service   |   Privacy Policy A few passing clouds. Low 29F. Winds WNW at 10 to 15 mph.. A few passing clouds. Low 29F. Winds WNW at 10 to 15 mph.  Updated: November 18, 2019 @ 7:30 pm FARGO -- James Madison’s backups were better than North Dakota State’s backups. That was a blunt assessment from NDSU head coach Chris Klieman on Tuesday, March 21, the day before his team is scheduled to open spring football practice. The Dukes ended NDSU’s 2016 season with an FCS semifinal playoff victory at Gate City Bank Field at the Fargodome, ending the Bison’s five-year reign as the FCS national champion. Klieman said the next 15 spring practices could go a long way in closing that gap. “We know who the really good players are on our roster,” he said. “It’s the next 25 guys we need to find out this spring that we can count on to help us come next fall because we can’t play 20 guys and have them play every special team and every snap to be successful.” And it’s been awhile since Klieman didn’t resort to some sort of cheat sheet to recite the number of players who will miss spring ball because of injuries. Really, it’s down to three: Linebacker Nick DeLuca, defensive tackle Nate Tanguay and tight end Nate Jenson. DeLuca is full speed from a shoulder injury and will go through limited practice situations. Tanguay, who tore his ACL, should be full speed by the beginning of summer, Klieman said. And Jenson is recovering from hip surgery. So for the most part, it’s all hands on deck. The hands that will get the hardest look, however, may be the faces nobody saw last fall. NDSU redshirted its entire freshman class for the first time since 2007 and some of those players may be counted on to push the current backups for playing time. “For the first time, we’re really getting our hands on these guys,” Klieman said. “There are a number of guys that we’re excited about and there’s always a surprise or two none of us know about.” Of the freshman class, only linebacker Jabril Cox and offensive lineman Dillon Radunz reached the two-deep chart.  Unlimited articles on bismarcktribune.com with no surveys  FREE Access to Newspapers.com archives (last 2 years)  Try Digital for 25¢ a week  Cancel anytime  Includes E-Edition Replica of Newspaper  Unlimited articles on bismarcktribune.com  with no surveys  FREE Access to Newspapers.com archives (last 2 years)  SALE! Up to 34% OFF   Convenient home delivery of the Bismarck Tribune  Unlimited access to standard  E-Edition  Unlimited articles on bismarcktribune.com with no surveys  Exclusive members-only discounts  on travel, tickets and more  FREE Access to Newspapers.com archives (last 2 years), plus exclusive discounts  Convenient home delivery of the Bismarck Tribune  Unlimited access to standard  E-Edition  Unlimited articles on bismarcktribune.com with no surveys  50% OFF classified ads  on select categories  Exclusive members-only discounts  on travel, tickets and more  FREE Access to Newspapers.com archives (last 2 years), plus exclusive discounts  Convenient home delivery of the Bismarck Tribune  Unlimited access to bismarcktribune.com  with a faster browsing experience  FREE classified ads  on select categories  Exclusive members-only discounts  on travel, tickets and more  FREE Access to Newspapers.com archives (last 2 years), plus exclusive discounts Please call 800-472-2273 to upgrade your subscription. Try Digital for 25¢ a week “The depth chart is pretty fluid,” Klieman said. “There are a lot of young we’re going to take a look at a lot of positions. We’ll have a better idea of what some of these guys can do at the end of spring.” Of the veterans, senior Austin Kuhnert was moved from center to right guard. It’s part of an offensive line that was the position group hit the hardest by graduation with the loss of Landon Lechler, Jack Plankers and Zack Johnson. Junior Tanner Volson, who started two games last season, is taking over at center. Junior Luke Bacon is the starting right tackle and senior Bryce Messer is beginning the spring as the starting left guard. “We lost three great players there,” Klieman said of the offensive line. “We’ll have to do a lot of shuffling around there, but we have a lot of good young players …. who have the ability to step up. Hopefully that will create some competition and let us be a little more versatile.” The Bison went 12-2 last season and for the first time since 2010, will begin spring drills without a fresh national title on their finger. Klieman said for the first time in his six years at NDSU it’s the first time the players have had a full eight weeks of winter workouts. “The players are anxious to get out there and compete,” he said. Ten players left the team since last season, but none of them saw much playing time. The notable departures were receivers Khayvon Hawkins and Isaiah Frandsen and safety Isaac Cenescar. Hawkins played in 22 games but did not have a catch and Frandsen had one crucial reception, a 2014 playoff grab against Sam Houston State. Cenescar played in 10 games over two seasons. We'll send breaking news and news alerts to you as as they happen! PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device. 