Bayliss roasts  &# x27;dumb &# x27; England squad | cricket.com.au Cricket.com.au RUN BY HCL Logo RUN BY HCL Logo Magellan Ashes 2017-18 England &# x27;s coach furious after latest off-field incident as Ashes tourists lurch between off-field scandals with booze bans and curfews now likely @StocksC_cricket 27 November 2017, 06:17 PM  AEST Chris Stocks is a freelance cricket writer based in London. He is a regular contributor to the Guardian, Daily Mail, Independent and London Evening Standard. Trevor Bayliss, England ' s Australian coach, has accused his players of being  " dumb "  and raised the possibility of an alcohol ban being imposed on the squad after revelations Jonny Bairstow headbutted Cameron Bancroft in a Perth bar. Despite the incident being downplayed by all parties, including Bancroft, following Australia ' s 10-wicket victory in the opening match of this Magellan Ashes series, it is clear Bayliss is furious that England ' s tour has been hit by more allegations of off-field misconduct. Just three days after Bairstow and Bancroft ' s meeting in a Perth bar on October 29, Bayliss had spoken to the travelling UK media about the responsibilities his players had on this tour in the wake of the Ben Stokes controversy. Stokes would have been here in Brisbane had it not been for an altercation outside a Bristol nightclub during England ' s one-day series against West Indies in September. Police are still investigating. Back then Bayliss explained the squad had been briefed by Andrew Strauss, England ' s Director of Cricket, the day before they left the UK. Rules had been set by the players about how they were to handle themselves off the field, particularly on nights out.  " There is an agreement among themselves that they will be doing the right thing and looking after themselves, "  said Bayliss.  " It ' s a long tour, you can ' t be cooped up in a hotel room for four months. It ' s a case of being sensible and professional. " What will annoy Bayliss the most is the fact this incident happened on the first night of the tour, just hours after the squad had landed in Perth.  The night out may have been sanctioned by team management but the fact Bairstow put himself in this position  &# x2013; however innocent the encounter with Bancroft  &# x2013; just 72 hours after the squad were reminded of their responsibilities by Strauss is not good. Commenting specifically about the Stokes incident, Bayliss had said:  " Whatever rules and regs you have there ' s a bit of a wake-up call. We would have preferred it not to be such a big wake up call. " Unfortunately for England the media firestorm that has followed this latest incident has given them yet another big wake-up call at the worst possible time. Already 1-0 down in this Ashes series after their 10-wicket defeat at the Gabba, the touring party are now under siege.  Bairstow has been cleared of any wrongdoing by the England  &  Wales Cricket Board after a brief investigation on Sunday night. The matter, as far as they are concerned, is closed. Yet the story has now taken on a life of its own and England are scrambling to limit the damage. No wonder Bayliss is furious.  Speaking at the Gabba on Monday, Bayliss said:  " We can ' t put ourselves in these situations however small they are. " They have only got themselves to blame. Any team will take any opportunity to get stuck into the opposition, make them feel uncomfortable wherever possible. If you put yourself in that situation you are fair game, we have to be careful we don ' t do that in future. " Questions about England ' s team culture  &# x2013; and fears they are harbouring a drinking culture  &# x2013; are valid.  The ECB were prepared to give the players a chance to take responsibility for their own off-field behaviour after the Stokes incident. But now Strauss, who is here in Brisbane, will review the policies on player behaviour, nights out and alcohol with team management over the coming days.  A booze ban appears likely. " There will probably be a tightening up of curfews, "  said Bayliss. " Players put curfews on themselves around matches, then it ' s up to me to say we haven ' t got a game for a few nights, you can head out but obviously not be stupid. That ' s the disappointing thing, we make dumb decisions at different times. " We have to be smarter. Most people like going out at night and having a couple of quiet ones. You have got to be careful you don ' t do anything stupid. If that means not having anything to drink then so be it. " Asked if he thought the behaviour of England ' s players would now change, Bayliss answered:  " That was what I thought after Bristol as well. They ' d be extra dumb and stupid if it didn ' t. " Players going out on tour  &# x2013; and indeed at home  &# x2013; is nothing new. However, the fact this current England squad has again generated negative headlines for off-field behaviour is unforgivable. It appears Bairstow did nothing more than being  " dumb "  as Bayliss put it, or  " weird "  as Bancroft described their meeting at Perth ' s Avenue bar. Yet the damage has been done see and the touring party have been made to look like a laughing stock by their Australian hosts. The handling of the crisis by senior communications chiefs at the ECB also left a lot to be desired. Things had appeared to settle down once play started on the fifth and final day at the Gabba, with the headlines in the morning newspapers appearing to sensationalise what appeared a trivial incident. However, the decision to allow Bairstow to deliver an off-the-cuff statement on the issue without letting him to field questions was ill-advised. Allowing Bayliss to then vent to the media poured kerosene on a fire that had appeared to be burning out. Rather than killing the story, England gave it legs.  Bancroft ' s light-hearted press conference, in which he spoke about the encounter in minute detail with disarming comic frankness, then made England look even more foolish. No doubt the ECB will learn painful lessons from this latest incident. All the while the Stokes saga  &# x2013; and whether he will be charged or not by police back in the UK  &# x2013; rumbles on in the background. 2017-18 International Fixtures Magellan Ashes Series Australia Test squad:  Steve Smith (c), David Warner (vc), Cameron Bancroft, Usman Khawaja, Peter Handscomb, Shaun Marsh, Tim Paine (wk), Mitchell Starc, Pat Cummins, Nathan Lyon, Josh Hazlewood, Jackson Bird, Chadd Sayers. England Test squad:  Joe Root (c), James Anderson (vc), Moeen Ali, Jonny Bairstow, Jake Ball, Gary Ballance, Stuart Broad, Alastair Cook, Mason Crane, Tom Curran, Ben Foakes, Dawid Malan, Craig Overton, Ben Stokes, Mark Stoneman, James Vince, Chris Woakes. First Test  Australia won by 10 wickets.  Scorecard Second Test  Adelaide Oval, December 2-6 (Day-Night).  Tickets Third Test  WACA Ground, December 14-18.  Tickets Fourth Test  MCG, December 26-30.  Tickets Fifth Test  SCG, January 4-8 (Pink Test).  Tickets Gillette ODI Series v England First ODI  MCG, January 14.  Tickets Second ODI  Gabba, January 19.  Tickets Third ODI  SCG, January 21.  Tickets Fourth ODI  Adelaide Oval, January 26. &# xA0; Tickets Fifth ODI &# xA0;Perth Stadium, January 28.  Tickets Prime Minister ' s XI PM ' s XI v England &# xA0;Manuka Oval, February 2. &# xA0; Tickets Gillette T20 trans-Tasman Tri-Series First T20I &# xA0;Australia v NZ, SCG, February 3. &# xA0; Tickets Second T20I  &# x2013; Australia v England, Blundstone Arena, February 7. &# xA0; Tickets Third T20I  &# x2013; Australia v England, MCG, February 10. &# xA0; Tickets Fourth T20I  &# x2013; NZ v England, Wellington, February 14 Fifth T20I &# x2013; NZ v Australia, Eden Park, February 16 Sixth T20I &# x2013; NZ v England, Seddon Park, February 18 Final &# x2013; TBC, Eden Park, February 21 cricket.com.au is a production of CA Digital Media - a division of Cricket Australia. ©  2019  Cricket Australia. All rights reserved. cricket-com-au-logo cricket-com-au-logo 