10 Best Eskilstuna Hotels, Sweden (From $58) Loading Pick your preferred language. We speak English and 42 other languages. View vacation packages to Hotel in Eskilstuna This riverside hotel is 1640 feet from Eskilstuna Central Station. It offers free Wi-Fi, gym and sauna access. All rooms feature flat-screen TVs and mini-bars.  It is a clean, comfortable, well-located, modern hotel. Hotel in Eskilstuna This family owned hotel is a 5-minute drive from central Eskilstuna and features free WiFi access and free private parking. Tuna Park Shopping Center is 1.5 mi away.  Very clean and well presented room. Comfortable beds and a great shower. Really nice breakfast and having tea / coffee available late at night was very good for us. Will definitely stay again when we are in Eskilstuna. Hotel in Eskilstuna Comfort Hotel Eskilstuna is located next to the river in central Eskilstuna. It offers free WiFi internet access and rooms with attached bathroom with cable TV.  Breakfast buffet was amazing. Beds were super comfy. Staff were really nice. Perfect location. Very, very happy! Hotel in Eskilstuna Located in opposite Mälardalen University in central Eskilstuna, the eco-friendly hotel offers free WiFi and rooms with flat-screen TVs. Eskilstuna Train Station is 492 feet away.  Excellent service very friendly staff Hotel in Eskilstuna Housed in a 19th-century building in central Eskilstuna, City Hotell offers free WiFi access and spacious rooms with a flat-screen cable TV. Eskilstuna Central Station is just across the street.  Location and style.  Outside seating was wonderful too Hotel in Eskilstuna Overlooking the Eskilstuna River, this hotel is housed in the same building as the Munktell Museum. It offers a light evening meal, afternoon tea / coffee and spacious rooms with free Wi-Fi.  great staff- great food selection Hotel in Eskilstuna Located in Eskilstuna, within 4 miles of Parken Zoo and 4.1 miles of Tuna Park Shopping Centre, Hotell Eskilstuna provides accommodations with a shared lounge and free WiFi throughout the property as... Polite, friendly and flexible staff! Hotel in Eskilstuna Golden Spa Hotell is 2953 feet from in Eskilstuna Central Station. WiFi and parking are free. All rooms offer a private bathroom with shower. A guest kitchenette and lounge are also available.  The stuff was verry friendly 🤗 Hotel in Eskilstuna This family-owned hotel is 5 minutes’ drive from Eskilstuna Central Station and 0.6 mi from the sandy Vilsta Beach. It offers free Wi-Fi and individually decorated rooms with a TV and seating area.  Absolutely nice hotel and neighbourhood. Breakfast is amazing! Staff is the best: kind, flexible, attentive. Room is very nice, the place is quiet, just perfect for a wonderful holiday! It was everything and more we needed during our stay in this little treasure box: Eskilstuna. Hotel in Eskilstuna This hotel is located in Vilsta Nature Reserve, 1.2 mi outside central Eskilstuna. It offers free sauna access and rooms with private bathrooms, wooden floors and a flat-screen TV.  Breakfast was surprisingly great!! Hotel in Eskilstuna Popular with guests booking hotels in Eskilstuna Hotel in Eskilstuna Popular with guests booking hotels in Eskilstuna Hotel in Eskilstuna Popular with guests booking hotels in Eskilstuna Hotel in Eskilstuna Popular with guests booking hotels in Eskilstuna Hotel in Eskilstuna Popular with guests booking hotels in Eskilstuna Hotel in Eskilstuna Popular with guests booking hotels in Eskilstuna Hotel in Eskilstuna Popular with guests booking hotels in Eskilstuna Hotel in Eskilstuna Popular with guests booking hotels in Eskilstuna Many families visiting Eskilstuna loved staying at  Clarion Collection Hotel Bolinder Munktell ,  Comfort Hotel Eskilstuna , and  First Hotel City Eskilstuna . Elite Stadshotellet Eskilstuna ,  Clarion Collection Hotel Bolinder Munktell , and  Hotell TunaPark  are some of the popular hotels in Eskilstuna. Comfort Hotel Eskilstuna ,  Clarion Collection Hotel Bolinder Munktell , and  Elite Stadshotellet Eskilstuna  got great room view-related reviews from travelers in Eskilstuna. These hotels in Eskilstuna are highly rated by couples:  Clarion Collection Hotel Bolinder Munktell ,  First Hotel City Eskilstuna , and  Hotell TunaPark . For hotels in Eskilstuna that serve highly-rated breakfasts, try  Elite Stadshotellet Eskilstuna ,  Comfort Hotel Eskilstuna , and  Best Western Plaza Hotel . Prices drop the second you sign up! Error: Please enter a valid email address. Error: Oops! An error has occurred. Thanks! We've sent you an email so you can confirm your subscription people in town very friendly- people adjusted to english speaking when I would say hello. Very nice place to walk with some nice scenery. enjoyed the area called the Square- some nice options for food and drink. My relatives showed me several places to go, and some family historical places too. It was nice the learn about the family roots. We walked everywhere.The Munktell Museum contained a miniature locomotive that my ancestor made at his job after building a workshop at his job. Hotel in Eskilstuna 8.0 Very Good 721 reviews The breakfast buffet was the best I have ever seen - even with avocado and lots of fruit and local Swedish food. The staff was very friendly, and everything about the room was perfect: quiet, modern, nice shower room and an electric towel dryer which was very convenient as I had come from France to participate in the Swedish National Masters Swim championships. Every day I had all these bathing suits to dry! And there was a convenient ironing board plus a gym and a suana. I highly recommend your hotel. Hotel in Eskilstuna 8.3 Very Good 403 reviews Friendly, helpful and polite stuff from the first minute we stepped in the hotel until our check-out. Kudos 👌🏻The view is fantastic. The best location of the town. The room and bathroom were spacious and clean, as they should be. Breakfast and cafeteria, great.Everything was great and pleasant. Recommended 👌🏻👍🏻 Hotel in Eskilstuna 8.4 Very Good 637 reviews Very clean and well presented room. Comfortable beds and a great shower. Really nice breakfast and having tea / coffee available late at night was very good for us. Will definitely stay again when we are in Eskilstuna.  Hotel in Eskilstuna 8.3 Very Good 182 reviews The staff are really friendly and helpful, and the rooms are comfortable. Breakfast is great, and there is tea and coffee available with cake in the afternoons. Couldn ' t be more central. Love it. Hotel in Eskilstuna 8.4 Very Good 1,111 reviews Great location, friendly staff, delicious breakfast with a wide variety, good wifi connection, clean and comfortable rooms Hotel in Eskilstuna 8.6 Excellent 393 reviews Location, breakfast, small terrace outside the hotel , 24 hours tea and coffee facilities. Room is cozy and functional. Eskilstuna The home had lovely furniture, is in an silent area of Eskilstuna and the owner is very friendly.   Hotel in Eskilstuna 6.9 Review score 337 reviews Very near Stiga areena, and city centrum.  Hotel in Eskilstuna 6.9 Review score 249 reviews This Hotell is good 10 / 10 Eskilstuna 7.7 Good 60 reviews Cheap place to stay. If you do not expect something special, you woun´t disapoint. Everything was clean. Owner offer an opprtunity wash my clothes, eventhough there was no machine. Eskilstuna 7.4 Good 117 reviews I really love everything about vilsta camping it was really nice,  i enjoyed my staying there. It was the best. Refer a property List your property Booking.com is part of Booking Holdings Inc., the world leader in online travel and related services. We have more than 70 million property reviews, all from  real, verified guests . 1 The only way to leave a review is to first make a booking. That's how we know our reviews come from real guests who have stayed at the property. 2 When guests stay at the property, they check out how quiet the room is, how friendly the staff is, and more. 3 After their trip, guests tell us about their stay. We check for naughty words and verify the authenticity of all guest reviews before adding them to our site. If you booked through us and want to leave a review, please sign in first. Check-in date Check-out date Get exclusive Booker deals by email For a limited time only Error: Please enter a valid email address. Error: Oops! An error has occurred. 