Antalis.co.uk Our website uses cookies to allow it to function correctly and to allow us to provide you a better service. If you are happy with this then please click the  " Continue "  button to proceed to the website. Europe's leading distributor of paper, packaging solutions and visual communication products for professionals     About Us | Paper, Packaging and Screen  &  Display Products | Antalis UK     Services | Paper, Packaging and Screen  &  Display Products | Antalis UK     Social Responsibility | Antalis UK     Information Centre | Paper, Packaging and Sign  &  Display Products | Antalis UK     Applications | Paper, Packaging and Sign  &  Display Products | Antalis UK     Popular Brands | Paper, Packaging and Sign  &  Display Products | Antalis UK Description Colourful, diverse, impactful, original... all words used to describe the digital range of papers from Arjowiggins Create Papers. Coated paper with high bulk and excellent printability.  PEFC  or  FSC®  certification and a large range of finishes, weights and sizes from stock.  A complete range of large format digital media including substrates for indoor and outdoor use. For solvent and water based ink systems.     100% post-consumer recycled paper with high whiteness, outstanding printability and  FSC® certification .  Suitable for Digital printing,  HP Indigo certified.    The high quality paper for digital colour laser printing with consistent performance.   Conqueror is recognised worldwide as a symbol of premium quality paper for business and  creative communication. Set your creativity free with the creative packaging range. The most innovative range of  creative papers  in one single collection: Matter, SKIN, Touch, Metallics and Translucents. Perfectly white  paper for  everyday  printing and copying. DISPA is a sign and display board with a flat, smooth, bright and white print surface with an embossed core providing rigidity and stability. Choose Edixion, the versatile uncoated paper range for all your everyday printed applications in offset and pre-print. The widest paper choice for all your printing needs.   Whoever you are, whether a printer, designer or announcer, the Invercote family will fulfill all your expectations for your most demanding applications.  Bold and exciting, vibrant and versatile, Keaykolour combines quality and innovation in a unique collection of papers and boards.  An extensive range of packaging materials including bubble wrap, stretch film, packing tapes and packaging machinery, stocked for next day delivery.       Superfine Digital with i-Ton e ® is one of the finest papers for digital printing made today. Nautilus is a premium recycled uncoated paper for professional printing. It carries the highest environmental credentials for an eco-conscious corporate identity and message.    One of the largest ranges of coated paper for offset printing with 5 finishes. Available in FSC® or PEFC certified grades.        The most complete premium offset paper range with 18 different weights and 5 shades of white. The perfect choice for effective communications.       A complete range of graphics products for advertising, marking, car wrapping and decoration. Discover the new Pop’Set papers designed to fight off the greyness all around us and bring your communications to life.  A premium quality, high white paper guaranteed for colour work on laser and inkjet copiers and printers. Also available in folio formats.     A key reference for uncoated offset and pre-print paper. Extra-white, bulky, opaque, with outstanding printability and FSC ® certified. The natural choice in environmentally sound plastics. The world-famous brand name, now available from Antalis. Perfect performance, perfect multi-part forms with reacto® carbonless paper. The finest texture for paper selection/ Silver Digital is a double-coated premium white paper, fully certified for HP Indigo machines and guaranteed for dry toner laser Xerox branded paper and print media have been designed to give the very best results in all digital printers - from desktop lasers to production press.     Catalogue | Paper, Packaging and Sign  &  Display Products | Antalis UK     Your Business | Antalis UK MAIN CRITERIA   SHOW SECONDARY CRITERIA  TO FILTER MY SEARCH   YOUR BUSINESS All our products APPLICATIONS Popular Brands Antalis copyright  2019. All right reserved. Registered in England No. 1088345. Registered Office - Baker  &  McKenzie LLP, 100 New Bridge Street, London EC4V 6JA. CONTACT US 