Family Dentistry Modesto CA Dentist | Amanda Farley, DDS Regular Exams and Cleanings  |  Bonding  |  Bridges  |  Crowns  |  Dentures  |  Extractions  |  Fillings  |  Fluoride  |  Implant Restoration  |  Mouthguards  |  Nightguards  |  Root Canals  |  Sealants  |  Veneers  |  Wisdom Teeth Regular exams and hygiene visits are an important part of maintaining your oral health. During your regular exam, we will: Your regular hygiene appointment will take about 45-60 minutes. Each hygiene appointment includes a detailed teeth cleaning, in which we will clean, polish, and rinse your teeth to remove any tartar and plaque that have built up on the tooth ' s surface. Visiting our office every six months gives you the chance to talk to the doctor about any questions you may have about your oral health. Regular exams and hygiene appointments are offered by appointment only, so please contact our practice today to schedule your next dental exam and teeth cleaning.  Back to top " Bonding " , also known as a composite filling is a conservative way to repair slightly chipped, discolored, or crooked teeth. During dental bonding, a white filling is placed onto your tooth to improve its appearance. The filling  bonds  with your tooth, and because it comes in a variety of tooth-colored shades, it closely matches the appearance of your natural teeth. Composite can also be used for tooth fillings instead of silver amalgam. Many patients prefer composite fillings because the white color is much less noticeable than silver. It is also more conservative at times, due to it being able to be glued into or onto the tooth, whereas silver fillings cannot be glued. Bonded fillings can be used on front or back teeth, depending on the location and extent of tooth decay. Bonding is less expensive than other cosmetic treatments and can usually be completed in one visit to our office. However, bonding can stain and is easier to break than other cosmetic treatments, such as porcelain veneers. Composite fillings have their limitations and Dr. Farley will judge if a filling will allow the tooth to be structurally sound. If it does break or chip, let Dr. Farley or one of our hygienists know. The bonding can generally be easily patched, smoothed or replaced.  Back to top A bridge may be used to replace missing teeth, help maintain the shape of your face, and alleviate stress on your bite. A bridge replaces missing teeth with artificial teeth, looks great, and literally bridges the gap where one or more teeth may have been. Your bridge can be made from gold, alloys, porcelain, or a combination of these materials and is bonded onto surrounding teeth for support. The success of any bridge  depends on its foundation  the other teeth, gums, or bone to which it is attached. Therefore, it s very important to keep your existing teeth, gums, and jaw healthy and strong.  Back to top Crowns are a restorative procedure used to improve your tooth s shape or to strengthen a tooth. Crowns are most often used for teeth that are broken, worn, or have portions destroyed by tooth decay. A crown is a  cap  cemented onto an existing tooth that usually covers the portion of your tooth above the gum line. In effect, the crown becomes your tooth s new outer surface. Crowns can be made of porcelain, metal, or both. Porcelain crowns are most often preferred because they mimic the translucency of natural teeth and are very strong. Crowns or onlays (partial crowns) are needed when there is insufficient tooth strength remaining to hold a filling. Unlike fillings, which apply the restorative material directly into your mouth, a crown is fabricated away from your mouth. We used a CAD/CAM 3D scanner to build a 3D model of your mouth to allow us to securely email your information to our local lab and have it fabricated precisely to fit our needs. Your crown is then sculpted just for you so that your bite and jaw movements function normally once the crown is placed.  Back to top Dentures are natural-looking replacement teeth that are  removable . There are two types of dentures: full and partial. Full dentures are given to patients when all of the natural teeth have been removed. Partial dentures are attached to a metal frame that is connected to your natural teeth and are used to fill in where permanent teeth have been removed. In certain situations, we can integrate implants or root canaled teeth to more securely anchor a full or partial denture. This allows for more securely fitting dentures, or overdentures to be designed. We also proudly offer CONUS overdentures that allow for wear that feels like a permanent solution with the convenience of being able to remove at home for hygiene purposes. A wonderful hybrid option without the pricetag of permanent implant restorations. Just like natural teeth, dentures need to be properly cared for. Use a gentle cleanser to brush your dentures, always keep them moist when they re not in use, and be sure to keep your tongue and gums clean as well.  Back to top There are times when it is necessary to remove a tooth. Sometimes a baby tooth has misshapen or long roots that prevent it from falling out as it should, and the tooth must be removed to make way for the permanent tooth to erupt. At other times, a tooth may have so much decay that it puts the surrounding teeth at risk of decay, so your doctor may recommend removal and replacement with a bridge or implant. Infection, orthodontic correction, or problems with a wisdom tooth can also require removal of a tooth. When it is determined that a tooth needs to be removed, Dr. Farley may extract the tooth or determine if an oral surgeon or periodontist should be involved. There are times where an extraction is best done along with grafting at the time of removal. This allows for more restorative options that can be discussed at the time of diagnosis. The root of each tooth is encased within your jawbone in a  tooth socket,  and your tooth is held in that socket by a ligament. In order to extract a tooth, your dentist must expand the socket and separate the tooth from the ligament holding it in place. Once a tooth has been removed, neighboring teeth may shift, causing problems with chewing or with your jaw joint function. To avoid these complications, Dr. Farley will discuss with you your best options to replace the extracted tooth.  Back to top Traditional dental restoratives, or fillings, are most often made of silver amalgam. The strength and durability of this traditional dental material makes it useful for situations where restored teeth must withstand extreme forces that result from chewing, often in the back of the mouth. It is a helpful material in areas that are cavity prone or are in areas that are hard to clean. Newer dental fillings include ceramic and plastic compounds that mimic the appearance of natural teeth. These compounds, often called composite resins, are usually used on the front teeth where a natural appearance is important, but they can also be used on the back teeth depending on the location and extent of the tooth decay. There are two different kinds of fillings: direct and indirect. Direct fillings are fillings placed into a prepared cavity in a single visit. They include silver amalgam, glass ionomers, resin ionomers, and composite (resin) fillings. Indirect fillings generally require two or more visits. They include inlays, onlays, and veneers. They are used when a tooth has too much damage to support a filling but not enough to necessitate a crown.  Back to top Fluoride is effective in preventing cavities and tooth decay and in preventing plaque from building up and hardening on the tooth s surface. A fluoride treatment in the office takes just a few minutes. After the treatment, you may be asked not to rinse, eat, or drink for at least 30 minutes in order to allow the teeth to absorb the fluoride. Depending on your oral health or Dr. Farley ' s recommendation, you may be required to have a fluoride treatment every three, four, six, or 12 months.  Back to top If you are missing teeth, it is crucial to replace them. Without all your teeth, chewing and eating can destabilize your bite and cause you discomfort. When teeth are missing, your mouth can shift and even cause your face to look older. Implants are a great way to replace your missing teeth, and if properly maintained, can last a lifetime! An implant is a new tooth made of metal and porcelain that looks just like your natural tooth. It s composed of three main parts: one part is the titanium implant body that takes the place of the missing root, placed with an oral surgeon or periodontist. Dr. Farley places the second part is called an abutment. It serves to connect the implant foundation to the restorative segment (crown, locator, bridge) The third part is the tooth-colored crown that is cemented on top of the implant. With implant treatment, you can smile confidently knowing no one will ever suspect you have a replacement tooth. In addition to tooth replacement, implants may be used to anchor dentures, especially lower dentures that tend to shift when you talk or chew. For patients with removable partial dentures, implants can replace missing teeth so you have a more natural-looking smile.  Back to top Whether you wear braces or not, protecting your smile while playing sports is essential. Mouthguards help protect your teeth and gums from injury. If you participate in any kind of full-contact sport, the American Dental Association recommends that you wear a mouthguard. Choosing the right mouthguard is essential. There are three basic types of mouthguards: the pre-made mouthguard, the  boil-and-bite  fitted mouthguard, and a custom-made mouthguard from Dr. Farley. When you choose a mouthguard, be sure to pick one that is tear-resistant, comfortable and well-fitted for your mouth, easy to keep clean, and does not prevent you from breathing properly. Dr. Farley can show you how to wear a mouthguard properly and how to choose the right mouthguard to protect your smile.  Back to top If you often wake up with jaw pain, earaches, or headaches, or if you find yourself clenching or grinding your teeth, you may have a common condition called  bruxism. Many people do not even know that they grind their teeth, as it often occurs when one is sleeping.  If not corrected, bruxism can lead to broken teeth, cracked teeth, bone loss or even tooth loss. There is an easy, non-invasive treatment for bruxism: nightguards. Nightguards are an easy way to prevent the wear and damage that teeth-grinding causes over time. Custom-made by your dentist from soft material to fit your teeth, a nightguard is inserted over your top  or  bottom arch and prevents contact with the opposing teeth and acts as a shock absorber.  Back to top In the past, if you had a tooth with a diseased nerve, you ' d probably lose that tooth. Today, with a special dental procedure called  root canal , your tooth can be saved. When a tooth is cracked or has a deep cavity, bacteria can enter the pulp tissue and germs can cause an infection inside the tooth. If left untreated, an abscess may form. If the infected tissue is not removed, pain and swelling can result. This can not only injure your jawbones, but it is also detrimental to your overall health. Dental infections can cause infection in your heart, your brain, your blood and in certain cases, cause death. If Dr. Farley suspects that you may be at risk for infection, she will refer you immediately to one our local skilled endodontists to make sure that you get the highest caliber of care. Root canal treatment involves one to three visits. During treatment, an endodontist (a dentist who specializes in problems with the nerves of the teeth) removes the affected tissue. Next, the interior of the tooth will be cleaned and sealed. Finally, the tooth is filled with a dental composite. If your tooth has extensive decay, your doctor may suggest placing a crown to strengthen and protect the tooth from breaking. As long as you continue to care for your teeth and gums with regular brushing, flossing, and checkups, your restored tooth can last a lifetime.  Back to top Sometimes brushing is not enough, especially when it comes to those hard-to-reach spots in your mouth. It is difficult for your toothbrush to get in-between the small cracks and grooves on your teeth. If left alone, those tiny areas can develop tooth decay. Sealants give your teeth extra protection against decay and help prevent cavities. Dental sealants are plastic resins that bond and harden in the deep grooves on your tooth s surface. When a tooth is sealed, the tiny grooves become smooth and are less likely to harbor plaque. With sealants, brushing your teeth becomes easier and more effective against tooth decay. Sealants are typically applied to children s teeth as a preventive measure against tooth decay after the permanent teeth have erupted. However, a dults can also receive sealants on healthy teeth . It is more common to seal  permanent  teeth rather than  baby  teeth, but every patient has unique needs, and your dentist will recommend sealants on a case-by-case basis. Sealants last from three to five years, but it is fairly common to see adults with sealants still intact from their childhood. A dental sealant only provides protection when it is fully intact, so if your sealants come off, let your dentist know, and schedule an appointment for your teeth to be re-sealed.  Back to top You no longer need to hide your smile because of gaps, chips, stains, or misshapen teeth. With veneers, you can easily correct your teeth s imperfections to help you have a more confident, beautiful smile. Veneers are natural in appearance, and they are a perfect option for patients wanting to make minor adjustments to the look and feel of their smile. Veneers are thin, custom-made shells made from tooth-colored materials (such as porcelain), and they are designed to cover the front side of your teeth. To prepare for veneers, Dr. Farley will create a unique model of your teeth. This model is sent to the local dental technician to create your veneers. Before placing your new veneer, your doctor may need to conservatively prepare your tooth to achieve the desired aesthetic result. When your veneers are placed, you ll be pleased to see that they look like your natural teeth. While veneers are stain-resistant, your doctor may recommend that you avoid coffee, tea, red wine, and tobacco to maintain the beauty of your new smile.  Back to top Wisdom teeth are types of molars found in the very back of your mouth. They usually appear in the late teens or early twenties, but may become impacted (fail to erupt) due to lack of room in the jaw or angle of entry. When a wisdom tooth is impacted, it may need to be removed. If it is not removed, you may develop gum tenderness, swelling, or even severe pain. Impacted wisdom teeth that are partially or fully erupted tend to be quite difficult to clean and are susceptible to tooth decay, recurring infections, and even gum disease. Wisdom teeth are typically removed in the late teens or early twenties because there is a greater chance that the teeth ' s roots have not fully formed and the bone surrounding the teeth is less dense. These two factors can make extraction easier as well as shorten the recovery time. Dr. Farley will refer you to one of several excellent local oral surgeons to ensure that you receive comprehensive, highly skilled care. In order to remove a wisdom tooth, the oral surgeon first needs to numb the area around the tooth with a local anesthetic. Since the impacted tooth may still be under the gums and imbedded in your jaw bone, your dentist will need to remove a portion of the covering bone to extract the tooth. In order to minimize the amount of bone that is removed with the tooth, the oral surgeon will often  section  your wisdom tooth so that each piece can be removed through a small opening in the bone. Once your wisdom teeth have been extracted, the healing process begins. Depending on the degree of difficulty related to the extraction, healing time varies. The oral surgeon will share with you what to expect and provide instructions for a comfortable, efficient healing process. Family Dentistry Implant Restoration Cosmetic Dentistry Veneers Crowns Wisdom Teeth Teeth Whitening All-on-4® 