GEOTECTURA - Selected Projects GEOTECTURA ph:  972-544662084  fax:  972-48260532 alt:  972-775496289  info @geotectu ra .com Design Team: Geotectura New ecological workshops (Wood, Steel, Foam, Jewlery), Classrooms and Galleries for Shenakr College. Completion Year: 2018  Design Team: Geotectura The house reveals and reflects the ideas of sustainability with more than fifty green design features.    The hope is to raise awareness about green design challenges and solutions ﻿ The Eco360 is a single-family four-bedroom home located north of Tel Aviv. The goal of the project designed by Geotectura was to build a sustainable home that would be Energy-Positive and include excellent indoor air and light quality while reflecting the beauty of the surroundings.  The challenge was even greater as the view of the sea is to the west, so traditional passive design solutions that are appropriate for the south façade were not valid in this case.  An unusual geometrical optimization was needed to obtain all the passive design features while facing the west. The house is well insulated and is largely heated by the energy that is generated by body heat and household equipment. The entire design team worked with BIM (Building Information Modeling) methodology using environmental simulations during the design process to reach the best optimization. The client wanted to build a home that could demonstrate, highlight, and set an example of what could be done to build a home based on ecological principles, with minimal maintenance, using solar power, a grey water system, passive wind strategy, high durability and recycled materials. The client’s hope is that the house will inspire others to consider ways in which they can also use these green principles in building and that it will serve as a model of efficiency and environmental sensitivity. Completion Year: 2018  ﻿ PRESS ﻿ ﻿ ﻿ PRESS Design Team: Geotectura A floating glass structure for Game Lab and a Media Lab, 3D printing workshop and more within an old structure in Shenkar. Client: Shenkar College Completion Year: 2015  ﻿ PRESS ﻿ PRESS ﻿ Design Team: Geotectura / Axelrod-Grobman Architects / Chen Architects     Geotectura was chosen to continue with the research laboratory design within the eco-wall and in the building in order to make even more cutting edge spaces and environmental benefits opportunities. The project is a living lab of ecological and social values for the community and the environment. It tells the story of the complex sustainability term and simplifies it to the public by strolling along the eco-wall, the ground floor and the roof that present current research of energy, water, soil, vegetation, materials and so on that they can see, touch and learn. The building can absorb changing technology and keep being relevant and attractive for leading researches around the world. The eco-wall is an iconic ever-changing window display for the other universities and visitors and act as a constant social-educational contributor.  Client: Tel Aviv University Completion Year: 2014  PRESS PRESS ﻿ Design Team: Students from Israel under the supervision of Dr. Joseph Cory and Chen Shalita Solar Decathlon China challenges 20 collegiate teams to design, build, and operate solar-powered houses that are Net Zero Energy Buildings and are affordable, energy-efficient, and attractive. The winner of the competition is the team that best blends cost-effectiveness, consumer appeal, and design excellence with optimal energy production and maximum efficiency. These teams will spend almost two years creating houses to compete in the 10 contests of the Solar Decathlon. The winning team produces a house that: Solar Decathlon China took place in August 2013. Team Israel was the first Israeli team to be accepted to participate in the Solar Decathlon China competition. Team Israel won the 4th place in total (2nd place in the Architecture competition, 1st place in the Hot Water Competition, 1st place in the Energy Balance Competition).  Client: Solar Decathlon Competition Completion Year: 2013  PRESS    Design Team: Geotectura / MODU     Shade is the result of an object blocking sunlight. Typically, the object is stationary (eg, buildings) while the sun is in slow movement producing a shadow that is the direct result of the path of the sun. “Cloud Seeding” questions this definition of shade—instead; it would create shade that is dynamic, responsive, and fragmented. The shadows of “Cloud Seeding” would be the result of thousands of objects, or “seeds,” in constant movement overhead. The proposal consists of a flat ceiling made of a clear structural film/mesh. The ceiling supports twenty-thousand hollow recycled plastic balls, which move freely with the wind across the surface of the ceiling. The resulting shade is not from a single—or a few—stationary objects, instead the changing shadows would be from thousands of moving “seeds.” Client: Holon Design Museum Completion Year: 2015  PRESS ﻿ Design Team: Geotectura / Efrat Gilboa Environmental Sculpture. Client: Rishon LeZion Municipality Completion Year: 2013  Design Team: Geotectura The Solar Garden is an educational initiative designed to promote awareness and use of green energy sources and environmental technologies (CleanTech) amongst the Israeli public. We aim to influence the development of a leading green energy industry in Israel through education and exposure of environmental technologies. Walking in to the center, your eyes go directly to the large cube displays that line the walkway to the ecological house. The creation of The Solar Garden was first inspired by the massive attention that was received from the cube installations designed by Geotectura, are an ideological art project to show people how simple it is to harness solar energy. The idea behind the cube is similar to Earth. Earth has a limited amount of resources. By installing solar panels, we can use the sun to bring in outside resources instead of using the limited resources available. The cube is symbolizing the earth as a closed box of resources. Adding a solar panel allows us to bring in the electricity resource from outside the cube. Client: The Solar Garden Completion Year: 2009  PRESS Design Team: Geotectura In ZeroHome we present a life built of all that which works well: breathing deeply, eating fresh food, spending time with people, lovingly sharing, exchanging information, being connected to a community, returning our “waste” to the earth. All these simple things are somehow perceived as unattainable in our culture – “who has the time?” The house gives us this time, connects us to our most basic of needs and asks: Are we getting enough sleep? Is the air we’re breathing nurturing us? Is the water we’re drinking the best for us? Is the food we’re eating healthy? Where do our excretions go? Where do our food remaining disappear to? Do we love enough? Where did our childhood dreams go? ZeroHome has answers, however its main objective is setting the questions in the collective consciousness. Those who will step inside, abandoning for a few moments the cellophane wrapper of our culture, will be invited to acknowledge the unsustainable nature of the western culture dream of “progress”, and to connect with a dream well-hidden: that of a sustainable, beautiful and human world. At the physical level the house is disconnected from the infrastructural grid: sewage, electricity, water and gas (“the grid”), while still meeting all existential needs: water, food, appropriate conditions for sleep, hosting, work and rest, and recycling secretions and leftovers, showing that we can live comfortably, without damaging the environment - we might even do some good! Client: City Tree Completion Year: 2012  PRESS PRESS ﻿ Design Team: Geotectura  The ecological offices were designed according to the Israeli green code 5281 to set an example with the use of local, recycable and fast growing materials. Client: The Ministry of Environmental Protection Completion Year: 2011  Copyright GEOTECTURA. All rights reserved. GEOTECTURA ph:  972-544662084  fax:  972-48260532 alt:  972-775496289  info @geotectu ra .com 