Literacy and numeracy improvement: a whole school approach &# xa0; > Summ a ry > Target student g r oup  > Metho d > Resu l ts  > Lesson s  l e arned  > Next st e p s > Resea r ch  b as e > Further readi n g and links  > Cont a cts  &# xa0; The aim  was to  support  schools to  select and  implement interventions  addressing  the specific learning needs of students experiencing difficulty in literacy and/ or numeracy. These interventions had to be: The program  was based on the initiatives associated with the Literacy and Numeracy National Partnership project (LNNP) and  targeted  74  public schools in metropolitan, regional and rural West ern Australia. This involved 31, 535 students  of whom 2, 851 were Aboriginal. The Western Australian Department of Education  (DETWA)  identified schools where large numbers of students were at or below the National Minimum Standard in the 2008 NAPLAN reading and numeracy assessments, also taking account of Aboriginal student populations and English as an Additional Language  (EAL )  and  English as an Additional Dialect (EAD) students. The  program was developed around the three components of the school improvement cycle: In implementing  their selected  strategies ,  schools were able to access direct support from  a  program team comprising  two  consultant principals, one literacy consultant, one numeracy consultant and one consultant specializing in  EAL/D. This  team  was available for support and guidance over the two years of the program.  They participated in the planning process, guided schools through data analysis to inform improvement targets, and provided regular and spaced professional learning (PL) opportunities to build the capacity of specialist teachers. In-school mentoring and coaching was provided to schools by the team on an as-needs basis. A key  focus of the team was to ensure school leadership teams established processes to involve all staff in quality analysis of school data and ensure staff owners hip of performance information. Schools were provided with a planning pack ,  which included a prescribed template that addressed:  School and performance data was analysed, including: This analysis allowed schools to  set challenging yet realistic targets ,  and  plan focused interventions. S chools select ed  from a range of strategies to improve students ' literacy and numeracy standards,  with a particular focus on students who  were  at or below  N ational  M inimum  S tandards  or not achieving their potential . These strategies  were  embedded in  the school's overall plan. The strategies selected by schools had to have a clear evidence-base outlining their efficacy in improving  students '  l iteracy and numeracy standards. Strategies in the planning pack focused on the  First Steps prog ram , notably : S chools  were encouraged to use a case-management approach  to identify individual student and small - group learning needs , and to differentiate instruction. Specialist teachers, usually drawn from existing staff members, were nominated to  work alongside classroom teachers to  improve literacy and numeracy practice.  Training  was  provided  by the program team  to enable specialist teachers to work effectively in the context of particular  schools and student populations. The team also provided professional learning  tailored to individual school requests over the two years of the program. Teachers in this role  went on to  share their expertise with colleagues and  build the capacity of the whole  school to improve K – 7  literacy and numeracy. Schools developed a  performance management p lan (PMP) that contained  goals, performance indicators, actions, agreed support and time frames link ed  to the targets and strategies contained in the program school plan. A n  online self- assessment tool , called a  m onitoring review framework (MRF), was completed quarterly by schools. This was designed to help schools  make informed judg e ments about the extent to which they had implemented the  key strategies of the program, and to encourage whole-school reflection. The aim of this program was to  achieve sustained improvement in literacy and numeracy learning outcomes for students , and improve the mean scores and proportion of students at or above the National Minimum Standard in  y ears 3, 5 and 7 in NAPLAN re ading and numeracy assessments. The data from all 74 program schools was used to compare the reading and numeracy mean  in each year level  for 2009 and 2011, and the  mean  progress from year 3 to year 5, and from year 5 to year 7. The year  2009  was used  as the baseline , because it: The  following tables  show  that the program  schools '  average was above  the Western Australian  average on every measure , with  approximately 70  per cent  of  LNNP schools  closing  the gap between their performance and  the  state performance in both reading and nume racy. Table  1: Changes in the mean literacy score, 2009–2011 Reading Year level WA mean increase LNNP schools mean increase Difference Difference as multiple (percentage) Year 3 Year 5 Year 7 3 – 3 6 13.2 – 1.1 12.1 +10 +1.9 +6.1 4.4 ( 440% ) 2.75 ( 275% ) 2 ( 200% ) Table 2:  Literacy m ean p rogress c omparisons , year 3 to year 5, and year 5 to year 7 Reading Year level State average LNNP schools average Difference as multiple (percentage) Percentage of LNNP schools above WA average Year 3 to 5 Year 5 to 7 82 59 85.2 68.2 3.2  ( 105% ) 9.2  ( 115% ) 69% 78% Table 3: Changes in the numeracy mean score, 2009–2011 Numeracy WA mean increase LNNP schools mean increase Difference  Difference as multiple (percentage)  Year 3 Year 5 Year 7 6 4 7 16.5 8 16 +10.5 +4 +9 2.75, or  275% 2, or  200% 2.28, or  228% &# xa0; Table 4:  Numeracy m ean progress comparisons , year 3 to year 5, and year 5 to year 7 Numeracy State average LNNP schools average Difference as multiple (percentage) Percentage of LNNP schools above WA average Year 3 to 5 Year 5 to 7 98 70 105.5 74.5 7.5  ( 108% ) 4.5  ( 106.5% ) 62% 68% &# xa0; Apart from improvements in students '  literacy and numeracy outcomes, schools highlighted the following benefits and outco mes resulting from the program: Participating schools identified embedding cultural change as critical to maintaining the  momentum created by the program,  ensuring changes to teaching and collaborative practices beco me ingrained in school culture. Cultural change is seen as sustainable by schools because it is ultimately underpinned by school staff recognising the benefits of the school ' s approach ,  and the enhanced sense of professional satisfaction teachers have gained from  improving student achievement. The program was  developed  around building the  capacity of school communities,  rather than on strategie s that require ongoing funding. Factors in program schools that contribute d  to the sustain ability of the program include: Resea rch consistently  identifies  approaches to  teaching that  le a d to improvement in students '  literacy and numeracy learning. The key  outcomes  of this research  include :  Reflecting on the  insights  provided by these documents ,  the program  focused on assisting schools with the process of collaborative planning, coordinating the provision of opportunities for professional learning for school leaders and specialist teachers, and assisting schools in the setting of improvement targets. First Steps ,  http://det.wa.edu.au/stepsresources/detcms/navigation/first-steps-literacy/?oid=MultiPartArticle-id-13602018 Hattie, J 2003,  Teachers Make a Difference: What is the research evidence?  University of Auckland. Human Capital Working Group Coun cil of Australian Governments 2006 ,  The National Numeracy Review Report ,  Commonwealth of Australia. Louden, B 2006 ,  Literacy and Numeracy Review: The Final Report , Department of Education and Training, Western Australia.  Louden, B 2008 ,  Teaching for Growth: Effective teaching of literacy and numeracy , Department of Education and Training, Western Australia.  Rowe, K 2006,  Teaching Reading: National Inquiry into the Teaching of Literacy ,  Research Developments , vol. 15, a rticle 2. Department of Education Western Australia,  http://d e t.wa.edu.au &# xa0; &# xa0; ©  2014 Commonwealth of Australia, unless otherwise indicated. Teach Learn Share is provided under a Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike licence (CC BY-SA 3.0 AU), unless otherwise indicated. 1 