20 WEEKS PREGNANT AND NEED AN ABORTION!! | Netmums Netmums Your browser cannot play this video. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Hi. I'm sorry you have found yourself in such a difficult position.  I think you really need to be referred for counselling (sp?) before you make a final decision. Most doctors will be very very reluctant to perform an abortion at this late stage unless there is a serious defect with the baby or if there is a threat to you physically. You can go private but this will cost well over £1000. You sound as if you need an impartial person to talk to who knows the ins and outs of the procedure, other options and also of any aftercare who will not try and sway you one way or the other. Family and friends can sometimes be too emotionally involved to look at this impartially. Have you tried getting in touch with other pregnancy charities who can give you free advice? I don't know any off the top of my head, but will try and find some for you. Thanx for the links I have looked at all the sites you gave, however I haven't actually called one of them so that is worth considering so thanx for that!!xx:hug: I have gone to an impartial charity and had a face to face chat with them. The outcome was I was swaying more towards having the child. They did not judge me or even make decisions for me but they did say that I had thought this out if I were to have the child and that I could make it work and also pointed out if I was not to have it how it may effect me in the sense I could have that post distress thing or something and would not go well with my mental state at the moment as I am recovering from PND. My first point of call was my GP which I stated I would keep the child then he referred me to a midwife Then about a week later I went to my local Family planning clinic where I said I was considering termination can I be booked in for a scan as I was unsure how far I was with dates etc. They also discussed my options but said could no longer help me, as they rarely deal with people that late into their pregnancies!! Now I will go back to my GP and see what they can do for me. I have thoroughly researched the procedure and it does state mentally or physically to the woman's own health. There are two types of procedures I really don't no if I could go through with it but I have too.I just have too bite the bullet and do it. Hey!! thanx Michelle for adding your thoughts on your part. I think by what you said about  " Is there a part of you that feels you have ignored it for so long so that it goes past a point that the trauma will be too much for you? "  do you mean that I wanted it to go away?  As I wanted it to go away by itself I didn't want to even think about it I know that sounds very strange but it is true, even when I heard the heartbeat for the first time I was not that bothered not in a horrible way and I seeing the scan didnt make me decide either:( I still haven't really acknowledged that it is there how sad is that!!! obviously my belly is getting bigger but I'm not connected.  You hit the nail on the head by saying you would never have as much love as you did for daughter!! that is exactly how I feel, she is my everything and I owe it too her to give her all the attention and love that she needs right now as she is still young and I do feel that would be taken away and me even by me having this newborn me even taking my anger out on her. She is my everything and I am so blessed to even have her in my life and not in a harsh way but I don't need or want another child. I'm not selfish, greedy or anything I just no that I'm satisfied with what I have and she is my everything. I do no all my options and thanx for your kind wordsxx. I haven't really looked closely at adoption or fostering for that matter as I could not really see myself going through with them however temporary fostering maybe an option. If I was too have the child then yes I would also have to live with the fact that It wasn't planned and I never wanted them and would I grow too love them? I would also be responsible for that child for the rest of its life which is a huge responsibility in itself when you are not stable and already bringing up one young child, let alone two!! All I no is a termination would be a better option in the sense that I would not really have to live with it for the rest of my life as at that time I was not ready not in a horrible way as I stated in my first note who I am too decide etc. I just don't like the fact that I am so far gone that is all and all that denial has been true and I could not stop those feelings!!xxx I dont want it to haunt me I would not want to see anything and just get it over and done with. But it depends what procedure I would have too have:tear: Sorry im not here to judge you as ive never been in ur situ but in my mind you would have to live with it for the rest of your life if you had a termination now as the child is only 3 wks of being recognised as a person (ie if born at 24 wks they would help it to live) and me personally couldnt do it as the baby is properly formed now. I dont want to sound mean as i dont know you or your situation but had you not wanted anymore maybe precautionary measures couldve taken place ie condoms etc - again sorry if im speaking out of turn as i dont know if you were or not. I think adoption would be a good avenue to look at if you are seirous about not keeping the baby. But all ur worries could be blown away when you had them anyway i wish you luck in deciding whats right for you xx Please please don't do it my love, as desperate as you feel right now it's nothing to how you will feel in weeks, months, years to come if you go ahead with the abortion. In a week or two your baby could possibly survive outside the womb.  I know it's not what you want to hear but the thought of what your baby may feel during the procedure.....I just want to cry.  If you definately dont feel able to care for it then give someone else the chance to.  It's not the baby's fault that you stayed in denial for so long. Hi Natasha,yes i did mean that facing up to the prospect would be too much trauma so you have kind off wished that it is not happening so much that you can almost convince yourself it is not. Obviously now that you are getting a bump and feeling movement you can no longer pretend to yourself. To go back to the emotional detachment that i can completely understand i would hugely like to stress that you will and i 100% believe this love ,this baby just as much as you love your daughter. It is almost unimaginable that this happens,especially after the way you have felt in your pregnancy but it does...i promise. You have obviously suffered hugely with PND and i wonder if all your associations with having a newborn are all linked to such a horrific time. I know that where i stay if you have suffered from PND before that you can be seen regularly by mental health specialists and come up with a plan and support and even go in and stay in hospital before you have the baby and afterwards. You spoke about your friends and family ,what is there input? Are they helping you in any way?  2019 Netmums Ltd Search 