Image cropper HTML preprocessors can make writing HTML more powerful or convenient. For instance, Markdown is designed to be easier to write and read for text documents and you could write a loop in Pug. Learn more Versions In CodePen, whatever you write in the HTML editor is what goes within the  < body>  tags in  a basic HTML5 template . So you don't have access to higher-up elements like the  < html>  tag. If you want to add classes there that can affect the whole document, this is the place to do it. In CodePen, whatever you write in the HTML editor is what goes within the  < body>  tags in  a basic HTML5 template . If you need things in the  < head>  of the document, put that code here. The resource you are linking to is using the 'http' protocol, which may not work when the browser is using https. CSS preprocessors help make authoring CSS easier. All of them offer things like variables and mixins to provide convenient abstractions. Learn more Versions Just like a real project, use these lines at the top of your CSS to import them as a dependency. Nib is a library that adds transparent mixins (they have the same name as the CSS property) for vendor prefixing as well as conveniences for common CSS tasks. Learn more Jeet is a grid framework that  allows you to express your page grid the same way a human would describe it. Learn more It's a common practice to apply CSS to a page that styles elements such that they are consistent across all browsers. We offer two of the most popular choices:  normalize.css  and a  reset . Or, choose  Neither  and nothing will be applied. To get the best cross-browser support, it is a common practice to apply vendor prefixes to CSS properties and values that require them to work. For instance  -webkit-  or  -moz- . We offer two popular choices:  Autoprefixer  (which processes your CSS server-side) and  -prefix-free  (which applies prefixes via a script, client-side). Any URL's added here will be added as  < link> s in order, and before the CSS in the editor. If you link to another Pen, it will include the CSS from that Pen. If the preprocessor matches, it will attempt to combine them before processing. You can apply CSS to your Pen from any stylesheet on the web. Just put a URL to it here and we'll apply it, in the order you have them, before the CSS in the Pen itself. If the stylesheet you link to has the file extension of a preprocessor, we'll attempt to process it before applying. You can also link to another Pen here, and we'll pull the CSS from that Pen and include it. If it's using a matching preprocessor, we'll combine the code before preprocessing, so you can use the linked Pen as a true dependency. Learn more The resource you are linking to is using the HTTP protocol, which may not work when the browser is using HTTPS. The resource you are linking to is using the HTTP protocol, which may not work when the browser is using HTTPS. The resource you are linking to is using the HTTP protocol, which may not work when the browser is using HTTPS. JavaScript preprocessors can help make authoring JavaScript easier and more convenient. For instance, CoffeeScript can help prevent easy-to-make mistakes and offer a cleaner syntax and Babel can bring ECMAScript 6 features to browsers that only support ECMAScript 5. Learn more Versions Any URL's added here will be added as  < script> s in order, and run  before  the JavaScript in the editor. You can use the URL of any other Pen and it will include the JavaScript from that Pen. You can apply a script from anywhere on the web to your Pen. Just put a URL to it here and we'll add it, in the order you have them, before the JavaScript in the Pen itself. If the script you link to has the file extension of a preprocessor, we'll attempt to process it before applying. You can also link to another Pen here, and we'll pull the JavaScript from that Pen and include it. If it's using a matching preprocessor, we'll combine the code before preprocessing, so you can use the linked Pen as a true dependency. Learn more The resource you are linking to is using the HTTP protocol, which may not work when the browser is using HTTPS. The resource you are linking to is using the HTTP protocol, which may not work when the browser is using HTTPS. The resource you are linking to is using the HTTP protocol, which may not work when the browser is using HTTPS. We can make  npm  packages available for you to use in your JavaScript. We use  webpack  to prepare them and make them available to  import . We'll also process your JavaScript with  Babel . ⚠️ This feature can only be used by logged in users. If active, Pens will autosave every 30 seconds after being saved once. If enabled, the preview panel updates automatically as you code. If disabled, use the "Run" button to update. HTML Settings Here you can Sed posuere consectetur est at lobortis. Donec ullamcorper nulla non metus auctor fringilla. Maecenas sed diam eget risus varius blandit sit amet non magna. Donec id elit non mi porta gravida at eget metus. Praesent commodo cursus magna, vel scelerisque nisl consectetur et.  Also see:  Tab Triggers Please refresh the page. If this issue persists please contact support@codepen.io. Refresh Close Trying  viewing this Pen in Debug Mode , which is the preview area without any iframe and does not require JavaScript. Although what the preview is of might! Need to know how to enable JavaScript?  Go here. 