Occurrence of phthalic acid esters in source waters: a nationwide survey in China during the period of 2009–2012 - ScienceDirect ScienceDirect • First nationwide survey of six PAEs in source waters in China. These PAEs were ubiquitous in source waters in China. DBP and DEHP were the most frequently detected PAEs. PAEs in surface water except DBP were generally higher than those in groundwater. PAEs were highly present in the northern regions; particularly, in North China. The first nationwide survey of six phthalic acid esters (PAEs) (diethyl phthalate (DEP); dimethyl phthalate (DMP); di-n-butyl phthalate (DBP); butyl benzyl phthalate (BBP); bis(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP); di-n-octyl phthalate (DnOP)) in source waters was conducted in China. The results showed these PAEs were ubiquitous in source waters. DBP and DEHP were the most frequently detected with high concentrations ranging nd–1.52 μg/L and nd–6.35 μg/L, respectively. These PAEs concentrations (except DBP) in surface water (rivers, lakes and reservoirs) were generally higher than those in groundwater; DBP had high concentrations in groundwater in Northeast China (Liao River Basin) and North China (Hai River Basin). Their concentrations in the northern regions were generally higher than those in the southern and eastern regions; particularly, in North China. Three short-chain PAEs (DMP, DEP and DBP) were detected with high concentrations in Hai River Basin, Pearl River Basin and Yellow River Basin. Since 1930, phthalic acid esters (PAEs) have been widely used as plasticizers that are added to polymers for increasing the plasticity and toughness of consumer products and industrial products ( Latini, 2005 ), including cosmetics, personal care products, cleaning products, medical devices, food packages, vinyl toys, etc ( www.toxtown.nlm.nih.gov ). Some PAEs have been proved to possess reproductive and developmental toxicities to animals ( Howdeshell et al., 2008 ,  Kondo et al., 2006 ,  Lovekamp-Swan and Davis, 2003 ), and are suspected of endocrine disrupting effects on humans ( Latini, 2005 ,  Lyche et al., 2009 ,  Matsumoto et al., 2008 ). Therefore, some countries have limited the usage of PAEs ( EC, 2003 ,  EC, 2005 ,  PRC-NS, 2008 ). In spite of this restriction, worldwide annual consumption of PAEs has been steady for 20 years ( Peijnenburg and Struijs, 2006 ) and approximately 5 million tons was used in 2010 ( Guo et al., 2012 ). PAEs are readily released to the environment during the production, usage and final disposal of plastic consumer products and industrial products because they are not chemically bound to polymers. In addition, these pollutants are refractory to biodegradation in the environment by microorganisms, leading to their widespread presence in the environment ( Abdel daiem et al., 2012 ). Therefore, due to the high consumption, the continuous release to the environment and their resistance to microbial decomposition, many PAEs are found to be ubiquitously present in water, air and food ( Fierens et al., 2012 ,  Kang et al., 2012 ,  Kolpin et al., 2002 ). In China, over one million tons of PAEs is consumed per year ( Zhang, 2004 ), accounting for one-fifth of the global consumption, leading to massive release of PAEs to the environment. Thus, there is an urgent need to investigate the levels of PAEs in the environmental media in China. The water environment is a major sink of PAEs, receiving the wastewater effluent, landfill leachate and atmospheric precipitation, and various PAEs have been detected in rivers, lakes, reservoirs and groundwater in China ( Chen et al., 2012 ,  Wang et al., 2006 ;  Zeng et al., 2009 ,  Zhang et al., 2009 ). However, there has been no systematic monitoring of occurrence of PAEs at a national scale for identifying their potential risk levels. In China the Environmental Quality Standards for Surface Water ( PRC-NS, 2002 ) and Standards for Drinking Water Quality ( PRC-NS, 2006 ) have regulated the limit values for two PAEs (DEHP = 8 μg/L and DBP = 3 μg/L) and three PAEs (DEHP = 8 μg/L, DBP = 3 μg/L and DEP = 300 μg/L), respectively. The nationwide monitoring data is not available to provide the information to the policy makers when deciding whether to modify the current standards or set new standards for other PAEs. Thus, supported by the Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development of the People &# x27;s Republic of China (MOHURD), the first nationwide survey of PAEs contamination in major drinking water sources was conducted across seven geographical zones and seven major river basins in China from 2009 to 2012. Currently, more than 20 types of PAEs have been found in the environment ( Abdel daiem et al., 2012 ), six of which (DMP, DEP, DBP, BBP, DEHP and DnOP) are in the list of priority pollutants of the US Environmental Protection Agency ( Keith and Telliard, 1979 ), four of which (DBP, DnOP, DEHP and BBP) are in the list of priority pollutant of the European Communities ( EC, 1994 ,  EC, 1995 ,  EC, 1997 ), and three of which (DEP, DBP and DEHP) are in the Environmental Quality Standards for Surface Water ( PRC-NS, 2002 ) and Standards for Drinking Water Quality in China ( PRC-NS, 2006 ). In this study, six PAEs (DMP, DEP, DBP, BBP, DEHP and DnOP) were selected to represent the pollutant levels of PAEs in source waters in China. Two kinds of EPA PAEs Mix (200 mg/L each component in methanol and 2000 mg/L each component in n-hexane) containing DMP, DEP, DBP, BBP, DnOP and DEHP and the internal standard deuterated bis (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP-d 4 ) were purchased from Sigma–Aldrich (Bellefonte, PA, USA). Stock solutions of the six PAEs were prepared in HPLC-grade methanol (4 mg/L) and HPLC-grade n-hexane (40 mg/L) and stored at −20 °C. Working standard solutions (10–2000 μg/L) in n-hexane for direct injection calibration were prepared by serial dilution of the stock solutions and stored at 4 °C. Standard solutions in methanol were also prepared for the recovery experiment and stored at 4 °C. The organic solvents used in this experiment, including methanol, diethyl ether and n-hexane, were HPLC grade and obtained from Mallinckrodt Baker, USA. Groundwater and surface water (including river, reservoir and lake water) used for drinking water were targeted in this nationwide survey. The survey of the six PAEs was conducted over the period of December 2009–May 2012 across the seven geographical zones in China: Northeast China (NEC) including Heilongjiang Province, Jilin Province, Liaoning Province and the eastern region of Inner Mongolia; North China (NC) including Beijing City, Tianjin City, Hebei Province, Shānxi Province and the western region of Inner Mongolia; Northwest China (NWC) including Shǎnxi Province, Gansu Province, Qinghai Province, Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region and Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region; Southwest China (SWC) including Chongqing City, Sichuan Province, Yunnan Province, Guizhou Province and Tibet Autonomous Region; South China (SC) including Guangdong Province, Guangxi Province and Hainan Province; East China (EC) including Shanghai City, Jiangsu Province, Zhejiang Province, Fujian Province, Shandong Province, Anhui Province and Jiangxi Province; Central China (CC) including Henan Province, Hubei Province and Hunan Province ( Fig. 1 ). Meanwhile, this survey covered the national seven major river basins (Hai River Basin, HRB; Liao River Basin, LRB; Songhua River Basin, SRB; Yellow River Basin, YRB; Yangtze River Basin, YtRB; Pearl River Basin, PRB; and Coastal Rivers, CRs) ( Fig. 1 ). Fig. 1 . Sampling locations of surface- and ground-source waters in China. The region in the box exhibits those coastal rivers (CRs). 152 water samples including 18 groundwater samples, 64 river water samples and 70 lake and reservoir water samples were taken during two sampling campaigns, in which 80 water samples were taken from December 2009 to March 2011, and the others were taken from August 2011 to May 2012. In the second sampling campaign, 39 water samples were taken at the same sampling sites with the first sampling campaign; 33 water samples were taken at those sampling sites different from the first sampling sites, because some drinking water treatment plants permanently or temporarily changed their water sources. PAEs concentrations in surface water were closely related to seasonal variation; due to the large-scale sampling geographical scope, during the two sampling campaigns, the intensive sampling in each geographical zone were preferentially performed in the same seasons primarily considering to the cost effectively and smoothly complete each sampling campaign in around one year. The specific sampling period of each sampling site was described in  Table S1 , which shows that the sampling period mainly varied with the geographical zones. The source water samples were collected in Teflon-capped amber glass bottles from each sampling site, and delivered under cooled conditions (4 °C in cooling boxes) to the laboratory immediately for further pretreatment and analysis. Before extraction, 1 L water sample was passed through glass fiber filters (GF/F, 0.7-μm pore size, Whatman) to remove particulate matter, and then stored in pre-cleaned amber glass bottles. Solid-phase extraction (SPE) with an Oasis HLB cartridge (3 mL, 200 mg, Waters) was conducted to extract the six compounds from the water samples. The HLB cartridge was preconditioned with 5 mL of methanol/diethyl ether (5/95, v/v), 5 mL of methanol and 10 mL of Milli-Q water. The filtered water sample was passed through the HLB cartridge at a flow rate of 5–8 mL/min under a vacuum. When the extraction was completed, the cartridge was dried under a vacuum. The cartridge was then eluted with 6 mL of methanol/diethyl ether (5/95, v/v), and the eluent was collected with a 10 mL centrifuge tube. The extract was then air dried in a gentle nitrogen gas flow and was reconstituted with l mL of n-hexane. All samples were pretreated and one in three of them were analyzed in duplicate. The target PAEs were analyzed using a Varian 3800 gas chromatograph coupled with a triple quadrupole analyzer mass spectrometry (GC–MS). A flexible fused silica capillary column (30 mm × 0.32 mm × 0.11 μm, Varian) was used for the separation of target compounds. These compounds were separated using the following GC model: the injector temperature was 250 °C and the injection volume was 1 μL (split injection with a split ratio of 20 in 0–0.01 min; with a split ratio of 0 in 0.01–2 min; with a split ratio of 100 in 2–3 min; and with a split ratio of 20 in three min later); the column temperature was initially set at 80 °C (held for 1.0 min), then increased up to 290 °C at a rate of 20 °C/min and was held at 290 °C for 8 min, with a total run time of 19.5 min; helium carrier gas (99.99% purity) was maintained at a constant flow rate of 1.0 mL/min. Mass spectra were obtained using electron ionization (70 eV) and the ion source temperature was 250 °C. The identification of target compounds was performed by selected ions monitoring (SIM) mode. The additional identification parameters are listed in  Table S2 . Quantification of the target compounds was conducted using the internal standard calibration methodology. The calibration was performed with the eight standard mixtures ranging 10–2000 μg/L. The calibration solution and the final extract were spiked with the internal standard DEHP-d 4  ( Casajuana and Lacorte, 2003 ) at a concentration level of 100 μg/L for quantification prior to GC–MS. Because PAEs readily migrate to the environmental media from the plastic products and are potentially present in the laboratory air ( Xie et al., 2006 ), the secondary contamination risks may exist in PAEs analysis and may increase the concentrations of the analytes. In order to avoid the contamination risks, the plastic ware was excluded and the pretreatment of all samples were carried out in a super-clean workbench. In addition, the background contamination control experiment was performed to assess the plastic contaminations in the experimental materials (n-hexane (reconstituted reagent), methanol/diethyl ether (elution reagent), Milli-Q water and HLB cartridge) and in the laboratory environment during the entire pretreatment procedure, and the control experimental procedure is described in the  Supplementary information (SI)  in detail ( Table S3 ). The results showed the methanol/diethyl ether, HLB cartridge, Milli-Q water and air in the super-clean workbench contributed negligible PAEs to the samples, while n-hexane contributed approximately 20% of DMP, DEP, BBP and DnOP to the samples (this information is shown in  Tables S4 and S5 ). Thus, n-hexane as a blank sample was analyzed after each set of 12 environmental samples using GC–MS and the sample analysis results were corrected for the reagent contamination. The duplicate samples were analyzed and achieved satisfactory repeatability ( Fig. S1 ). Recoveries of the method were checked by using 1 L water samples spiked with the standard solutions to three concentrations of 0.05, 0.1 and 0.5 μg/L and then performing the entire pretreatment procedure. The recoveries of the six PAEs in the spiked samples ranged 54.9–94.6% with relative standard deviation (RSD) values less than 15% ( Table S6 ). Method detection limits (MDLs) ( Table S6 ) were determined by spiking the 1 μg/L of the mixed standard solution to 1 L Milli-Q water and gradually diluting the mixed standard solution until the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) equal to 3. Concentrations below MDLs were assigned to one-half value of the MDLs for statistical analysis. One-sample Kolomogorov–Simirnov (K–S) Test was used to assess the normal distribution of data. The results showed that the concentrations of the six PAEs were not normally distributed in most cases, so the nonparametric test method Mann–Whitney  U  was used to assess the significant difference between two independent groups. Mann–Whitney  U  Test was performed using the SPSS 13.0 for Windows (SPSS Inc.) and the statistical significance level was set to be 0.05. The concentrations and detection frequencies of the six PAEs in drinking source waters are summarized in  Table 1 . Of the six PAEs, the detection frequencies of three PAEs (DEP, DBP and DEHP) regulated in the Environmental Quality Standards for Surface Water and Drinking Water of China, were all above 90%, indicating that the PAEs are ubiquitous in source waters in China. DBP and DEHP had high concentrations ranging nd–1.52 μg/L and nd–6.35 μg/L, similar to the reports about DBP and DEHP in the surface water in other countries, such as the United States ( Loraine and Pettigrove, 2006 ), the Netherlands ( Vethaak et al., 2005 ) and Japan ( Suzuki et al., 2001 ). In spite of their high detection frequencies, concentrations of the three PAEs did not exceed the values set in China &# x27;s national environmental quality standards (8 μg/L for DEHP, 3 μg/L for DBP, and 300 μg/L for DEP); only DEHP concentrations measured at one site located in SWC and YtRB, 6.35 μg/L, exceeded the maximum contamination level (MCL) value (6 μg/L) set in the National Primary Drinking Water Regulation of the United States. DnOP exhibited the lowest detection frequency with 49.0% and the lowest contamination level among these target compounds with a median (±IQR) concentration of 0.001 (±0.018) μg/L. BBP was only quantified during the second sampling campaign (from August 2011 to May 2012) with the detection frequency of 50% and a median (±IQR) concentration of 0.005 (±0.053) μg/L. Frequency distribution of the contamination levels of the six PAEs in source waters is demonstrated in  Fig. 2 , which illustrates that they were present at relatively low contamination levels. Table 1 . Summary of the six PAEs in drinking source waters and comparisons with surface water in other countries. N , number of samples; Freq, frequency of detection; Max, maximum concentration detected; Median, median concentration; IQR, interquartile range; nd, not detected. Raw drinking water in Southern California, USA ( Loraine and Pettigrove, 2006 ). Surface water including salt and brackish water and fresh inland water in the Netherlands ( Vethaak et al., 2005 ). Surface water in the Tama River, Tokyo Bay, Japan ( Suzuki et al., 2001 ). BBP was not selected as the target compound in the first sampling campaign (from December 2009 to April 2011). Fig. 2 . Frequency distribution of the concentrations of the six PAEs in drinking source waters. Compared to other surface water bodies ( Table 1 ), the maximum concentrations of the six PAEs in source waters in China were lower than those in raw drinking water in Southern California, USA, with the exception of DEHP (with a maximum concentration of 6.35 μg/L). The maximum concentrations of DEHP, DnOP and DMP were higher than those in the surface water in the Netherlands, but their median concentrations were lower; the maximum concentrations of DEP, DBP and BBP were lower than those in the Netherlands and their median concentrations were also lower except DMP with a median (±IQR) concentration of 0.05 (±0.11) μg/L. The maximum concentrations of DBP, DEHP, DnOP, DMP and BBP were higher than those in Tama River of Japan with the exception of DEP which has relatively low concentrations ranging nd–0.23 μg/L. To sum up, the overall contamination levels of PAEs in source water in China were relatively high; especially the concentration range of DEHP was slightly higher than that in the surface water in these three countries. In comparison with the distribution of the six PAEs in various source waters (surface water and groundwater) in four main water sources (rivers, lakes, reservoirs and groundwater aquifers) ( Fig. 3 ), the median (±IQR) concentrations of DEP, DEHP and DMP in lake and reservoir water bodies (LRW) (these two water bodies were classified as one group in statistical analysis) were 0.033 (±0.055), 0.27 (±1.99) and 0.058 (±0.11) μg/L, respectively, which were generally higher than those in rivers (RW) and groundwater (GW). To be specific, only the concentration of DEHP in LRW was significantly higher than that in RW ( p  = 0.018), and DEP and DMP were significantly higher than those in GW ( p  = 0.030 and  p  = 0.048, respectively). The median concentrations of these PAEs in GW were generally lower than those in surface water (RW and LRW) except DBP. DBP was present in GW with the highest median concentrations (0.29 ± 0.068 μg/L) among the three types of water sources (river, lake + reservoir, and groundwater aquifer), but not significantly higher than that in RW ( p  = 0.42) and that in LRW ( p  = 0.46). Fig. 3 . Distribution of the six PAEs in various source waters in China (RW for river water; LRW for lake and reservoir water; GW for groundwater). Box plots show 25th and 75th percentile (the bottom and top of the box), median (solid line within the box) and mean (dash line within the box). The bottom and top whiskers caps of boxes represent the 10th and 90th percentile. Outliers (●) are values that lie outside the 10th and 90th percentiles. The number and detection frequencies of samples are given above and below the boxes, respectively. There are likely to be two main reasons for the relatively high contamination levels of the PAEs in LRW: large amounts of PAEs are transported into lakes and reservoirs, because the lakes and reservoirs often act as the ultimate sink of various contaminants; the dilution effects on the contaminants are not significant in lakes and reservoirs because they are semi-enclosed water bodies with low water exchange. The concentration of DEHP in LRW was significantly higher than that in RW ( p  = 0.018), which can be attributed to slow degradation of DEHP because of its long ester chains ( Abdel daiem et al., 2012 ,  Bauer et al., 1998 ) in the water environment with slow water exchange. Groundwater aquifers are less interrupted by the anthroposphere, and many contaminants are generally detected at low concentrations and frequencies compared to in the surface water ( Musolff et al., 2009 ); this is the case for the five PAEs (except DBP) in this study. Even though the concentration of DBP was highest in GW, the statistical analysis revealed that it was not significantly higher than that in other two types of water bodies. In the 18 GW samples, 11 water samples were collected in the NC (HRB and YRB), which had relatively high levels of DBP in comparison with other regions, particularly in HRB with above 1 μg/L of DBP in two water samples. In NC, the serious underground contamination has been reported by the Chinese Institute of Hydrogeology and Environmental Geology ( Zhang et al., 2012 ) and the corresponding “Prevention and Control Work Plan for Groundwater Contamination in North China Plain” has been proposed by the related government ministries. Obviously, the relatively high occurrence of DBP in GW cannot be neglected; however, due to the limited water samples, which can only reflect the trend, the further detailed investigation on PAEs in GW should be of urgent need in China. The distributions of the six PAEs in various source waters in the seven geographical zones of China are demonstrated in  Fig. 4 . The distribution trends of the six PAEs in the three types of source waters were almost comparable to their whole distributions (RW + LRW + GW) in the seven geographical zones. The PAEs (with exception of DBP) in RW and LRW contributed the most parts ( > 90%) of the whole PAEs in these regions except in EC, and almost contributed equally. DBP in GW in NEC and NC had the almost similar concentrations with that in RW and LRW, so the PAEs contaminations in NEC and NC were not only present in LRW and RW, but also in GW. In EC, the PAEs contamination was mainly observed in RW (without GW samples). On the whole, the concentrations of DEP in the three types of source waters (RW + LRW + GW) in NWC, SWC and NC were significantly higher than those from other regions ( p  = 0.003); DBP from NC, NEC, SC and NWC were obviously higher than those from EC, SWC and CC ( p  = 0.001); DEHP from NEC, NC and SWC were significantly higher than those from SC, EC, NWC and CC ( p  = 0); DOP concentrations in NWC and NC were all higher than those from other regions ( p  = 0.009), but DMP and BBP were not significantly different among all these regions ( p  = 0.459 and  p  = 0.906, respectively). The highest median (±IQR) concentrations of DBP (0.46 ± 0.83 μg/L) and DEHP (1.6 ± 1.80 μg/L) were present in NC; the second highest median (±IQR) concentrations of DBP (0.40 ± 0.74 μg/L) and DEHP (0.85 ± 2.45 μg/L) were present in NEC, which was comparable to  Chen et al. (2012) ’s finding that high contamination levels of DEHP and DBP frequently appeared in surface waters in NEC. Fig. 4 . Distribution of the six PAEs in three types of source waters in the seven geographical zones of China (NEC for Northeast China, NC for North China, EC for East China, SC for South China, NWC for Northwest China, SWC for Southwest China and CC for Central China). To sum up, the overall contamination levels of the six PAEs in source waters in NC were relatively high; the contamination levels of these compounds in EC were the lowest among all regions. The detected concentrations of these compounds in the northern regions of China (NC, NWC, and NEC) were generally higher than those in the southern and eastern regions (EC, SC, and SWC) in spite of similar occurrence. The spatial distribution characteristics of PAEs were related to the sampling seasons in different geographical zones. In terms of the sampling information in SI, the water samples in the northern regions of China (NC, NWC, and NEC) were mainly taken in the spring and summer and the water samples in the southern and eastern regions (EC, SC, and SWC) were mainly taken in the autumn and winter. The high occurrence in the northern regions was likely to be partly attributed to the water samples mainly taken in summer and spring which caused the PAEs more probably migrating into environment media than those sampled in the autumn and winter. Additionally, the spatial distributions of these compounds were also probably attributed to the spatial difference in economic development, environmental investment and the regional water resource. The statues of economic development and environmental investment determine the amount of the PAEs released to the environment, and the regional water resource causes the dilution effect and as a consequence affects the concentrations of PAEs. The Beijing–Tianjin–Hebei economic zone is located at the North China Plain which is one of the three important economic zones in China. It is inevitable to generate numerous pollutants including PAEs in these economic zones. In comparison with the other two economic zones: Yangtze River Delta in EC and Pearl River Delta in SC (both are located at the South water resource regions with total 1833.9 billion m 3  water resource), this region (located at the North water resource regions with only 491.8 billion m 3  water resource) had much less amount of water resource ( MWRPRC, 2011 ). In addition, the integrated disposal rate of wastes including industrial solid waste, domestic wastewater and domestic solid waste in the NC (81.61%) was slightly lower than that in EC (86.82%) and was similar to that in SC (81.86%) ( NBS, 2011 ). Therefore, the low dilution effect due to shortage of water resource was likely to be the main reasons causing the high occurrence of these PAEs in the northern regions of China (NC, NWC, and NEC).  Whelan et al. (2012)  also reported that the paucity of water resource was the major factor causing the high contamination levels of linear alkylbenzene sulfonate in the northern regions of China. The distributions of the six PAEs in three types of source waters in the seven major river basins of China are shown in  Fig. 5 . The concentrations of these PAEs varied with different water types. On the whole, DEP in the three types of source waters (RW + LRW + GW) was highly present in LRB, YRB, YtRB and PRB ( p  = 0.02) with median (±IQR) concentrations of 0.043 (±0.054), 0.036 (±0.068), 0.027 (±0.058) and 0.026 (±0.040) μg/L, respectively; DBP was highly present in HRB, YRB and PRB ( p  = 0) with median concentrations of 1.02 (±0.78), 0.40 (±0.19) and 0.22 (±0.17) μg/L, respectively; DEHP was highly present in HRB, YtBR, PRB, LRB and YRB ( p  = 0.039) with median concentrations of 1.95 (±2.37), 0.28 (±0.58), 0.27 (±0.26), 0.26 (±2.48) and 0.21 (±1.45) μg/L, respectively; DnOP was highly present in YRB ( p  = 0.049) with a median concentration of 0.013 (±0.023) μg/L; DMP was highly present in YRB, LRB, HRB and PRB ( p  = 0.05) with high median (±IQR) concentrations of 0.072 (±0.16), 0.069 (±0.09), 0.068 (±0.32) and 0.062 (±0.13) μg/L, respectively; and BBP was highly present in HRB ( p  = 0.012) with a median (±IQR) concentration of 0.23 (±0.12) μg/L. Fig. 5 . Distributions of the six PAEs in three types of source waters in the seven major water basins in China (SRB for Songhua River Basin, HRB for Hai River Basin, LRB for Liao River Basin, YRB for Yellow River Basin, YtRB for Yangtze River Basin, PRB for Pearl River Basin, and CRs for Coastal Rivers). DBP and DEHP, as the most frequently detected compounds with high concentrations in China, were most detected in HRB with 100% of detection frequencies and the highest mean contamination levels. In addition, their high occurrences were also present in YRB and PRB and the least occurrence was in CRs. The spatial distributions of DBP and DEHP in these river basins are comparable with those reports about these PAEs in Yellow River ( Sha et al., 2007 ), unban lakes in Guangzhou belonging to PRB ( Zeng et al., 2008 ) and Huangpu River ( Hu et al., 2007 ) belonging to CRs. Despite the median concentrations of DBP (0.093 μg/L) and DEHP (0.089 μg/L) in CRs were low, their IQR (±0.50 and ±0.53 μg/L) had relatively high ranges in this river basins, which is attributed to the largest production of plastic and vinyl products, cloth, cosmetics and personal care products in these southeast coastal regions. In these river basins except PRB, the high concentrations of these PAEs mainly originated from their high concentrations and detection frequencies in LRW or some PAEs had high occurrence in GW (the high occurrence of DBP and DEHP in GW in HRB and LRB) ( Fig. 5 ). In PRB, the three short-chain PAEs (DEP, DBP, and DMP) in RW were more highly detected than those in LRW (not sampled in GW), and had the highest median concentrations (except DMP with the second highest) and 100% detection frequencies compared to those in other river basins. Despite their low concentrations in LRW, the three short-chain PAEs were relatively high in PRB due to their high occurrence in RW. In addition, the short-chain PAEs were also highly present in HRB and YBR. These short-chain PAEs are widely used in cosmetics and personal care products ( Abdel daiem et al., 2012 ). Currently, China is the largest producer of the cosmetics and personal care products in the world ( Zhang, 2003 ), which should lead to the high concentrations and detection frequencies of DEP, DBP, and DMP in these densely populated basins; especially in PRB more than 30% of cosmetics and personal care products produced in China are produced ( Zhang, 2003 ), which was likely to cause the highest presence of PAEs in RW. In this study, a nationwide survey was conducted for the occurrence of six PAEs in various source waters across seven geographical zones and seven major river basins in China. The concentrations of these PAEs (except DBP) in surface water (RW and LRW) were generally higher than those in GW; the potential DBP contamination in GW in NC (HRB) and NEC (LRB) was observed. The concentrations of these compounds in the northern regions of China (NC, NWC, and NEC) were generally higher than those in the southern and eastern regions of China (SWC, SC, and EC); particularly, in NC with the highest overall concentration level. The low dilution effect due to shortage of water resource may be the main reasons causing the high occurrence of these PAEs in the northern regions of China (NC, NWC, and NEC) while neglecting the sampling seasonal variation with the geographical zones. DBP and DEHP were the most frequently detected PAEs and were present at relatively high concentrations in HRB, YRB and PRB. In addition, the concentrations of three short-chain PAEs (DEP, DBP, and DMP) were detected at the high concentrations and detection frequencies in the LRW and GW sampled from HRB, the RW from PRB and the RW and LRW from YRB, which is attributed to the mass production of cosmetics and personal care products in China. This study was supported by the  Risk Assessment of Contaminants in Drinking Water Based on National Survey  in China ( 2009ZX07419-001 ). We gratefully acknowledge Prof. Min Yang, Dr. Wei An and other staff in the Research Center for Eco-Environmental Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences for their assistances in sampling. The following is the supplementary data related to this article: Download Word document (81KB) Help with docx files Elsevier We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content and ads. By continuing you agree to the  use of cookies . Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. or its licensors or contributors. ScienceDirect ® is a registered trademark of Elsevier B.V. 