17 Best Mexican Restaurants in NYC Right Now By entering your email address you agree to our  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy  and consent to receive emails from Time Out about news, events, offers and partner promotions. Thanks for subscribing! Look out for your first newsletter in your inbox soon! By entering your email address you agree to our  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy  and consent to receive emails from Time Out about news, events, offers and partner promotions. Thanks for subscribing! Look out for your first newsletter in your inbox soon! icon-search By entering your email address you agree to our  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy  and consent to receive emails from Time Out about news, events, offers and partner promotions. Thanks for subscribing! Look out for your first newsletter in your inbox soon! icon-search icon-chevron-right icon-chevron-right icon-chevron-right icon-chevron-right icon-chevron-right New York's Mexican restaurant scene is slowly but surely catching up with our West Coast rivals. Consider this list of the city s  best taco -, burrito- and  guacamole -slinging establishments to be our convincing retort. From trumped-up South of the Border imports to homegrown  cheap eats  joints, these are the best Mexican restaurants NYC has to offer. RECOMMENDED: Full guide to the  best restaurants in NYC Alta Calidad melds Mexican and Indian flavors with a global influence that we can't get enough of when digging into chef Akhtar Nawab's food, so naturally, we invited it to hold court at Time Out Market New York. Learn how our market curation works here, but basically we tasted its food, reviewed the restaurant and had no hesitation in recommending Alta Calidad for a spot at the market. Here s why:One of our favorite parts of the New York food scene is how food cultures evolve and blend in this deliciously diverse city. Chef-owner Akhtar Nawab felt distinct similarities between the cuisines of Mexico and India his parents  native country. Having grown up learning to cook with his mother as his culinary inspiration, for Alta Calidad he created a marriage of the two cuisines with exciting flavors and satisfying standout dishes.Located in Prospect Heights, the bright and airy space is ideal for both lunches and brunches, only to transform into a dimly-lit intimate neighborhood locale at night. On a recent Wednesday night, every seat at every wooden table and the petit bar was full as diners clinked their mezcal cocktails. Before we dive too deep into the food, we obviously have to talk about the guac. Whole fried corn tortillas are served with a bowl of perfectly spicy guacamole and a rusty smoky salsa that will force you to order more chips to make sure you take down every last drop. Past starters including the predictably delicious queso fundido (a cast iron of melted  With BKLYN Wild at Time Out Market, Ivy Stark is embracing a healthy plant-based menu that focuses on local ingredients that are actually local as in, Brooklyn. This way, everyone can dig in, no matter their dietary restrictions. If there is an Iron Throne of New York s Mexican cuisine, this Stark has a claim to it. In this city we adore our taquerias and Mexican food trucks, though, for many of us, the first time we picked up a refined taco off elegant dishware was at an Ivy Stark restaurant. Frozen, fruity or on the rocks no matter how you stir them, these are the best margaritas in Gotham Our guide to the best Mexican restaurants in America for authentic Mexican food, great Tex Mex, amazing tacos and more [title] Paid content By entering your email address you agree to our  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy  and consent to receive emails from Time Out about news, events, offers and partner promotions. Thanks for subscribing! Look out for your first newsletter in your inbox soon! By entering your email address you agree to our  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy  and consent to receive emails from Time Out about news, events, offers and partner promotions. Thanks for subscribing! Look out for your first newsletter in your inbox soon!  2019 Time Out America LLC and affiliated companies owned by Time Out Group Plc. All rights reserved. Time Out is a registered trademark of Time Out America LLC. By entering your email address you agree to our  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy  and consent to receive emails from Time Out about news, events, offers and partner promotions. Thanks for subscribing! Look out for your first newsletter in your inbox soon! 