The Trouble With Clarence Thomas | Cognoscenti Close 90.9 WBUR More Close WBUR facebook Twitter Support the news Twitter facebook Email In an episode of “The Sopranos,” James Gandolfini, playing Tony Soprano, ponders the decline of American masculinity. “What happened to Gary Cooper?” he asks his therapist. “The strong, silent type.  That  was an American.” Tony would approve of Justice Clarence Thomas. Thomas has spent years on the bench, extending even to a decade, without saying a word. It's as though he can't be bothered to participate in an important aspect of decision-making. Then, two weeks ago, after a spell of silence lasting three years, he  asked several questions  in the case of  Flowers v Mississippi . Get opinions and ideas sent to your inbox twice a week with Cognoscenti ' s newsletter.  Sign up now . Supreme Court justices’ questions are supposedly directed at the lawyers arguing their cases, but they are often rhetorical   really aimed at convincing the other justices to reach a particular result. Supreme Court cases tend to center on policy and ideology. They are resolved, not so much by lawyers’ arguments on points of law, as by ideological struggles among the nine justices. So what are we to make of Thomas’ latest vocalizing?  Flowers v Mississippi  concerns claims of racial discrimination in jury selection. (It is also the subject of a wildly popular and critically acclaimed podcast, “ In the Dark ,” produced by APM reports.) Curtis Flowers was tried for murder six times by the same Mississippi prosecutor, Doug Evans. Evans removed almost all black citizens from the jury during each trial, which resulted in a series of reversals and mistrials. The sixth trial ended in a conviction   but not before Evans continued his practice of striking black jurors. Flowers  is a perfect vehicle for the Court to deliver a principled confirmation of its anti-discriminatory 1986 opinion in  Batson v. Kentucky , which refuted the idea that unconditional challenges   what lawyers call peremptory challenges  --  used to remove prospective jurors may never be second-guessed. After  Batson , an attorney is required to provide a non-racial explanation when peremptory challenges lead to a discriminatory result. In the Supreme Court, the lawyer for the state of Mississippi claimed that Evans had complied with  Batson  and provided “valid race-neutral reasons for each strike” (despite striking black jurors whose stated views would be perceived as friendly to the prosecution). So it would be understandable to conclude that the state’s bland denial in the face of the egregiously transparent pattern of race discrimination by the Mississippi prosecutor is what drew Clarence Thomas out of his shell. Understandable, but wrong. Instead, Justice Thomas spoke to signal to his fellow justices that lawyers for Curtis Flowers had also exercised peremptory challenges   but against three jurors who were white. (Even factually, his insinuation was off the mark. Justice Sotomayor quickly noted that   with one exception   Flowers’ lawyers been left with only white jurors to challenge.) Thomas asked three questions, all on this one subject. In other words, the purpose of Thomas’ rare participation from the bench was “whataboutism.” ... the purpose of Thomas’ rare participation from the bench was “whataboutism " Thomas has gained notoriety as the strong silent type, but he is not nearly so inhibited off the Court. In 2013, as a guest at the Federalist Society’s annual dinner, he said he was more than willing to  ignore precedent  contained in long-established cases, if it conflicted with his interpretation of the Constitution. He’s been doing that a lot. Recently ,  Thomas suggested that it should be  easier for public figures to sue their critics . Coincidentally or not, he is echoing Donald Trump, who dearly wants to expand the use of libel law in response to unfavorable press. Thomas also attacked  Roe v Wade  as an example of one “of the Court’s most notoriously incorrect decisions,” shoehorning a  gratuitous reference  into an entirely unrelated case. (Roe, of course, is highly controversial, but a side comment targeting an ideological hot button is not the manner in which our common law system reconsiders established cases.) Thomas has gained notoriety as the strong silent type, but he is not nearly so inhibited off the Court.  He also went after  Gideon v. Wainwright , a 1963  decision  requiring the government to provide lawyers for indigent defendants accused of serious crimes. This remark was based on his belief that the Sixth Amendment guarantees right to counsel   but only if you have the money to hire one. Finally, Thomas appears to be openly embedded in ideological movements, supporting positions that he should be analyzing from a dispassionate constitutional perspective. His wife,  Ginni Thomas , a Washington lobbyist and power broker, frequently seems to serve as Thomas' surrogate outside the Court. She   is a vocal opponent of Supreme Court decisions, including those relating to same sex marriage, women serving in the military and voting rights. She recently lead a delegation of conservative activists to meet with President Trump in the White House to address these concerns. Certainly Ginni Thomas has a right to her own beliefs and her own career. We should not be able to forecast Clarence Thomas' likely votes in future cases by observing her positions, yet they remain a predictor. It's clear the Supreme Court now has a solid self-reinforcing conservative majority. In that context, the possibility that Thomas' spouse may have a behind-the-scenes influence on his rulings is all the more reason why he should stop the strong, silent bit   and allow his points of law and Constitutional theories to be tested in open debate. Andrew Grainger Cognoscenti contributor Andrew Grainger is a retired associate justice of the Massachusetts Appeals Court. He has been designated a senior Fulbright scholar by the U.S. Department of State. He has taught legal courses in numerous foreign universities, and also teaches locally. More… Twitter facebook Email Some 35,000 Massachusetts residents will lose access to food stamps as a result of a new Trump administration rule. It ' s counterproductive, writes Erin McAleer, and it’s also cruel. The prince is implicated in the Jeffrey Epstein scandal. And his defense is hardly surprising, writes Lauren Stiller Rikleen. As children learn the painful lesson that human nature is complicated, we also want to preserve their hope and capacity to trust and to dream, write Robert Brooks and Nancy... Democrats need to deliver a clear and simple narrative, and counterpunch unrelenting Republican lies. They should start by speaking in plain English. In choosing to lionize Edward Gallagher, the president is showing us, yet again, the kind of America he envisions. Support the news A new bylaw in Brookline, Mass. bans gas and oil heating in new construction. It ' s a hopeful signal that people recognize the urgency of a transition to clean energy, writes... By overestimating how unpleasant it will be to engage with those we disagree with, writes Timothy Phillips, we wind up tuning out the other side altogether. Aine Greaney came to the U.S. from her native Ireland in 1987. Back then, Thanksgiving, like America, felt foreign. But now -- three decades later -- she believes her adopted... After the impeachment hearings, we know two things for certain: Donald Trump pressured a foreign leader for his own political gain. And, the GOP has no intention of holding him... Bill Littlefield teaches a literature class to men on parole, sharing as equals their reactions to poems and stories with the folks they’ve previously known only as representatives of the... Ditching the T when the weather gets bad might temporarily alleviate some of your stress, writes Miles Howard, but it will feed Boston’s mounting transit crisis. Twitter facebook More 