Buy Polycom RealPresence Trio Visual+ - Australia Video Conferencing Australia Exclusive Supplier Of The Highest Quality Video Conferencing And Teleconferencing Hardware At The Lowest Price No products in the cart. $ 959.00 Incl. GST Expand your Polycom RealPresence  Trio 8800  or  Trio 8500  to add visual collaboration with the addition of the Polycom RealPresence Trio Visual+ accessory. The RealPresence Trio Visual+ accessory is designed to expand the RealPresence Trio smart hub with content sharing and video conferencing capabilities. It is not designed to operate as a stand-alone system. Includes 1 year Polycom Premier Service With the Polycom RealPresence Trio Visual+, you can easily share presentations, spreadsheets, photos and even multimedia videos with everyone in the room, with remote participants, or both simultaneously; all while using the tools you are already familiar with: your own PC, tablet or smartphone. Connect with ease, using Polycom, Microsoft, BroadSoft or Cisco platforms, and share your most powerful visuals. Ever wonder if your ideas are making the impact you desire? The RealPresence Trio Visual+ also supports high definition 1080p video from a simple USB camera. See your audience and experience their emotions right as they happen. Visual+ provides complete visual collaboration on a budget that is perfect for huddle rooms and small-to midsize spaces. Polycom RealPresence Trio Visual+ is quick to deploy with simple plug and play connections: HDMI for your display, USB for camera and Power-over-Ethernet (PoE) for electricity. With its small footprint, it can easily be mounted out of view, and with native support for Microsoft Lync 2013, Skype for Business client and all major SIP platforms, it provides future-proof deployment. The Polycom RealPresence Trio with Visual+ is the perfect group collaboration solution for teams of any size. Download Datasheet There are no reviews yet. Your email address will not be published.  Required fields are marked  * 1 2 3 4 5 Your review * Name * Email * Enjoy Free Shipping on all items delivered to Australia *No surcharge on Credit or Debit Cards Call us on  1300 369 829 Weekdays 7:00am to 5:00pm (AEST) Subscribe to newsletter Learn more about our customer's experiences and our NPS score  > Score on 02/12/2019 This months best seller: Logitech Rally Barco ClickShare CSE-200 Wireless presentation. No messy cables. Just quick, confident sharing. Small Huddle Rooms 1-6 people Medium Size Rooms 6-12 people Large Size Rooms 12+ people Polycom Studio with active speaker tracking Premium all-in-one plug-and-play USB video bar with exclusive tracking technology that intelligently focuses on the person talking. Small Huddle Rooms 1-6 people Medium Size Rooms 6-12 people Large Size Rooms 12+ people {{{data.name}}}  has been added to your cart  Sorry, this product is unavailable. Please choose a different combination. Video Conferencing Australia Exclusive Supplier Of The Highest Quality Video Conferencing And Teleconferencing Hardware At The Lowest Price 