The 10 best hostels in Berlin, Germany | Booking.com Loading Pick your preferred language. We speak English and 42 other languages. View vacation packages to Sch neberg, Berlin Well located in the Tempelhof-Schöneberg district of Berlin,  Design  Hostel  P182 is located 2.4 km from Potsdamer Platz, 2.5 km from Berliner Philharmonie and 2.8 km from Holocaust Memorial. Among the facilities of this property are a restaurant, a shared kitchen and a shared lounge, along with free WiFi throughout the property. The  hostel  features family rooms. The room is clean and the bed is comfortable. There are enough socket and lockers are provided.Great kitchen and u can cook Large common area and there are games Prenzlauer Berg, Berlin This award-winning and  relaxed hostel  is centrally located in a  safe  neighbourhood of Berlin, between the popular Mitte and Prenzlauer Berg districts. Free WiFi connection is provided in all rooms at EastSeven Berlin  Hostel . Warm  &  friendly staffs. I arrived early  &  they kept my luggage safe with no extra charges. Before my check in time, I was allowed to use bathroom for a quick shower after my long exhausted flight (16++ hours), I was surprise with their warm offer, it was a big help! Room  &  bathroom are clean  &  bright, provided with: shampoo, hair dryer, fast free wifi, iron upon request, each bunk bed comes with a charging port. Fast  &  clean laundry service at reasonable price (7 euro if I recalled correctly); Simple yet complete breakfast at 3 euro. There ' s a beautiful garden  &  I was there during summer, the garden was windy with birds chirping, perfect for breakfast and brunch. Location wise, great location too, near to city centre, public transport and grocery stores are just few mins walk. The hostel is in residential area, quiet and safe. Mitte, Berlin Located in Berlin city centre, this trendy  hostel  features bicycle rental facilities, free Wi-Fi, and rental iPads and laptops. It is only 50 metres from Rosenthalerplatz U-Bahn Underground Station. ><br >The Circus  Hostel  offers  private rooms  as well as shared  dormitory  rooms, all brightly decorated in a contemporary style. All rooms offer safety deposit boxes and access to shared bathroom facilities. Location was great, beds were comfy, toilets and showers were very clean. Staff was friendly, beer was good. Prenzlauer Berg, Berlin Ideally located in the Prenzlauer Berg district of Berlin,  Hostel  199 is set 2.8 km from Alexanderplatz, 3.7 km from Berlin Cathedral and 3.9 km from Berlin TV Tower. The property is situated 4 km from German Historical Museum, 4 km from Neues Museum and 4.2 km from East Side Gallery. The accommodation offers a shared kitchen and free WiFi throughout the property. It ' s very clean and quiet. Location is great for exploring Berlin. Close to Alexanderplatz and a bar and restaurant district around Warschauerstraße station. Our host David is very kind and helpful. Neuk lln, Berlin In a prime location in the Neukölln district of Berlin, Minimal  Hostel  is set 3.3 km from Checkpoint Charlie, 3.5 km from East Side Gallery and 3.8 km from Topography of Terror. Among the facilities at this property are a shared kitchen and a shared lounge, along with free WiFi throughout the property. The property is 5 km from Berlin Cathedral and 5 km from Berlin TV Tower. Minimal Hostel was very relaxing and homey. The owner Anne is a lovely person and it was so nice to chat with her in the mornings. The place is in a great location and it just felt like a home away from home. I’m already thinking about returning. Neuk lln, Berlin Located in Berlin, 5 km from East Side Gallery, RixHouse provides express check-in and check-out and free WiFi throughout the property. The property is situated 5 km from Checkpoint Charlie, 6 km from Topography of Terror and 6 km from Gendarmenmarkt. The  hostel  features family rooms. I had to go to a concert in Huxleys Neue welt, and this hostel was pretty near. So In that regard the location was great for me. Also I guess it’s a good location for those who want to party in Kreuzberg or Neukölln Wilmersdorf, Berlin Enjoy  hostel  Berlin City West in Berlin provides adults-only accommodation with a bar, a shared lounge and a terrace. The property is set 3.2 km from Kurfürstendamm, 4 km from Messe Berlin and 6 km from Berliner Philharmonie. The  hostel  offers city views, a children's playground, a 24-hour front desk, and free WiFi is available throughout the property. 24h open hotel, comfortable beds  &  very clean room and bathroom, good localization, very good communication with hotel stuff and reception Mitte, Berlin Situated conveniently in the Mitte district of Berlin, HOSTELO Berlin Mitte is set 2.3 km from Memorial of the Berlin Wall, 3.4 km from Natural History Museum and 4.1 km from Alexanderplatz. Among the facilities of this property are a restaurant, a 24-hour front desk and a shared lounge, along with free WiFi throughout the property. The  hostel  features family rooms. Location ,staff, and clean environment Mitte, Berlin This  hostel  is located near Berlin city centre, just 1.5 km from Berlin Main Station. WiFi is provided free of charge at Wallyard Concept  Hostel  Berlin. ><br >All rooms and  dormitories  at Wallyard Concept  Hostel  Berlin include a seating area. Some  have a private bathroom, and the others have access to shared bathroom facilities. The staff was amazing and super helpful and everything was great!super central ton everything and also really close by to the main station. Plenty of restaurants and cafes around for a quick fix including the great cafe at the hostel it self. Friedrichshain, Berlin Located in Berlin’s trendy Friedrichshain district, this  hostel  is just 450 metres from Boxhagener Platz. It offers rental bicycles, shared kitchen facilities and a games room. ><br >BackpackerBerlin features functional rooms and  dormitories  with individual décor. Most offer views of the garden. Shared bathroom facilities can be found in the hallway. Very friendly staff Very cleanThanks for everything Hostel in Berlin Popular with guests booking hostels in Berlin Hostel in Berlin Popular with guests booking hostels in Berlin Hostel in Berlin Popular with guests booking hostels in Berlin Hostel in Berlin Popular with guests booking hostels in Berlin Hostel in Berlin Popular with guests booking hostels in Berlin Hostel in Berlin Popular with guests booking hostels in Berlin Sch neberg, Berlin Well located in the Tempelhof-Schöneberg district of Berlin, Design Hostel P182 is located 1.5 miles from Potsdamer Platz, 1.5 miles from Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra and 1.8 miles from Holocaust... The room is clean and the bed is comfortable. There are enough socket and lockers are provided. Prenzlauer Berg, Berlin This award-winning and relaxed hostel is centrally located in a safe neighborhood of Berlin, between the popular Mitte and Prenzlauer Berg districts.  Warm  &  friendly staffs. I arrived early  &  they kept my luggage safe with no extra charges. Mitte, Berlin In the center of Berlin, this trendy hostel features bike rental facilities, free Wi-Fi, and rental iPads and laptops. It is about 50 yards from the Rosenthalerplatz U-Bahn (subway) Station.  Location was great, beds were comfy, toilets and showers were very clean. Neuk lln, Berlin Well set in the Neukölln district of Berlin, Minimal Hostel is located 2.1 miles from Checkpoint Charlie, 2.2 miles from East Side Gallery and 2.4 miles from Topography of Terror.  Minimal Hostel was very relaxing and homey. Neuk lln, Berlin Located in Berlin, 2.9 miles from East Side Gallery, RixHouse provides express check-in and check-out and free WiFi throughout the property.  I had to go to a concert in Huxleys Neue welt, and this hostel was pretty near. Wilmersdorf, Berlin Enjoy hostel Berlin City West in Berlin provides adults only accommodations with a bar, a shared lounge and a terrace.  24h open hotel, comfortable beds  &  very clean room and bathroom, good localization, very good... Mitte, Berlin Well situated in the Mitte district of Berlin, HOSTELO Berlin Mitte is located 1.5 miles from Memorial of the Berlin Wall, 2.1 miles from Natural History Museum, Berlin and 2.6 miles from... Location ,staff, and clean environment Kreuzberg, Berlin The Cat ' s Pajamas Hostel is in Kreuzkölln, Berlin ' s coolest neighbourhood. Wi-Fi access is available throughout the entire hostel.  The location was ideal! Easy to connect with public transportation, mall and restaurants. Prenzlauer Berg, Berlin Located conveniently in the Prenzlauer Berg district of Berlin, Hostel 199 is located 1.8 miles from Alexanderplatz, 2.3 miles from Berlin Cathedral and 2.4 miles from Berlin TV Tower.  It ' s very clean and quiet. Location is great for exploring Berlin. Prenzlauer Berg, Berlin The Pfefferbett Hostel lies in the trendy Prenzlauer Berg district of central Berlin, steps from the Senefelder Platz Underground Station. It offers cheap rooms and a 24-hour reception and bar.  The atmosphere of the hostel is fantastic. Kreuzberg, Berlin Set in an elegant 19th-century building, this hostel in Berlin ' s colorful Kreuzberg district offers free WiFi, great transport links, and welcome packs with a map of the city.  Very kind and cool and polite staff, comfortable room, good location Friedrichshain, Berlin Ideally suited for partygoers, this hostel is just a 3-minute walk from 2 of Berlin ' s most famous clubs, Berghain and Watergate. Kiez Hostel Berlin offers free WiFi in all areas.  I got a very warm welcome at Kiez Hostel, felt like I belonged there :) Beds are very comfortable I... Treptow-K penick, Berlin Located in Berlin’s leafy Treptow-Köpenick district on the banks of the Dahme River, this hotel features its own small beach area with boat jetty, canoe rental, and a beer garden with sun terrace.  Nice spacious rooms, new clean bathroom with good craftsmanship, no carpeting and big windows... Sch neberg, Berlin Located in Berlin ' s vibrant gay district, this hostel for young gay men offers free WiFi and in-room, flat-screen TVs.  Good area good to meet other guests Friedrichshain, Berlin Box 61 Art Concept Flat is located on vibrant Boxhagener Street, surrounded by bars and cafés. Guests will find uniquely designed rooms including free WiFi.  Very happy to stay here. The rooms are nice and sweet furnitured! Reinickendorf, Berlin Located in Berlin, 5 miles from Memorial of the Berlin Wall, AMANDA provides accommodations with a garden, private parking and a terrace.  Reinickendorf, Berlin Located in Berlin, 7 miles from Memorial of the Berlin Wall, Villa Berlin Hostel Pension Hotel has accommodations with a shared lounge, free private parking, a garden and barbecue facilities.  The staff was really helpful. 100% recommended Mitte, Berlin Located in Berlin within a 19-minute walk of Alexanderplatz and 1.2 miles of Berlin Cathedral, Living in the Box has rooms with free WiFi.  Living in the Box was fine once I got used to the what it was. Mitte, Berlin Renovated in 2015, this family-run hostel is located in the heart of Berlin, a 7-minute walk from the Brandenburg Gate. Guests enjoy free Wi-Fi and free use of a fully equipped kitchen.  The hostel was so clean, the facilities were perfect and all 10 of us enjoyed the hostel and it was... Mitte, Berlin This modern hostel offers individually furnished rooms and free Wi-Fi internet access. It is in the Mitte district of Berlin, a 10-minute walk from Pankstrasse Metro Station.  Friendly staff at reception, cleanliness inside the room area Mitte, Berlin Attractively set in the Mitte district of Berlin, RoomOne Wedding is located 1.1 miles from Natural History Museum, Berlin, 1.3 miles from Memorial of the Berlin Wall and 2.2 miles from German... Kreuzberg, Berlin Well situated in the Friedrichshain-Kreuzberg district of Berlin, Lekkerurlaub is located 1.9 miles from Checkpoint Charlie, 2 miles from East Side Gallery and 2.2 miles from Topography of Terror.  Steglitz-Zehlendorf, Berlin Featuring a garden and views of garden, Gästehaus Schwanenwerder is located in Berlin, 9 miles from Messe Berlin.  Friedrichshain, Berlin Located in Berlin, 1.9 miles from East Side Gallery, Pirate Hostel has express check-in and check-out and free WiFi throughout the property.  EastSeven Berlin Hostel ,  The Circus Hostel , and  Design Hostel P182  are some of our most popular hostels in Berlin. Eastern  &  Western Comfort Hostelboat ,  Jugendgästehaus St.-Michaels-Heim , and  The Circus Hostel  have received great reviews from guests in Berlin about the views from these hostels. Some of the best hostels in Berlin near Alexanderplatz include  St Christopher's Inn Berlin Alexanderplatz ,  ONE80° Hostels Berlin , and  The Circus Hostel . These hostels in Berlin are highly rated by couples:  Hostel 199 ,  Minimal Hostel , and  EastSeven Berlin Hostel . For hostels in Berlin serving highly-rated breakfasts, try  Grand Hostel Berlin Urban ,  Singer109 Hotel  &  Hostel , and  The Circus Hostel . The average price per night for a hostel in Berlin this weekend is $68 (based on Booking.com prices). The average price of a hostel in Berlin this evening is $62 (based on Booking.com prices). Mitte ,  Berlin City Center , and  Charlottenburg-Wilmersdorf  are popular with other travelers visiting Berlin. On average, a hostel in Berlin costs $40 per night (based on Booking.com prices). Many families visiting Berlin enjoyed staying at  Riverside Lodge ,  St Christopher's Inn Berlin Alexanderplatz , and  The Circus Hostel . 9.1 Awesome 1,352 reviews have to mention the helping and friendly staff members i met there: roman , nicolos and nathan. very helpful. great location and a very well thought and designed hostel. had everything i needed. literally 100m from the u-bhan station. well equiped kitchen, cheap coffee and beer, comfortable common area with free to use computers. nice garden and smoking zone. lidl supermarket 2min walking from the door. 8.3 Very Good 1,460 reviews Super comfy beds, plenty of space in the room and large personal lockers. The shower is quite possibly the most powerful shower I ' ve ever felt 👌🏻 €7.50 washing and drying service and they will deliver clothes back to your room provided it is not too late. Dont believe the stories about Hermannplatz being unsafe / dodgy: It is a great location with good transport links and cheap, tasty restaurants (Go to Gel Gör for fantastic, late night Turkish food near the hostel). 9.0 Awesome 2,185 reviews I loved everything about this hostel. It was such a creative idea to name each room after cities and it ' s VERY clean and spacious and the amenities were superb. I spent very little time here as I was out sight-seeing but everyday I could count on a good night ' s sleep, a safe building, a great shower, and privacy and I know that if I wanted to meet new people or cook my own food, I could have easily done that. Such great value for the money. Highly recommend!! 8.0 Very Good 2,347 reviews Great location - the hostel is located in Kreuzberg, near the city center (Mitte). The touristic attraction Checkpoint Charlie is only 10 min from the hostel by feet. U-bahn stations Halleches Tor and Mockerbrucke are each located about 5 min from the hostel. The hostel offers free breakfast for guests under 26. And the breakfast is very good, there are a lot of quality groceries served. The hostel has 7 floors and a lot of rooms, so you can feel really safe and in addition to that the ambient is quiet. The room was clean and comfortable.  8.2 Very Good 7,859 reviews Relatively comfortable bunk beds. The hostel looked and felt pretty hip and trendy.Great location - close to the museums + historical sites  9.0 Awesome 1,098 reviews In a Really great location in a trendy suburb. Great security for a hostel. Beds were comfy! We had a private room with own bathroom which was great. Lots of outdoor seating and the bar was cheap!  8.3 Very Good 3,351 reviews Really lovely hostel with even lovelier staff. Clean, and in a lovely location, close to all the buses and trains that you need to get into the centre. The bar area is a great place to meet new people, and the drinks are cheap too!As a female solo traveller, I was apprehensive about walking back alone in a new place, but I have no qualms about this area. Will definitely be back!  8.1 Very Good 775 reviews Nice hostel. There was a lot of school students but that’s fine, for backpackers also a good option. Great location, great breakfast. Shower is ok, no shampoo, no towel but you can buy one for 3€. Great staff7.5 / 10 7.0 Good 2,170 reviews I guess it was DDR hospital... Hotel has great location near central bus station and S-Bahn. It will be good proposal for budget traveler. Cheap, clean and breakfasts was included. Refer a property List your property Booking.com is part of Booking Holdings Inc., the world leader in online travel and related services. We have more than 70 million property reviews, all from  real, verified guests . 1 The only way to leave a review is to first make a booking. That's how we know our reviews come from real guests who have stayed at the property. 2 When guests stay at the property, they check out how quiet the room is, how friendly the staff is, and more. 3 After their trip, guests tell us about their stay. We check for naughty words and verify the authenticity of all guest reviews before adding them to our site. If you booked through us and want to leave a review, please sign in first. Check-in date Check-out date 