Best Panama City Contracts Lawyers  &  Law Firms - Florida | FindLaw Are you a legal professional?  Visit our professional site  Contracts Lawyers  Serving Panama City, FL (State Wide) Complex Commercial and Business Litigation Attorney. Experienced Securities Arbitration and Litigation Firm. Show More Free Consultation A lot of people lose money in the stock market and many times those losses are the result of fraud or other types of broker misconduct. Since 1980, Russell L. Forkey has been helping investors throughout the country with securities law matters. If you are involved in a securities dispute over securities purchased or sold in the United States or through a United States brokerage firm, we can assist... Contracts Lawyers  Serving Panama City, FL (Destin) Show More 1 out of 5 stars At Winter Spires  &  Associates, P.A., it is the mission of an office to provide responsible and informative legal representation and assistance to the communities served by an office. We fulfill our mission by: being licensed, uniquely experienced and aggressive advocates; providing insightful legal assistance and support to current and prospective customers and offering professional and... Contracts Lawyers  Serving Panama City, FL (Destin) Show More We provide legal services in all aspects of REAL ESTATE, BUSINESS, WILLS, TRUSTS  &  ESTATES, PROBATE, COMMERCIAL COLLECTIONS, CIVIL LITIGATION, CRIMINAL and FAMILY LAW for clients throughout Northwest Florida. Ms. Ward is a fifth generation, life-long native of Northwest Florida. Prior to entering the practice of law, Ms. Ward had over 20 years of experience as a business woman and... Contracts Lawyers  Serving Panama City, FL (Niceville) Show More Michael D. Weinstock, P.A. is a multi-faceted law practice of several areas: criminal law, DUI defense, divorce, family law, child support and custody, civil and commercial litigation, personal injury, corporate law, probate, and wills. The lawyers and the certified legal assistants in the Firm are committed to render to our clients the very best legal services possible. Our staff possesses high... Contracts Lawyers  Serving Panama City, FL (Fort Walton Beach) ... Contracts Lawyers  Serving Panama City, FL (Navarre) ... Contracts Lawyers  Serving Panama City, FL (Tallahassee) Show More Free Consultation A Florida Law Firm Focusing on Administrative, Environmental, Governmental, Health Care and Licensing Law The law firm of Oertel, Fernandez, Bryant  &  Atkinson, P.A., was founded in Tallahassee, Florida, in 1978. Now composed of 10 lawyers, the firm has built a statewide practice representing individuals, organizations, business and governmental clients with varied concerns in administrative... Contracts Lawyers  Serving Panama City, FL (Pensacola) Show More 1 Backed by more than 25 years of experience, The Health Law Firm in Pensacola represents health care professionals and providers throughout Florida and across the United States. We offer a high degree of client service and experience in this complex area of law that is reinforced by our several professional memberships and accolades. Our attorneys skillfully handle cases in health law litigation,... Nearby Cities: Lynn Haven , Panama City Beach , Youngstown , Fountain , Wewahitchka Related Practice Areas: Auto Dealer Fraud , Consumer Protection , Business  &  Commercial , Lemon Law You've come to the right place. Whether you are a small business, largecompany, or individual, a contracts lawyer can help. Contracts lawyers draft, negotiate, and execute legally-enforceableagreements -- like business contracts and independent contractor agreements.Contracts lawyers also assist with contract disputes such as breach of contract. Use FindLaw to hire a local contract attorney to ensure that the terms andconditions in your contract contain the necessary legal protections you desire. FindLaw's Lawyer Directory is the largest online directory of attorneys. Browse more than one million listings, covering everything from criminal defenseto personal injury to estate planning. Detailed law firm profiles have information like the firm's area of law,office location, office hours, and payment options. Attorney profiles includethe biography, education and training, and client recommendations of an attorneyto help you decide who to hire. Use the contact form on the profiles to connect with a Panama City, Floridaattorney for legal advice. Consider the following:  Comfort Level  - Are you comfortable telling the lawyer personalinformation?  Does the lawyer seem interested in solving your problem?  Credentials  - How long has the lawyer been in practice?  Hasthe lawyer worked on other cases similar to yours?  Cost  - How are the lawyer's fees structured - hourly or flatfee?  Can the lawyer estimate the cost of your case?  City  - Is the lawyer's office conveniently located? Here are a few to get you started: It is always a good idea to research your lawyer prior to hiring. Every state has a disciplinary organization that monitors attorneys, their licenses, and consumer complaints. By  researching lawyer discipline  you can: Note: This page will refresh upon selection of a filter. 