Sebastien Haller responds to Newcastle and Spurs rumours HITC Here Is The City on Facebook HITC Here Is The City on Twitter Email HITC Sport on Facebook HITC Sport on Twitter Email Eintracht Frankfurt striker  Sebastien Haller  has commented on his future. Eintracht Frankfurt striker Sebastien Haller has told Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung  that he is happy with the club   and remained non-committal about rumours linking him with the likes of  Newcastle United  and  Tottenham Hotspur . Haller, 24, joined Frankfurt from FC Utrecht in the summer of 2017, and after a decent first campaign with 13 goals in all competitions, he has been in simply red-hot form this season. The French striker   a powerful target man   has now hit 10 goals and seven assists in 17 games for Frankfurt this season, meaning he is playing a part in a goal a game on average. Haller's form in Germany is unsurprisingly attracting major interest, and  FAZ recently reported that Newcastle United are being rivalled by Tottenham Hotspur for his signature . Newcastle are desperate for a goalscorer of Haller's quality in order to finally bring some goals to Rafael Benitez's side, whilst  Spurs  may well see him as a replacement for Fernando Llorente and competition for Harry Kane. Frankfurt will stand firm on Haller, much like they did over Ante Rebic in the summer, but many believe that Haller's future ultimately lies elsewhere, even with Frankfurt ambitiously chasing Champions League football. Now, Haller has spoken about the situation,  telling FAZ  that he would be happy to see out the season with Frankfurt, adding that he may never play in the  Premier League  or may end up there in January, as you can never say never in football; Newcastle and Spurs may just look to test his loyalty in January. Yes I would be happy.  said Haller.  We started something great here. And I would like to finish that. There is nothing safe in the football business. I would never say that something is completely safe. Nobody really knows what's going to happen. Getting a new opportunity is part of life. Maybe never. Or maybe in two months. It depends on the possibilities that arise. I would never go to the Premier League just to play there. It has to make sense to me. And it has to be the right time for me. What I definitely know at the moment: I'm at Frankfurt - and here I feel very good. The Europa League also contributes to this. It has already given me great moments and memories,  he added. Have something to tell us about this article? List page image ©  Alexander Hassenstein/Bongarts/Getty Images As featured on: Register for  NEWCASTLE UNITED  team updates Register for  TOTTENHAM HOTSPUR  team updates Register for  HITC Sport - Daily Dispatch About Us  |  Advertising  |  Our Team  |  Privacy Policy  |  Terms  &  Conditions  |  Review Policy  |  Subscription Options  |  Syndication  |  Jobs @ HITC  |  Contact Us  2019 GRV Media Ltd 