Eco Event Conscious Lounge | Cardboard Furniture View photos from Eco Event s ‘ Conscious Lounge   at The Conscious Hospitality Show. The show was part of The Restaurant Show 2016 at Olympia, London. In the age of the conscious consumer,  Eco Event’s ‘Conscious Lounge’  was absolutely in tune with the evolving consciousness of today’s diner. The Conscious Hospitality Show was an opportunity for the industry to ask questions and seek inspiration from a wide range of sources. From health and nutrition experts to discovering more sustainable and ethical business practices, the show covered all areas of the industry. Eco Event’s Conscious Lounge was a communal area in the heart of The Conscious Hospitality Show. The area, entirely made from cardboard, offered visitors the opportunity to relax, eat, drink and network. The area featured items from the Eco Event premium collection including the round and rectangle picnic table, branded bench, arm chairs and new coffee table. Part of Eco Event’s cardboard Lounge included a cardboard photo booth, a unique collaboration with the Eco Event project. The  Eco photo booth  allowed visitors to share their photo moment from The Conscious Hospitality Show instantly on social media. The Conscious Lounge attracted pop up restauranteurs and those looking to create conscious campaigns held at their restaurants, bars and pubs across the UK. The Conscious Hospitality show captures a growing trend and in the age of the conscious consumer the show offers hospitality businesses new ways to compete to satisfy consumer appetites. During the three days their were culinary demonstrations and astute seminars highlighting key trends and progressive ideas from across the hospitality industry. Eco Event’s Conscious Lounge appealed to the entire restaurant industry and posed some important questions. Firstly, it’s unique aesthetic created an immediate talking point for visitors. The ‘friendly furniture’ collection was set out to help inspire visitors to make more conscious decisions by looking at alternative ways to become more sustainable and eco-friendly within their business practices. Find out how you can create your own conscious lounge or pop up space on the Eco Event  blog . We bring your event ideas to life and with our powers combined we can make the world smile. Photo booth galleries GIF galleries 020 3053 4333 info@megabooth.com CAREERS:  Work for us  FAQS:  Find out more GDPR:  Privacy Policy Unit 4, Rear of 41/43 Roebuck Road, Hainault Industrial Estate, Essex, IG6 3TU, United Kingdom © Copyright 2018 Megabooth | Website by  True Style 