Top 8 things to do in Kotor | Skyscanner ' s Travel Blog News Top 8 things to do in Kotor Kotor is the star of the Montenegro coast, a UNESCO World Heritage Site that oozes charm from every cobblestone. Backed by a fjord-like landscape at the edge of the sparkling Bay of Kotor, also known as Boka, it was once home to one of the Mediterranean’s busiest harbours, while today cruise ship passengers alight to explore the Old Town walls and their maritime past. Follow our guide to Kotor s top attractions and make the most of your visit to this picture-postcard medieval port.  Step through the Sea Gate ( Morska vrata ) and you’ll find yourself in the grand Arms Square, its polished stones a relic of a time when Venice (and Kotor) ruled the waves. Take a seat on the terrace outside the elegant  Hotel Vardar  and order a local Nikšićko beer to sip while you watch Kotor life coming and going through this focal point of the city. You ll want to take your time, so try to ignore the ticking of the nearby clocktower, but do stop to take a photo of its Pisa-esque angle   leaning thanks to the numerous earthquakes that have shaken Kotor over the years.  The Bay of Kotor looks gorgeous from sea level, but it’s even better seen from the medieval citadel above, its calm blue waters reminiscent of the Norwegian Fjords, the steep mountain slopes that surround it towering to heights of well over 1000 metres. For the best view in town, head for the main entrance near the River Gate to get your €3 entrance ticket and begin the ascent up the stone staircase, which zigzags all the way up the old walls to the Castle of St. John (sometimes called St. Ivan’s Castle), a fort dating back to the sixteenth century.  At times Kotor can feel like a tourist showpiece. Not so at the daily market, where city natives come to have a good catch-up with the neighbours, as well as shopping amongst the teetering piles of fish, fresh vegetables, local cheeses and all manner of household goods. The market runs along the city walls from the Sea Gate and is open every morning. Look out especially for  prsut  (prosciutto) and a smoked cheese called  sir , the ideal ingredients for a picnic up on the ramparts. Dinner in Kotor generally means something hauled from the sea, and the best place in town to find the fruits of Kotor Bay is Galion. It’s a short walk outside the Old Town but the reward is an unparalleled vista across the harbour from the glass-walled terrace. Ask to see the fish of the day – sea bream perhaps, or sea bass – and it will be brought out on a platter for you to select by weight (€59 per kilogram). Filleted and returned to you with delicious homemade sauce, team this most elegant of fish suppers with a bottle of local Chardonnay and finish up with the salted chocolate sable.  Who doesn’t want to party like a Roman? Hundreds flock to Maximus nightclub, set into the walls of the Old Town near the Kampana Tower, to dance on its multitude of Roman-themed floors. The music is different in each space, so if the house music isn’t to your liking, there will be pop elsewhere, or even some Montenegrin folk tunes. The nightclub is only open Friday and Saturday nights and entrance is cheaper (€3–5) before midnight, since the party gets going much later than that. Check the  Facebook page  for what s on.  You don t have to be a history buff to spend hours exploring the  Maritime Museum , housed in the Baroque Gregorian Palace. Check out intriguing nautical maps and town plans of the area before heading upstairs to see models of landmark ships, as well as daggers and pistols dating from the sixteenth century. There is also a fascinating exhibition about Kotor Bay’s role in both World War One and Two on the second floor. The museum is open seven days a week and all for the sum of €4 (children €1). The Old Town of Kotor could be assumed to run solely on coffee given the number of cafés that line the streets, their tables pushing into every corner of every square. Small but memorable, head to Scorpion in St Luke s Square for your morning cup complete with friendly service, while later in the day the Old Winery is the place to sit, its tables spread along the narrow alleyway that runs out to the North Gate. If you ve had your fill of caffeine, they also have a wide-ranging list of Montenegrin wines, including Sauvignon Blancs, Chardonnays and Merlots. One of the best things about Kotor is the abundance of equally stunning locations just around the Gulf of Kotor. Top pick for a day trip is Perast, a fairytale town that looks like the inspiration for a Disney film. Its Baroque grandeur is less surprising when you learn that it boasted four active shipyards and a fleet of 1000 or more ships by the end of the Venetian period. Today it is a relaxed affair, the waterfront now given over to restaurant terraces and boutique hotels (should you wish to linger). Stop off at  Hotel Conte  for the catch of the day (€48 per kilo), or a hearty bowl of seafood spaghetti (€12.90). The best way to get to the stunning Bay of Kotor is to fly to Tivat.  Find flights now . Historic Roman ruins, crumbling Venetian architecture, some of central Europe’s most intriguing outdoor art, fantastic fresh seafood – and hardly any crowds. Venice, famous for its historic canals, gondaliers and gelato, is one of the world’s most romantic destinations. Wars, sieges, shelter, quarantines, ghosts, histories and love stories – castles have them all!  Written by  Helen Ochrya  for Skyscanner.  Skyscanner is the world’s travel search engine, helping your money go further on  flights ,  hotels  and  car hire . Surrounded by fjords and mountains, Bergen and Stavanger in Norway make for an unforgettable weekend away. Fjord Norway is where you ' ll find stunning vistas, unforgettable hikes, amazing railway journeys, adventurous kayak trips and phenomenal glacier walks. In partnership with Visit Greece Which Greek islands are the best to visit? All of them? Joking aside, that ' s a bit of an impossible question to answer. With 6000 islands to choose from - only 227 of which are inhabited - there ' s enough secluded beaches, ancient history, simply epic food,… © Skyscanner Ltd 2002-2019 Well we'd love it if you left us a review. (It only takes 30 seconds, we promise!) 