Can you predict earthquakes? Science Explorer Mission Areas Unified Interior Regions Frequently Asked Questions Education Data and Tools Maps Publications Software Multimedia Gallery Park Passes USGS Library Featured Stories News Releases Science Snippets Technical Announcements Employees in the News Get Our News Media Contacts I ' m a Reporter Headquarters Locations Contact Us Staff Profiles Social Media About Us Organization Key Officials Congressional Budget Opportunities Doing Business Emergency Management Survey Manual No. Neither the USGS nor any other scientists have ever predicted a major earthquake. We do not know how, and we do not expect to know how any time in the foreseeable future. USGS scientists can only calculate  the probability that a significant earthquake will occur  in a specific area within a certain number of years. An earthquake prediction must define 3 elements : 1) the date and time, 2) the location, and 3) the magnitude. Yes, some people say they can predict earthquakes, but here are the reasons why their statements are false: If an earthquake happens to occur that remotely fits their prediction, they claim success even though 1-3 of the predicted elements is wildly different from what occurred, therefore a failed prediction. Predictions (by non-scientists) usually start swirling around social media when something happens that is thought to be a precursor to an earthquake in the near future. The so-called precursor is often a swarm of small earthquakes, increasing amounts of radon in local water, unusual behavior of animals, increasing size of magnitudes in moderate size events, or a moderate-magnitude event rare enough to suggest that it may be a foreshock. Unfortunately, most such precursors frequently occur without being followed by an earthquake, so a real prediction is not possible. Instead, if there is a scientific basis, a forecast may be made in probabilistic terms. To learn what a  probability  is and how they work, see the FAQ under Seismic HazardsMaps, Probabilities, and EQ Engineering -  Are earthquake probabilities or forecasts the same as prediction? An earthquake forecast was made in China several decades ago, based on small earthquakes and unusual animal activity. Many people chose to sleep outside of their homes and thus were spared when the main earthquake indeed occurred and caused widespread destruction.  However, usually no large earthquake follows this type of seismic activity, and, unfortunately, many earthquakes are preceded by no precursory events whatsoever. The next large Chinese event was entirely unheralded and scores of thousands of Chinese died. The USGS focuses its efforts on the long-term mitigation of earthquake hazards by helping to improve the safety of structures, rather than by trying to accomplish short-term predictions. Learn more: This report, prepared for the National Earthquake Prediction Evaluation Council (NEPEC), is intended as a step toward improving communications about earthquake hazards between information providers and users who coordinate emergency-response activities in the Cascadia region of the Pacific Northwest. NEPEC charged a subcommittee of scientists with... Several recently published reports have suggested that semi-stationary linear-cloud formations might be causally precursory to earthquakes. We examine the report of Guangmeng and Jie (2013), who claim to have predicted the 2012 M 6.0 earthquake in the Po Valley of northern Italy after seeing a satellite photograph (a digital image)... The Seismological Laboratory at the California Institute of Techonology (Caltech) was founded in 1928 as a result of a study by the Carnegie Institue of Washington. The study was based primarily on a 1916 report by H. O. Wood which recommended that a network of seismic stations be established in southern California. In 1929, the Carnegie Advisory... In an article in the last issue of the Earthquake Information Bulletin ("Earthquakes and Plate Tectonics," by Henry Spall), we saw how 90 percent of the world's earthquakes occur at the margins of the Earth's major crustal plates. however, when we look at the distribution of earthquakes in detail, we see that a number of nearly aseismic regions,... New Audiences, New Products for the National Seismic Hazard Maps Throughout California April is recognized as Earthquake Preparedness Month. This Thursday's lecture, "Predictable Earthquakes", will provide an update on the current ability of scientists to predict potentially destructive earthquakes and to separate fact from fiction from this intriguing topic. Title: ShakeAlert: The Path to West Coast Earthquake Early Warning ... how a few seconds can save lives and property USGS map displaying potential to experience damage from a natural or human-induced earthquake in 2017. Chances range from less than one percent to 12 percent. Fairweather fault lidar  by Morgan Page, USGS Research Geophysicist --updating earthquake prediction--fact vs. fiction by Susan Hough, USGS Seismologist    Aerial photo of the San Andreas Fault in the Carrizo Plain. By Ikluft - Own work, GFDL,  https://commons.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?curid=3106006 Damage from the 1964 Alaskan Earthquake. Credit: USGS This database contains information on faults and associated folds in the United States that demonstrate geological evidence of coseismic surface deformation in large earthquakes during  the Quaternary (the past 1.6 million years) . Science Products News Connect About 