Jain Electromech Appliances - Manufacturer from Balanagar, Hyderabad, India | Profile is a Verified member of IndiaMART Following details of the company have been verified IndiaMART InterMESH Ltd. 7th Floor, Advant-Navis Business Park, Plot No-7, Sector-142, Noida, UP Find answers to your queries Join Now Secure  &  hassle-free payments Home > Consumer Electronics > Domestic Fans, AC  &  Coolers | GST  36AANPJ7018A1ZY | Verified Supplier Established in the year  1997 , Jain Electromech Appliances,  is a reckoned manufacturer and supplier of  Ceiling Fans  such as  Designer Ceiling Fans, High Speed Ceiling Fans, Electrical Ceiling Fans, Decorative Ceiling Fans, Electric Fans, Decorative Fan, Air Fans, etc . Our sister concern Jain Electro Enterprises is also engaged in manufacturing superior quality fans. Over the years, we have aimed at offering our clients with durable and high performing fans at pocket friendly prices. This aim has enabled us to serve clients in the hotels, restaurants, shops, homes and schools. We make optimum use of latest machines and technology to manufacture an elegant range of fans in adorable designs and patterns. Owing to our world class manufacturing facilities, we are able manufacture these products in strict specifications, as per the ISO standards. Our professionals develop fans in variety of designs and patterns, ranging from economical fans to luxurious fans. Our CEO, Mr. Lokesh Jain, is a qualified electric engineer,(Gold Medalist from Osmania University, Hyderabad). His rich domain experience and ability to foresee market conditions has enabled us to set new landmarks in the industry. Basic Information Trade  &  Market Infrastructure Team and Staff Company USP Statutory Profile Packaging/Payment and Shipment Details Our world class infrastructure is facilitated with all the requisite standards that helps in ensuring streamlined business processes. It is well segmented into various units, which work in close synchronization with each other to enhance the productivity level of the organization. Our manufacturing unit is fitted with hi-tech machines and equipment that are high in efficiency and performance. These machines help in accelerating the production process and thereby empower us to deliver bulk products at cost effective prices. Our products are properly finished, coated, painted in the most efficient manner and offer unbeatable performance. We also offer OEM services to our clients, which has enabled us to cater to some of the leading brands of the industry. We are a renowned manufacturer and supplier of  Ceiling Fans . Our world class range has been acclaimed at the national front for the wide variety that we offer to our clients. The product range is fabricated from premium quality stainless steel and aluminum. These materials help in fabricating products that enjoy features like corrosion resistant, high air delivery, optimum speed, durability and unmatched efficiency. Our product line includes the following products: Ceiling  Fans Fantasy  Ivory 24 Royal Brown 24 Splash Copper Aristo  Copper Metallic Aristo  Gold Aristo  Ivory Ceiling  Fans Passion  Blue Canon  Ivory Cherry  Copy Cw 2048 M Golden Brown Czn Delux Czn White Delite  Pista Metallic Diplomat  Violet Flora  Copper Taaza  Cherry Super  Ivory Shell  Ivory Splash  Voila Isi Ivory Delux Golden  Crown Ceiling Fan Such features enable our range to be extensively used across hotels, restaurants, shops, homes, schools and colleges. Our wide range of Ceiling Fans is good in quality as well as in performance . We cater to a wide clientele and hence customize our standard range, so that our product range meets their requirements. Apart from this, we can also customize these fans, as per the interiors of the home or any other place. We offer customization in terms of the following terms: We strongly believe that an efficient team plays a key role in taking the company on the desired heights. Our core team realizes our objectives  &  goals and ensures that no stone is left unturned in meeting the requirements of the client. Henceforth, our team keeps itself abreast with the ever changing market scenario. This helps them in fabricating the product as per the prevailing trends in the industry. Apart from this, our designers also pay due attention to the requirements laid down by the clients, so as the product is flawless and meets the exact specifications. We provide our team with regular training sessions to update them with quality policies and market scenario. This helps our team to deliver a consistent performance. We are a well-known manufacturer and supplier of Ceiling Fans. Over the years, we have gained expertise in the domain and have also gathered appreciation from our esteemed client le. Our aim to serve our clients with the products that offer luxury feel has enabled us to make a mark of perfectionism in the industry. We are ahead of our counterparts because of the following factors: Product / service name Share in net sales (%) Manufacturing  and exporting of sealing fans 100.00 Our Company Reach Us  Jain Electromech Appliances No. 14, SVCIE, Phase-1 Extension, Formerly BCIE, Balanagar, Balanagar,  Hyderabad-500037, Telangana, India Lokesh  Jain (Proprietor) View Mobile Number 100%  Call Response Rate 