The Best Home Decor Shops in Vienna – Shopikon The Best Home Decor Shops in Vienna Graphic designer Nela opened her petite gem of a store Volta in April 2014. Nela arranges her store with all the lovely well-designed and minimal everyday objects that she reads about in online blogs. Much like the modernists… Siebensterngasse 28,1070Vienna In September 2012, Katharina Marchgraber, an art historian by training and next of kin to an antiques dealer, established Catrinette to turn her passion for collecting vintage decor, clothing and furniture into her profession… Porzellangasse 28,1090Vienna In February 2011, graphic designer Heide Stadler-Wolffersgrün opened Le Shop on Kirchengasse, right between Siebensterngasse and Burggasse, in Vienna’s 7th district. Her trinket sized gift shop specializes in unique, sustainable… Kirchengasse 40,1070Vienna Each customer is offered a glass of the store’s own sparkling rosé upon entering Vintagerie. The story behind this tradition is as follows: Owners Peter Lindenberg and Alexander Bechstein used to meet every Friday over a glass of… Nelkengasse 4,1060Vienna Ernst Hahnbauer had been a private collector for years before deciding to open Bananas, a vintage furniture shop in close proximity to Vienna ' s famed Naschmarkt. One day he simply realized that he could make a living from his… Kettenbrückengasse 15,1050Vienna Glasfabrik is a material culture enthusiast ' s dream. It is housed in a former glass factory which dates to the period when this area served as Vienna ' s industrial district. The shop, which is associated with Lichterloh and… Lorenz-Mandl-Gasse 25,1160Vienna Die Sellerie is the creation of four young graphic designers who joined forces to realize a common dream. Patrick Bauer, Ulrike Dorner, Georg Leditzky and Andreas Posselt believed that there was something to the idea of running a… Burggasse 21/1,1070Vienna Just a few steps from the MuseumsQuartier, barely removed from the chaos of the Mariahilferstrasse, lies Habari, a haven of tranquility that specializes in African art and design. A 720 square meter showroom spans two floors… Theobaldgasse 16,1060Vienna The MAK Design Shop is a must for anyone interested in the miraculous world of design. Located on the Stubenring, the store at Vienna ' s Museum for Applied Arts is the first of its kind, and has been around since 1991. Along with… Stubenring 5,1010Vienna If you are looking for Vienna ' s smallest and friendliest department store, then we suggest you visit Kaufhaus Schiepek on the Teinfaltstrasse. This boutique is a dream come true for Mrs. Schiepek, who always wanted to run her own… Teinfaltstrasse 3,1010Vienna You May Also Like  The Best Women ' s Fashion Stores in Vienna  The Best Antiques Shops in Vienna  The Best Jewelry Stores in Vienna  The 10 Best Men ' s Wear Shops in Vienna  Where To Find Unique Gifts in Vienna  The Best Men ' s Accessories Shops in Vienna You May Also Like  The Best Women ' s Fashion Stores in Vienna  The Best Antiques Shops in Vienna  The Best Jewelry Stores in Vienna  The 10 Best Men ' s Wear Shops in Vienna  Where To Find Unique Gifts in Vienna  The Best Men ' s Accessories Shops in Vienna  Best Stores in Austin  Best Stores in Berlin  Best Stores in Paris  Best Stores in London As chain stores fill the streetscape the world over, this project is a celebration of the independent retailer.All stores featured on Shopikon have been hand-picked by our editors who have visited thousands of stores, andonly the best of the bunch make it into our guide. We evaluate stores based on product selection, atmosphere,dedication to their specialty, and overall shopping experience, making sure that they are all worth your trip! 