Midas Promotions | One Republic Live in Singapore 2013 Posted on :  May 19th, 2018 7:06 am Category : Starting out as an internet phenomenon on Myspace, American rock band One Republic finally gave fans the album they had been waiting for when they released Dreaming Out Loud in 2007, which was certified platinum in the United States, and gold in Austria, Australia and Canada. This album placed the band on Rolling Stone Magazine’s  Artists to Watch  list. They then made radio history when their first single,  Apologize , received the largest amount of airplay with 10,331 plays in one week. The band s sophmore album, “Waking Up”, was released in 2009, with the lead single of the album,  All the Right Moves , making the top 20 on the Billboard Hot 100. The remix version, featured on Timbaland s album Shock Value was a smash hit reaching number one in sixteen countries, gaining 10 million downloads and subsequently earning them a Grammy Award nomination. The band also achieved national success with its second single,  Stop and Stare . OneRepublic s third album, Native, was released on March 26, 2013 to positive reviews becoming the band s highest charting album to date, and their first top 10 album, debuting at no. 4 on the Billboard 200. Selling 60,000 copies within its first week, the single,  Feel Again , was certified platinum. OneRepublic has toured the world, headlining dates in the U.S. and Europe and opening for Bon Jovi and U2. The band’s music has also been very popular with tv show producers with songs being featured on The vampire Diaries, One Tree Hill, Gossip Girl, and Castle. The song  Good Life  is featured in the trailers for One Day and Eat Pray Love, as well as in the film Easy A. Don’t miss your chance to catch this amazing group LIVE in Singapore! Grab your tickets now! www.onerepublic.com www.twitter.com/OneRepublic www.myspace.com/onerepublic www.facebook.com/OneRepublic Shared this page : Midas Promotions is South East Asia’s leading live music promoter. Bringing the biggest artists in music to the region for over 20 years and counting, Midas Promotions are synonymous with the entertainment lifestyle. Quick links 