The Children ' s Foundation, NGO in Nepal, Non Profit Organization     Gov. Reg. No. 342 / 28327   Kailash Humla Children s Foundation is the  non-profit organization in Nepal , located in the continent of Asia and shares borders with India and China. The  NGO in Nepal  is designed to help in training, educating taking care and accommodating kids. This establishment is a non-profit, non-political, non-religious humanitarian aid organization established to help the children of  Humla , a rural region in Nepal. The children s foundation aim is to provide support to undeveloped and illiterate families of this region. Presently, the NGO achieving this mission by educating children in the Muchu region of  Humla . This children foundation is established to benefit as many local children as possible. We strive to brighten their futures positions by providing a well-structured education that will introduce beneficial advantages and open the door to many other children’s Foundation in the region.  July 10, 2017   KHCF children are doing good sturdy in their summer activities.   April 15, 2017   KHCF children were back from their winter vacation. Now they are continuously doing sturdy in school.   New Buildings for Kailash Humla Children’s Foundation Our first plan...  New Project KHCF planing  to build kitchen, dining and class...  KHCF feature planing to set up heath care for children... Children are fragile roses of nature that are to be nourished in kindness, love, and care. We can see a lot of these children around us who are out of reach for the rights of education and health. They are compelled into child labor by their parents because of the unavailability of money and resources.  Kailash Humla Children Foundation , an  NGO in Nepal , supporting the children around Humla who are unable to get proper education and health facilities due to poverty. Also, we request your support to help us in the way you can for children education and health.   Whatever gift prodocts you can give to children.   Your Small Help can change the life of a kid ...  Baudha, Phulbari, Kathmandu, Nepal /Humla Namkha Goupalika-5 Muchu   977-01-2298277   khch_nepal@gmail.com  Website Developed by:   Nepal Web Freelancer  var sc_project=11292119;var sc_invisible=1;var sc_security="d7a6cdb8";var scJsHost = (("https:" == document.location.protocol) ?"https://secure." : "http://www.");document.write(" "); 