MCN Shop 5 best deals of the week MCN shop Jorge Lorenzo  has outstayed his welcome at Ducati despite winning his last two races. Fans will hope he can maintain his new-found form for the rest of the season and next year at Honda. If the Spaniard is your cup of tea, why not show your support with a replica helmet? As well as the Lorenzo design, the helmet features an advanced fibreglass shell, ventilation system, integrated sun visor, RapidFire shield replacement system, Skipfog anti-fog insert and a removable and washable interior. It’s tempting to nip around on the bike in motocross gloves or even no gloves at all when the weather’s good, but you would really regret it in a wreck. These short, leather gloves from Alpinestars combine comfort with excellent protection. The gloves feature a supple goat hide outer, leather palm, EVA foam inserts to impact zones, reinforcements to side of hand, thumb and palm and PU hard knuckle protection. The CE certified Tractechs were already incredible value for money, featuring moulded TPU shin, ankle and heel protection, moulded anti-twist mid sole, race spec toe sliders, and vulcanized, anti-slip rubber sole at budget prices. So, with £50 off at the moment they’re an absolute steal. The boots also boast gear change toe pad, vented toe-box panel and heel cup and a heavy-duty Max zip and velcro closure. If you ride to a bike event, everyone will be wearing bike gear, but if you ride to a social gathering populated by non-bikers (heaven forbid) you’ll feel a bit conspicuous in all your clobber. These jeans are abrasion and cut resistant with pockets for hip and knee protectors but they look like normal clothes so you’ll be able to blend in a bit better. The jeans are made from 12oz blue denim with a 100% cotton outer, water resistant coating, triple stitched side and rear seam and UV laminate internal protection. Using your bike more in the summer months inevitably means leaving it out and about more too. Unfortunately, that might make it a target for bike thieves. Oxford’s security products are some of the best on the market, this disc lock is a handy deterrent for thieves and will fit under most seats or in your rucksack. Just don’t leave it on when you pull way. A shock resistant rubber over-moulded lock body and high security, unique double locking mechanism make this independently approved disc lock about as good as they come. You can use it as a general-purpose pad-lock too. By  MCN News By far the biggest story on MCN this week was our feature on what it’s like riding BMW’s E-Power... In your new edition of Motor Cycle News this week we've got the biggest stories in biking along with... Prices have been revealed for the 2020 Honda CBR1000RR-R Fireblade range, with the base model... Six-time Forumla 1 World Champion, Lewis Hamilton, has confirmed media claims that he crashed a... Husqvarna have confirmed that the striking Norden 901 will be coming to a showroom near you soon by... Triumph have recorded increased profits in 2019, despite the uncertainty still surrounding... Ducati CEO, Claudio Domenicali, has revealed that a lower-capacity version of their Streetfighter V4... Every now and then we see a deal on the MCN Shop that we simply can't ignore, and today is one of... Britain’s leading bike crime expert says that despite a reduction in UK thefts, it’s still a massive... Peter Hickman will bid to win the Lightweight TT in 2020 onboard a Smiths Racing-prepared Norton... Custom bikes are more fashionable than ever – and we don’t mean old school, V-twin cruisers. Today a... Pricing and specifications have been announced for the 2020 Kawasaki Ninja 650, and it’s set to hit... The Austrian Grand Prix has been voted as the Best Grand Prix of 2019.It's the second time that the... If you’ve placed an order for a new Yamaha R1M, the company would like to invite you to one of two... Just like lots of new bikes this year, the updates to the 2020 Kawasaki Z650 are designed to squeeze... Introducing the Lexmoto LXR 380; a brand-new A2-compliant sportsbike costing £2399 less than the... Michelin have just rolled out a raft of new road and track tyre options for 2020, covering... It’s been an interesting year of riding; not my most enjoyable but that’s not the fault of the... It’s easy sticking to what you know, but some #ride5000miles members have bucked the trend this year... One of the drawbacks of the Honda CBR650R was the factory’s choice of OE tyres. The Dunlop D214... Facebook Twitter Email App Pinterest AddThis  1955-2019 Bauer Media Group Bauer Media Group consists of: Bauer Consumer Media Ltd, Company number: 01176085, Bauer Radio Ltd, Company Number: 1394141  Registered Office: Media House, Peterborough Business Park, Lynch Wood, Peterborough, PE2 6EA H Bauer Publishing,  Company Number: LP003328 Registered Office: Academic House, 24-28 Oval Road, London, NW1 7DT. All registered in England and Wales. VAT no 918 5617 01 Bauer Consumer Media Ltd are authorised and regulated by the FCA(Ref No. 710067) 