Robert McFarlane - Wikipedia Robert Carl "Bud" McFarlane  (born July 12, 1937) is a retired  Marine Corps  officer who served as  National Security Advisor  to  President of the United States Ronald Reagan  from 1983 through 1985. After a career in the Marines, McFarlane became part of the  Reagan administration  and was a leading architect of the  Strategic Defense Initiative  (SDI) for defending the United States against missile attack. [ 1 ]   Subsequently, he was involved in, and pleaded guilty to charges for actions related to, the  Iran-Contra affair , but received a  pardon  from President  George H.W. Bush . McFarlane is the son of former Texas Democratic Congressman  William McFarlane . After graduating  high school , McFarlane entered the  United States Naval Academy  at  Annapolis  in 1955, where he graduated in 1959. He was the third member of his family to attend the Academy, after his uncle Robert McFarlane (1925) and his brother Bill (1949). At the academy he graduated in the top 15 percent of the class and  lettered  twice in  gymnastics . He received an honorary doctorate from the  Institute of World Politics  in  Washington, D.C.  in 2014. He sang in the Chapel Choir, and was a Brigade Administrative Officer and 14th Company Commander. Following graduation from the Naval Academy in 1959, McFarlane was commissioned a  second lieutenant  in the Marine Corps, where he served as a field artillery officer. As a Marine Corps officer, McFarlane commanded  platoons , a battery of field artillery  howitzers  and was the Operations Officer for an artillery regiment. He taught Gunnery at the Army Advanced Artillery Course. He was the executive assistant to the Marine Corps' Operations Deputy from 1968–1971, preparing the deputy for meetings with the  Joint Chiefs of Staff . During this assignment he was also the Action Officer in the Marine Corps Operations Division for Europe/ NATO , the Middle East and Latin America. McFarlane served two combat tours in the  Vietnam War . In March 1965, he commanded the artillery battery in the first landing of U.S. combat forces in Vietnam. While deployed during his first tour, McFarlane was selected for graduate studies as an  Olmsted Scholar . McFarlane received a master's degree (License) in  strategic studies  with highest honors from the  Graduate Institute of International Studies  ( Institut de Hautes Etudes Internationales , HEI) in Geneva, Switzerland. After attending the Graduate Institute of International Studies, McFarlane returned for a second tour in 1967–1968 as a Regimental Fire Support Coordinator for the  3rd Marine Division  deployed along the  Vietnamese Demilitarized Zone  during the  Tet Offensive . He organized all fire support ( B-52s , naval gunfire from the  USS  New Jersey  (BB-62)  and artillery) for forces deployed at  Con Thien ,  Cam Lo ,  Dong Ha ,  The Rockpile ,  Khe Sanh  and points between. McFarlane received a  Bronze Star  and a  Navy Commendation Medal , both with  Valor device . Following his second tour in Vietnam and a tour at  Headquarters Marine Corps , in 1971 he was named a  White House Fellow . He was the first Marine Corps officer selected for the program. McFarlane was assigned to the  Office of Legislative Affairs  at the  White House  and at the conclusion of that assignment was selected as the Military Assistant to  Henry Kissinger  at the  National Security Council . In this post, McFarlane dealt with intelligence exchanges with the People's Republic of China from 1973 to 1976, giving detailed intelligence briefings to China at the time of the  Sino-Soviet split . He also accompanied Kissinger on his  visits to China . In addition, McFarlane dealt with other aspects of  foreign policy , including the Middle East,  relations with the Soviet Union  and  arms control . McFarlane was appointed by President  Gerald Ford  as his Special Assistant for National Security Affairs while a Lieutenant Colonel and was awarded the  Navy Distinguished Service Medal  in 1976. Upon leaving the White House, McFarlane was assigned to the  National Defense University , where he co-authored a book on crisis management while concurrently receiving a diploma from the  National War College . He ended his Marine Corps career on  Okinawa  as Operations Officer for the 12th Marine Regiment. McFarlane retired in 1979 with the  rank  of  lieutenant colonel . In 1979, he was appointed by  U.S. Senator John Tower  to the staff of the  Senate Armed Services Committee , where he was responsible for staffing Senate consideration of the  SALT II Treaty  from 1979 to 1981. He also authored much of  Ronald Reagan's  foreign policy platform during the  1980 presidential campaign . In 1981, President Reagan appointed and the Senate  confirmed  McFarlane as Counselor to the Department of State. [ 2 ]  In this post he assisted Secretary of State  Alexander Haig . In 1982, Reagan appointed McFarlane as Deputy National Security Advisor responsible for the integration of the policy recommendations of the Departments of State,  Treasury  and  Defense . In 1983, he was appointed by the president as his Special Representative in the Middle East responsible for  Israeli-Arab negotiations . [ 3 ] McFarlane has been criticized for involving the United States armed forces in the  Lebanon Civil War  with gunship bombardment of Lebanese opposition forces which may have led to the  1983 Beirut barracks bombing  where 241 American servicemen were killed. [ 4 ] Following that assignment, he returned to the White House and was appointed President Reagan's  National Security Advisor . [ 5 ]  In that  post, he was responsible for the development of U.S. foreign and defense policy. He was a supporter of the  Strategic Defense Initiative  (SDI or "Star Wars"). The  Iran-Contra affair  involved secretly selling arms to Iran and funneling the money to support the  Contras  in Nicaragua. As National Security Adviser, McFarlane urged Reagan to negotiate the arms deal with Iranian intermediaries, but McFarlane says that by late December 1985 he was urging Reagan to end the arms shipments. [ 6 ]  McFarlane resigned on December 4, 1985, [ 7 ] [ 8 ]  citing that he wanted to spend more time with his family; [ 9 ]  he was replaced by Admiral  John Poindexter . [ 10 ] The Iran-Contra affair came to light in November 1986 and a political scandal ensued. Disheartened, feeling abused by his former colleagues and in depression over the embarrassment for the president that his actions had contributed to, McFarlane attempted suicide with an overdose of 25 to 30  valium  tablets and was admitted into the hospital just  two hours before his  scheduled testimony before the Blue Ribbon panel appointed by President Reagan to investigate Iran-Contra known as the Tower Commission  [ 11 ]  on February 9, 1987, saying he had failed his country. [ 12 ] In 1988, he pleaded guilty to four misdemeanor counts of withholding information from  Congress  as part of the Iran-Contra cover-up. [ 13 ]   He was sentenced to two years' probation and a $20,000 fine but was pardoned by President  George H.W. Bush  on Christmas Eve 1992. McFarlane co-founded and served as CEO of McFarlane Associates Inc., an international consulting company.  He is also a Co-founder and Director [ 14 ]  of  IP3 International  (short for "International Peace Power  &  Prosperity" [ 15 ] ), a consortium of firms wanting to build nuclear reactors in Saudi Arabia that is led by retired U.S. military commanders and former White House officials. [ 16 ] [ 17 ] Michael Flynn  has described himself as an adviser to IP3, which the company denies. [ 18 ]   In May 2019, McFarlane wrote an op-ed in  The Washington Times  advocating for developing nuclear power generation in the Middle East titled "The New Imperialism". [ 19 ]  This proposal, dubbed "Middle East Marshall Plan" by its backers, [ 20 ]  was detailed in a March 2017 White Paper [ 21 ]  written by Tom Barrack, the chairman of Donald Trump's Presidential  Inaugural  Committee, a senior adviser to Trump's presidential campaign, and a middleman between Trump and  Arab  princes. [ 22 ] McFarlane is a member of the  Washington Institute for Near East Policy  (WINEP) Board of Advisors, is president of the  Institute for the Analysis of Global Security , is on the Board of Advisors and is a founding member of the  Set America Free Coalition . He is also an Advisory Board member for the  Partnership for a Secure America , a not-for-profit organization dedicated to recreating the bipartisan center in American national security and foreign policy. McFarlane serves on a number of boards including: He was an advisor to  John McCain's 2008 presidential campaign .Since 2009, McFarlane has been working in the southern region of  Sudan  and  Darfur  on intertribal relations and development projects.  On September 30, 2009, the  Washington Post  published a story suggesting that McFarlane's contract for this work, which is supported by the government of Qatar, was the result of a request by Sudanese officials.  McFarlane denied any improper contact with Sudanese officials or efforts to avoid disclosure of his work.  The  Washington Post  article reported that some persons involved in peacemaking efforts in the southern Sudan region questioned the source and helpfulness of McFarlane's activities. [ 24 ]   That article prompted FBI investigators to review McFarlane's activities in the Sudan. After an exhaustive probe that lasted three years and included search of his trash, email, and personal belongings, investigators concluded  their search and did not file any criminal charges. [ 25 ] In July 2011, McFarlane, in cooperation with former CIA director Jim Woolsey, co-founded the United States Energy Security Council, [ 26 ]  sponsored by the Institute for the Analysis of Global Security. 