Trial Lesson - try us out!| Irvine Academy of Music Sorry, this product is unavailable. Please choose a different combination. LESSONS  ♫  RENTALS  ♫  REPAIRS No products in the cart. We invite you for a Trial Music Lesson because we know you ll love it here! Above all, we want to make sure you feel at home with us.  That is why we would love to have you for just one trial music lesson before you make a  commitment to a registration fee and a month of lessons. For that reason, you only pay $35 for one full trial music lesson.  Even better, if you sign up with us within 24 hours,  we ll refund the $35 trial lesson fee and it s  FREE!   However, if you don t sign up, there is no obligation and just pay for the 1 lesson you take.   Register for your trial music lesson below with no obligation.  We ll  arrange a convenient time for you.   Call  949-771-5100  if you have questions. If your schedule changes due to sports or other activities, just let us know and we ll be happy to work with you to find a new lesson time. If you just aren t clicking with your teacher, please tell us!  We ll make sure we pair you with the right teacher that has the best match for your personality and your learning style! To get started, fill out the form above or call   (949) 771-5100   to stop by for a tour!  We have professional desk staff to serve you 6 days a week! Directions and hours here .  Request Info 949-771-5100 REQUEST INFO     or   TRIAL LESSON Lessons  Learn the songs you want to learn!       Rentals  100% Rent To Own       Repairs  All instruments Quality music lessons in:   Guitar • Piano • Voice • Drums • Bass • Ukulele • Violin • Viola • Cello  • Flute • Clarinet • Saxophone • Trumpet • Trombone • French Horn Serving the communities of Irvine, Tustin, Tustin Ranch, Costa Mesa, Lake Forest, Mission Viejo, Foothill Ranch, and Aliso Viejo IMPORTANT PAGES   My Account Shop For Products Lesson Policy Privacy Policy HELPFUL INFO   FAQ S Strings Sizing Chart Update Billing Info Return Instrument Form Request Buyout Balance Premium Return Service (we take care of everything) CONNECT WITH US Customer Service    949-771-5100           lessons@academiesofmusic.com                www.academiesofmusic.com             live chat (icon bottom right) All text, images, and content on this web site are © 2019 Irvine Academy of Music       All rights reserved.  Do not reproduce without permission. Cart No products in the cart. 