SOLVED: Spark plug wire diagram for 1995 Mercury Grand Marquis - Fixya Please wait... Question about Cars  &  Trucks CHECK ALL THE FUSES WITH A TEST LIGHT, U CANT GO WRONG THAT WAY SOURCE:   Hi there, Save hours of searching online or wasting money on unnecessary repairs by talking to a 6YA Expert who can help you resolve this issue over the phone in a minute or two. Best thing about this new service is that you are never placed on hold and get to talk to real repairmen in the US. Here's a link to this great service Good luck! SOURCE:   95 mercury grand marquis firing order of spark plug wires go this page for firing order, u have 4.6 L V8 http://www.moddedmustangs.com/reference/firing-orders.php SOURCE:   Can someone post a fuse diagram for 1991 mercury grand marquis ? they don't have diagram that i've seen, my roommate has this car and on page 172 of owners manual it gives the number of what fuse does what,,   .. which corresponds to the number on the lid of your fuse panel SOURCE:   Spark plug gap The correct gap is 0.054 Don't for get to buy the anti seize for the plug so it's easier to replace the next time your replace them and if you use Platinum Spark Plugs, your good for 100.000 miles before they need to be changed if your engine is running 100% on emissions. Good luck and hope this helps. SOURCE:   what is the spark plug gap specification for a go to or call an auto pARTS  STORE they can tell you the plug gap. SOURCE:   2002 mercury grand marquis spark plug wire diagram For the 4.6L V8: Firing Order: 1-3-7-2-6-5-4-8 Cylinders: (back of engine) 4-----------8 3-----------7 2-----------6 1-----------5 (front of engine) Let me know if this helped... Load More Unanswered Questions  2005-2019 Fixya -  View Full Site Is this question mis-categorized or about a different product? Help this question get an answer by entering the correct category or product below. Oops! Something went Wrong: This page should be removed because: Oops! Something went Wrong: Loading... 