Central Alberta: Full of Amazing Communities | Visit Red Deer Change it up and get out of town for the weekend. Central Alberta is host to a number of communities with rich culture, dedication to sport and recreation, and unique shopping and dining experiences to share. Join the bustling atmosphere and sense of adventure found in Red Deer County and Central Alberta and get out of town for a weekend   whether you re looking to discover amazing Central Alberta communities right now or already planning ahead to the warmer summer months! The City of  Lacombe  offers a wide variety of arts and cultural attractions. Check out the Lacombe Memorial Centre downtown and get a glimpse of Elevators Ascending, a stunning glass mosaic that depicts the surrounding area as well as the rest of the public art collection. Or enjoy a power walk around Cranna Lake and take advantage of the outdoor fitness stations for a little extra bonus. Lacombe is located 25km north of Red Deer and 125km south of Edmonton, making it the perfect location for an  outta town  weekend. Located just 18km north of Red Deer,  Blackfalds  (as pictured at the top the page) is a small community with a big heart. Spend the weekend in one of two in town hotels or go a little more rugged during the warmer months and enjoy one of the 20 campgrounds in the surrounding areas. Blackfalds offers direct access to  Sylvan Lake , just under 30km away along AB-20, one of Central Alberta s premier resort towns. Enjoy the slower pace of this agricultural town and get into the outdoors. Delburne  is a safe, caring and progressive community conveniently located just 35 minutes or 47km east of Red Deer. Delburne is a quaint agricultural town with amenities that include a 9-hole golf course and country club, campgrounds and sporting facilities. The Village of Delburne has everything you need for a weekend away from the hustle and bustle of the big city. Enjoy community events, full service banking, groceries stores and everything in between. Home of the World s Largest Bucking Horse Statue and chalked full of community spirit and adventure,  Ponoka  offers a blend of rural and urban life. Enjoy a wide array of year round events, unique shopping experiences, farmer s markets and fresh local fair served in their restaurants. Get a taste for Ponoka s history at Fort Ostell Museum and discover pioneer artifacts, early native relics and other local and cultural history exhibits. Explore Ponoka s historic downtown and discover the modern restaurants and one-of-a-kind hand crafts made by local artisans. Worthy of a stop just off the highway south of Red Deer, the Town of  Innisfail  offers a unique experience for all sorts of travellers. Situated just to the east of three lakes, Innisfail offers a golf course with three distinct 9-hole courses, various playgrounds and campgrounds. Just 30km south of Red Deer and 118km north of Calgary, Innisfail is a unique Central Alberta tourist destination with something for all ages. A friendly community Central Alberta, the Village of  Elnora  is located just over 70km south east of Red Deer. The village is home to Dry Island Buffalo Jump Provincial Park which is ideal for birdwatching or canoeing. Meandering through the village’s countryside is the Red Deer River which makes for a perfect day trip outing. Enjoy the beautiful rolling landscape of the village of Elnora and take in rural Alberta. 