Amber Rose Gives Iggy Azalea Advice About Nick Young | E! News Canada Noel Vasquez/Getty Images - Andrew Toth/FilmMagic  Iggy Azalea 's got  Amber Rose  in her corner. Muva Rose weighed in on the "Team" singer's breakup with  Nick Young  and offered the Aussie native some  advice  on how to deal with the social media backlash. "my heart goes out to you @thenewclassic I have been through heartbreak as well so I know what ur going through," Amber began by explaining on Instagram alongside a glam shot of Iggy. "Stay strong and keep ur head up my Rosebuds and I support you and we think ur AMAZING!!! Not only beautiful but extremely talented! I remember watching ur YouTube videos a few years back thinking  Wow this girl is gonna be a star' and you are! Let all the hate go in one ear and out the other." Amber Rose ' s...  Amber continued, "Trust me, I deal with just as much hate if not more. The great thing is it's the beginning of the summer and now you can be a hoe! Lol date a bunch of hot guys and give yourself some new cool options. #NoCuffingSeason But seriously if you wanted to take Nick back cuz the love is still there F---king do it!!! And f--k what the world gotta say! Muva is here for you either way sweetheart and so is so many other people that love you." Amber's Instagram comes on the heels of Iggy  taking to Twitter to vent her frustrations  over finding out that her ex was having another baby with  Keonna Green , the mother of his first child. "I find it baffling that anyone would make the choice to bring a child into the world under these circumstances and want attention and $ for it." Iggy added, "I feel like my body was just drop kicked out of a plane with no parachute." Famous Athletes...  Kylie Jenner ' s Daughter Stormi Webster Dances to...  Jennifer Aniston Wins Throwback Thursday With...  Total Divas '  Sonya Deville Reveals the  " Awkward "  Way...  20+ Holiday 2019 Beauty Gift Sets You ' ll Want to Give...  Baby Yoda Dolls Are Here But There s a Catch Why 2019 Was the Year Taylor Swift Couldn ' t Stop...  24 Gifts for Star Wars Fans That Are Out of This World Watch Kendall Jenner Hilariously Poke Fun at Kylie ' s...  Sonya Deville Shares Her Unexpected Coming Out Story 6:46 How Kendall Jenner Finds the Perfect Holiday Gifts For...  Why Lamar Odom and Fiancée Sabrina Parr Are Waiting...  The  Sesame Street  Characters Doing Impressions Of...  Justin Bieber ' s New Album Addresses  " Struggles "  and...  This content is available customized for our international audience. Would you like to view this in our US edition? This content is available customized for our international audience. Would you like to view this in our Canadian edition? This content is available customized for our international audience. Would you like to view this in our UK edition? This content is available customized for our international audience. Would you like to view this in our Australian edition? This content is available customized for our international audience. Would you like to view this in our Asia edition? Dieser Inhalt ist f r internationale Besucher verf gbar. M chtest du ihn in der deutschen Version anschauen? This content is available customized for our international audience. Would you like to view this in our German edition? Une version adapt e de ce contenu est disponible pour notre public international. Souhaitez-vous voir  a dans notre  dition fran aise ? This content is available customized for our international audience. Would you like to view this in our French edition? We and our partners use cookies on this site to improve our service, perform analytics, personalize advertising, measure advertising performance, and remember website preferences. By using the site, you consent to these cookies. For more information on cookies including how to manage your consent visit our  Cookie Policy . 