Joseph McBride (writer) - Wikipedia Joseph McBride  (born August 9, 1947) is an American  film historian ,  biographer ,  screenwriter ,  author  and  educator . He has written numerous books including biographies of notable film directors, a book on screenwriting, an investigative journalism book on the JFK assassination, and a memoir of the dark years in his life. He also serves as professor in the  Cinema Department at San Francisco State University . [ 1 ] Born in  Milwaukee, Wisconsin , McBride grew up in the suburb of  Wauwatosa .  He attended the  University of Wisconsin, Madison , and worked as a reporter for the  Wisconsin State Journal  in Madison, before moving to California in 1973. McBride has published more than 20 books since 1968, including biographies of film directors  Steven Spielberg  ( Steven Spielberg: A Biography , 1997, and published in translation in mainland  China  in 2012),  Frank Capra  ( Frank Capra: The Catastrophe of Success , 1992),  Orson Welles  ( Orson Welles  (1972),  Orson Welles: Actor and Director  (1977) and  What Ever Happened to Orson Welles?: A Portrait of an Independent Career  (2006)), and  John Ford  ( John Ford  (with Michael Wilmington, 1974) and  Searching for John Ford  (2001)). McBride's interview book with director Howard Hawks,  Hawks on Hawks , was published in 1982. In 2012, he published a  screenwriting  manual,  Writing in Pictures: Screenwriting Made (Mostly) Painless . [ 2 ]  In the book, McBride uses his adaptation of  Jack London ’s short story " To Build a Fire " to break down the steps necessary for a screenplay, such as research, treatments, and outlines. The book draws from his extensive teaching experience. [ 3 ] In 2013, he published  Into the Nightmare: My Search for the Killers of President John F. Kennedy and Officer J. D. Tippit , which was the result of McBride's 31-year investigation of the case. Later, in 2015, he published  The Broken Places: A Memoir , which deals with his troubled childhood, his teenage breakdown, and his subsequent recovery. Columbia University Press published  How Did Lubitsch Do It? , McBride's look at the career of filmmaker Ernst Lubitsch, in June 2018.  [ 4 ] In March 2019,  Frankly: Unmasking Frank Capra  was published by McBride. It recounts his legal battle with original publisher Knopf/Random House and Capra allies over publication of the  biography  Frank Capra: The Catastrophe of Success , which was published by Simon  &  Schuster in 1992.  [ 5 ] McBride's screenwriting credits include the movies  Rock 'n' Roll High School  and  Blood and Guts  and five  American Film Institute Life Achievement Award  specials on  CBS -TV dealing with  Fred Astaire ,  Frank Capra ,  Lillian Gish ,  John Huston , and  James Stewart . He was also cowriter of the United States Information Agency worldwide live TV special  Let Poland Be Poland  (1982). He plays a film critic, Mr. Pister, in the Orson Welles feature  The Other Side of the Wind  (1970–76) and served as a consultant on its completion in 2018. [ 6 ]   He is also the coproducer of the documentaries  Obsessed with "Vertigo": New Life for Hitchcock's Masterpiece  (1997) and  John Ford Goes to War  (2002). McBride received the "Television: Comedy/Variety - Special"  Writers Guild of America Award  in 1984 for cowriting  The American Film Institute Salute to John Huston  with producer  George Stevens, Jr. [ 7 ]   He has also received four other WGA nominations, [ 7 ]  two  Emmy  nominations, [ 8 ]  and a  Canadian Film Awards  nomination. The French edition of  Searching for John Ford , titled  A la recherche de John Ford,  published in 2007, was chosen the Best Foreign Film Book of the Year by the French film critics' association, le Syndicat Français de la Critique de Cinéma. A documentary feature on his life and work,  Behind the Curtain: Joseph McBride on Writing Film History,  written and directed by Hart Perez, had its world debut in 2011 at the Tiburon International Film Festival in Tiburon, Marin County, CA, and was released on DVD in 2012. McBride lives in  Berkeley, California . His life partner is author and psychology educator  Ann Weiser Cornell . [ 9 ] 