Li-Ning Windstorm 78 Badminton Racket JavaScript seems to be disabled in your browser. For the best experience on our site, be sure to turn on Javascript in your browser. Brand: Li-Ning. Product Type: Badminton Racket. Frame: Carbon Graphite. Shaft: Carbon Graphite. Flexibility: High. Recommended String Tension: Upto 30 lbs. Weight/Grip Size: 78 g/S2. Cover Type: Full cover. Standard Delivery: 5-7 business days. Facebook Twitter Email App Pinterest AddThis Made of ultra strong material, the racket has optimum rigidity to bear higher tension for exact and steady strokes. The racket made of ultra rigid carbon fibers with higher strength and rigidity, sustainable for more string tension, and reducible to the risk of frame deformation. The rigid carbon fiber is used to decrease the weight and improve its strength for easy control. The carbon fiber helps decrease frame weight and ensures higher strength and rigidity. The top slim shaft design provides extreme strength and easier free control. The 7.0 mm top slim shaft design provides extreme strength and easier free control. Perfect balance with racket weight and moving inertia and aerodynamics. High tensile slim shaft as the mainstay of power and skill, strictly and precisely release the intention of players, in a cohesive state of racket and the body. All-round optimized design improves racket mechanical structure for more efficient attack and defense system. The sweet point extends upward and the hitting point is moved higher. The effective defense area is enlarged for severe smash by dynamic-optimum frame. The hitting velocity is improved considerably with widened stringing area and increased bounce strength. Based on aerotec beam system, support of advanced calculation and gathered practicing data, the structure and shape of rackets frame section have extreme low drag coefficient and high intensity, to enable the players´ performance in various shots. The Aerotec-Beam System is an extra aero dynamic badminton racket frame structure that is specially engineered to minimize air resistance while maintaining the strength of the frame. The stabilized torsion angle ensures high elasticity of the racket. It helps to create high quality strike back, even though the hitting point departed from the sweet point. Extensive research and design has resulted in the UHB Shaft for improved badminton racket flex higher up on the shaft to provide extreme strength and control. The UHB shaft improves smash performance and is especially effective when hitting half smashes. Product name Windstorm 78 Product type Badminton Racket Brand name Li-Ning Racket series Windstorm Frame material Carbon Graphite Shaft material Carbon Graphite Recommended String Tension Upto 30 lbs Flexibility High Cover Type Full Cover Weight/Grip size 78 g / S2 * Dimensions mentioned are approximate values. This product is available for international delivery. Add the product to the shopping cart, choose country and zip code to find out delivery charges. Please note that you are liable for all duties, taxes, CESS or any other charges levied (if any) by the destination country in which goods are shipped, to take delivery. No warranty is provided on the product by the manufacturer or Sportskhel.com as badminton rackets are subjected to wear  &  tear. No return policy. Please refer terms  &  conditions for more information. Tips to maintain racket in good condition: POWERED BY: THE PAVILION 100% AUTHENTIC   PRODUCTS INTERNATIONAL SHIPPING Get all the latest information on Events, Sales and Offers. Sign up for newsletter today. Phone >+91 44 28418975< p> Email ><a href="mailto:info@sportskhel.com">info@sportskhel.com< a> 