Pumpkin Patch Near Me - 50 Best Pumpkin Farms in America Artboard 1 We may earn money from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. Why trust us? Prepare to choose your future jack-o'-lantern at one of these farms. Where's the best pumpkin patch near me? It's something we've all wondered   and don't worry, we have you totally covered. The countdown is on to rock your  fall wardrobe , and of course, there are the  pumpkin spice lattes . While you're planning your fall itinerary, be sure to scope out your local pumpkin patch (Where else would you take a photo sipping on your seasonal drink in a flannel?). Trust us, there's bound to be a spot close to your home, so get ready for a fall day of fun. We can see the Instagram content now, and if you need help with a caption, we totally  have you covered .  But don't think these spots are just for pumpkins. You'll find mazes, games, rides, and even a hot cup of cocoa. And we've covered every single state from sea to shining sea (Yes, that includes Florida and Hawaii!). You might show up for the oh-so-photographic pumpkins, but you'll stay for a plethora of activities and treats to enjoy during your stay. With so many options, you should expect to spend the entire day at these gorgeous locales. Many of these family-owned farms have been around for decades, and you'll love to learn about their respective histories. Find the best pumpkin patch near you here, and you'll be ready to  carve  in no time.  Hayden, Alabama  The name  The Great Pumpkin Patch  really says it all. With a bungie jump, an inflatable slide, and wagon rides, you ll forget you just went out for a few pumpkins. The other  great  thing? Admission is free, but each activity will cost you a few bucks. *This photo is not from The Great Pumpkin Patch. Palmer, Alaska (October 5, 12, and 19) Get your kids (or yourself!) excited for Christmas at  Reindeer Farm , which boasts 150 reindeer, 30 Rocky Mountain Elk, 20 horses, one bison, and more animals. For only three days this fall, your family can experience everything from pony rides to a hay bale maze. Admission is $12 and children ages 2 and younger get in for free. Make sure to reserve your spot ahead of time!  Glendale, Arizona  Catering to adults and kids alike,  Tolmachoff Farms provides three different corn mazes: a themed 6-acre maze, a mini one for the kids, and a haunted option for those who dare to enter. Admission is $12 and children ages 2 and younger get in for free. Quitman, Arkansas (Oct 1 31) For those who want to learn while they search for the best pumpkin in the patch,  Arkansas Frontier Farm provides an interactive educational experience. You can tour an old-fashioned schoolhouse, see what early frontier living was like, and mine for gemstones. You ll need to book a reservation for the weekday tours, and admission ranges from $9 11, depending on which experience you and your group decide on. *This photo is not from  Arkansas Frontier Farm. Petaluma, California  You can pick a pumpkin while snacking on homemade pumpkin ice cream at the adorable  The Great Peter Pumpkin Patch  in northern California. Dig your own potatoes, and of course, taste the creamery s food. Admission is free for everyone. *This photo is not from The Great Peter Pumpkin Patch. Canon City, Colorado For the past 18 years, visitors have been losing themselves in  Diana s Pumpkin Patch and Corn Maze . It costs $13 for those 6 years and older, and if you re around on October 6 or 7, you can enjoy a Fall Festival with three-legged races, face painting, and more. If you want to visit during the week, make sure to reserve your group s time online. South Windsor, Connecticut  The Foster family has been running  Foster Farm  since 1790, and while it s no longer a dairy farm, there s plenty to do. Weave through a massive corn maze, hop on for a hayride, and find the perfect mum. Tickets for people 13 and older are $10, and kids 4 12 years old are $6. Laurel, Delaware Say  Bippity boppity boo  when you pick the perfect Cinderella pumpkin at one of the many varieties you can find at  Mr. Pepper s Pumpkin Patch . If you re feeling peckish, cruise to the BBQ shack to load up on hot dogs, sides, and other snacks. Hayrides are $2 per person, and free for those 2 years old and under. Dunnellon, Florida Pumpkins and Florida don t get along too well, but farmers Steven Dixon and Scott Thomas didn t let that get in their way at  The Pickin  Patch . Though they are watermelon farmers most of the time, they enjoy spending their fall hosting a popular pumpkin patch. Admission is $5 per person and children 3 and under are free. Dawsonville, Georgia (Sept 14 Nov 17) Shoot your favorite grain from the corn cannon, or enjoy their entertaining goat walk during your time at  Uncle Shuck s Corn Maze and Pumpkin Patch  in Dawsonville. And while we re excited about the opportunity to feed the goats, we re also interested in feeding ourselves their fried PB & J. There is no admission fee, but tickets for other perks start at $5. Waimanalo, Oahu Turn your island getaway into a fall celebration at  Waimanalo Country Farms . Help them celebrate their 71st year and spend some time shooting pumpkins out of a cannon or sipping their  Nalo Made Lemonade. Kids ages 2 and under are free for all activities, and they start at $1 for everything else. Kuna, Idaho (Sept 20 Oct 30) Now at a new location, there are countless activities at  The Farmstead Corn Maze  &  Pumpkin Festival , from a zip line to pond fishing. In true Idaho fashion, you can even jet down their Famous Idaho Potato Sack Slide. Admission is $8.49 Monday through Thursday and $12.26 at any other time, and children ages 3 and under are free. *This photo is not from The Farmstead Corn Maze  &  Pumpkin Festival. Homer Glen, Illinois (Sept 13 Nov 3) People in the Chicago area flock to  Bengtson's Pumpkin Farm and Fall Fest each year for apple cider donuts, award-winning barbecue, and activities (not to mention, pumpkins) galore. Hop on their Cow Spin Roller Coaster or take a selfie with your friends on this farm. Tickets for guests ages 3 and older start at $10.99. *This photo is not from Bengtson's Pumpkin Farm and Fall Fest. Greenfield, Indiana Bouncing on a jumping pillow, barrel riding, and hopping on the train are just a few of the activities included in each ticket to  Lark Ranch 's pumpkin patch. It s only open Friday through Sunday, and prices vary, so check out their calendar for more information about your visit. *This photo is not from Lark Ranch. Cumming, Iowa (Sept 7 Nov 3) Though goat yoga season has ended, there s plenty of fun to be had at  Howell s Pumpkin Patch . Horse-drawn wagon rides, go carts, and antique tractors are some of the things you ll spot at this farm, which is just a short drive from Des Moines. *This photo is not from Howell's Pumpkin Patch. Dorrance, Kansas From a scavenger hunt to bonfires, you ll feel right at home when you visit  Granny Mae s Pumpkin Patch in Kansas. There are no admittance fees, but there are some charges for various activities you can enjoy throughout the day. Calhoun, Kentucky Along with pumpkins,  Happy Hollow Farms also hosts movie nights. Check the farm's schedule and stop by when your favorite flick is playing. And did we mention it s free? *This photo is not from Happy Hollow Farms. Hammond, Louisiana There s a lot going on over at  Mrs. Heather s Pumpkin Patch . Guests can expect a zip line, pedal tractors, and even a merry-go-round. If you re a pumpkin pro, you may want to weigh and measure your pumpkin, or paint one for extra flair. Children s tickets are $7 each, but adults have free access. *This photo is not from Mrs. Heather's Pumpkin Patch. Dayton, Maine (Sept 21 Oct 26) If you love kettle corn, you can snack on  Pumpkin Valley Farm homemade kernels while you shop around for your pumpkin. The farm also has a petting zoo and cow train rides for children 12 and under. Admission is $10 per person, but seniors get a discount and children 2 and under can walk in for free. Upper Marlboro, Maryland (Sept 14 Nov 10) Duck races, gemstone mining, and kart racing hardly cover the near-endless list of activities available at  Montpelier Farms . But make sure you get there before 10 p.m. on Friday and Saturday and before 7 p.m., which is when the patch closes. General admission is $12, but children 2 and under are free. If you re obsessed, you can also get a season pass to go again and again this fall. *This photo is not from Montpelier Farms. Natick, Massachusetts Though  Lookout Farm is open from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, there are even more events (think face painting and live entertainment) on Saturday and Sunday. Kids can hop on the caterpillar ride, and the whole family can munch on tasty food at the snack shack. Farmers pick the pumpkins for you, and guests can select them from the barn. Weekday admission is $12 for kids and $15 for adults, and prices go up by $3 on the weekend. Armada, Michigan Blake Farms '  funland transforms into a fall festival each season, and includes a sports zone, tricycle race track, and a storybook barn. So whether your kid is an adrenaline chaser or a bookworm, they ll easily find their place here. Admission is $8.95 per person (ages 3 and up), and the price goes up to $10.95 on the weekend. *This photo is not from Blake Farms. Lino Lakes, Minnesota (Sept 21 Oct 31) They offer a creative corn maze shape every year, but the real tradition at  Waldoch Farm  is the pumpkin patch. For four generations, the Waldoch family has been growing pumpkins and welcoming people to the farm. You can feed the animals (and yourself) at this historic farm, located just 20 minutes from the Twin Cities. Children 2 and under are free, and day passes are $12. If you simply can t get enough, season passes are also available for $30. Collins, Mississippi (Sept 29 Nov 10) You ll go nuts for  Mitchell Farms  ...  literally . Best known for its fresh peanuts, Mitchell Farms fall fun also includes a goat castle, corn pool, and more. Admission is $12 per person if you are 2 and older. For extra festivities, check it out on October 6 and 7, when they host their annual Peanut Festival.   *This photo is not from Mitchell Farms. Dixon, Missouri Uncle Buck s Pumpkin Patch is going to be your new favorite relative after you stop by this pumpkin patch. While it has the classic horse ride and petting zoo, you and your kids can also host your own amateur US Open at the 9-hole mini golf course. Attendees 2 and up will pay $6 at the door, and weekdays are reserved for appointment-only school trips. *This photo is not from Uncle Buck's Pumpkin Patch. Victor, Montana Touting that the Field of Screams is fun by day and scary by night, you can find the perfect pumpkin and then find yourself running away from zombies after the sun goes down. Daytime admission is $7 for adults and kids, and the nighttime attractions are available for $17 if you re 8 or older. *This photo is not from the Field of Screams. Gretna, Nebraska (Sept 13 Oct 31) For more than three decades, the Vala family has hosted visitors at  Vala s Pumpkin Patch and Apple Orchard . There are over 50 attractions and three live shows guaranteed with a one-day ticket. Pigs race and pumpkins are shot out of cannon as part of the activity-packed itinerary on this farm. Prices start at a discounted price of $11.99 and go up, depending on the day you decide to visit. Sparks, Nevada With a treasure hunt-themed corn maze, you ll pick and hunt your way to your beloved pumpkin in no time at  Andelin Family Farm Pumpkin Patch  &  Corn Maze . For the more courageous attendees, the Corn Creepers haunted attraction involves weaving your way through the maze, which is full of scary creatures. While it s not recommended for small children, you can purchase a light-up necklace that tells the actors to take it easy when you cross paths. Tickets start at $7 per person for those 5 and older. *This photo is not from Andelin Family Farm Pumpkin Patch  &  Corn Maze. Hampton Falls, New Hampshire One of the highlights of this fall festival is the  Applecrest Farm . On October 21, the farm s  master carver  takes his tools and transforms an 800-pound pumpkin into a surprise creation. The farm also holds Storybook Hayrides throughout October, and your kids  fairytale characters come to life for special performances. Admission is free, but activities may cost extra. *This photo is not from Applecrest Farm. Robbinsville, New Jersey Your aspiring paleontologist will love the  Oasis Family Farm , which has a fossil digging area. There s also gem mining and a fun zone, so you might get so distracted that you ll likely forget that your main objective is to find a pumpkin. There are free educational exhibits about bees and ants, but some activities require a small fee. 