'Westworld': New Look at Samurai World Revealed Facebook Twitter Youtube Instagram Comicbook Main Logo Arrow Down Arrow, Solid Arrow Down Arrow, Solid Arrow Down Arrow, Solid Arrow Down Arrow, Solid Arrow Down Arrow, Solid Arrow Down Arrow, Solid User Icon User Arrow Down Down Arrow Facebook Facebook Register  -  Forgot Password By creating an account, you verify that you are at least 13 years of age, and have read and agree to the Comicbook.com  Terms of Service  and  Privacy Policy Menu Icon Hamburger Menu Search Search Close Search Close Arrow Right Arrow Arrow Right Arrow Arrow Right Arrow Arrow Right Arrow Arrow Right Arrow Arrow Right Arrow Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Video Video Search Search Search Search Close Search Close By  Charlie Ridgely  - February 5, 2018 02:41 pm EST Share Facebook Twitter Reddit SMS SMS Mail The Season 1 finale of  Westworld  had fans convinced that the series would be heading into potential new parks, like Samurai World in its second installment. This week, the Delos viral website went a long way toward proving that fact. A well-hidden hint in the Season 2 trailer directed viewers to  DelosDestinations.com , the "official" website for the company that runs  Westworld . Once there, if you scroll down just a bit, you'll see a grand view of an ancient Japanese landscape. Pair that photo, which you can see below, with the Season 1 hint about "S-World," and it alludes to the inclusion of Samurai or Shogun World. If you dig around the site a little bit more, you'll find yet another look at the potential new park. When you're on the Delos homepage, click on the "Experience" tab at the top center of the screen. You'll be taken to a new section of the site that includes a surprising twist. A message that reads "Experience our worlds" comes onto the screen, before revealing a scrolling menu with six options. The first is Westworld, and it's an interactive option, allowing users to click into it and experience the park we all got to know in Season 1. Next up is a blurry image of an Asian-looking mountain region, seemingly alluding toward Samurai World once again. Unfortunately, you can't actually click into this park, so all of its details remain a mystery. The rest of the menu features four other park placeholders, all of which read "Reservations Closed to the Public" and "Authorized Personnel Only." All of these clues, coupled with the numerous hints dropped back in 2016, make a compelling case for the show to travel to new worlds in Season 2. Westworld  is set to return to  HBO  at 9pm ET on Sunday, April 22. All-Time Comic TV Shows  NA Star Star Star Star Star All-Time Rated #12 Comicbook Main Logo in Grey  of  Close Right Arrow Left Arrow Close Close Comicbook.com Home Comicbook Main Logo PopCulture.com Home PopCulture.com Logo  Copyright 2018 ComicBook.com. All rights reserved. These cookies are essential for the proper functioning of our properties. In addition, we use the Google and Tealium Tag Managers. Essential cookies cannot be switched off in our systems. You can set your browser or device to block or alert you about these cookies, but some parts of the site will not work.  These cookies allow us to collect information about how visitors use our properties. Some examples include counting visits and traffic sources, so we can measure and improve the performance of our site. If you do not allow these cookies we will not know when users have visited our properties and will not be able to monitor performance. These cookies enable the website to provide enhanced functionality and personalization. They may be set by us or by third party providers whose services we have added to our pages.    If you do not allow these cookies then some or all of these services may not function properly. These cookies may be set by us or through our property by our advertising partners. They may be used by those companies to build a profile of your interests and show you relevant adverts on other properties. If you do not allow these cookies, you will still see ads, but you will experience less relevant advertising.   These cookies are set by a range of social media services that we have added to the site to enable you to share our content with your friends and networks. They are capable of tracking your browser across other sites, building up a profile of your interests to show you relevant content and adverts on properties. If you do not allow these cookies you may not be able to use or see these sharing tools. Back Button Back Search Icon Filter Icon Clear Fliters All Consent Allowed 3 Purposes Arrow Consent Purposes Location Based Ads Consent Allowed Legitimate Interest Purposes Personalize Features Location Based Ads 