News | Chris Carey ' s Collections We were delighted to welcome the contestants of BBC One's Young Apprentice who trawled through one tonne of used textiles from our warehouse in a bid to turn unwanted clothing into profit. To see the show, click here:  http://www.bbc.co.uk/i/p00y8pgh/ Chris Carey's had a triumphant night at the Bromley Business Awards Gala dinner on 25th October, scooping the award for Best Green Business and winning the overall award for Business of the Year 2012. "We are absolutely delighted to win two awards, and after campaigning many years against landfill and investing so much time and energy into creating an environmentally friendly business, it feels great to be recognised for our efforts." Chris Carey, Managing Director, Chris Carey's Collections Ltd. Chris Carey's Collections regularly works with Central St Martins College of Art and Design to provide clothing and fabric for various projects. This year, our donation of hats were given an artistic overhaul for the Mayor's Thames Festival,  Feast on the Bridge . See the photos for fishy fancies and toasting treats... Chris Carey's Collections were once again delighted to sponsor the Catwalk Show at RWM 2012 at the NEC, Birmingham in September. We were delighted to work in partnership with talented London designer, Tanique Coburn. A regular buyer at Chris Carey's, Tanique is well-established as a cutting edge designer on the London scene, as well as providing consultancy to major UK high street retailers. Take a look at the photos to see Tanique's signature ruffles and slick tailoring... Christine Carey has launched her new website. The old website was getting rather dated and the new one is easily updatable with news, photos, slideshows, and more! Have a look and  tell us what you think . Copyright Chris Carey's Collections Ltd, all rights reserved  Chris Carey Collections, Raymond House, Cricket Lane, Beckenham, Kent BR3 1LW  tel. +44 (0)20 8778 6971 fax. +44 (0)20 8778 1989  email.  info@chriscareyscollections.co.uk 