Why do many people, who are blind fans of Itachi, compare him with Madara, even after knowing the hilarious powers of Madara? - Quora a MXvx d BPxzk zuJ b rLwZ y sAnI n D nIZ u ctk c whkfp k ZV D JXt u O c tqpA k WFchZ G juLx o Pm I’ll tell you one thing. While it is weird to compare Madara to Itachi, get this:  The extent of Itachi’s power is unknown. I’ll tell you one thing. While it is weird to compare Madara to Itachi, get this:  The extent of Itachi’s power is unknown. So… his true limits? Unknown. The final fight, Naruto vs Sasuke, is a fight between two different interpretations of  Itachi’s ideals.  Like, seriously, before the fight, they talk about themselves and Itachi who wasn’t even  there. To see why Itachi  can  be compared to Madara, read this answer of mine: Revanth Turlapati ' s answer to In a one-on-one fight who would win, Madara or Itachi? Peace! 2,899 Views 10,189 Views 1,729 Views 6,430 Views 7,705 Views I support the answer wherein it has been remarked that Madara stole Hashirama ' s chakra to achieve all his powers and ripped off his brother ' s eyes for the EMS whereas Itachi achieved everything he did through his own talent. Madara became essentially invincible only after the Edo Tensei which gave him infinite chakra. Itachi ' s only weakness was his low chakra reserve, despite which he could kick anyone ' s ass, imagine the brawl he could bring out when he had infinite chakra. Plus, he has Tsukuyomi, which FYI, Madara ' s Sharingan cannot break, just like Kakashi ' s couldn ' t. And Itachi can moreov... I support the answer wherein it has been remarked that Madara stole Hashirama ' s chakra to achieve all his powers and ripped off his brother ' s eyes for the EMS whereas Itachi achieved everything he did through his own talent. Madara became essentially invincible only after the Edo Tensei which gave him infinite chakra. Itachi ' s only weakness was his low chakra reserve, despite which he could kick anyone ' s ass, imagine the brawl he could bring out when he had infinite chakra. Plus, he has Tsukuyomi, which FYI, Madara ' s Sharingan cannot break, just like Kakashi ' s couldn ' t. And Itachi can moreover use every jutsu that Madara can use, in addition to Izanami and Amaterasu. For God ' s sake that guy UNDID the Edo Tensei! Isn ' t THAT a testament to his skills? No underestimated Madara ' s potential, Itachi will definitely be the winner if not for his low chakra, which would be cured through Edo Tensei. EDIT 1:- Have a clear look:- s trKj p ZZq o zHe n K s TNFTH o zL r Qr e VODNL d WKaAv wuWz b Nir y OPFmW HNR S bvl c VmHyt r gq i W b OW o KkHJ l A B P Tuy u d b KzE l YLDp i oR s k h E i sg n r g bkf I am not a blind fan of Itachi but he is my favourite character in Naruto. You are right Madara is ridiculously strong. He has a lot of Jutsus’ in his arsenal as well as the chakra to use them. Hell he even reincarnated himself! But there is one crucial factor which we need to consider,  Time! He lived a long life and had all the time in the world to improve himself. Itachi on the other hand died young. Within that time he was able to perform feats which no other Uchiha was capable of. He mastered his Sharingan at a very young age. He even mastered Amaterasu as well as Suzano before his death. ... I am not a blind fan of Itachi but he is my favourite character in Naruto. You are right Madara is ridiculously strong. He has a lot of Jutsus’ in his arsenal as well as the chakra to use them. Hell he even reincarnated himself! But there is one crucial factor which we need to consider,  Time! He lived a long life and had all the time in the world to improve himself. Itachi on the other hand died young. Within that time he was able to perform feats which no other Uchiha was capable of. He mastered his Sharingan at a very young age. He even mastered Amaterasu as well as Suzano before his death. So if the fans are comparing Itachi with Madara, its because of the infinite potential he possessed. So the comparison is purely based on the potential Itachi had and there is no doubt that if Madara fights with Itachi at his current level, Madara will emerge victorious. However, had Itachi lived long, the result will be unpredictable. I am a big fan of itachi But not a blind fan. It ' s true madara is quite strong but he had hunger for power while itachi had no hunger for power. Itachi had chance to achieve EMS after killing his father. While madara took his brother eye for EMS. Itachi achieved everything fast killing entire uchiha clan at just 14 when madara used to play with hashirama. Itachi trained for power but not borrowed power. Madara borrowed hashirama DNA for rinnegan and wood style. borrowed all tails from the jinchuriki. Stealed sage mode chakra from hashirama. That ' s why itachi is considered strong because his powe... I am a big fan of itachi But not a blind fan. It ' s true madara is quite strong but he had hunger for power while itachi had no hunger for power. Itachi had chance to achieve EMS after killing his father. While madara took his brother eye for EMS. Itachi achieved everything fast killing entire uchiha clan at just 14 when madara used to play with hashirama. Itachi trained for power but not borrowed power. Madara borrowed hashirama DNA for rinnegan and wood style. borrowed all tails from the jinchuriki. Stealed sage mode chakra from hashirama. That ' s why itachi is considered strong because his power was his own not borrowed by other. Itachi chakra reserve and stamina were his own and not due to some impure world reincarnation (Edo tensei) EDIT 1: here, I am not disrespecting madara. he was quite intelligent making plans which will go on even after his death and u even need power and intelligence to steal power u can’t just go to god of shinobi or any jinchuriki and steal his power u need to plan and destroy. and from other answer yes, itachi’s extent of power is unknown but no one can surpass madara not even naruto or sasuke s kXh p sZ o DQzSG n FnX s ftsmv o Q r l e yiBXa d oheT bUM b elWTB y Ten dK H LtAE o n t X l AfO i lU n f e HR K C R F XB P iq B A 9,953 Views 700 Views 112,524 Views 4,053 Views 8,980 Views Well, being Itachi or related to him in anyway blinds you eventually. He got blinded, same with Sasuke and his majority of fans. I am of the strong view that Madara should overcome Itachi without much hassle but that would be unfair as the power gap is too huge for the  ' Brains '  factor to come in. Put both of them with only Mangekyo Sharingan and I still see Madara prevailing(not winning directly). But where does the unnecessary hype originates? It comes from the story where Itachi always managed to get a  ' new '  suitable answer to any situation present(being a plot device). It works like, Again... Well, being Itachi or related to him in anyway blinds you eventually. He got blinded, same with Sasuke and his majority of fans. I am of the strong view that Madara should overcome Itachi without much hassle but that would be unfair as the power gap is too huge for the  ' Brains '  factor to come in. Put both of them with only Mangekyo Sharingan and I still see Madara prevailing(not winning directly). But where does the unnecessary hype originates? It comes from the story where Itachi always managed to get a  ' new '  suitable answer to any situation present(being a plot device). It works like, Against Kaguya, Naruto and Sasuke weren ' t making any headway despite being the strongest duo alive in the shinobi world. Enter the plot device, DMS Kakashi, and it smoothed the way for story to progress. So, whatever we know about both, even if Madara rivaled Sage ' s power at one point, against Itachi, he will be facing some new fancy Jutsu that no one ever knew before and everyone will be like  " Whoa, that ' s some ancient pre-Kaguya stuff that Itachi just pulled off, what a genius... Even Sage probably didn ' t knew about it " , something like that. That ' s what people expect to happen when they believe Itachi can beat Madara. And yep, I am a fan of Itachi. Not the kind that goes lengths to justify him murdering children for the sake of fake peace. But he sure suffered and we feel sorry for him. Bcoz they can’t accept reality Maybe because of the self sacrificing personality of itachi. He may not be the strongest one but is one of the strongest. And even after being graduating from the academy at the age of 5, sending kakashi to the hospital with just one blow, murdering entier uchiha clan he was still doing everything for tge betterment of the hidden leaf. 11,617 Views 2,899 Views 13,999 Views 1,729 Views 47,183 Views 7,705 Views 16,895 Views 700 Views 48,078 Views 4,053 Views 4,327 Views 26,086 Views 6,430 Views 1,211 Views 17,943 Views 