Parramatta Railway Station | Parramatta Dentistry People will not be finding any shortage of things to do and places to visit in Parramatta. Fortunately, touring Parramatta is made fairly easy and this is all thanks to the way they handled transport in the form of their railway station. Let us look at the right history of Parramatta Railway Station and the changes that were made to better serve the community. It should be noted that the  Parramatta Railway Station  has been around longer than you may expect them to be. In fact, it is considered to be one of Sydney’s oldest stations which debuted on the 26 th  of September 1855. During this time, the first line connected to Sydney and Parramatta Junction is near Granville. Innovations were made over the years. One of the biggest changes was when the station was refurbished with a new underground subway bus interchange built at the station s north-east side in 1985. The station was also upgraded providing more access to commuters, and constructing a new bus interchange in late 2003 and was finished on 2006. Fast forward to the future in 2017, Parramatta will be the major terminus for T2 Inner West services. It should be noted that even with the changes to the site, Parramatta Station Group retains its important elements of the civic precinct in the township of Parramatta. The site has a rich history with its archaeological elements that have been present over the years. It is good to hear that continuing efforts are also being made by the council to further improve the transport. One of these innovations can be found in the Parramatta’s latest project in a form of the  Parramatta Light Rail. This project is a proposal for a twelve kilometre light rail line in Sydney, New South Wales, Australia, that is intended to run from Westmead to Carlingford via the Western Sydney centre of Parramatta. The project however, is still in its premature state with the planning work expected to be completed by the end of 2017. The public will be able to use the Light Rail with their expected release in 2023. In addition, services are expected to operate every 7.5 minutes throughout the day allowing for a timelier and effective transport. Passengers will also be able to feel a huge amount of relief and convenience as their will be a reliable means of travel all around Parramatta in the coming years. The Parramatta Light Rail is still under construction but for the meantime you are free to use their Railway Station that is available in the present. You can find our office located at Suite 25, Lvl 3, 27 Hunter St, Parramatta NSW 2150. So when coming from  Harris Park Station , head north on Station St toward Station Ln. In 110 metres, Station St W turns left and becomes Marion St. Then turn right onto Church St / Great Western Hwy / A44. In 250 metres, turn left onto Great Western Hwy / A44. Use the right 2 lanes to turn right at the 1 st  cross street onto Marsden St. Then finally, turn left onto Hunter St after 450 metres. The destination will be on the left but the building entrance is facing O’Connell St. Open full screen to view more Best Dentist Parramatta | Parramatta Dentistry | Parramatta Dental Clinic Collapse map legend Map details Copy map Zoom to viewport Embed map Download KML Parramatta Dentistry Suite 25, Lvl 3, 27 Hunter St, Parramatta NSW 2150 (02) 8090 1109 http://www.parramattadentist.sydney Welcome to Parramatta Dentistry, your local dentist in Parramatta CBD. We are located next to Parramatta Westfield and only 5 minutes walk from Parramatta Train station. We are a team of professional, dedicated, experienced, friendly and caring dentists. Our philosophy is to provide you with the highest quality dental care at the most exceptional value, and to create a smile that will flourish through the years. Please visit our Smile Gallery on our website at  http://www.parramattadentist.sydney  for examples of smile transformations we have performed for our patients across our Parramatta, Sydney CBD, North Sydney, Chatswood, Hornsby and Macquarie Park  Parramatta Dentistry Suite 25, Lvl 3, 27 Hunter St, Parramatta NSW 2150 (02) 8090 1109 http://www.parramattadentist.sydney Welcome to Parramatta Dentistry, your local dentist in Parramatta CBD. We are located next to Parramatta Westfield and only 5 minutes walk from Parramatta Train station. We are a team of professional, dedicated, experienced, friendly and caring dentists. Our philosophy is to provide you with the highest quality dental care at the most exceptional value, and to create a smile that will flourish through the years. Please visit our Smile Gallery on our website at  http://www.parramattadentist.sydney  for examples of smile transformations we have performed for our patients across our Parramatta, Sydney CBD, North Sydney, Chatswood, Hornsby and Macquarie Park  6,800 views The Best Dentist in Parramatta is Parramatta Dentistry Parramatta Dentistry Directions from Parramatta RSL Club, Parramatta, New South Wales to Parramatta Dentistry Parramatta RSL Club, Parramatta, New South Wales Parramatta Dentistry Directions from Parramatta Station, Stand A1, Parramatta, New South Wales to Parramatta Dentistry Parramatta Station, Stand A1, Parramatta, New South Wales Parramatta Dentistry Directions from Parramatta Station, Stand A1, Parramatta, New South Wales to Parramatta Dentistry Parramatta Station, Stand A1, Parramatta, New South Wales Parramatta Dentistry Directions from Westfield Parramatta, Church Street, Parramatta, New South Wales to Parramatta Dentistry Westfield Parramatta, Church Street, Parramatta, New South Wales Parramatta Dentistry Directions from ALDI Parramatta, George Street, Parramatta, New South Wales to Parramatta Dentistry ALDI Parramatta, George Street, Parramatta, New South Wales Parramatta Dentistry Directions from Parramatta West Public School, Young Street, Parramatta, New South Wales to Parramatta Dentistry Parramatta West Public School, Young Street, Parramatta, New South Wales Parramatta Dentistry Directions from Harris Park Station, Harris Park, New South Wales to Parramatta Dentistry Harris Park Station, Harris Park, New South Wales Parramatta Dentistry Directions from Westmead Station, Westmead, New South Wales to Parramatta Dentistry Westmead Station, Westmead, New South Wales Parramatta Dentistry Directions from North Parramatta Montessori Academy, Iron Street, North Parramatta, New South Wales to Parramatta Dentistry North Parramatta Montessori Academy, Iron Street, North Parramatta, New South Wales Parramatta Dentistry Home   https://www.parramattadentist.sydney Patient Name  * Contact Number Your Email  * Appointment Time : First Preference >Date <span style="color:red;">*< span> Time * 9:00am-12:00pm 12:00pm-15:00pm 15:00pm-18:00pm Appointment Time : Second Preference >Date <span style="color:red; ">*< span> Time  * 9:00am-12:00pm 12:00pm-15:00pm 15:00pm-18:00pm  Location  * Parramatta Sydney CBD North Sydney Hornsby North Ryde Details of your Dental Treatment required: How Did You Hear About Us? Internet Search Friend/Family Health Fund Website Healthcare Professional Referral Print/Media Other Suburbs North Parramatta | Harris Park | Rosehill | Holroyd | Merrylands | Granville | Woodpark | Westmead | Wentworthville | Pendle Hill | Constitution Hill | Northmead | North Rocks | Dundas | Camellia | Rydalmere | Ermington | Clyde | Silverwater Parramatta Dentistry                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Suite 25, Lvl 3, 27 Hunter St, Parramatta NSW 2150                                                                                                                                                        Sitemap Phone: (02) 8090 1109 