Alecia Schmitz - Blog alecia.schmitz@gmail.com By on 8/2/2016 10:58:51 AM 2 Comments I'm honored to be the featured artist this month at the new gallery Mud  &  Prints, 311 E. College Avenue, here in Appleton.  Today at the opening reception of my show, I'll be working on a piece I started while standing in a parking lot across the river from Pullman's, a local restaurant with an outdoor patio.  I don't remember why I didn't finish that day - maybe rain clouds showed up?  maybe the geese chased me out?  (I do remember that the geese were quite nasty and anyone who knows me knows about my bird phobia!).  Anyway, it's time to pull it out of the archives, brush it off, and attempt to finish.  Although I'm happy with the green awning, the red umbrellas, and the bridge in the upper right hand corner, it definitely needs some paint in the foreground to portray sky, trees and red umbrellas in the water reflected in the river.  Stop down and watch me attempt to resurrect this little painting this afternoon from 4 to 6 p.m.  There will be refreshments served and lots of cool artwork in the gallery to see when you get tired of watching me - you know what they say about watching paint dry!  Comment on or Share this Article By on 6/30/2016 1:50:34 PM 2 Comments " Cancun " , Pastel, 14 "  x 36 " Today I'd like to share with you a "big oops" that taught me a lesson or two. A year or more ago, I decided I wanted to go Big.  Well bigger than my usual paintings, anyway.  So I had some sanded pastel paper dry mounted ($$) to a piece of foam core for this little experiment.  I wanted to try my hand at a seascape because I like the big vistas - I love being able to see a distant horizon.  Well, I messed around and messed around with it, never quite happy, not knowing what I needed to do to make it interesting or "pop" as they say.  After layer upon layer of pastel washed down with Turpenoid, I finally put it to rest for awhile thinking maybe someday I'll know more of what I need to know to finish.  It was such a nice big piece of paper mounted to board, I didn't have the heart to toss it out. This year a friend of mine commissioned me to do a seascape for her condo in Naples, Florida.  I've spent a lot of vacations looking at the ocean and photographing the ocean but never have I painted the ocean on location.  So I felt I needed to do some practice pieces. I pulled out the old board which had been washed down with Turpenoid to a pretty blue and sprayed with fixative for storage, but not much else going on with it.  I began working on it again but still struggled to make it something more than turquoise water, yellow orange sunrise, blue sky with clouds.  Boring!!! As it turned out, one day I stepped into my studio and found the pastel laying face down on the floor!  It had fallen off the easel.  No big deal, it wasn't even close to finished.  However, because it was mounted on foam core and had apparently hit something sharp on the way down.  It was dented.  Seriously dented with no hope of repair or ever becoming something I could sell.  Lesson learned - never mount on foam core, it's way too soft and easily damaged. Now I have a half-finished painting that is truly practice only.  So I began to have fun!!!!  I put away my reference photo and just had at it, laying on bold strokes of color, thinking about balance, color harmony, temperature, and composition - things we artists are supposed to think about but sometimes don't when we're being slaves to the photo. Voila!  I love it!  It's going on my wall (I don't particularly care if it's dented!) Comment on or Share this Article By on 8/19/2015 3:38:23 PM Comment on this I'm always thinking I need to blog about my art more, but I never get around to it until something exciting happens (because I'm a painter, not writer?  You should probably thank me for sparing you!)  Anyway, two of my pieces have been accepted into Richeson's Create!-A Wisconsin Art Show.  It's such a pleasure to be included in the exceptional exhibits Richeson's puts on! Comment on or Share this Article By on 1/28/2015 2:36:55 PM Comment on this I am very pleased to announce that my paintings "Belgian Beauty" and "Ruffled Feathers" received the Meritorious Entry designation in the Richeson75 Small Works 2015 competition!  They will be included in the Richeson75 hardbound exhibit book. Comment on or Share this Article By on 10/26/2014 8:17:16 AM 1 Comment I am thrilled to announce receiving the Richeson75 Figure/Portrait 2014 First Place, Other Media award for my pastel portrait "Little Lexie".  I am grateful  Jack Richeson  &  Co. for providing me the opportunity to exhibit in this show. My intention with this piece was to paint a portrait creating depth and nuance by layering black, white and gray pastels in the same way a "color" pastel portrait is created.  The entire surface is covered in pastel, thus generally considered a painting (versus a sketch) by pastel artists.  I was drawn to the pose because of her beguiling, almost secretive expression, which hints at wisdom beyond her young age. Comment on or Share this Article By on 10/1/2014 9:40:07 AM 3 Comments Here it is - last one!  As I mentioned in a previous post, I missed a week due to inescapable circumstance.  So it's 23 in 30, but I feel good that other than that stretch of 7 days, I painted consistently every day. This particular painting sums up how I feel - mixture of sad it's over because now I have to find new goals to keep me motivated and ON TASK, and yet thrilled with what I learned.  I wrote down just a few of the revelations: 30 PAINTINGS IN 30 DAYS, SEPTEMBER 2014   WHAT I LEARNED I learned how to organize a new palette, how to set up my easel quickly for different size supports, and how to maintain a clean brush supply for painting every day without spending washing brushes everyday. I learned that mineral spirits are not my friend and other than toning my canvas, I need to put it away.  Other mediums are only slightly more useful.  Try to stay out of it. I learned that every painting evolved from a slightly different technique, i.e. I used many of the processes I ve learned from different teachers over the years, not just one.  And that s ok. I learned that I need to study with someone who is adept with the palette knife, because I really stink when it comes to using one! I learned that close up references work better for smaller formats. I learned that when painting daily paintings from photos (versus from life), I need to be even more aware of edges and color in shadows, because the tendency is to copy what I see, rather than what I know was there but the camera didn t see.  I learned if you listen to Wisconsin Public Radio  daily,  you stay very well informed.  It must be osmosis   it becomes white noise when I m  in the zone , but I still retained a lot.  Good when you're holed up in the studio every day and the world continues to spin without you! Comment on or Share this Article By on 9/30/2014 9:02:56 AM Comment on this "My Turn!"  is the smallest painting I've done, 4" x 6", and yet I admit I went over my two hour rule.  I have no excuse, just one of those days when everything I do is more of a struggle.  On second thought, I'm going to blame it on the rain.  I've always love the photo because of the reflection from the tube on my grandson's skin and the gestures of both kids. Comment on or Share this Article By on 9/29/2014 7:00:44 AM Comment on this "New Day" -Maybe it will rain, but I'm hoping not because there's pinky golden light on the horizon.  A lot like what I see looking out my window this morning.   In the reference photo, there is a small boat in the water on the right reflecting the sun's rays.  It was too small to depict on this small 8" x 10", but I'm going to paint this scene on a larger panel and include the boat.  It was such a peaceful yet dramatic scene. Comment on or Share this Article By on 9/27/2014 5:37:35 PM Comment on this "Roman Facade" is the front of a little trattoria in Rome.  The buildings were so old, some crumbling, yet so beautiful!  We loved sitting for hours in sidewalk cafes to people-watch, and no one chases you out (although, you may have to go to the kitchen to get your check!) Comment on or Share this Article By Alecia Schmitz on 9/26/2014 6:48:16 AM Comment on this Bee Balm Bee Balm is my favorite perinneal.  I used to have it growing on a wild hillside behind my house.  In midsummer, I loved how the brilliant color would show through the all the dark green of weeds and trees.   It eventually died out, so I tried planting some this spring.  Unfortunately, the hungry rabbits got it before next daylight.  Oh well, I'm happy to keep the rabbits fed - at least that's apparently what the rabbits think. Comment on or Share this Article Follow this Blog alecia.schmitz@gmail.com Artist Websites Crafted by  FASO 