H-NS043 Lenses - Panasonic India Twitter Facebook H-NS043 Micro Four Thirds 42.5mm Fixed Focal Length Lens / 85mm (35mm camera equiv.) Redefining picture quality - with the LEICA DG NOCTICRON lens. The popular 42.5mm of middle-telephoto focal distance (35mm camera equivalent: 85mm) is suitable for portraits with rich depth - or any other kind of subject and shooting situation. This LEICA lens features an outstanding aperture of F1.2, which enables you to utilise the beautiful soft focus for more impressive, creative shots.  Opt for a LEICA DG lens and get the ultimate in optical quality and performance. They naturally meet the strict quality standards set by Leica Camera AG. Thanks to the sophisticated design of these lenses, you will enjoy brilliant clarity all the way to the edges of your photos. At the same time, distortions of all kind are prevented which may occur with wide-angle photography to enable precise, sharp picture rendering. This means you have the ideal tool for pro-level images in the palm of your hand. Capture scenes carefree or at the spur of the moment. The optical image stabilisation (O.I.S.) technology built directly into the lens ensures your photos will look great, with sharp blur-free contours across the entire picture.  Taking highly popular MEGA O.I.S. further, this advanced technology immediately compensates even large camera shake and vibrations that may occur in photography. So you can capture true-to-life scenes without the need for a tripod. In the end, you’ll enjoy wonderfully crisp images. Put an end to unwanted ghosting and flaring – the Nano Surface Coating has been applied to lenses within the system. This special, ultra-thin coating was developed originally by Panasonic to reduce bothersome reflections across the entire light spectrum. The result: crystal-clear pictures even if you’re photographing a light source in the dark. With HD video support any user has everything they need for recording with their LUMIX camera. Not only does it perform smooth aperture changes so there are no sudden jumps in exposure, it also boasts a silent design for enhanced capture of the scene’s audio. What’s more, it offers excellent tracking performance – so you won’t miss a moment of the action. 14 elements in 11 groups: - 2 aspherical lenses - 1 Extra-Low Dispersion lens  - 1 Ultra High Refractive Index lens Aspherical (ASPH) lenses reduce size and weight, effectivelypreventing spherical and distortion aberration. Extra-Low Dispersion (ED) lenses correct chromaticaberration rendering sharp, high-contrast images with clear colors from corner to corner. Ultra-high refractive index (UHR) lenses improve optical performance,reduce size and weight, and achiev uniform image quality from the centerto the edges of the image. MTF Chart For lenses that are capable of compensating distortion, the horizontal axis of the MTF shows the distance from the center of the corrected image. H-NS043 LEICA DG Lens – ultimate optics  LEICA DG Lens Story - The Quest for Changing Photography LEICA DG NOCTICRON 42.5mm / F1.2 ASPH. / POWER O.I.S. LEICA DG Lens Story - The Quest for Changing Photography LEICA DG NOCTICRON 42.5mm / F1.2 ASPH. / POWER O.I.S. LEICA DG Lens Story - The Quest for Changing Photography DMW-LPL67 PL Filter DMW-LMC67 MC Filter DMW-LFC67 Lens Cap DMW-LRC1 Lens Rear Cap Find Your Nearest Dealers Experience our products. Find the dealer store closest to you. Find Your Nearest Dealers  > Copyright © 2019 Panasonic India MRP wherever mentioned is inclusive of all taxes 