' Produce 101 '  2nd Elimination Shocks Fans, MNET Reveals Twist Of The Show : K-PEOPLE : koreaportal EDITION  : English / Korean "Produce 101" is getting more intense than ever as Mnet revealed that the show's second elimination would bring in a lot of surprises. Sources told that the said surprises would not just shock the show's participants but also its avid viewers. As of today, the show still has 35 trainees out of the 58 that started. What could be "Produce 101" unexpected twist? According to  All Kpop , MNET did not become particular with regards to the surprise in "Produce 101" second elimination. In the statement given by the network, MNET assured everyone that the elimination would make everyone sad and somewhat disappointed. Just as the 1 st  round of elimination brought tears to all the show's fans, it's expected that the upcoming episode of the show would be a real tearjerker. Just what MNET stated: "We filmed 'Produce 101's 2nd elimination round on the 20th. Only 35 remained, and the rest left sadly. As viewers saw from last week's online voting, there were many twists. Just as the first elimination round, everyone cried and were sad." With that, showrunners admitted that viewers should not miss out on the upcoming episode of "Produce 101", which would basically air on the 26 th  at exactly 11PM. Meanwhile, Korea Times  reported that "Produce 101" is getting a lot of criticisms and negative feedbacks despite its popularity. Netizens told that the show only promotes the ugly truth with the Korean society, which is looks-driven and the competition-driven environment. It was remembered that Lee Dae Hwi was the first victim of the said incident as viewers gave him hate comments regarding his physical appearance. Netizens tagged that said trainee as ugly and disgusting. As they stated, "It is undeniable fact that the guy is ugly." After that, Lee captured the hearts of everyone as he issues an apology and admitted that he would do his best in the next episode of the show. 6 h  - Kayla Dodge 3 d  - Kayla Dodge 4 d  - Kayla Dodge Subscribe to our Newsletter 1 2 3 4 5 6 K-WAVE   -  4 d  - Kayla Dodge K-PEOPLE   -  6 d  - Kayla Dodge K-WAVE   -  6 d  - Kayla Dodge K-WAVE   -  3 d  - Kayla Dodge © Koreaportal.com  /  All Rights Reserved. 