Pack of 6 Parrot Fruit Jelly Cups  &  Holder SAVE when you buy this mixed tub of Parrot Jellies and Holder Kit at a discounted price. Kit includes the following: 1 x Pack of 6 Assorted Fruit Cups Parrot Jelly Treats 1 x Nature First Natural Jelly Fruit Cups Pot Holder These jelly fruit cups make for an extra special way to reward your Parrot. Simply peel off the seal and hand over to your bird. Then sit back and watch as they explore the taste and texture of these scrumptious treats! For convenience put your bird's jelly treat inside the Nature First Natural Jelly Pot Holder. The durable wood offers a perching platform for your Parrot to sit and explore the tastes and texture of these delicious treats. Easily and securely attach it to your Parrot's cage. The long lasting metal hardware lets your Parrot enjoy them for a long time. * Please note hardwoods such as this can split during the drying process, this is not a fault. Please note - the above information should be used for guidance only - you know your bird best! Jasper, the resident African Grey Parrot at Parrot Essentials ... FREE NEXT DAY UK DELIVERY – FOR ORDERS OVER £69 Place your order online before 3pm Monday to Friday. Choose the Free Next Day delivery option and we will deliver your parcel by Parcelforce the next working day (Mon – Fri only) The next day delivery for orders under £69 costs just £5.99. It is available for in stock orders and to most UK mainland addresses (excluding some large items). FREE STANDARD UK DELIVERY – FOR ORDERS OVER £39 Our Standard Delivery service usually takes 3 – 5 working days and your parcel will be delivery by Royal Mail. NEW - SATURDAY  &  SUNDAY DELIVERY - £6.99 Place your order by 3pm on Friday and request a Saturday or Sunday delivery. UK Mainland only. LARGE ITEMS Large cages and some stands are available for delivery to UK Mainland only and may take and extra few days or be subject to surcharge in some areas. Full in-depth delivery information can be found  here  or you can call us on our FREE number 0800 327 7511 and we will be happy to assist. Thank you for posting a question! Your question will appear on the site once we ' ve answered it. Your input is very much appreciated. Share it with your friends so they can enjoy it too!  2019 Parrot Essentials Online Store  