Top 5 Restaurant Highlights of Lisbon, Portugal | Carmen Edelson - Luxury Travel Blogger Carmen Edelson   Luxury Travel Blogger Primary navigation Search and filter blog content Search Mobile sidebar navigation Lisbon’s fantastic food scene is very easy to fall in love with. From creative cocktails and fresh seafood to historic eateries and award-winning chefs, what’s not to love? Portugal’s capital city has so much to offer in terms of architecture and history, but their gastronomy is equally as impressive. Here are a few of my culinary highlights that I enjoyed on my trip to Lisbon! While in Lisbon, I called the luxurious  Corinthia Hotel  home for a few days, which you can read more about my stay  here . Before heading out to dinner for my first night, I decided to sample some delicious cocktails at the hotel’s Tempus Lounge Bar. Tempus provides a laid-back environment, overlooking the Corinthia’s lush terrace garden. Bar Manager Nélson Antunes hosted a fun cocktail lab evening for us and he made each of us our own unique drink based on what we liked.  Mine was a a mixture of white wine with strawberries.  It was very tasty. They also offer a tailored selection of premium wines, beers, teas, and light meals which makes it the perfect setting to enjoy the twilight hours. Restaurant Bairro do Avillez is located in the famous Chiado District. This is easily the most elegant, trendy, and charming part of Lisbon, making it the perfect place to dine on our first night! The restaurant is spacious with different eating areas; we enjoyed eating in the Taberna where you’ll find the heartiest food. Speaking of the food, you are in great hands with Portuguese Chef José Avillez who has earned three Michelin Stars so far in his career.  We ordered several tapas dishes, including fried octopus, ceviche, tuna tartar and a plate of cured hams and cheeses. I was immediately drawn to Pharmacia Restaurant once I stepped inside and was transported to an early 20th century, pharamacy-themed space. This unique restaurant offers traditional petiscos (Portuguese for “tapas”) that can easily be shared between a group of friends.  The croquettes were my favorite dish. You cannot leave Pharmacia without trying their fun drinks, or pharmaceutical concoctions if you use your imagination! You can order “Morphine” which is a delicious sparkling wine with pineapple drinks or LSD, which consists of a Portuguese berry liquor and sparkling rose wine, and so many others! You’ll discover the charming seaside town of Cascais just 30 minutes west of Lisbon, yet it feels like worlds away! While it’s technically not inside the capital’s city center,  Mar do Inferno Restaurant  is so worth the drive. Located over the sparkling blue water, ordering seafood here is a no-brainer thanks to the fresh fish caught on a daily basis. Mar do Inferno is a family business that has been managed by Maria de Lourdes Tirano and her two sons for over thirty years now, so clearly they are doing something right! We ordered a few plates of delicious seafood combination platters which included scallops, lobsters, and clams. The lobsters were my favorite. Last but certainly not least, I was lucky to enjoy another gastronomic gem inside the Corinthia Lisbon Hotel. On my final evening, I dined at Típico which is dedicated to the best of Portuguese cooking. They pride themselves on using seasonal produce to create traditional dishes. A specialty of theirs is shellfish cataplana and their live carving station is a focal point of the restaurant where you can have a unique glimpse into how the fresh ingredients are prepared. We started with a poached lobster tail, followed by a grouper with cauliflower, and for dessert a meringue with chocolate sauce and vanilla ice cream. I really enjoyed eating my way through the vibrant city of Lisbon. Seafood lovers will certainly not be disappointed, but you can find a range of dishes and international cuisines in this bustling capital. There is immense culinary talent in Lisbon and I cannot wait to return for a second helping! Share this article! You Might Also Like The Luxury of Choice in the Algarve, Portugal Top 5 Restaurants in Miami Beach for a Night Out How to Enjoy New Foods and Keep a Healthy Mindset on Vacation Gastronomy at Its Best – the Top Luxury Restaurants Miami Has to Offer Enjoy The Tuck Room For Happy Hour in North Miami Beach, Florida Madrid Food Tour   The Ultimate Spanish Cuisine Tour Enjoy Lavish Afternoon Tea at Six Boutique Hotels in London Jaleo Bethesda, An Evening of Spanish Tapas The Best Michelin Star Restaurants in Europe Taste The Best Of Mediterranean Food On A Sailing Holiday This Summer The Luxury of Choice in the Algarve, Portugal Top 5 Restaurants in Miami Beach for a Night Out 29  Comments What an amazing list of resturants and lovely food tho looking in pictures as well. For Indian or Pakistani food you must visit Pakistan or India to taste in real food with proper nutritions. I d love to explore India and Pakistan one day! Oh my god, so much delish food! I wish I could have been there with you, trying all the yummy tapas and seafood. You really got me going with Bairro do Avillez. Please excuse me while I clean up my dribbles from my keypad! Haha, you re excused! Everything was just so delish. Mar do Inferno seems like my kind of place. Not just for the design, but also for the appetizing dishes you ve photographed. I enjoyed every minute of my time there! I just love Lisbon.  All these dishes look fabulous and I love how you were able to get such great photos of the spaces too.  Great Article – but it makes me hungry  I was very hungry while writing it, Lori  And now I’m hungry, haha! Thank you for a great post!  Sorry   Thank you for reading! ok deff saving this for when i visit one day   thanks for sharing I hope you do get to visit, Kathleen! I remember so vividly how beautiful the seafood was in both Lisbon and Cascais.  And your pictures are glorious; if I needed even a tiny bit of encouragement to return, you d have provided it.  I m very tempted by those tapas   three star tapas must be incredible! I’m so glad you enjoyed it too, Bernie  All of this looks incredible! I love seafood so I would love to try all of it. Exploring new cities through food is the best! If you love seafood, you ll love Lisbon! What a great guide! These places all look like so much fun and the food looks AMAZING! Thanks so much, Lecy! Love this roundup! Figuring out what restaurants to go to when in a new country is always challenging. This really helps make things easier! I know what you mean! I loved all the Corinthia’s suggestions  Everything looks delicious! Lisbon is one of my favorite European cities and this post reminds me that I m well overdue for a visit   especially to try a cocktail on the terrace at Pharmacia Restaurant! Those cocktails are SO unique, fun, and delicious! Muito obrigada for sharing this   I m going to Portugal in June and although I don t know how much time will be left for food and drinks with all my art hunting, these recommendations are highly inspiring! Is it already this summery in Portugal? I can t wait. Almost!  I hope you have an amazing time! You always find the best restaurants and are so helpful for travelers making a decision of where to dine. Love all the photos too! Thank you so much, Lara! Means a lot coming from you. This is such an awesome list, I remember the food being so fresh and amazing when we visited Lisbon, that was a while ago now and I have no idea what the places were called!! Luckily next time we go we can use this post! I hope you get to go back soon! What a fantastic list of beautiful restaurants to visit in Lisbon!  Portugal is on our list and we can t wait to get there.  We look forward to enjoying the fantastic food and wine of this amazing country.  Thanks for narrowing down the list when we make it to Lisbon!  Great post! Your email address will not be published.  Required fields are marked  * Comment Name  * Email  * Website Notify me of follow-up comments by email. Notify me of new posts by email.  Subscribe to our newsletter This site uses Akismet to reduce spam.  Learn how your comment data is processed . Site sidebar WELCOME TO MY BLOG Video Intro My Latest Video Visit our YouTube channel Instagram Recent Posts SPREAD THE LOVE Top Posts 