Samsung Galaxy S6 annoying 35% battery notification - Phones and Tablets - Linus Tech Tips Forgot your password? Or sign in with one of these services Linus Media Group is not associated with these services By  Its Not Important ,   June 18, 2017  in  Phones and Tablets  · 3 replies So this happen just 1 hour ago, it randomly pop up on my screen. My screen is literally bricked until i pick one of those option which i don't want. Is it that dodgy Peel app again? How do i remove it and prevent it from coming back? My note 4 has it too, I'm currently looking for a solution, which at the moment is basically slowly removing all of Samsungs defualt apps and I'm starting to get into the more integeral system apps. Samsung are really starting to piss me off with this shit, I might just go and stop using a phone all together, a raspiberry pi, touch screeb and 4G module at this point would be an improvment Yours faithfully My note 4 has it too, I'm currently looking for a solution, which at the moment is basically slowly removing all of Samsungs defualt apps and I'm starting to get into the more integeral system apps. Samsung are really starting to piss me off with this shit, I might just go and stop using a phone all together, a raspiberry pi, touch screeb and 4G module at this point would be an improvment I actually know whats causing the problem. Its Peel Remote app. Just disable it and its gone  I actually know whats causing the problem. Its Peel Remote app. Just disable it and its gone  That app was about 1 of 25 I have remove (yay rooted phones) and it seems to have gone, after further research that seems to have been it. Boy that app turned from slightly useful into complete fucking shit. I also freed almost 1GB of extra space just from non needed system apps. I think Samsung have lost their way even more. I love touchwiz but the system apps are often pretty shit. I would still pick it over vanilla android though, just. Yours faithfully You need to be a member in order to leave a comment Sign up for a new account in our community. It's easy! Already have an account? Sign in here. By  hbsterling Started  1 minute ago Posted in  Peripherals By  MasterRaceMcqueen Started  4 minutes ago Posted in  Programs, Apps and Websites By  h4lf_gr33k Started  6 minutes ago Posted in  Programs, Apps and Websites By  MrSupport Started  16 minutes ago Posted in  Linux, macOS and Everything Not-Windows By  Dumass Started  21 minutes ago Posted in  PC Gaming By  quayyum94 Started  33 minutes ago Posted in  New Builds and Planning By  ShungShan Started  34 minutes ago Posted in  Laptops and Pre-Built Systems By  Lord Xeb Started  35 minutes ago Posted in  Tech News By  Retro_R Started  35 minutes ago Posted in  Liquid and Exotic Cooling By  Blokeybob Started  38 minutes ago Posted in  New Builds and Planning Linus Media Group Powered by Invision Community 