Mitsubishi Service Centre | Tamworth, NSW - Tamworth Mitsubishi (02) 6766 3031 11-14 Kable Ave, Tamworth, NSW 2340 Tamworth Mitsubishi will be in contact to confirm your booking and service availability To keep your vehicle performing efficiently and reliably, regular scheduled Diamond Advantage Genuine Service is a must. Our Diamond Advantage Genuine Service program will ensure the long term safety and reliability, and resale value, of your Mitsubishi. At  Tamworth Mitsubishi , we use state of the art manufacturing technology and world class quality control systems to ensure your vehicle gives you many years of motoring pleasure. It is worth protecting your investment by ensuring that your Mitsubishi gets the specialist care that only Diamond Advantage Genuine Service can deliver - including: Our 17 Factory trained technicians  - Our Mitsubishi Technician Training programs ensure that our Mitsubishi specialist technicians have the skills required to correctly service, maintain and repair our entire range of vehicles. Product information  - Only Mitsubishi Authorised Service Centres have online access to the latest technical and product information direct from the factory. This means that Tamworth Mitsubishi has the very latest service and repair procedures are used to save you time and money, and to ensure your vehicle is maintained as the maker intended. The right tool for the job  - As a Mitsubishi Authorised Service Centre, we use Mitsubishi service tools where needed. These have been specifically designed and engineered to the manufacturer ' s specifications, to ensure services and repairs can be completed correctly, cost effectively and quickly. Genuine Mitsubishi parts and accessories  - For your complete peace of mind, all Genuine Mitsubishi Parts are covered by a 12 month/20,000km Factory Warranty. Genuine Accessories are covered by a 36 months/130,000km warranty when fitted prior to delivery, or 12 months/20,000km (or the balance of 36 months/130,000km) if fitted after delivery. Competitive pricing  - Tamworth Mitsubishi Service Centres don ' t just offer the best qualified people using the right tools and technology. They are also price competitive, and committed to delivering value for money. Resale value  - By ensuring your vehicle ' s service book is regularly stamped by your Mitsubishi Diamond Advantage Genuine Service Centre, you can prove your vehicle has been maintained as the maker intended. A full, documented service history is a valuable asset when it comes time to sell. We at Tamworth Mitsubishi take pride in our workmanship ensuring ongoing training for all our technicians in our busy Service Department with no job is too big or small for our team. Rest assured that we will inspect, service and install updates to your vehicle with the highest professional standard ensuring your vehicle will have the best after sales care in the Tamworth NSW district. Please call our friendly, helpful service team to arrange the best care and maintenance for your vehicle today. We also have online facilities to book your vehicle in, just fill out the form online and one of our service representatives will contact you to confirm your booking. Tamworth Mitsubishi Service Centre also offers a  free pickup and delivery  service for their customers anywhere in Tamworth. Thank you, from your friendly Service Team. Tamworth Mitsubishi will be in contact to confirm your booking and service availability facebook googleplus Copyright   2019. All Rights Reserved Tamworth Mitsubishi 11-14 Kable Ave, Tamworth, NSW 2340 (02) 6766 3031 