St Mary High dominate 2019 Eastern Champs St Mary High dominate 2019 Eastern Champs Monday, March 18, 2019  St Mary High School dominated the 2019 Eastern Championships at National Stadium from March 4-5, to retain their hold on that leg of the Digicel Grand Prix series. They won both sections, tallying 255.5 points in the boys' category to finish ahead of Buff Bay High (224.5) and St Thomas Technical (130). In the girls' category they amassed 436 points, beating Buff Bay (291.5) and Titchfield High (177.5). Their combined points total of 691 was also ahead of Buff Bay (516) and Titchfield (275.6). Of the 10 records broken over the two days of competition, St Mary accounted for six. Coach Dwayne Williams told the  Jamaica Observer North  &  East  he was particularly impressed with the showing from the boys' section on the opening day. We did above expectations, as we expected to dominate the girls. But after Monday we noticed that we could topple the boys, so the coaching staff spoke to them after we looked at the numbers going into the final, and they came through,  he said. He noted that the platform is set for Boys' and Girls' Athletics Championships from March 26-30 in Kingston, and the Carifta Games in the Cayman Islands from April 20-22. We are happy that we retained the title. We are now looking for, them going, on to the Boys and Girls Championships, and a few making it to the Carifta trials and Carifta meet. We do not have an excellent surface [for training] like others, but we make do with what we have and the weather was kind to us this year,  Williams said. Edwin Allen High and Calabar High, are respective girls and boys champions. Now you can read the Jamaica Observer ePaper anytime, anywhere. The Jamaica Observer ePaper is available to you at home or at work, and is the same edition as the printed copy available at  http://bit.ly/epaperlive Copyright © 2019 Jamaica Observer. All Rights Reserved. Unblock Notifications Oops, this content can't be loaded because you're having  connectivity problems 