What does Venus in 9th house of Leo Ascendant signify? - Quora a P d PqWwp O b JaDr y PR JQ D udivk u oEry c muFvF k jsEIm D xDMOD u om c IYXA k btU G xQzsu o YMkV Hello Mr  Harsha C B : Season’s greetings, how are you doing today? Thank you for your A2A request, I appreciate it. Being on Quora is my  aparigraha  to give back some of my time and knowledge to the world at large. Per Jyotish - Vedic Astrology this is how the birth chart will look with only one planet - Venus in the 9th house of Leo Lagna/Ascendant: Here ' s my response to your question: Observation/Interpretation : Hello Mr  Harsha C B : Season’s greetings, how are you doing today? Thank you for your A2A request, I appreciate it. Being on Quora is my  aparigraha  to give back some of my time and knowledge to the world at large. Per Jyotish - Vedic Astrology this is how the birth chart will look with only one planet - Venus in the 9th house of Leo Lagna/Ascendant: Here ' s my response to your question: Observation/Interpretation : Disclaimer : The above is “ONE” planet reading, it may or may not apply to you. The whole birth chart and other divisional charts must be analyzed to give an appropriate and relevant answer.  At present, you may draw your own conclusion accordingly. It was a privilege to serve you on Quora. This is my opinion to your “ extremely ” generic question. Trust my answer helps, informs, inspires you in your quest to quench your thirst for knowledge, Vivek E. Paras With best wishes from Trinidad and Tobago, West Indies 1,597 Views 1,461 Views 3,904 Views 1,533 Views 763 Views Firstly Venus is the 3rd and 10th house lord for Leo ascendants. He is placed in 9th house. Having an benefic in the 9th house is an good combination. But Venus is 7th from his moolatrikona sign directly aspecting it and 12th from the 10th house. The native will for sure have troubles with his siblings. The native will be an natural traveller. He will get delays in jobs. If he gets so, he will be not satisfied with it and will always have an insecure mind while doing jobs. If Venus lies in Bharani 1st pada the problem will be severe. If it ' s combust with sun then it ' s more severe. s DYwk p Y o Nvvq n LeG s Df o NdRBW r HFDG e XdgE d gb PoAKz b mp y qF cX S oM c UNixp r BMt i rIC b lOLyk o IL l fCTlN BS P vJt u Zjr b cy l N i mrFXj s CSau h U i diD n Yvx g mxFU This question deserves only  generic  answer. It may or may not apply. to the native owning this chart. I am answering the question based on my experience about Leo ascendant coupled with my astrology experience. First thing I vehemently say that the married life of the native will not be harmonious. If Venus is weak, then there can be some relation between the teacher and brother of the native’s wife. You ma meet women who are impulsive,adventurous ,steadfast,independent and they might be a teacher,doing masters/phd or may have done it,philosophical and lover of traveling.Your female teachers can be pretty/young. Supportive father,career in research,travelling or in educational fields can be seen. s q p v o YLxT n InQ s sm o WQnRU r p e ee d eXHDU RiYVn b Mdqk y C mHHJ T jz h llb e iWPI AFbTI P LsC e NbUB n Ti n MNQ y LpLi jonX H E o lpi a IMii r Q d n e PuxwM r BYvT 2,541 Views 2,335 Views 1,868 Views 2,195 Views 1,318 Views Seed Principle : Our capacity to be open to the flow of God’s grace. Luck, wealth, spiritual values and teachers are all a part of God’s grace flowing into our lives. Our ability to recognize a good teaching (or not) is shown from this house. The body part associated with the ninth house is the buttocks and back of the thigh muscles. It is our buttocks that allow human beings to run long distances, in order to reach the goal, same as the ninth house. It is our personal philosophies and teachings that connect us with the higher truths of life, the goals of life. Ninth house people : The ninth ho... Seed Principle : Our capacity to be open to the flow of God’s grace. Luck, wealth, spiritual values and teachers are all a part of God’s grace flowing into our lives. Our ability to recognize a good teaching (or not) is shown from this house. The body part associated with the ninth house is the buttocks and back of the thigh muscles. It is our buttocks that allow human beings to run long distances, in order to reach the goal, same as the ninth house. It is our personal philosophies and teachings that connect us with the higher truths of life, the goals of life. Ninth house people : The ninth house has to do with a sense of meaning, purpose and philosophy. Teachers, priests, lawyers, advisors, gurus and experts of any sort are related to the ninth house. Father. Activities : Teaching, leading seminars, learning from teachers, discussing philosophy, preaching, leading others toward truth and righteousness. Chanting mantras, making sacred offerings are all ninth house activities. Environment : Classroom, church, ashram, courtroom, yajna (sacred / ceremonial fire), any learning /sacred environment or situation and the authority/reverence it implies. Objects : Pulpit, podium, chalkboard/whiteboard, sacred objects such as conch shells, incense, flowers used for worship.. Planetary Indicators:  Jupiter is the indicator of ninth house activities as he shows a sense of righteousness, meaning and purpose. Guna / Lesson: Universal Knowledge General Explanation: As the third Dharma house it shows how our highest Dharma not only informs our life but those around us. Our highest principles shaping our world and those we influence is the ninth house. FOR MORE INFO VISIT OUR WEBSITE :  http://www.sriganapathiastro.com/ 2,195 Views 1,461 Views 3,934 Views 1,533 Views 7,274 Views 2,541 Views 763 Views 1,868 Views 5,467 Views 1,318 Views 4,299 Views 4,487 Views 394 Views 2,049 Views 2,350 Views 