Nico Niiyama | Wiki | Anime Amino ▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂ Feels, feels and feels ▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂ Aye aye aye! It's ya BOI ex, back with a favorite. This will be about my small goddess! She is simply to adorable to resist. I started to fall in love with Nico because of a friend that I follow. He was all about Nico and Tenga and from there on it went down hill for me. R.I.P. Ex. SO sit back and enjoy my love dedicated to another Nico. ლ(´ڡ`ლ) ▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂ My goddesses appearance ▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂ Nico is such a tiny little girl. She may be tiny be she really has large breasts. I legit saw past her cleavage and just looked at her adorableness. I also love how she looks. With her orange hair and teal streaks in it. She also has twin pigtails and I just ლ(´ڡ`ლ) simply delicious. Her hair style makes her even more unique. It just does. With her ragged bangs and uneven pigtails. It just makes her pop up more. All the color on Nico. Nico wears so much color on her. Like she just does. With the fluffy pompoms on both her pigtails. Her wonderful purple eyes. It makes me upset when she cry's though. Like please stop making me suffer! Also we have what Nico wears. She wears the average school uniform but that's not all! She's all dolled up with these colors and the bunny's. Bright yellow and etc. it's like she's a colorful fairy even if she doesn't believe in them. Colorful Nico is best Nico. Nico is just the best. ▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂ The Goddesses Personality ▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂ When you first See Nico. She might be a bit luny. But I saw through it. There must me much more to Nico. Alas Nico did. Her 'friends' thought she was just of the loop but in fact Nico is quite perceptive in the series and it just shocks them. Anyway Nico is a bright ball of sunshine and is very energetic, and it's too cute for me. Nico is also very dramatic but it brings out her character some more. She's only dramatic when she experiencing new things, like she does in the series. Even if she acts immature, like I typed up there, Nico is very perceptive. Also she says she's from a rich family which explains why she says she acts how she does. One thing to throw in is dying episode nine. You'll understand. ▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂ Goddesses Romantic Feelings ▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂ Alright. Here we go. In the anime. We see a lot of ships going around. Like its a mess. They did a good job getting us all rekted. Once a certain episode hinted at Nico liking Tenga I just flipped! I was so close to slamming my laptop shut. She really starts to like him and to everyone else it's obvious. Anyway Nico calls herself half-assed and it breaks my heart. When she yelled at chidori because she doesn't want to get anymore hurt. In my opinion Nico is really strong. Like she knows she'll be heartbroken and she goes to hear and see all regardless of it all. Nico is smart and she doesn't deserve all this. She knew Tenga had feelings for Chidori but Nico wasn't going to give up. I love that about Nico. She may be all dramatic and etc. but Nico is really strong. I felt really happy for her at the moment. Soon enough all that went downhill for me when the ships started crashing down. Deep down Nico wanted Tenga and it breaks my heart when he heart screamed out. It really did. When her heart yelled out, "if you don't want him give him to me!!" Somewhere along those lines. Nico is brave, smart, beautiful and will take it all. I love Nico and I just want her to be happy! I will do whatever it takes for her to be happy. ▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂ What I thought. ▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂▂ what more do you want since I poured my heart out in this favorite!? Nico is my smol goddess and I will fight you all for her. Nico putting up with all these heart break shit. Like before. Nico is a brave girl and I love her even more. Nico is best, but one thing that pissed me off was when yuta told Tenga to run after Nico an he was like why? Like bitch run after her! You yelled at Agata to in after Chidori but you won't run after Nico! Smh BOI! I like you but come on! Don't go getting me angry! Make my Nico happy dammit!! Kiznaiver got those feeeeeeeeels. she does look cute Hi Into Anime?Join the community. Into Anime?Join the community.   This website saves cookies to your browser in order to improve your online experience and show you personalized content. Read our  Privacy Policy  and  Cookie Policy  to get more information and learn how to set up your preferences.  