Nicolette Davenport - Art Director, Production  &  Development - Saban Brands | LinkedIn Liked by  Nicolette Davenport Liked by  Nicolette Davenport Liked by  Nicolette Davenport 6 years 10 months Nov 2017   –  Present 2 years 2 months Dec 2015   –  Present 4 years 1 month Mar 2013   –  Present 6 years 10 months May 2012   –   Feb 2013 10 months Aug 2011   –   Nov 2011 4 months Beverly Hills Nov 2008   –   Jul 2011 2 years 9 months Dec 2006   –   2009 3 years Feb 2007   –   Sep 2008 1 year 8 months Oct 2004   –   Feb 2007 2 years 5 months 1997   –   2002 A preview of what LinkedIn members have to say about Nicolette: I ' ve worked with hard-working people, talented people, agreeable people, unflappable people, organized people, committed people and people who take direction well, but I ' ve only worked with a few who were all of those people rolled into one.  Nicolette is one of those people.She ' s also one of the nicest people you ' ll ever meet and if there was ever a time when she wasn ' t smiling, I can ' t recall it.  (I guess that ' s what you do when you ' re really good at your job.)You should work with her if you can because I ' d work with her again in a second. I ' ve worked with hard-working people, talented people, agreeable people, unflappable people, organized people, committed people and people who take direction well, but I ' ve only worked with a few who were all of those people rolled into one.  Nicolette is one of those people.She ' s also one of the nicest people you ' ll ever meet and if there was ever a time when she wasn ' t smiling, I can ' t recall it.  (I guess that ' s what you do when you ' re really good at your... I ' ve worked with hard-working people, talented people, agreeable people, unflappable people, organized people, committed people and people who take direction well, but I ' ve only worked with a few who were all of those people rolled into one.  Nicolette is one of those people.She ' s also one of the nicest people you ' ll ever meet and if there was ever a time when she wasn ' t smiling, I can ' t recall it.  (I guess that ' s what you do when you ' re really good at your job.)You should work with her if you can because I ' d work with her again in a second. Nic is an highly skilled designer who I had the opportunity to work with at Meteor Games. Creatively driven in various disciplines like flash animation, graphic design, user interface and illustration, she was always proactive in getting the ball rolling on a project or to improve upon a particular feature. Highly organized, she ' s the type of designer who is thoughtful of the entire project from concept, planning, design to development. Exactly the type of person you ' d want on a team of super creatives. Lastly, Nic ' s work ethic and dedication surpassed my expectations quite often as she would graciously put in the extra time to to meet a deadline or get a design just right and ready for implementation. I ' d surely work with Nic again if given the opportunity and would recommend her to any one who is looking to bring on a collaborative and talented designer. Nic is an highly skilled designer who I had the opportunity to work with at Meteor Games. Creatively driven in various disciplines like flash animation, graphic design, user interface and illustration, she was always proactive in getting the ball rolling on a project or to improve upon a particular feature. Highly organized, she ' s the type of designer who is thoughtful of the entire project from concept, planning, design to development. Exactly the type of person you ' d want on a team of... Nic is an highly skilled designer who I had the opportunity to work with at Meteor Games. Creatively driven in various disciplines like flash animation, graphic design, user interface and illustration, she was always proactive in getting the ball rolling on a project or to improve upon a particular feature. Highly organized, she ' s the type of designer who is thoughtful of the entire project from concept, planning, design to development. Exactly the type of person you ' d want on a team of super creatives. Lastly, Nic ' s work ethic and dedication surpassed my expectations quite often as she would graciously put in the extra time to to meet a deadline or get a design just right and ready for implementation. I ' d surely work with Nic again if given the opportunity and would recommend her to any one who is looking to bring on a collaborative and talented designer. 5 people have recommended Nicolette Join now to view Join to view Nicolette’s full profile Orange County, California Area 1 other named Nicolette Davenport is on LinkedIn 