Villa Petra in Lourdas, Kefalonia 7 night price for  villa only ,  Sunday  arrival. Prices from Other departure dates available Prices are based on 2 adults sharing -  change this Prices are based on  2 adults ,  01 May 2020  for  7 nights Change this Kefalonia (EFL) airport -   30 mins Villa check-in is  4pm  on  >Villa check-out is <strong id="checkOutTime">10am< strong> on  Perfect for a spot of serious R and R, Petra villa has blissful sea and mountain views to contemplate, a tempting infinity pool and a stylish minimalist interior to enjoy, situated above lovely Lourdas Beach. With two double bedrooms it is ideal for couples looking for an oasis to retreat to, the large decking on the south facing  pool terrace giving all parties time to spread out  and unwind with a good book, a snooze or a gentle dip in the pool. The glorious panoramas are enjoyed from the main living area with an open plan design that is both elegant and streamlined. The two bedrooms both boast an ensuite shower room and patio doors that open onto the pool deck. A barbecue gives the chance for plenty of outdoor dining or just an aperitif enjoying the sunsets before setting out to sample the beachside tavernas of Lourdas beach or a variety of restaurants that are situated along the meandering Lourdas road that runs from the beach up to the main coastal road. From there, it is fun to discover the other beaches and villages on this pretty, verdant island, the impressive Enos mountain range offering a wonderful backdrop to the villa and the village. What ' s not to love? Read More With two double bedrooms it is ideal for couples looking for an oasis to retreat to, the large decking on the south facing  pool terrace giving all parties time to spread out  and unwind with a good book, a snooze or a gentle dip in the pool.  The glorious panoramas are enjoyed from the main living area with an open plan design that is both elegant and streamlined. The two bedrooms both boast an ensuite shower room and patio doors that open onto the pool deck. A barbecue gives the chance for plenty of outdoor dining or just an aperitif enjoying the sunsets before setting out to sample the beachside tavernas of Lourdas beach or a variety of restaurants that are situated along the meandering Lourdas road that runs from the beach up to the main coastal road.  From there, it is fun to discover the other beaches and villages on this pretty, verdant island, the impressive Enos mountain range offering a wonderful backdrop to the villa and the village. What\'s not to love? This villa is part of our  Luxury  collection.  Find out more This property comes with Free Wi-Fi ,   Free Air Conditioning ,   Free Cots  and   Free Highchairs We have labelled this villa property as being "Car Essential" Find out more about  Kefalonia Add your free car hire  OR free transfers  + free airport parking* * † Terms  &  conditions apply † Selected flights only For holiday inspiration in your hands please click below to download our most recent magazine or brochure. Straight to your inbox, our email newsletter is the one stop shop for expert villa chatter, holiday inspiration and travel features, as well as the latest James Villas news, promotions and flash sales. TRAVEL AWARE - STAYING SAFE AND HEALTHY ABROAD The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) provide the latest travel advice by country including safety and security, entry requirements, travel warnings and health. For the latest FCO advice please refer to  www.gov.uk/travelaware . Current travel health information can be found by visiting  www.travelhealthpro.org.uk  a resource set up by the Department of Health. The advice can change on all sites so please check regularly for updates. Download our App Add your free car hire  OR free transfers  + free airport parking* * † Terms  &  conditions apply † Selected flights only It is not possible to search the whole month if it is beyond  Call one of our travel advisors on  +441622 655900  for a full bespoke service. Child ages  (on return date) Instruction Our website uses cookies. They’re not the tasty kind, but they do help the website work and give you a better online experience. By using our website you agree to their use. 