Runner Bean Tours Barcelona - 2019 What to Know Before You Go (with Photos) - TripAdvisor We went on a Gothic Quarter tour with Lisa and she was absolutely wonderful! She did a great job immersing us in the Catalan culture and we were never bored with her presentation. Her personality was very engaging and she made sure to make the... More Hi there, We really loved reading your review for Lisa ' s tour! She ' s a great guide :)A huge thanks for choosing Runner Bean Tours to show you around Barcelona and for taking the time to share your experience online. All the best :)Ali I took the Gaudi walking tour with Runner Bean Tours. They were well-organized, clear about what to expect on the tour, and very knowledgeable. We got to see most of the famous Gaudi buildings, and seeing them was much better with a guide who could... More Hi there,A huge thanks from Jarrod and us all here at RBT for your super 5* review!We ' re delighted you enjoyed the tour and hope too you had a wonderful time in Barcelona.We look forward to seeing you again soon :)Ali I was recommended by someone I met while traveling and quickly signed up. Lisa was an amazing guide, filled with local knowledge and made the experience a great one. If you are visiting Barcelona, take the time to do this tour...it’s free after all. Hi Carlos, Thanks for you 5* review of Lisa ' s tour, she really is a super guide!Thanks for choosing Runner Bean Tours :)All the best,Ali. We did the Gaudi and the Gothic Quarter tours in two consecutive days. In both tours we were lucky to have Lisa as our guide, and her deep knowledge, passion and sense of humour made it a great experience with loads of information and great... More Hello!A huge thanks from Lisa and the whole team for choosing Runner Bean Tours to show you around Barcelona!We ' re delighted you enjoyed both of her tours and we hope as well you had a great time in our beautiful city. All the best,... More The tour was such fun. Our guide Lisa was just great! She has a knack for making the tour just that little bit more interesting and we never once felt bored or tired. Very glad we chose Runner Bean Tours and have already recommended them... More Hi there, We loved your review for Lisa ' s tour. Thanks a million for joining us and for taking the time to share your experience on Trip Adviser!We hope you have a wonderful time in Barcelona .All the best, Ali We took Gothic Quarter tour and we came back the next day for one more. The tour was great. My teenage sons (15, 18) enjoyed it along with us. The guide walked over the most important milestones of the history, shared a few stories from... More Hi Alex, Great to read your comments and thoughts of our Gothic Quarter tour. Delighted your whole family enjoyed your time with us, a massive thanks for sharing online :))All the best, Ali We’ve been to 4 buildings of Gaudy represent his early time of practice Palau Guell, then elaborated art nouveau Casa battlo , Casa Mila and end with his last project Sagrada Família. Lisa has been a great tour guide with deep knowledge and very passionate... More Hi Hana, Thanks a million for your 5* review of Lisa ' s tour! She ' s a hugely popular guide and it ' s great to read how much you enjoyed discovering Barcelona with her :)All the best, Ali Jarrod was a fantastic guide for this morning ' s 2.5 hour Gaudi tour. There was only 5 solo travelers in our group so it felt more personal and we were easily able to ask questions. I would highly recommend as we were able to visit the... More Hi there, Thanks a million for your super 5* review of Jarrod ' s tour. A hugely popular guide I ' m so glad you enjoyed your time discovering Barcelona with him.All the best :)Ali I would strongly recommend doing this walking tour. The tour is very professionally run. The guide was from Barcelona and was very informative and interesting. He is a qualified historian and knows Barcelona’s history. The tour takes 2 and a 1/2 hours but at a... More Hi there, Thanks for your review! Delighted you enjoyed your time with us discovering the Gothic Quarter and we hope to see you again soon for another tour. Enjoy Barcelona!Ali We traveled a short distance by foot but a long way in time. Our guide knew so much about the history of the region and painted the picture of life in Barcelona a long time ago all the way to present-day Catalunya. Very educational. Hi there, We loved reading your 5* review of our Gothic Quarter tour - delighted you enjoyed it!We look forward to showing you more of our city next time you ' re in town :)All the best, Ali 