Augur updates PR operating system to suit tech scaleup needs The point is: agencies say what they want but while their incentives don t change, their actions won t either. This update refines Augur s focus further around strategy and iteration in house, while introducing new ways to create value for the tech ecosystem alongside it. A great agency does not try and do all things for all people   and Augur is being designed very intentionally for a specific purpose. Two example programmes in particular reflect how Augur differs from other PR agencies in its actions, not just words. In trial with retail tech clients in late 2016,  Augur Edits  invites freelancers from Retail Week, the FT and more to pitch their best ideas to Augur s clients. Not PR fluff   but exactly the kind of ideas they are already pitching to traditional editors. Clients get access to the best editorial, great journalists can place more ideas (with 24 hour payment terms) and Augur manages the back and forth, providing a brief to ensure it is perfectly in sync with the rest of the strategy. Find out more about Augur Edits. Augur Unbound  subverts the idea that PR agencies are a channel to media. Great news stories are easy to pitch   so we will take any good piece of news and pitch it to the most relevant influencers for free. Clients hire Augur to build and optimise ongoing, channel-agnostic strategies, not to spam journalists. This is about sending a message about exactly what we believe is really valuable, while helping great companies get their message out. If you agree with what we re thinking, we re inviting other agencies to join us in this mission.  Contact us here to take part. Find out more about Augur Unbound . This is not the end. It s the other thing. More to come, to be revealed. This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies. We may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website.  Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer. These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features.  Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, you cannot refuse them without impacting how our site functions. You can block or delete them by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience.  If you do not want that we track your visist to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here:  We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page. Google Webfont Settings: Google Map Settings: Vimeo and Youtube video embeds: You can read about our cookies and privacy settings in detail on our Privacy Policy Page.  