Product QuickStart: Slingshot Product Development Group HOME SERVICES ABOUT US OUR WORK CONTACT FORMS HOME SERVICES ABOUT US OUR WORK CONTACT FORMS NEWSLETTER FAQ GLOSSARY HOME SERVICES ABOUT US OUR WORK CONTACT FORMS NEWSLETTER FAQ GLOSSARY Toll Free: 1 (844) 75-START / 1 (844) 757-8278 HOME SERVICES OUR WORK ABOUT US FORMS FAQ CONTACT GLOSSARY 2 Product QuickStart is a sister company to  Slingshot Product Development Group , and was created to better serve the needs of inventor-entrepreneurs, startups, and early stage companies.  Product QuickStart offers consulting, as well as full service product development, product design, industrial design, product engineering, prototyping, and manufacturing. ​ Slingshot Product Development Group was founded in 2001 by Sam Zaidspiner, Noah McNeely, and George Hatzilias.  Slingshot has always worked with entrepreneurs and startups, but over the course of the company’s development, the client list grew to include major companies and brands such as Black  &  Decker, Charbroil, the Coca Cola Company, Procter  &  Gamble, Arm  &  Hammer, CR Bard, Plantronics, the Home Depot and many others in a variety of industries.   These larger clients became the core of Slingshot’s business model, so the company was less and less focused on startup work. In 2009, Noah McNeely became president, and then CEO of Slingshot Product Development Group and ran the company for about five years.  During this time, Mr. McNeely helped to expand and grow Slingshot’s business, while nurturing the growth of the new manufacturing business and the science research and development business. This experience helped Noah realize a few things.  First, working with startups, entrepreneurs, and early stage companies  was a professional passion that he had grown to miss as Slingshot’s business evolved.  Second, Slingshot had become a company with multiple business units, and multiple business plans:  product development services for large companies, product development for startups, manufacturing, and science / R & D.  While these different business segments were compatible, there were inefficiencies as the company tried to service multiple markets. Through much strategic planning with the Board of Directors, it was determined that the best path forward would be to create multiple businesses, each with a focused mission and a focused business model.  So, Product QuickStart was created to provide product development and manufacturing services specifically to inventors, entrepreneurs, startups, and early-stage companies.  Noah McNeely, and fellow Slingshot veteran Don Muntner, now operate as the principals of Product QuickStart. Slingshot Product Development now focuses on providing product development services to larger, more established companies.  Additionally, Slingshot focuses on programs with a high level of science research needs, and programs that require significant technology development.   Please  contact us!   We would love to discuss your invention development, product development, prototyping, or manufacturing needs! Atlanta Office: 197 West Crogan Street; Suite 205;  Lawrenceville, GA  30046 Consulting / Design / Engineering / Prototypes / Manufacturing Copyright © 2018 PRODUCT QUICKSTART LLC 