Lehmannaudio Drachenfels Drachenfels joins the Lehmann audio  range as an affordable headphone amplifier with premium specifications and a new modular design concept, suiting it to even the most demanding modern headphone users. Operating as an analogue headphone amplifier, the Drachenfels offers 12dB of practice-oriented gain which, due to the smooth running ALPS Blue Velvet potentiometer with excellent synchronism and the ultra low-noise circuit, dispenses with the need for a gain switch. The advanced technical knowledge that has gone into the circuitry means that the sound performance offers a tremendous wealth of detail and pin-point timing, all captured within a highly engaging musical envelope. However, where Drachenfels finds its niche is in its modular design. The back panel is designed to come away from the structure so more input options can be added with upgrade modules (available from late-2017), bringing with them more advanced features. The idea for the future is that even when new standards and listening preferences come to market, Drachenfels can be modified to suit rather than discarded and replaced. The Drachenfels is built using the finest components available for the price. From the Neutrik headphone sockets to the low-loss MKP precision capacitors, the audio path is clear and unaffected by unnecessary devices. The clever design also allows it to be used either as a headphone amplifier with two outputs, or as a single-input pre-amp for a power amplifier or set of powered speakers. The small footprint makes placement in or near a system very easy, and operation is as simple as pushing the power switch and adjusting the volume dial. When you buy Drachenfels, you are purchasing a high-quality analogue headphone amplifier. But more than that, you're opening up a gateway to future product developments, all of which can be added with an easy module upgrade, rather than needing to entirely replace your beloved headphone amplifier. Are the two headphone inputs different? The two headphone inputs are the same quality, and allow for two people to listen to the same music through two sets of headphones. However, one port is designed to switch off the RCA audio outputs when a headphone is connected. The other port keeps the output active when a set of headphones are connected. This suits Lehmann audio  amplifiers to multiple applications. How do I upgrade my Drachenfels? Module upgrades for the Drachenfels can be easily installed by your local Lehmann audio  dealer, or by Henley Audio. Use our  Where to Buy  tool to find your local retailer, or  Contact Us  for more information. For more help and advice visit our  Tech Support  section Many of our products are firm favourites with the global hi-fi press, and this one is no exception.  Check out the covetedawards and/or reviews this great product has received.  To find out more click the icons below. Click here to see all the reviews for this product. As  UK distributors  for the brands we represent, our main focus is to give you all the information you need to help assist with your purchase. Once you have the information you need, we want to make the purchase process as simple as possible. So we give you up-to three options on how to buy our products. Our preferred option is for you to visit a nearby store and buy what you need locally. Our authorised stockists are some of the finest specialist hi-fi retailers in the country, and they ' re equipped to give you the best after-sales and set-up advice possible - all in person. To find your local retailer, either click the  ' Buy In-Store '  button on your product page for exactly the right recommendation, or head to our comprehensive  Where To Buy  tool. If you want the added convenience of only having to pop-in to store when you know the product you want has arrived, you can use our Click  &  Collect-style checkout process. With Buy Now, Collect Locally, your purchase takes place online and the product is then delivered direct to your local supporting retailer; ready for you to collect when you ' re ready.  Click here to find out more about  Buy Now, Collect Locally . For smaller items, you can also have the ultimate convenience of purchasing directly through our website. The checkout process is entirely secure, so you can trust your information will be safe - and your desired product will arrive with you as quickly as possible. Click here for full Terms  &  Conditions . 