Defy Daw 318 Washing machine -wash and end light on and will - Fixya Please wait... Question about Washing Machines SOURCE:   Hi there, Save hours of searching online or wasting money on unnecessary repairs by talking to a 6YA Expert who can help you resolve this issue over the phone in a minute or two. Best thing about this new service is that you are never placed on hold and get to talk to real repairmen in the US. Here's a link to this great service Good luck! SOURCE:   WIRING DIAGRAM FOR A FRONT LOADER WASHING MACHINE Diagram of internal wiring of ariston AV41washing machine SOURCE:   defy daw 366 washing machine Hi from retired Englishman in SW France, I would gently suggest  as a first step  that you clean the drain motor/pump lint tray/filter. So many 'faults' are caused by blocked filters and  many machines will not even go to spin or release the door lock if there is any water still left inside. Here are my  complete and general  guidance notes for checking both the  drain motor filter and the drain motor  ;-0) If you are unsure where the filter is, it is often behind the front lower (kick) panel (or in some machines at the rear in an awkward position!) and most are held in by a round cover/knob. Sometimes the filter will not come out with the cover and you will have to persuade it to come out to play. REMOVE POWER AND ENSURE YOU HAVE A WATER RECEPTACLE/RAGS TO SOAK UP THE WATER WHICH IS BOUND TO POUR OUT. It's surprising what people have found in theirs! It is always worthwhile checking it on a regular basis. Now- whilst the filter is removed it is normally possible to see the drain motor and ensure it is not jammed by a foreign object such as a needle or a toothpick. It should be able to be turned by hand/finger- the power IS OFF! At this point it is also possible to test if the motor works. No clothes or water in the machine, select a spin cycle and put the power back on. You should be able to see the motor turning at some point, possibly straight away. Using something suitable like a glove see if it is easy to briefly slow the motor down. If it is easy then the motor is malfunctioning. If this has assisted you please consider a 4 thumbs up for the rating. Thanks and good luck! John C SOURCE:   My Defy DAW 365 washing machine goes through the whole washing cycle but it just won't spin. It does drain between the washing cycles. If the poly-vee drive belt in your washing machine has snapped, the motor will no longer be able to turn the drum. The drive belt is an important component of any washing machine as it drives the motion of the unit where the clothes are washed and spun. If your washing machine is making a loud noise or no longer spins, then the belt is probably worn or damaged. Load More Unanswered Questions  2005-2019 Fixya -  View Full Site Is this question mis-categorized or about a different product? Help this question get an answer by entering the correct category or product below. Oops! Something went Wrong: This page should be removed because: Oops! Something went Wrong: Loading... 