Jessica Pope - Newsreader/Reporter/Editor - CBC/Radio-Canada | LinkedIn My professional credo: "If you can't explain it simply, you don't understand it well enough." — Albert Einstein As a radio and online media journalist, I collect, distill, curate and deliver information. My job is to help make sure that our news is agenda-setting, deadly-accurate and available when and where our audience wants it.  I'm one part of an award-winning, top-ranked CBC morning radio show in Northeastern Ontario. I feel really good about that.  Here's what I can do: - Hear the story in the static. - Ask the questions — and get the answers.  - Decide what matters most and make the call.   - Write online stories that add value and texture to facts.  - Make radio that sounds so good it'll keep you in your car.  These are the only two things I know for sure so far: - Information is the most valuable commodity on the planet.  - Information alone is not wisdom. Specialties: Breaking news coverage, live news reading, writing and editing for radio, creative use of sound, writing and editing online journalism, social media strategy and tracking, social media engagement, communications strategy, media relations, keeping the lipstick off the pig. Oct 2010   –  Present 9 years 3 months Sudbury, ON - Deliver live news to northeastern Ontario on weekday mornings.  - Edit the work of fellow reporters, with an eye to accuracy, tight writing and the overall flow of the newscast.  - Gather and tailor news from around the province, country and world for a local audience.  - Write and edit online stories.  - Engage with listeners and share CBC Sudbury content on social media.  - Pitch and chase original journalism.  - Contribute current affairs material to both of the station's shows.  - Act as a point of public contact.  - Deliver live news to northeastern Ontario on weekday mornings.  - Edit the work of fellow reporters, with an eye to accuracy, tight writing and the overall flow of the newscast.  - Gather and tailor news from around the province, country and world for a local audience.  - Write and edit online stories.  - Engage with listeners and share CBC Sudbury content on social media.  - Pitch and chase original journalism.  - Contribute current affairs material to both of the station's... - Deliver live news to northeastern Ontario on weekday mornings.  - Edit the work of fellow reporters, with an eye to accuracy, tight writing and the overall flow of the newscast.  - Gather and tailor news from around the province, country and world for a local audience.  - Write and edit online stories.  - Engage with listeners and share CBC Sudbury content on social media.  - Pitch and chase original journalism.  - Contribute current affairs material to both of the station's shows.  - Act as a point of public contact.  May 2010   –   Aug 2010 4 months Yellowknife, NT 2009   –   2010 2001   –   2006 May 2013 Health "Volunteer of the Year" (2015) "Volunteer of the Year" (2015) A preview of what LinkedIn members have to say about Jessica: Jess is a top notch broadcaster and a stellar colleague. While working with her at CBC Sudbury, I was witness to her many talents. She ' s cool under pressure, while working to unforgiving deadlines. Her writing is sharp. Her reporting is thoughtful and rigorous. Jess has a great work ethic and sense of humour. I have no doubt she ' d be an asset to any team.  Jess is a top notch broadcaster and a stellar colleague. While working with her at CBC Sudbury, I was witness to her many talents. She ' s cool under pressure, while working to unforgiving deadlines. Her writing is sharp. Her reporting is thoughtful and rigorous. Jess has a great work ethic and sense of humour. I have no doubt she ' d be an asset to any team.  Jessica never ceases to bring a smile to my face -- working with her is a joy. What I appreciate most about Jess is her willingness to always push the envelope and tweak it until it is exactly what she wants. Online, which is where I live, Jess is a phenom as she injects the immediacy of broadcasting into our news stream. She actively engages in and pursues social media opportunities. She makes her stories and social media offerings so irresistible that our web numbers have gone up, up, up. And why wouldn ' t they? Once our audience realizes she is the real thing behind that gorgeous smile and confident voice, they are hooked. Jessica never ceases to bring a smile to my face -- working with her is a joy. What I appreciate most about Jess is her willingness to always push the envelope and tweak it until it is exactly what she wants. Online, which is where I live, Jess is a phenom as she injects the immediacy of broadcasting into our news stream. She actively engages in and pursues social media opportunities. She makes her stories and social media offerings so irresistible that our web numbers have gone up, up, up. And... Jessica never ceases to bring a smile to my face -- working with her is a joy. What I appreciate most about Jess is her willingness to always push the envelope and tweak it until it is exactly what she wants. Online, which is where I live, Jess is a phenom as she injects the immediacy of broadcasting into our news stream. She actively engages in and pursues social media opportunities. She makes her stories and social media offerings so irresistible that our web numbers have gone up, up, up. And why wouldn ' t they? Once our audience realizes she is the real thing behind that gorgeous smile and confident voice, they are hooked. 5 people have recommended Jessica Join now to view Join to view Jessica’s full profile Greater Detroit Area Colorado Springs, Colorado Area Greater St. Louis Area Calgary, Canada Area Greater Los Angeles Area 180 others named Jessica Pope are on LinkedIn 