8 UTI Symptoms in Women - How to Treat Urinary Tract Infection Prevention may earn money from the links on this page. Why trust us? Constantly feeling the need to pee, cloudy urine, and cramping are telltale signs of a urinary tract infection. This article was medically reviewed by Carolyn Swenson, MD,  an assistant professor of obstetrics and gynecology  and member of  the  Prevention Medical Review Board , on April 27, 2019. In addition to  menstrual cramps ,  birth control side effects , and even pregnancy complications, tack this onto the list of painful health issues many women unfortunately deal with:  urinary tract infections (aka UTIs) . In fact, 40 to 60 percent of women will experience at least one UTI in their lifetime and 1 in 4 will have multiple, according to the  National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases  (NIDDK). That s because a woman has a shorter urethra (aka, the tube that releases urine) than a man, making it easier for bacteria to reach the urinary tract. Still, it s also not a female-only issue: Around  12 percent of American men  (especially those over 50) will get a UTI in their lifetime. The infection can form in any part of your urinary tract, including your bladder, urethra, ureters, or kidneys. But there are other reasons women are more predisposed to urinary tract infections. For instance, if you re postmenopausal, your likelihood of having a UTI increases.  In women after menopause, an average of one UTI a year is pretty common,  says  Kavita Mishra, MD , a urogynecologist and clinical assistant professor at Stanford University School of Medicine. Changes in the pH of the vagina can alter the balance of bacteria and yeast in postmenopausal women and make it easier for bacteria to make their way into the urethra. UTIs are also fairly common for sexually active women,  adds Dr. Mishra, although peeing before and after sex can help prevent their occurrence (since you re flushing out bacteria). Women with  diabetes  are also more likely to get a UTI because of condition s impact on the immune system. And unfortunately, there are even more  common causes of a UTI , including constipation,  dehydration , a switch in birth control, and even the type of underwear you're wearing.  To make matters worse, there s a plethora of  misinformation  out there about UTIs, making it even harder for women to open up about dealing with the infection. One important thing to remember:  Getting a UTI says nothing about your level of hygiene, and you shouldn t be too embarrassed to seek proper care.  In fact, delaying treatment can make the infection worse, potentially leading to kidney damage, recurrent infections, or even  sepsis  (if the UTI works its way up to your kidneys), says the NIDDK. Knowing how to spot the symptoms of a urinary tract infection is key. That way, you can seek care ASAP and prevent it from turning into a serious health issue. The symptoms of a UTI often build over several days here are eight signs to watch for.  Stay updated on the latest science-backed health, fitness, and nutrition news by signing up for the Prevention.com newsletter  here . For added fun, follow us on  Instagram . Pain or burning when you pee is often the first sign of a UTI or bacteria in the urethra or bladder, says Dr. Mishra. However, it doesn t necessarily mean you have a full-blown UTI unless it becomes persistent. If you only feel pain once during the day and don t show any other symptoms of a UTI, your body has likely already flushed out the bacteria. Drinking extra water as soon as the burning starts may help flush out small amounts of bacteria and help prevent the infection from growing, according to  Lisa Dabney, MD , a urogynecologist at Mount Sinai West and Mount Sinai St. Luke s. If all you can think about is how badly you have to pee especially if you just went and are experiencing other symptoms, such as painful urination you probably have a UTI. Bacteria can irritate the urethra and the lining of the bladder and make you feel like you desperately need to go  constantly , says Dr. Mishra. Still, many women will experience an over-active bladder without an infection, so be sure to note if the urge is not typical for you when speaking with a doctor. Frequent urination is another symptom of a urinary tract infection. A UTI can make you feel like you have a full bladder, but only dribbles come out when you go. Frequent trips to the bathroom and little to no relief are telltale signs to look out for. The  color of your pee  can tell you a lot of things, including whether you have an infection. Anything off the yellow or clear spectrum should be a red flag. Cloudy, red, or brown urine are all signs of infection, says Dr. Mishra.  Before you panic, take stock of what you ate in the past 24 hours. Beets and other foods can also make your pee a frightening pink, orange, or red color, but you won t have any pain, and the color will quickly pass if something you ate is to blame. You don t have to sniff the bowl every time you go, but a strong, pungent smell is a common UTI symptom. However, some foods may also cause your pee to smell. Coffee and asparagus are two likely culprits. If your urine still smells after going a couple of times, or it s paired with a cloudy or red color, it s time to call the doctor. Older women, in particular, may have cramping, pressure, or  abdominal pain  when they have a UTI. In some women, pain, cramping, and  muscle aches  may be the most pronounced symptoms. These symptoms are often easy to ignore or attribute to something else say, something you ate or PMS but it s important to pay attention to them and bring them up with your doctor, who can help you find the cause. As with any type of infection, once the body detects that something is wrong, it goes into a state of inflammation. Along with other protective measures, this triggers the  release of white blood cells  that that can cause feelings of  fatigue . While your late-night Netflix binge may be to blame for your constant yawning, if the grogginess doesn t dissipate after a few days, speak to your doctor especially if you ve noticed other UTI symptoms. Paired with other UTI symptoms, a  fever  is often a sign that the infection has become more serious and spread to the kidneys, says Dr. Mirsha. If you have a fever over 101 F or and are experiencing chills or night sweats, seek medical help immediately. Even though you may have heard that cranberry juice is the magical cure for UTIs, don t fall into the hype. While cranberry juice contains an active ingredient to prevent bacteria from attaching itself to the walls of your bladder, the juice doesn t contain enough of that ingredient to really make a difference (plus, it s packed with added sugar), says Dr. Mishra. A UTI can be incredibly painful and interrupt your daily life, but these infections are easy to treat once you seek the help of a doctor, who will test your urine to ensure you re dealing with a UTI. Symptoms usually clear up entirely within a few days of taking prescribed antibiotics. Here are a few more things you can do to feel better ASAP: Drink lots of fluids.  This is especially important once you have started taking antibiotics. Extra fluids will help get the antibiotics to the infected area faster and also help remove bacteria. Drinking six to eight 8-ounce glasses of water daily can also help prevent future infections,  according to the NIDDK . Consider OTC options.  Dr. Mishra recommends popping a urinary pain relief medication, such as  AZO . These medications numb the bladder, relieve burning, and reduce the constant urge to go. Be warned, they will turn your urine a shocking shade of orange.  You can always use over-the-counter pain medications like  Tylenol  or  Motrin , but they don t seem to work as well as  AZO  or Pyridium,  says Dr. Mishra. Skip the coffee, soda, alcohol, and citrus juice.  Stick to water to avoid irritating your bladder. Use a heating pad.  If you re experiencing cramps or painful pressure,  a heating pad  can help ease your discomfort. And once your symptoms have totally cleared up? Avoid holding in pee for long periods of time bacteria flourishes when urine stays in the bladder for too long. Always wipe from front to back after having a bowel movement (to prevent bacteria transfer), and consider using birth control without spermicides (as they  have been linked  to a higher chance of UTIs). All of these small, everyday habits will go a long way toward preventing urinary tract infections. 