Preparation of amino functionalized silica micro beads by dry method for supporting silver nanoparticles with antibacterial properties - ScienceDirect ScienceDirect The development of resistance to antibiotics and disinfectants as well as the occurrence of many adverse effects caused by using conventional antibacterial agents like chlorine compounds have prompted scientists to search for new antibacterial agents. Among the many nanomaterials, silver nanoparticles have proven to be a good alternative for its antibacterial properties. In this study, silver nanoparticle-supported silica micro beads (Ag-NPBs) with sizes ranging from 180 to 500 μm have been prepared. Silica gel was synthesized by a sol–gel route and crushed into micro beads, which were modified with 3-aminopropyltriethoxysilane by so-called dry method. Silver nanoparticles were directly created on the surface and in the pores of the modified silica by chemical reduction. The prepared materials were characterized with FT-IR, BET, XRD, FE-SEM, FE-STEM, UV–vis spectrophotometer, and optical microscope. Silver nanoparticles mostly distributed at the outer layer of amino functionalized silica beads. Ag-NPBs samples were examined for their antibacterial properties against  Escherichia coli  ( E. coli ) and  Bacillus subtilis  ( B. subtilis ). The excellent antibacterial properties of Ag-NPBs were confirmed with zone inhibition and test tube test. Zone inhibitory tests proved that Ag-NPBs were effective against both gram negative and gram positive bacteria while test tube tests indicated that no  E. coli  was detected after 1 min contact. Download full-size image ► Amino functionalized silica micro beads were successfully prepared by a so-called dry method. ► Silver nanoparticles mostly distributed at the outer layer of amino functionalized silica beads. ► Silver nanoparticles supported silica micro beads have excellent antibacterial properties. ► No  E. coli  was detected after 1 min contact with silver nanoparticles supported silica micro beads. Antibiotic resistance developed by bacteria has been a global concern due to their capability causing community-acquired infection  [1] . Many approaches have been discussed to deal with antibiotic resistant problem. Beside the appropriate antibiotic use in therapeutic and non-therapeutic purpose, searching for safe and effective antibacterial agents also has been encouraged  [2] . Thus, a number of inorganic nanoparticles such as gold  [3] , copper  [4] , zinc oxide  [5] , and titanium and silver  [6]  have been considered. Previous studies indicated that silver nanoparticles are effective against wide spectrum of bacteria, fungi, and viruses  [7] ,  [8] . In fact, the antibacterial effect of silver and its compounds have been well known for a long time as an antibiotic to treat some infectious diseases and burn wounds  [9] ,  [10] . Recently, with the development of nanotechnology, silver particles, which have been synthesized to nano scale, have particular properties that are superior to the bulk silver metal such as large surface areas and unique physical, chemical and biological properties  [11] ,  [12] . Previous studies demonstrated that silver nanoparticles showed higher antibacterial ability compared to that of silver compounds like silver nitrate, silver sulfadiazine, etc.  [13] . Moreover, silver nanoparticles can be easily embedded within porous substrates like mesoporous silica, zeolite, etc.  [14] ,  [15]  to form silver containing materials. Those silver nanoparticles containing materials are capable of slow and controlled release of silver ions which renders those materials more effective for long-term antibacterial activity  [16] ,  [17] . Therefore, silver nanoparticles possess wide range of application as an antibacterial agent in hygiene, cosmetic  [18] ,  [19] , medical applications  [20] , and antibacterial water filtering  [21] . Since chlorination was first introduced for disinfection of drinking water at the beginning of the 20th century, it has been a major method to prevent bacterial growth in supplied water all over the world  [22] . However, as chlorine is a strong oxidant, it reacts with organic matter to form a lot of disinfectant by-products during the water treatment process; these by-products may increase the risk of human cancers  [23] ,  [24] ,  [25] . Moreover, the resistance of pathogens to conventional chemical disinfectants requires an extremely high disinfectant dosage, leading to aggravated disinfectant by-product formation  [26] ,  [27] . On the other hand, portable water in developing countries, which is often collected from improved or untreated sources, far away from home and stored for a long time before use, usually has a shortage of disinfectant ability at the point-of-use, particularly in rural areas  [28] . Therefore, innovative disinfection methods to enhance the reliability and efficiency of disinfection while avoiding disinfectant by-products are required. Several studies have reported the use of silver nanoparticles for the antibacterial water filter where silver nanoparticles have been coated on polyurethane foams  [21] , anchored to methacrylic acid copolymer beads  [29] , embedded granular activated carbon  [30] , ceramic filter  [31] ,  [32] ,  [33] , or impregnated into filter membranes for antifouling  [34] ,  [35] . A recent study carried out by Schoen et al.  [36]  has presented a textile based multiscale device for the high speed electrical sterilization of water using silver nanowires, carbon nanotubes, and cotton. Previous reports revealed that silver nanoparticle containing materials are good alternatives for water treatment, particularly at the point-of-use. Silver nanoparticles are incorporated into silica substrate by different ways. They can embed into a matrix of porous silica which sometimes is functionalized with specific functional groups as amine or thiol terminals to form a silver-silica composite  [37] ,  [38] . They can also deposit on the surface of silica substrate as a coating layer  [39] . That silica substrate is necessarily modified with amino or thiol functional groups if silver nanoparticles are synthesized by chemical reduction  [16] ,  [31] . Modification of silica beads with 3-aminopropyltriethoxysilane (3-APTES) usually is carried out in an organic solvent  [40] ,  [41]  where silane coupling agents react with silanol groups ( Si–OH) to graft amino functional groups (reaction  (1) ) on their surface. Also, it can be carried out in an aqueous solution  [42] ,  [43]  where 3-APTES molecules are hydrolyzed at pH 3 (reaction  (2) ) and condensed with silanol groups (reaction  (3) ) on silica beads to form siloxane bridges ( Si–O–Si ). The use of organic solvents causes price of final product expensive because of the high cost of organic solvent. These drawbacks can be considerably diminished by using aqueous solvent. Because the modified process in aqueous solvent undergoes three steps: hydrolysis, aging, and drying  [43] , the modification efficiency does not only depend on aging time but also the hydrolysis condition, particularly pH value  [44] . Since reaction is carried in aqueous solution, the hydrolysis molecules of 3-APTES tend to self-condense to form polymeric products  [44] ,  [45] . It is previously demonstrated that the self-condensation is accelerated in acidic condition  [44]  and the resulting hydrolysis molecules of 3-APTES and polymeric products usually disperse throughout the aqueous solution, consequently, leading to decrease possible accessibility to the active site on the silica substrate, which may reduce the efficiency of the modified process. (1) 3( Si–OH) + (C 2 H 5 O) 3 Si(CH 2 ) 3 NH 2  → ( Si-O) 3 Si(CH 2 ) 3 NH 2  + 3C 2 H 5 OH (2) ( C 2 H 5 O ) 3 Si ( CH 2 ) 3 NH 2 + 3 H 2 O ⟶ H + ( HO ) 3 Si ( CH 2 ) 3 NH 2 + 3 C 2 H 5 OH ( C 2 H 5 O ) 3 Si ( CH 2 ) 3 NH 2 + 3 H 2 O ⟶ H + ( HO ) 3 Si ( CH 2 ) 3 NH 2 + 3 C 2 H 5 OH (3) 3( Si–OH) + (HO) 3 Si(CH 2 ) 3 NH 2  → ( Si–O) 3 Si(CH 2 ) 3 NH 2  + H 2 O In this study we present a facile method to prepare amino functionalized silica micro beads (AFSBs) with size ranging from 180 to 500 μm using 3-APTES by a so-called dry method. This method helps to reduce significant time spent for whole functionalization process; three mentioned steps now become only one, the drying stage. It therefore was called dry method. Moreover, the 3-APTES molecules in aqueous solution filled into silica network and absorbed on the surface of silica micro beads (SBs) may increase the chance to access to the active site and enhance modification efficiency. AFSBs used to support silver nanoparticles which were directly created on the surface of SBs by chemical reduction. Our objective is to synthesize silver nanoparticle supported silica micro beads (Ag-NPBs), which is suitable for application as an antibacterial water filtration material. Therefore, Ag-NPBs were examined against  Escherichia coli  ( E. coli ) and  Bacillus subtilis  ( B. subtilis ) for their antibacterial efficacy. Silica gel was prepared from an aqueous sodium silicate solution by the sol–gel method as reported in previous work  [43] ,  [46] . Sodium silicate solution 24% (Na 2 O·3.4 SiO 2 , E & B Nanotech Co., Ltd.) and 32% H 2 SO 4  (Duksan Pure Chemicals Co., Ltd.) were instantaneously mixed through a nozzle at 25 °C, room temperature (RT), to produce silica hydrogel which was kept at RT for 48 h and then simultaneously washed and aged at 80 °C for 48 h. The obtained hydrogel was dried at 130 °C for 10 h and then crushed and sieved to SBs with size ranging from 180 μm to 500 μm. Amount of 3-APTES solution, which is a mixture of 40 ml 3-aminopropyltriethoxysilane (Sigma–Aldrich Chemical Company) in 110 ml 4% HNO 3 , used to modify 100 g of SBs was estimated similar to that of water absorbed. Water absorption was examined by dropping distilled water from 100 ml burette to 5 g of SBs in a 100 ml beaker. Water was continuously dropped while SBs were mixed with a stainless steel spoon until they were saturated with water. Water absorption was expressed as ml of water absorbed per 1 g of SBs. To synthesize AFSBs, 150 ml of 3-APTES solution was poured into a 1000 ml beaker containing 100 g SBs immediately after preparation and mechanically mixed by using a stainless steel spoon for 2 min. The beaker was covered by aluminum foil to prevent rapid evaporation of water and put in drying oven at 80 °C for 2 h and followed by washing with distilled water to remove residual 3-APTES and by-product. AFSBs were washed by adding 500 ml distilled water into the beaker and mixing for 10 min. Sample was collected using a steel net with aperture of 75 μm, dried at 105 °C for 3 h and stored in a polyethylene bottle for further experiments. Ag-NPBs were prepared in the similar way that previously reported  [43] . Two 250 ml beaker containing AFSBs (20 g) and distilled water (60 ml) were prepared and then 9.3 ml and 18.5 ml of 0.1 M AgNO 3  solution (Dae-Jung Chemical and Metals Co., Ltd.), corresponding to 0.5 and 1% weight of atomic silver compared to that of AFSBs, were added into each beaker, respectively. Solutions were mixed for 4 h to ensure that silver ions absorbed on AFSBs  [47] . The silver absorbed AFSBs were separated out of solution and washed with distilled water to eliminate free Ag +  and again placed in a 250 ml beaker containing 50 ml distilled water. Solution was continuously mixed while copious amount of 0.05 M NaBH 4  solution (Duksan Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.) was added at a rate of 5 ml/min. SBs became yellow as NaBH 4  solution was added that demonstrated the formation of Ag-NPBs  [37] . Ag-NPBs were removed and washed with distilled water and then dried at 100 °C for 3 h. Ag-NPBs samples treated with 0.5% and 1% Ag are denoted as SBA1 and SBA2, respectively. Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR) spectra of prepared materials were recorded on FT-IR Spectrometer (Perkin Elmer 783) using KBr pellets in the frequency range of 4000–600 cm −1 . The morphologies of samples were investigated using field emission scanning electron microscopy (FE-SEM, Hitachi, S-4800) with an accelerating voltage of 15 kV. Field emission scanning transmission electron microscopy (FE-STEM) pictures were taken using JEOL 2000 FX instrument. X-ray diffraction (XRD) was carried on XRD-6000 (Shimazu) operating at 40 kV, 100 mA with the Cu/Kα radiation ( γ  = 1.54059 Å). The Brunauer–Emmett–Teller (BET) surface area and the porosity of the samples were studied by using a nitrogen adsorption instrument (Micrometrics ASAP 2020). All the samples measured were degassed at 100 °C for 3 h before analyzing. Microscopic images were observed by using microscope (Olympus BX 51). UV–vis absorption spectra were acquired at RT using UV–vis spectrophotometer Optizen 2120 UV over the wave length range from 300 nm to 700 nm. The antibacterial activity of Ag-NPBs was tested on  E. coli  (ATCC 25922) as a gram negative strain and  B. subtilis  (ATCC 6633) as a gram positive strain. Both gram negative and gram positive bacteria were used for inhibitory zone tests, while  E. coli  was used for test tube tests to investigate the antibacterial properties of Ag-NPBs. A nutrient broth was used as the growing medium. Bacteria were grown aerobically in nutrient broth at 37 °C for 24 h. Nutrient agar was poured onto the Petri dishes and allowed to solidify. Bacteria were spread on the plate uniformly. About 0.05–0.10 g of SBs containing different silver content were gently placed over the solidified agar gel in round shape with diameter in the range of 10–15 mm. Plates were incubated at 37 °C for 24 h to check the zone of inhibition. Ag-NPBs (3 g, bulk density: 0.430 g/cm 3 ) containing 0.5% and 1% Ag were placed in 2 different test tubes. Then 10 ml  E. coli  suspension in distilled water with a concentration of about 4 × 10 6  CFU/ml were added. All the tubes were kept on the shaker for 20 min to study the antibacterial activity of Ag-NPBs. Fractions of suspension (100 μl) were withdrawn after 1 min, 5 min, 10 min, and 20 min of time intervals to investigate the influence of contact time on killing bacteria. Plating was done with the supernatant fractions by a series dilution method for 10 0 , 10 2 , and 10 4  dilutions with the nutrient broth. For every dilution, 10 μl of solution was plated and incubated at 37 °C for 24 h. SBs without Ag were used as a control and its microbiological effect was tested by the same procedure for Ag-NPBs. The water absorption determined is 1.5 ml/g. This indicated that amount of 3-APTES solution required for modification of 100 g SBs is about 150 ml. The 3-APTES solution was rapidly absorbed when it contacted SBs. Then, the 3-APTES molecules accumulated on the surface and in the pores of the SBs were hydrolyzed by catalysis of 4% HNO 3  acid. The hydrolyzed 3-APTES then reacted with active Si–OH groups on the surface of silica substrate as described in reactions  (2) ,  (3) . The procedure used to prepare Ag-NPBs from SBs was presented in  Scheme 1 . On the surface of active silica beads usually contain about 5–7 silanol groups per nm 2 [48] . These groups play very important role in the functionalization of silica beads. Silane coupling reagents can react with those silanol groups to form siloxane bridges. By this way, silica surface can be functionalized with various functional groups like amine, thiol or chlorine  [15] ,  [47] ,  [49] . In the present study, SBs were modified with 3-APTES by so-called dry method to graft the amino functional groups on their surface. Since mole ratio of water to 3-APTES was about 36 times, this method basically is similar to that used to modify silica in an aqueous solution  [43]  but it can reduce considerable processing time. AFSBs can absorb a significant amount of Ag +  ions due to complexes and electrostatic bonds formed between them and amino functional groups  [49] . Silver nanoparticles were created by reduction of Ag +  ions using NaBH 4 . Silver nanoparticles with high surface energy and unsaturated bonds were anchored on the surface and in the pores of SBs by amino functional groups  [50] . Scheme 1 . Illustration of the synthesis of Ag-NPBs. In order to confirm the success of functionalized process, FT-IR spectra were analyzed. FT-IR spectra of prepared materials were presented in  Fig. 1 . From this figure, bands at 3430, 1630, 1100, 950 and 800 cm −1  found in every sample belong to characteristic vibrations of silica substrate. The broad band at 3430 cm −1  is attributed to different O-H stretching vibrations. The bands located at 1630 cm −1  is assigned to vibration of H 2 O molecules. Those molecules are presumed to be absorbed inside the pores and linked to silica substrate through hydrogen bonds formed with silanol groups. The intense bands found at 1100 and 800 cm −1  correspond to Si–O–Si stretching and Si–O–Si bending vibration, respectively  [51] . Fig. 1 . FT-IR spectra of prepared materials: silica beads (a), AFSBs washed for 10 min (b) and 4 h (c), and AFSBs treated with 0.5% (d) and 1% Ag (e). The significant band at 950 cm −1  is due to the Si–OH stretching vibration. The intensity of this band considerably decreases after SBs were modified with 3-APTES indicating condensation of silianol groups to form siloxane bridges as described in reactions  (1) ,  (3) . A new band detected at about 2930 cm −1  on the spectra of AFSBs and Ag-NPBs corresponds to C–H stretching vibration in 3-aminopropyl radicals. The detection of this band proved that amino functional groups were successfully grafted on silica substrate. This is good agreement with previous studies which modified silica with 3-APTES  [41] . Fig. 1 b shows FT-IR spectrum of AFSBs washed for 10 min with distilled water. A band at 1383 cm −1  is likely to be the vibration of CH 3  groups in ethanol molecules  [44] , a by-product of hydrolysis reaction. Those ethanol molecules were trapped inside pores of silica and formed a hydrogen bond with silanol groups. However, this vibration band disappeared from spectra of Ag-NPBs. It can be explained by the release of ethanol molecules from AFSBs during mixing in AgNO 3  solution. In order to further confirm the release of ethanol, 10 g AFSBs were put into a 250 ml beaker contain 150 ml distilled water and mixed for 4 h. After drying, their FT-IR spectrum was obtained ( Fig. 1 c). It is obvious that ethanol was completely removed from AFSBs by further washing. The X-ray diffraction method was used to investigate the crystalline nature of the materials.  Fig. 2  shows the XRD patterns of specimens treated with different Ag concentrations. The broadened diffraction peak appeared at 23° in all specimens belonging to the amorphous silica matrix. No silver diffraction peaks were detected for AFSBs and SBA1. When nominal silver content increased to 1% in SBA2, the characteristic peaks of metallic silver were recorded at 2 θ  value of 38.1°, 44.3°, and 64.3° corresponding to the silver crystal plane (1 1 1), (2 0 0), and (2 2 0) of the face-centered cubic structure, respectively  [37] . The absence of diffraction peaks in XRD pattern of SBA1 is attributed to the low silver loading content and small particle distributed inside silica network  [52] . Fig. 2 . XRD patterns of prepared materials: AFSBs, SBA1 (0.5% Ag), and SBA2 (1% Ag). Fig. 3  shows the SEM micrographs of SBs, AFSBs ( Fig. 3 a) and Ag-NPBs treated with 1% Ag ( Fig. 3 b). These micrographs reveal that texture of AFSBs and Ag-NPBs was significantly modified compared with that of the SBs. The EDX elemental analysis of SBA2 was presented in  Fig. 3 b. A substantial peak of Ag was recorded with a silver content of 0.57%, which confirms the presence of silver in the Ag-NPBs. Fig. 3 . FE-SEM images of samples: (a) SBs and AFSBs and (b) SBA2 (1% Ag) and its EDX elemental analysis. TEM images of SBA1 and SBA2 were presented in  Fig. 4 . These micrographs indicated that silver particles have a wide size distribution which is more visible when nominal silver content increased to 1%. The analysis of particle size is quite complicated due to the overlapping of silver particles in silica structure; however, the size of silver particles has been estimated. In SBA1 sample, most silver particles with a relatively uniform size in the range about from 3 to 4 nm impregnate into the silica network, while only few silver particles with size of about 13 nm are likely to outwardly deposit on the silica network ( Fig. 4 a). There was a similar observation for SBA2; however, the size distribution as well as the shape of the silver particles in this sample became broader. The silver particles in the deep silica layer mostly have small size ranging from 3 to less than 10 nm whereas the particles in the exterior layer were estimated to be about 13 nm. Moreover, particles appeared in different shapes, particularly, silver rod-like particles were recorded with average diameter about 13 nm ( Fig. 4 b). Fig. 4 . TEM micrographs: (a) samples treated with 0.5% Ag (SBA1) and (b) samples treated with 1% Ag (SBA2). Obviously, particle size is different among silver nanoparticles which formed deeply in the channels of the silica network and at outer layer and surface of the silica substrate. The increase of nominal silver content to 1% had less influence on the size and the shape of particles deeply located in the interior layer compared to those located at the exterior layer and on the surface. This phenomenon is due to the spatial effect caused by the tiny pores in the silica network and the amino functional groups anchored on the silica surface. The former inhibits the growth of the silver particles within the silica channels and the latter acts as stabilizers to protect silver particles from aggregation and to anchor them to the silica structure  [15] . When nominal silver content increased to 1%, its concentration in the open pores, where the amino functional groups grafted on their wall, increased. This led to formation of the bigger silver particles and the rod-like particles within the pores. However, the diameter of these particles was restricted by pore size of silica substrate. This is consistent with a previous report which prepared silver nanowires in the pores of a silica gel  [53] . Silver nanoparticles usually have yellow color which can be realized by naked eye. The color is remained when silver nanoparticles are incorporated into silica structure. Previous study  [43]  indicated that yellow color of silver nanoparticle containing silica beads is related to presence of silver nanoparticles inside silica network. In present work, the microscopic images of Ag-NPBs were presented  Fig. 5 . Picture of SBs treated with 0.5% Ag was shown in  Fig. 5 a, where SBs appears in yellow. Those beads were then broken up and picture of their debris was obtained ( Fig. 5 b). Observation of debris revealed that intensity of color decreases along with the distance from the surface to the center of the SBs where it is almost transparent. It demonstrated that silver particles were formed and distributed in the pores at outer layer of SBs. Fig. 5 . Microscopic images of SBA1 (0.5% Ag): initial beads (a) and its debris (b). Fig. 6 a shows nitrogen adsorption–desorption isotherms of prepared materials. The nitrogen quantity absorbed considerably decreased after SBs were modified and treated with the silver nanoparticles indicating the decrease in the BET surface area and pore volume.  Fig. 6 b shows that the average pore size, pore volume and BET surface area of SBs simultaneously decreased after modification. These results consolidate the observation from SEM images that the texture of SBs was considerably modified after treated with 3-APTES.  Fig. 6 c presents the pore size distribution by using the Barrett, Joyner, and Hallenda (BJH) method. The average pore size of the SBs was 14.2 nm; it decreased to about 13.5 nm for AFSBs. Fig. 6 . Nitrogen adsorption–desorption isotherms of prepared materials (a), variations of BET surface areas, pore volume, and pore size of samples with silver nominal contents (b), and pore size distributions measured by the BJH method (c). Fig. 6 b and c reveals that the change was negligible for the pore size, while the pore volume and BET was slightly decreased after AFSBs were treated with 0.5% and 1% silver. These results indicated that the silver particles were coated on the surface and filled into the pores of SBs. Moreover, the silver rod-like particles observed in TEM images has a diameter of about 13 nm demonstrated that those particles were restricted by the pore size of AFSBs. When concentration of silver ions filled into the pores increased, the spatial restriction directed particles to longitudinal growth within pores. This evidence strongly recommends that silver nanoparticles were formed on the exterior surface and in the channels of SBs. The result is consistent with previous reports which fabricated silver nonowires by using porous silica  [54] ,  [55] . The UV–vis absorption spectra of prepared material are shown in  Fig. 7 . No peaks were observed for SB ( Fig. 7 , SB), while SBA 1 and SBA2 samples had broadened peaks at about 415 nm which indicated the surface Plasmon resonance of silver nanoparticles. In this instance, the intensity of peaks increased along with the silver content. However, the peak of SBA2 appeared more broadened and like a truncated one compared to that of SBA1 ( Fig. 7 , SBA1 and SBA2). This is likely to have been the formation of silver nanoparticles with different size and shape as described in previous reports  [38] ,  [56] . This assumption also is in agreement with observation from TEM images. Fig. 7 . Optical absorption spectra of prepared materials. The analysis of FT-IR spectra of prepared materials demonstrated that ethanol still remained in AFSBs washed for 10 min with distilled water. Therefore, zone inhibitory test against  E. coli  was carried out with AFSBs washed for 10 min and 4 h and Ag-NPBs. Since ethanol is strong antibacterial agent  [57] , its presence in AFSBs may induce antibacterial activity. Results indicated that AFSBs washed for 10 min have a very strong antibacterial ability, while AFSBs washed 4 h are not effective against study bacteria. This is complied with the FT-IR analysis that ethanol molecules formed by hydrolysis and functionalized reactions were trapped inside silica network and then were completely removed after 4 h washing with distilled water. Microbiological tests showed that AFSBs washed for 4 h have no inhibitory effect against both gram negative ( Fig. 8 a) and gram positive ( Fig. 8 b), whereas all types of Ag-NPBs exhibit good antibacterial activity, particularly, the zone of inhibition is almost the same for the SBs treated with 0.5% Ag and 1% Ag. In the test tube test, there was no  E. coli  detected after 1, 5, 10, and 20 min contact with Ag-NPBs in both 0.5% and 1% Ag samples. Inversely, substantial growth was counted for the control sample (SBs), about 4 × 10 6  CFU/ml ( Table 1 ). It is therefore evident that Ag-NPBs have good antibacterial properties. These properties are especially enhanced with the silver nanoparticles immobilized at the exterior layer of the porous SBs  [58] . Fig. 8 . Zone inhibitory tests: (a) zone of inhibition of AFSBs washed for 4 h, SBA1 and SBA2 against  E. coli  and (b) zone of inhibition of AFSBs washed for 4 h, SBA1 and SBA2 against  B. subtilis . Table 1 . Test tube tests against bacterial suspension in distilled water. A number of studies have reported on preparation of silver containing porous silica and investigate their antibacterial properties. It is previously reported that silver nanoparticle containing silica does not only has high antibacterial efficacy but also controllable release rate of silver ions into working media for a sustained antibacterial activity  [17] ,  [59] ,  [60] . Almost silver containing silica particles prepared have small size which range from about 1 to 7 μm  [61] ,  [62] . Those materials usually possess low minimum inhibitory concentration in aqueous solution  [63] ,  [64] ; however it is difficult to remove them from solution. In this report, Ag-NPBs showed a strong antibacterial activity, 100%  E. coli  was inactivated with 1 min contact. Moreover, they can be easily separated from aqueous solution due to their size ranging from 180 to 500 μm. The obtained results demonstrated that Ag-NPBs are a promising antibacterial material for water disinfection. SBs synthesized by sol–gel method were successfully functionalized with 3-APTES using a so-called dry method. The synthesized AFSBs proved to be a good substrate for supporting silver nanoparticles. Silver nanoparticles with a size ranging from 3 to 13 nm were created in the pores at the exterior layer and on the surface of the SBs. As silver content increased to 1%, silver rod-like particles, which have diameter about 13 nm, were grown by the spatial restriction within silica pores. The zone inhibition tests showed a good antibacterial activity against both gram negative and gram positive bacteria. In the test tube test, no  E. coli  was detected after 1 min contact, whereas it is about 4 × 10 6  CFU/ml in the control. These results indicate that Ag-NPBs are a potential antibacterial material, which could be applied for water filter. However, further experiments such as flow test and ability of silver ions as well as nanoparticles to release into water should be examined. “This study was supported by a grant from the Fundamental R & D Program for Core Technology of Materials funded by the  Ministry of Knowledge Economy , Republic of Korea.” Elsevier We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content and ads. By continuing you agree to the  use of cookies . Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. or its licensors or contributors. ScienceDirect ® is a registered trademark of Elsevier B.V. 