3-Ingredient Apple Dump Cake Recipe - BettyCrocker.com 2019 General Mills, Inc. All Rights Reserved. This information will only be used to send an email to your friend(s) and will not be saved. Please read our  Privacy Policy . 2019 General Mills, Inc. All Rights Reserved. This information will only be used to send an email to your friend(s) and will not be saved. Please read our  Privacy Policy . Fresh apples, Betty Crocker™ Super Moist™ yellow cake mix and melted butter combine in this easy-to-make, easy-to-eat dessert. MORE+ LESS- Offers may take up to 10 minutes to be added to your account. Check out our FAQs . Link your store loyalty account to add this coupon. Sorry, there was an error adding the offer to your account.     © 2019 ®/TM General Mills All Rights Reserved Do you mean you cooked the apples before adding the rest?? If so, for how long?? What kind of apples did you use?? It was just ok Good!   Easy!   Great to take for Covered Dish JulieMichele 3 ingredients apple-dump cake easy, delicious If your allergic to nuts, try using 'Grape Nut Cereal' as a substitute.  I've done that in making 'Banana Bread' for friends of mine who can not have nuts.  This is a great recipe! Get kitchen tested recipes, meal ideas and more – straight to your inbox Get kitchen tested recipes, meal ideas and more – straight to your inbox Loading... Get kitchen tested recipes, meal ideas and more – straight to your inbox Get kitchen tested recipes, meal ideas and more – straight to your inbox You are not eligible to join the Betty Crocker community. But guess what, you don't need to be a member to get thousands of great recipes and how-to videos. So stick around and enjoy! By clicking \"Join\", I agree to BettyCrocker.com's  Privacy Policy , Legal Terms and  Community Rules  and that General Mills may freely use ideas or materials that I provide, with or without attribution to me. I also won't upload anything owned by anyone else nor upload images of (or personal information about) anyone else without permission. By clicking \"Join\", I agree to BettyCrocker.com's  Privacy Policy , Legal Terms and  Community Rules  and that General Mills may freely use ideas or materials that I provide, with or without attribution to me. I also won't upload anything owned by anyone else nor upload images of (or personal information about) anyone else without permission. Log in to submit your question Other perks: Log in to access your favorite recipes from any device, anywhere. Log in to print new coupons every week. Save up to $250/year! Plus... Log in to save your favorite recipes on BettyCrocker.com Plus... Log in for all the perks at BettyCrocker.com Just log in/register to begin. Other perks: Log in to rate, review and share your recipe twists Plus... You’re on our email list, just a few more steps! Login for all the perks at BettyCrocker.com We found your email in our system. \r\nPlease provide your site password to link to your existing account: Link your store loyalty account to add this coupon. Sorry, there was an error adding the offer to your account. ©2019 General Mills, Inc. All Rights Reserved. This information will only be used to send an email to your friend(s) and will not be saved. Please read our  Privacy Policy . 