Meadow Lake Resort C$ 114 (C̶$̶ ̶1̶4̶3̶). Columbia Falls Hotel Deals  &  Reviews - KAYAK Star Star Star Star Star No breakfast included Too cluttered with dried flowers and plants Exteremly clean, great view from our balcony, great staff! All the rooms have a balcony on the golf course. Lovely, and quiet. We enjoyed walking around the property for exercise after a long day in the car. The room was well appointed, with all of the features we needed and the TV was big, so easy to see anywhere in the room. Movies were available to borrow at the rec center, the selection was good, and they sent a tech to our room when we could not make the DVR work. Columbia Falls is a lovely town, and not far from Glacier. Lots of small things did not work properly, although they always promised to find help for us. Bed was really hard, and the window heater was annoying at is cycled off and on all night. Noise from the neighbors was really bad. Loved how clean it was A guy broke into our condo from the patio at midnight and scared the hell out of my husband and I second night we were here! Had paid for and hour and half couples massage with foot scrub and after $250 was done in 50 minutes!!!! Waiting to hear from Manager on issues. We stayed in Oct, so it was the off season, so we liked everything about it- price was good, location was good, quiet, clean, good food, nice area, saw a black bear down the road. Spa hours,- they closed at 5, which seemed a little early for travelers, but probably normal since clientele is mostly owners of the houses in the resort community. The staff was super super nice and accommodating. Everyone was very friendly. The service in the restaurant and bar was horrid. We ordered a couple beers and some chips and salsa. We had to wait about 40 mins for our chips and salsa and there was no one around to ask for help in getting served. Very disorganized.We checked in the room at 4:10 pm and upon arrival in our condo noticed the cleaning staff's stuff still there and the room was not cleaned yet. The linens had been taken care of but nothing else. I think the attention to detail is not there. Nice resort but......... The room was nice, spacious with a great view of a beautiful golf course. The food at the restaurant wasn't bad, and they had good happy hour specials. The grounds were well maintained and there was2 nice pools with hot tubs. Although the room was comfortable and spacious I don't think it's been thoroughly cleaned in a while. There was a coating of dust on most surfaces.After being there for a week we had to request that the room be vacuumed and the bathroom cleaned. This was on a Friday and they said it couldn't be done until Monday. They vacuumed the main living area but didn't bother with the bathroom. The sheets were changed once upon our request however they weren't completely dry so we had to sleep on damp sheets. The golf course was a very pretty and peaceful setting.The staff were friendly and helpfulClose to Glacier National Park and WhitefishClean and well maintained. The bed was really soft.We were on the lower floor and there is not a lot of sound barrier, we could hear the people upstairs very clearly walking/stomping around, at 4:30am The facility is beautiful! Spotty housekeeping, and food service could have been better with more hours and more selection. With a stay at Meadow Lake Resort in Columbia Falls, you'll be 9.3 mi (14.9 km) from Flathead National Forest and 9.3 mi (15 km) from Frank Lloyd Wright Building. Featured amenities include a 24-hour business center, a 24-hour front desk, and a library. A roundtrip airport shuttle is complimentary (available 24 hours), and a train station pick-up service is also provided at no charge. Hotels.com based on 530 reviews Bar Wellness Service Breakfast Policies vary by room type and provider. Meadow Lake Resort is located at 100 Saint Andrews Drive, 2.6 km from the centre of Columbia Falls. Check-in time is 3:00 PM and check-out time is 10:00 AM at Meadow Lake Resort. Yes, Meadow Lake Resort offers free Wi-Fi. Yes, Meadow Lake Resort offers free parking. Yes, Meadow Lake Resort offers free airport shuttle service. Meadow Lake Resort is 9.1 km from Kalispell Glacier Park. No, pets are not allowed at Meadow Lake Resort. Yes, Meadow Lake Resort has a pool on-site. Star Star Star Star Star Star Star Star Star Star Star Star Star Star Star Search for Meadow Lake Resort discounts in Columbia Falls with KAYAK. Search for the cheapest hotel deal for Meadow Lake Resort in Columbia Falls. KAYAK searches hundreds of travel sites to help you find and book the hotel deal at Meadow Lake Resort that suits you best. C$ 116 per night (Latest starting price for this hotel) - Save up to 35%. Star products - flights interface - City products - hotels interface - POI interface - map 