canada Ndrangheta Archives | About The Mafia About The Mafia Online Source For Mafia News And Information March 2, 2019  By  TheBoss 57 Comments Giuseppe Ursino  a leader in the powerful  Ndrangheta Mafia  has been sentenced to twelve and a half years behind bars. The 65-year-old  Ontario mafia  boss also known as  Pino  was part of a cocaine trafficking conspiracy. He and co-defendant  Cosmin  Chris  Dracea  of Toronto who was hit with a ten-year prions sentence were arrested back in 2015 and convicted last April in the landmark mafia case. Both men will have their sentences reduced by one year after being credited with time spent in custody awaiting trial. A Toronto Star  report  detailed further aspects of the sentencing hearing and case against the defendants.  The  Ndrangheta  also known as the  Calabrian Mafia  originated in Southern Italy but have spread to several other countries including Canada. This trial marked the first time that the Ndrangheta was declared by Canada s superior court to be one of the countries active criminal organization. Giuseppe (Pino) Ursino The Crown proved that the group was planning to import hundreds of kilograms of cocaine into the country from Jamaica, Costa Rica and the Dominican Republic by various methods. The investigation codenamed  Project OPhoenix  found success with the help of  mobster  turned informant  Carmine Guido . The veteran wiseguy decided to switch teams and wore a wire secretly recording hundreds of hours of conversations. He helped police gather evidence on other senior  mobsters  and associates including a secretly recorded video of the accused. He then took the stand at trial and detailed the exploits of his criminal life before heading into witness protection. The  Ndrangehta  has become one of the more powerful  organized crime  groups in Canada.  Giuseppe Ursino  was the head of one of many clans which now exist throughout the country most of which are located in the Toronto area. These Canadian based cells seemingly govern themselves and their activities although they are accountable to the ultimate authority which still resides in Calabria, Italy. They have overtaken the more notable  Sicilian Mafia  as the most powerful criminal group in Italy. They are believed to have played a role in the attacks against the Sicilian based  Rizzuto crime family  in Montreal. The ongoing  Montreal mafia war  may be the beginning of the Ndrangheta s push to become the most powerful criminal organization in Canada just like in Italy. It s an organization built around families using ties of blood and marriage to protect its ranks and add to its secretive nature.  When it comes to the  mafia in Canada  they are definitely a force to be reckoned with. Filed Under:  Ndrangheta Tagged With:  about the mafia ,  about the mob ,  Calabrian Mafia ,  Calabrian Mafia in canada ,  canada Ndrangheta ,  Carmine Guido ,  Cosmin "Chris" Dracea ,  Cosmin Dracea ,  Giuseppe Ursino ,  latest mafia news ,  mafia ,  mafia families ,  mafia in canada ,  mafia information ,  mafia news ,  mafia news today ,  mafia today ,  mob news ,  mob news today ,  Mobster ,  Mobsters ,  montreal mafia war ,  Ndrangheta ,  Ndrangheta in canada ,  Ndrangheta in ontario ,  ndrangheta in toronto ,  Ndrangheta mafia ,  Ontario mafia ,  ontario ndrangheta ,  organized crime ,  organized crime in Canada ,  Project Ophoenix ,  recent mafia news ,  Rizzuto Crime Family ,  Sicilian Mafia ,  the italian mafia ,  the mafia ,  the mafia today ,  the mob ,  the mob today ,  toronto mafia ,  toronto ndrangheta November 13, 2017  By  TheBoss 38 Comments A new look into the inner workings of the  Mafia  is part of newly unsealed court documents associated with a recent international drug bust. Investigations by the FBI in New York targeted alleged members and associates of the  Bonanno crime family  and  Gambino crime family  of the  New York Mafia  while a parallel RCMP investigation targeted members of the  Ndrangheta  in Canada exposing links between the criminal organizations. According to these court documents, the FBI was able to covertly record audio and video of an unnamed man believed to be a confidential informant being inducted into the  Bonanno family  during a 2015 ceremony in Canada. Acting Brooklyn U.S. Attorney Bridget Rohde said  “The recording of a secret induction ceremony is an extraordinary achievement for law enforcement, and deals a significant blow to  La Cosa Nostra . One of the men present at the ceremony can be heard saying “The reason why we’re here is from this day forward, you’re gonna be an official member of the Bonanno family,” according to court documents. Reputed Bonanno family captain  Damiano Zummo  was cited as saying “From this guy, this guy, this guy, everybody approved it, so from this day forward, you’re a member of the Bonanno family. Congratulations.  The 44-year-old  Cosa Nosa  capo went on to say “You only answer to the Bonanno family.” He also introduced the man who was actually making the recording to a “friend of ours with the Bonanno s .” Zummo has been charged with drug dealing, weapons possession, and loansharking and has been held without bail. He and one of his co-defendants suspected mob associate Paul Ragusa allegedly sold approx $40,000 of cocaine out of a Gelato shop in Manhattan. Ragusa was also captured on a separate recording offering to whack someone with an ice pick although has yet to be charged with anything relating to that statement. He is also being held without bail. These joint investigations into  organized crime  have shed more light on the ongoing connections between the  mafia in Canada  and New York. To get a  mafia induction ceremony  on video is certainly a new high for law enforcement and a new low for  the mob ! Filed Under:  Bonanno Family Tagged With:  about the mafia ,  aboutthemafia ,  american mafia ,  Bonanno Crime Family ,  Bonanno family ,  Calabrian Mafia ,  Calabrian Mafia in canada ,  canada mafia news ,  canada Ndrangheta ,  Cosa Nosa ,  cosa nostra ,  cosa nostra news ,  Damiano Zummo ,  Gambino Crime Family ,  la cosa nostra ,  latest mafia news ,  mafia ,  mafia in canada ,  mafia in new york ,  mafia induction ceremony ,  mafia information ,  mafia news ,  mafia news today ,  mafia today ,  mob news ,  Mobster ,  Mobsters ,  Montreal Mafia ,  montreal mafia news ,  Ndrangheta ,  Ndrangheta in canada ,  New York Mafia ,  new york mafia news ,  ny mafia ,  ny mafia news ,  ny mob ,  Ontario mafia ,  organized crime ,  recent mafia news ,  the italian mafia ,  the mafia ,  the mafia today ,  the mob ,  the mob today ,  toronto mafia November 10, 2017  By  TheBoss 33 Comments A coordinated Canadian-US investigation into drug trafficking including the fentanyl trade has led to the arrest of alleged members and associates of  organized crime  on both sides of the border. The RCMP conducted early morning raids across Ontario arresting nine people and issued Canada-wide warrants for five others with ties to the  Calabrian mafia  also known as the  Ndrangheta  as part of a multi-year investigation. Authorities seized multiple kilograms of fentanyl, carfentanil, cocaine, and heroin along with other controlled substances and millions of illegal cigarettes. The FBI conducted a parallel but separate investigation targeting both the  Gambino crime family  and the  Bonanno crime family  of the  New York mafia . The feds arrested four men they claim are associated with the  Cosa Nostra  families charging them with narcotics trafficking, loansharking and firearms charges. Domenico Paolo Violi and Giuseppe (Joe) Violi Among those arrested by the RCMP in Canada was  Domenico Violi  the son of  Paolo Violi  the former Calabrian boss of the  Montreal mafia . Violi was the head of the Montreal crime family until he was murdered in 1978 by members of the Rizzuto crime family as they moved to take control of the Montreal underworld. An arrest warrant was also issued for  Giuseppe Violi  another one of Paolo s sons. The two alleged GTA  mobsters  being accused are grandsons of  Giacomo Luppino  of Hamilton. According to police Luppino was a founding member of a governing body of criminals in the  Ndragheta  called the  Crimine . Canadian authorities said the operation began with a mobster that turned on his associates giving them an opportunity to infiltrate some higher level traditional organized crime members. They also added that they had a source that was respected by  organized crime  groups in both the U.S. and Canada. Among those arrested by the Feds in New York were Bonanno family capo  Damiano Zummo , Gambino family member  Paul Semplice , and associates  Salvatore Russo  and  Paul Ragusa . According to the feds during the investigation agents were able to obtain surveillance recordings of a 2015 induction ceremony in Canada in which Bonanno capo Zummo inducted a confidential informant into the crime family. Acting U.S. attorney in Brooklyn called the recordings  an extraordinary achievement for law enforcement and deals a significant blow to  La Cosa Nostra .  If convicted Zummo, Ragusa and Russo could face life in prison while Semplice could be looking at up to 20 years behind bars. Canadian authorities alleged the Violi brothers are well-established with “an international reach.” There have been alleged links esp when it comes to drug trafficking between the  Ndrangheta in Canada  and the  NY mafia  for years now. Many believe it was the Ndrangheta that backed a rebellion against the  Rizzuto crime family  led by Raynald Desjardins for control of the lucrative drug trade in Montreal and New York. According to the FBI, the  Calabrian mafia  was partnering with these members and associates of the Bonanno and Gambino families which were obvious choices considering their long-standing involvement in the international drug trade and their past links to the  mafia in Canada . Michael McGarrity, special agent in charge of Criminal Division for the FBI’s New York Field Office said:   these investigations revealed renewed  Mafia  links from New York to Buffalo and Toronto to Montreal and led to arrests of significant  La Cosa Nostra  figures . Filed Under:  Bonanno Family ,  Canadian Mafia ,  Gambino Family Tagged With:  about the mafia ,  aboutthemafia ,  american mafia ,  Bonanno Crime Family ,  Calabrian Mafia ,  canada mafia news ,  canada Ndrangheta ,  canada us mafia bust ,  cosa nostra ,  cosa nostra news ,  Crimine ,  Damiano Zummo ,  Domenico Violi ,  Gambino Crime Family ,  Giacomo Luppino ,  Giuseppe Violi ,  GTA mafia ,  la cosa nostra ,  latest mafia news ,  mafia in canada ,  mafia in new york ,  mafia information ,  mafia news ,  mafia news today ,  mafia today ,  mob news ,  mob news today ,  Mobster ,  Mobsters ,  Montreal Mafia ,  Ndrangheta ,  Ndrangheta in canada ,  ndrangheta news ,  New York Mafia ,  new york mafia news ,  ny mafia ,  ny mafia news ,  Ontario mafia ,  organized crime ,  Paolo Violi ,  Paul Ragusa ,  Paul Semplice ,  recent mafia news ,  Rizzuto Crime Family ,  Salvatore Russo ,  the italian mafia ,  the mafia ,  the mob ,  the mob today ,  U.S. Canada mafia bust ,  US Canada mafia bust September 30, 2015  By  TheBoss 6 Comments The  Calabrian Mafia  is also known as the  Ndrangheta  was the target of a massive mob bust, in which 50 people were either arrested or named for various alleged mob crimes. According to authorities in Italy the investigation targeted some of the most powerful Ndrangheta families and the Ndrangheta elite. The international investigation also included links to the Calabrian mafia in Toronto and Ontario Canada. The investigation focused on key Ndrangheta clans which have influence in Canada, including the  Commisso ,  Crupi , and  Aquino-Coluccio clans . Clockwise from top left: Carmelo Bruzzese, Rocco Remo Commisso, Salvatore Coluccio and Antonio alleged mobsters with links to Canada The mix of these mob clans in Canada are known as the  Siderno Group  and controls  mafia  territory mainly in the Toronto and Ontario areas. Back in 2010 an investigation into the  mafia in Canada  revealed the seven main  Ndrangheta  families operating in the Toronto area each run by seperate bosses. The recent probe in Italy has named four of the seven alleged bosses which include  Domenico Ruso ,  Cosimo Figliomeni ,  Angelo Figliomeni , and  Antonio Coluccio . Also named was  Carmelo Bruzzese  who was already listed as a fugitive in Italy for mob crimes and currently fighting a Canadian deportation order to Italy. Also included in the list of wanted men was  Rocco Remo Commisso  who has long been named as a part of the Canadian mafia. Three brothers who lived in Canada before returning to Italy:  Antonio Coluccio ,  Giuseppe Coluccio  and  Salvatore Coluccio  were also named in the probe. Italian government sources have confirmed the definite links to Canada within the powerful crime family. There have yet to be any immediate signs of any arrest being carried out in Canada as a result of the probe. Filed Under:  Ndrangheta Tagged With:  about the mafia ,  about the mob ,  aboutthemafia ,  Angelo Figliomeni ,  Antonio Coluccio ,  Aquino-Coluccio clans ,  Calabrian Mafia ,  Calabrian mafia in Toronto ,  Calabrian Mafia news ,  canada mafia news ,  canada Ndrangheta ,  canadian mafia news ,  Carmelo Bruzzese ,  Commisso clans ,  Cosimo Figliomeni ,  Crupi clans ,  Domenico Ruso ,  Giuseppe Coluccio ,  latest mafia news ,  mafia ,  mafia in canada ,  mafia information ,  mafia news ,  mafia news today ,  mafia today ,  mob news ,  Ndrangheta ,  Ndrangheta 2015 ,  Ndrangheta in canada ,  Ndrangheta mafia news ,  ndrangheta news ,  recent mafia news ,  Rocco Remo Commisso ,  Salvatore Coluccio ,  Siderno group ,  Siderno Group mafia ,  the italian mafia ,  the mafia ,  the mafia today ,  the mob June 3, 2015  By  TheBoss 3 Comments Mafia  raids in Canada targeted the  Ndrangheta  operations in the GTA arresting nineteen members on multiple criminal charges. More then 25 search warrants were executed in early morning hour raids in the Greater Toronto Area. An investigation into the  Calabrian mafia  known as the Ndrangheta that started back in 2013 being called  Project Ophoenix  targeted the highest levels of the criminal organization operating in the area. The two year long joint forces operation set out to dismantle Ndrangheta cells that controlled various criminal rackets including drug and firearms trafficking. Authorities say the specific organization targeted was led by  Giuseppe Ursino  and now deceased  Carmine Verduci  along with help from  Diego Serrano  who was also a serious facilitator. Ursino and Serrano were among the 19 members arrested during  the mob  take down. The  Ndrangheta  origins are in the Calabria region of Italy but have long had a presence in Canada with multiple families now operating in various regions including the GTA. The Ndrangheta groups combine their efforts both nationally and internationally to expand their power base and influence in multiple countries. The  GTA Ndrangheta  is believed to have had a hand in the recent Montreal mafia war which led to attacks against the Sicilian mafia aligned Rizzuto crime family. Filed Under:  Canadian Mafia Tagged With:  about the mafia ,  aboutthemafia ,  Calabrian Mafia ,  Calabrian Mafia in canada ,  canada italian mafia ,  canada mafia news ,  canada mob news ,  canada Ndrangheta ,  Carmine Verduci ,  Diego Serrano ,  Giuseppe Ursino ,  GTA mafia ,  GTA Ndrangheta ,  latest mafia news ,  mafia ,  mafia 2015 ,  mafia in canada ,  mafia news 2015 ,  mafia news today ,  mafia today ,  mob in canada ,  mob news ,  Ndrangheta ,  Ndrangheta 2015 ,  Ndrangheta in canada ,  Ndrangheta mafia ,  ndrangheta news ,  operation Ophoenix ,  operationOphoenix ,  Project Ophoenix ,  recent mafia news ,  the italian mafia ,  the mafia ,  the mafia today ,  the mob ,  toronto mafia news ,  toronto mob news Copyright  &# x000A9; 2019 ·  Log in 