Publications – Closing the Employment Standards Enforcement Gap Closing the Employment Standards Enforcement Gap A Research Initiative on Improving Protections for People in Precarious Jobs This submission to the Canada Labour Programme's review of the Canada Labour Code draws on research findings of  Closing the Employment Standards Enforcement Gap: Improving Protections for People in Precarious Jobs . This research brief presents a detailed and evidence-based assessment of the options set out in the Interim Report of the Changing Workplaces Review for reforming Ontario’s  Employment Standards Act  as well as aspects of Ontario’s  Labour Relations Act . The brief draws on findings of “Closing the Employment Standards Enforcement Gap: Improving Protections for People in Precarious Jobs” based on primary research, evidence from other jurisdictions, and secondary scholarly literature and policy analysis. The Interim Report of the Changing Workplace Review released on July 26, 2016 sets out four options for reforming the Personal Emergency Leave (PEL) provisions of the Employment Standards Act and is seeking public input on the alternatives posed. Prepared by researchers affiliated with the research partnership “Closing the Enforcement Gap: Improving Protections for People in Precarious Jobs,” this research brief responds to this call for input drawing upon both preliminary findings of our research, evidence from other jurisdictions, and scholarly literature and policy analysis on the subject of PEL. Growing evidence shows that the Employment Standards Act is failing to provide a floor of rights for Ontario’s employees, leaving many people vulnerable to many types of violations. In our first research note, we explore five reasons why improving employment standards enforcement matters for all of us. Thomas Mark, Leah F. Vosko, Eric Tucker, Mercedes Steedman, Andrea M. Noack, John Grundy, Mary Gellatly, and Lisa Leinveer (Fall 2019). “The Employment Standards Enforcement Gap and the Overtime Pay Exemption in Ontario.” Labour/Le travail 84: 25-53. Employment Standards (ES) legislation sets minimum terms and conditions of employment in areas such as wages, working time, vacations and leaves, and termination and severance. ES legislation is designed to provide minimum workplace protections, in particular, for those with little bargaining power in the labour market. In practice, however, ES legislation includes ways in which legislated standards may be avoided, including through exemptions that exclude specified employee groups, fully or partially, from legislative coverage. With a focus on the Ontario Employment Standards Act, this paper develops a case study of exemptions to the Overtime Pay provision of the Act and regulations and examines in closer detail three particular areas in which exemptions apply. Through this study of the Overtime Pay exemption, the system of exemptions is presented as a contradictory approach to the regulation of ES that, in effect, reduces ES coverage, contributes to the avoidance of key legislated standards, and undermines the goal of providing protection for workers in precarious jobs. Vosko, Leah F., Eric Tucker, and Rebecca Casey. “Enforcing employment standards for temporary migrant agricultural workers in Ontario, Canada: Exposing underexplored layers of vulnerability.” (2019). International Journal of Comparative Labour Law and Industrial Relations 35(2): 227-254. Over 50,000 migrant agricultural workers are employed in Canada each year, almost half of whom are destined for the Province of Ontario. These workers are among the most vulnerable in the country and therefore most in need of labour and employment law protection. One important source of employment rights in Ontario is the Employment Standards Act (ESA), which establishes basic minimum entitlements in areas such as wages, working time, and vacations and leaves. Drawing on an analysis of the Ontario Ministry of Labour’s (MOL’s) Employment Standards Information System (ESIS), a previously untapped administrative data source containing information on all of Ontario’s employment standards (ES) enforcement activities and their outcomes, this article investigates the enforcement of ES among migrant agricultural workers. After offering a few methodological caveats, the analysis unfolds in three parts beginning, in Part I, by setting the stage with a discussion of the layers of vulnerability that combine to construct migrant agricultural workers as an extreme case. Against this backdrop, Part II describes agricultural workers’ limited entitlements under the ESA and the Act’s complaint-based enforcement regime, which produces, for workers in general, a gap between rights on the books and in practice. Part III then looks more specifically at ES enforcement among agricultural workers, focusing, where possible, on the situation of those that are migrants and illustrating how a complaint-based enforcement regime and an under resourced and poorly targeted inspectorate is ill-suited to the realization of rights among this group. Mirchandani, Kiran and Sheldon Bromfield (2019). “Roundabout wage theft: The limits of regulatory protections for Ontario workers in precarious jobs.”  Journal of Labor and Society  (volume unavailable): 1-17. This article focuses on wage theft experienced by workers in precarious jobs in Ontario, Canada. Workers report that employers utilize subtle forms of wage theft, which one respondent in this study described as “roundabout” wage theft. We argue that the enforcement of the Employment Standards Act requires not only action on overt wage theft but also a proactive approach which challenges employers' subtle practices which result in wage theft. We highlight two sets of practices resulting in wage theft, although these may not always in themselves represent violations of the law. First, employers use discourses of futurity where promises of future work or payment are evoked to deter employee action on unpaid wages. Second, employers set up confusing payment structures which mask unpaid wages as difficult-to-detect errors. Mirchandani, Kiran, Mary Jean Hande, and Shelley Condratto (2019). “Complaints-Based Entrepreneurialism: Worker Experiences of the Employment Standards Complaints Process in Ontario, Canada.”  The Canadian Review of Sociology  56(3): 347-367. In Ontario, workers who face unfair working conditions have the option of filing an official complaint with the Ministry of Labour. Complaints making is characterized as a widely available, easily accessible, and free-of-cost avenue for workers who may have experienced a violation of the law. However, interviews with Ontario workers who have filed complaints tell a different story. This paper is based on a community-university project on the enforcement of the Employment Standards Act in Ontario. We draw on 36 interviews with workers employed in precarious jobs in Sudbury, Toronto, and Windsor, who filed complaints to the Ministry. Workers characterize the complaints process as rife with bureaucratic complexity, risk, and unsuccessful payouts. Their experiences shed light on the efficacy of complaint-based approaches that are often promoted as a form of “bottom-up” enforcement of employment standards (ES). We demonstrate that the current ES complaints system requires workers to enact neoliberal entrepreneurialism (rather than agentic or collective entrepreneurialism) creating a highly stressful, enormously time-consuming, and demoralizing experience. We document the increasingly individualized and contradictory avenues through which workers must act as entrepreneurs to navigate and self-advocate when their rights have been violated. We argue that the current complaint processes limit the potentially empowering impact of this strategy. Hande, Mary Jean Hande, Ayesha Mian Akram, and Shelley Condratto.  Journal of International Migration and Integration.  Not yet assigned volume, issue. June 2019. Prior to entering Canadian workplaces, immigrants generally expect strong legislative protections based on Canada’s global reputation for equity and equality as reported by Hardwick and Mansfield (Annals of the Association of American Geographers, 99(2), 383-405, 2009). However, after exposure to poor working conditions, employment standards (ES) violations, and challenges with filing claims for recompense, immigrant workers’ perceptions of work in Canada often diminish significantly. Although scholars have explored Canadian immigrants’ experiences with unemployment and poor working conditions, little research has uncovered the effects of these experiences on their shifting perceptions of Canada and their overall experience of adjusting to a new life in Canada. Our narrative data, collected in Ontario, Canada, reveals (1) the exploitation of immigrant workers’ perceived limited access to and knowledge of workplace rights and (2) limited access to employment opportunities and protections for immigrant workers. These two factors lead to workers’ diminishing perceptions of Canada as they navigate poor working conditions on the precarity track according to Goldring and Landolt (Goldring and Landolt 2013). This analysis offers insight into the everyday experiences of immigrant workers and the impacts of precarious employment on perceptions of Canada. Vokso, Leah F., John Grundy, Rebecca Casey, Andrea M. Noack, and Mark P. Thomas (2019).  Canadian Labour  &  Employment Law Journal  21(2): 267-298. The development of employment standards legislation in Ontario has historically been shaped by a tension between the competing goals of establishing a minimum floor of protections for employees and minimizing interference with employers’ business practices. This tension has resulted in the establishment of numerous exemptions from the legislated minimum standards based on the perceived needs of particular industries, sectors or occupational groups. The growth of the patchwork of exemptions has been accompanied in recent decades by the spread of precarious employment, with particular effects on women, recent immigrants, and young people. By examining specific occupations subject to an exemption from or special rule regarding the minimum wage, this article reveals the disproportionate costs of exemptions for certain groups of employees. Through an in-depth look at the cases of homecare employees, liquor servers, and agricultural employees, it demonstrates how exemptions and special rules can exacerbate insecurity for those in occupations characterized by high degrees of precariousness, and often otherwise subject to disadvantage in the labour force. Tucker, Eric; Leah F. Vosko, Rebecca Casey, Mark Thomas, John Grundy, and Andrea M. Noack (2019).  International Journal of Comparative Labour Law  35(1): 1–30. This article assesses whether a deterrence gap exists in the enforcement of the Ontario Employment Standards Act (ESA), which sets minimum conditions of employment in areas such as minimum wage, overtime pay and leaves. Drawing on a unique administrative data set, the article measures the use of deterrence in Ontario’s ESA enforcement regime against the role of deterrence within two influential models of enforcement: responsive regulation and strategic enforcement. The article finds that the use of deterrence is below its prescribed role in either model of enforcement. We conclude that there is a deterrence gap in Ontario. Casey, Rebecca, Eric Tucker, Leah F. Vosko, and Andrea M. Noack (2018).  The Economic and Labour Relations Review  29(2): 228–249. It is widely agreed that there is a crisis in labour/employment standards enforcement. A key issue is the role of deterrence measures that penalise violations. Employment standards enforcement in Ontario, like in most jurisdictions, is based mainly on a compliance framework promoting voluntary resolution of complaints and, if that fails, ordering restitution. Deterrence measures that penalise violations are rarely invoked. However, the Ontario government has recently increased the role of proactive inspections and tickets, a low-level deterrence measure which imposes fines of CAD295 plus victim surcharges. In examining the effectiveness of the use of tickets in inspections, we begin by looking at this development in the broader context of employment standards enforcement and its historical trajectory. Then, using administrative data from the Ministry of Labour, we examine when and why tickets are issued in the course of workplace inspections. After demonstrating that even when ticketable violations are detected, tickets are issued only rarely, we explore factors associated with an increased likelihood of an inspector issuing a ticket. Finally, we consider how the overall deterrent effect of workplace inspections is influenced by the use or non-use of deterrence tools. Vosko, Leah F., John Grundy, and Mark P. Thomas (2016).  Economic and Industrial Democracy  37(2): 373–398. A mounting crisis in employment standards (ES) enforcement is prompting the adoption of new instruments and mechanisms among governments in common law jurisdictions aiming to improve workplace regulation. This shift, evident across all stages of the enforcement process, indicates the increasing influence of regulatory new governance. Using reforms in four jurisdictions as illustrative examples, this article raises serious cautions around the emergence of regulatory new governance in employment standards enforcement. The central argument of the article is that new modes of regulation that fail to account adequately for the power dynamics of the employment relationship risk entrenching processes of regulatory degradation. In light of this potential, the article outlines four principles for more effective ES regulation that aim to balance aspects of traditional regulatory models with a selective application of more promising elements of regulatory new governance, in particular participatory arrangements that involve workers in enforcement processes. Vosko, Leah F., John Grundy, Eric Tucker, Mark P. Thomas, Andrea M. Noack, Rebecca Casey, Mary Gellatly, and Jennifer Mussell (2017).  Industrial Relations Journal  48(3): 256–273. This article critically assesses the compliance model of employment standards enforcement through a study of monetary employment standards violations in Ontario, Canada. The findings suggest that, in contexts where changes to the organisation of work deepen insecurity for employees, models of enforcement that emphasise compliance over deterrence are unlikely to effectively prevent or remedy employment standards violations. Gellatly, Mary, John Grundy, Kiran Mirchandani, J. Adam Perry, Mark P. Thomas, and Leah F. Vosko (2011).  The Economic and Labour Relations Review  22(2): 81–106. In October 2010, the provincial government of Ontario, Canada enacted the Open for Business Act (OBA). A central component of the OBA is its provisions aiming to streamline the enforcement of Ontario’s Employment Standards Act (ESA). The OBA’s changes to the ESA are an attempt to manage a crisis of employment standards (ES) enforcement, arising from decades of ineffective regulation, by entrenching an individualised enforcement model. The Act aims to streamline enforcement by screening people assumed to be lacking definitive proof of violations out of the complaints process. The OBA therefore produces a new category of ‘illegitimate claimants’ and attributes administrative backlogs to these people. Instead of improving the protection of workers, the OBA embeds new racialized and gendered modes of exclusion in the ES enforcement process. Vosko, Leah F. and Mark P. Thomas (2014).  Journal of Industrial Relations  56(5): 631–652. Employment standards (ES) are legislated standards that set minimum terms and conditions of employment in areas such as wages, working time, vacations and leaves, and termination and severance. In Canada, the majority of workers rely on ES for basic regulatory protection; however, a significant ‘enforcement gap’ exists. In the province of Ontario, this enforcement gap has been exacerbated in recent years due to the deregulation of ES through inadequate funding, workplace restructuring, legislative reforms that place greater emphasis on individualized complaints processes and voluntary compliance, and a formal separation of unions from ES enforcement. The implications of these developments are that, increasingly, those in precarious jobs, many of whom lack union representation, are left with insufficient regulatory protection from employer non-compliance, further heightening their insecurity. Taking the province of Ontario as our focus, in this article we critically examine alternative proposals for ES enforcement, placing our attention on those that enhance the involvement of unions in addressing ES violations. Through this analysis, we suggest that augmenting unions’ supportive roles in ES enforcement holds the potential to enhance unions’ regulatory function and offers a possible means to support the ongoing efforts of other workers’ organizations to improve employer compliance with ES. Mirchandani, Kiran, Leah F. Vosko, Urvashi Soni-Sinha, J. Adam Perry, Andrea M. Noack, Rebecca Hall and Mary Gellatly (2016).  Journal of Mixed Methods Research,  1-15. This article traces methodological discussions of a multi-disciplinary team of researchers located in universities and community settings in Toronto, Ontario. The group designed and conducted a research project on the enforcement of labor standards in Ontario, Canada. Discussion of methodological possibilities often began with nots; that is, consensus on methodological approaches the team collectively rejected. Out of these discussions emerged suggestions and approaches through which we navigated dilemmas in research design. Three such knots are presented in this paper, specifically: [a] epistemological tensions around mixed methods and the politics of mixing; [b] the attempt to capture the relationships between research and its impact; and, [c] the need to develop interviews which both establish respondents as knowers, and simultaneously focus on that which is unsaid/ normalized. Tucker, Eric, Alan Hall, Leah F.Vosko, Rebecca Hall, Elliot Siemiatycki. (2015).  Canadian Journal of Law  &  Society,  31(1): 65-86. The purpose of this paper is to advance an approach to analyzing decision-making by front line public officials.  The notion of discretion in front line decision-making has been examined widely in the law and society literature. However, it has often failed to capture the different kinds and levels of decisions that enforcement officials make. Taking an interdisciplinary approach that draws on political, sociological and legal analysis, we propose a new conceptual framework, one that draws a sharper distinction between discretion and judgment and teases out distinct levels in the scope and depth of decision-making.  We then use this framework to create a conceptual map of the decision-making process of front line officials charged with enforcing the  Employment Standards Act  (ESA) of Ontario, demonstrating that a deeper, more precise, analysis of discretion and judgment can contribute to a richer understanding of front line decision-making and its social, political and legal implications. Noack, Andrea, Leah F. Vosko and John Grundy. (2015).  Industrial Relations/ Relations Industrielles . (equal first authorship with Noack), 70, 1: 86-109. This article reports on efforts to develop a telephone survey that measures the overall prevalence of employment standards (ES) violations as well as their evasion and erosion in low-wage jobs in Ontario, without requiring that respondents have any pre-existing legal knowledge. The result is a survey instrument that is unique in the Canadian context and reflects the concerns of both academic researchers and workers’ rights activists. Pilot survey results show that Ontario workers do not necessarily distinguish between ES violations and other workplace grievances and complaints. With careful questionnaire design, it is nevertheless possible to measure the prevalence of ES violations, evasion and erosion. In order to track the effects of ES policies and their implementation, it will be crucial to establish baseline measures and standardized reporting tools. Leah F. Vosko, Valerie Preston, and Robert Latham (Eds.). McGill-Queen ' s University Press. Liberating Temporariness? explores the complex ways in which temporariness is being institutionalized as a condition of life for a growing number of people worldwide. The collection emphasizes contemporary developments, but also provides historical context on nation-state membership as the fundamental means for accessing rights in an era of expanding temporariness - in recognition of why pathways to permanence remain so compelling.  Vosko, Leah F. (2013).   Osgoode Hall Law Journal.  50.4: 845-873. Workers in Ontario, Canada are on the edge of a crisis in the enforcement of their minimum employment standards (ES). This crisis is shaped not only by well-documented deficiencies in the scope of labour protection but by the fact that the administration of the ES system has not kept pace with the increasing number of workers and workplaces requiring protection under the province’s employment standards act. Coupled with an outmoded complaint-based system, the dearth of support for ES enforcement is cultivating a situation in which an unprecedented number of workers are bearers of rights without genuine opportunities for redress. Responding to this situation, this article explores how measures augmenting the voices of workers and their advocates could contribute to improving ES enforcement in Ontario. It does so through a review of innovative practices in other common law contexts characterized by similar enforcement regimes where labour market conditions have likewise deteriorated. Casey, Rebecca. Canadian Centre for Policy Alternatives (Nova Scotia). August 2019. This report examines Labour Standards in Nova Scotia and provides a macro-level comparison with other jurisdictions in Canada to determine where this province fits in the national picture. Labour Standards legislation provides a set of minimum terms and conditions to which employers must adhere. Many employees, especially in Nova Scotia and Ontario, are exempt or have special rules from certain aspects of the legislation or are exempt from the entire legislation. This report highlights the major findings to date of Closing the Employment Standards Enforcement Gap. It was prepared by Leah F. Vosko, John Grundy, Eric Tucker, Andrea M. Noack, Mary Gellatly, Rebecca Casey, Mark P. Thomas, Guliz Akkaymak, and Parvinder Hira-Friesen, and launched at the Closing the Gap Policy Forum on June 19, 2017. Leah F. Vosko, Andrea M. Noack, and Mark P. Thomas (March, 2016) This report is prepared for the Ontario Ministry of Labour to support the Changing Workplaces Review of 2015. Leah F. Vosko, Andrea M. Noack, and Eric Tucker (March, 2016) This report is prepared for the Ontario Ministry of Labour to support the Changing Workplaces Review of 2015. Leah F. Vosko, Eric Tucker, Mark P. Thomas, Mary Gellatly. Law Commission of Ontario Report. This report maps current enforcement and compliance  practices in Ontario’s regulation of employment, particularly as they relate to precarious employment. It evaluates the effectiveness of Ontario’s enforcement regimes and identifies and evaluates potential reforms to improve regulatory effectiveness. Andrea M. Noack and Leah F. Vosko In this report, commissioned by the Law Commission of Ontario, the authors use data from Statistics Canada’s Survey of Labour and Income Dynamics  to map the prevalence of precarious jobs in Ontario between 1999 and 2009. Read our June 2017 policy report for the latest research results and recommendations on employment standards.  Nov 18, 2019  -  Toronto Star Sep 4, 2019  -  Star Halifax Sep 4, 2019  -  The Chronicle Herald.  Sep 4, 2019  -  Sep 4, 2019  -  Toronto Star Sep 4, 2019  -  TVO Sep 4, 2019  -  Employment and Social Development Canada News Release  Apr 30, 2019  -  Toronto Star, Apr. 11, 2019 Nov 2, 2018  -  Toronto Star Nov 2, 2018  -  Toronto Star  Jun 26, 2017  -  Toronto Star Jun 26, 2017  -  Toronto Star Jun 7, 2017  -  Toronto Star Jun 1, 2017  -  Toronto Star May 29, 2017  -  Toronto Star May 29, 2017  -  Toronto Star Mar 15, 2017  -  Toronto Star Jan 30, 2017  -  Toronto star Oct 17, 2016  -  Toronto Star Aug 30, 2016  -  Toronto Star Aug 9, 2016  -  Toronto Star Aug 9, 2016  -  Toronto Star Aug 9, 2016  -  Toronto Star Aug 9, 2016  -  Toronto Star May 24, 2015  -  Toronto Star May 17, 2015  -  Toronto Star May 10, 2015  -  Toronto Star Copyright  &# x000A9; 2019   Closing the Employment Standards Gap 