Learn With Me Are you sick and tired of living in pain?  Aching muscles, stiff joints, sore back, headaches, anxiety, depression, sleeplessness or just feel exhausted. If you can identify with any of these problems, yoga and meditation can help. You’re important and you deserve to put yourself first. By taking care of yourself, you will find you have more energy, joy, love and passion to pursue your dreams. Whether that is taking care of your children, travelling the world, playing sport…..whatever it is that your heart desires….by putting yourself first, everything else will fall into place. Worried that you aren t flexible enough to practice yoga?  Please don’t be! If you can’t touch your toes, that’s perfect! You don’t need to be flexible to practice yoga. Start where you are and soon you will see and feel how much better you are feeling in body and mind. Your thoughts are powerful. Your thoughts literally shape your reality. What you think, you become.  10 minutes of mindfulness meditation can change your life in a profound way. Slowing down and being silent brings a huge sense of peace and contentment. Some of the greatest minds of our time practice meditation. It brings about greater clarity and focus and helps you to be more successful and happy in all areas of your life . Think you don’t have enough time to meditate? Or worried you are someone who just can’t sit still? I get it, I’ve been there.  But as stress starts to melt away, you literally feel like you’ve been given more time. You step into the rest of your day with more control of your life. It makes you feel like you’re the one guiding the ship, the master of your own destiny. I teach classes in both Vinyasa and Yin Yoga that range between 60, 75 and 90 minutes. Classes are for all levels, so whether you are a complete beginner or more experienced and looking to deepen your practice, everyone is welcome. A private yoga session is all about what  you  need. You will get personalised care and attention with lots of hands on assistance.  Private yoga sessions are great if you are new to yoga, if you wish to deepen your practice or if you are working with an injury or condition. Practice with me at home.  I’m creating a range of yoga classes and guided meditations to leave you feeling your best! I created these so that no matter where you are or what time it is you have the tools to take care of your body and mind. It’s so easy to look and feel great these days. Copyright © 2015 Casey Jade | Website by  Leah 