Midtown New York, NY: Ear, Nose  &  Throat Doctors: Nilesh Patel, MD If you have any questions, concerns, or comments regarding  Nilesh Patel, MD, please fill out the short contact form below. " He is very courteous and has excellent bedside manner.  " Brenda F.  Yelp " Excellent doctor. Exceptional experience. " Verified Patient  Vitals " Dr. Patel had a very good bedside manner. I would highly recommend him. " SP  Vitals " He is very courteous and has excellent bedside manner.  " Brenda F.  Yelp " Excellent doctor. Exceptional experience. " Verified Patient  Vitals Dr. Nilesh Patel is a leading ear, nose, and throat doctor providing the best otolaryngology care to patients throughout the midtown, New York area. His current focus is in treating sinus and allergy problems with medical therapy and outpatient procedures such as balloon sinuplasty and turbinate reduction, while avoiding in hospital surgery whenever possible. The practice utilizes the latest technological advances in otolaryngology.  He attended the prestigious  Sophie Davis School of Medicine  accelerated seven year BS/MD program and graduated from the  New York University School of Medicine  in 1995.  After completing a general surgery internship at the  State University of New York Health Science Cente r in Brooklyn in 1996, he remained there to complete specialty training in otolaryngology- head and neck surgery residency in 2000.  Dr. Patel is board certified in otolaryngology head and neck surgery and is active in the otolaryngology departments at New York University Langone Medical Center and at  The New York Eye and Ear Infirmary of Mount Sinai .  He currently serves as the Secretary of the Medical Board at New York Eye and Ear. Dr. Patel has authored publications in otolaryngology journals and textbooks.  He has also presented at various otolaryngology meetings.  When it comes to caring for his patients, he truly considers it a partnership.  He enjoys educating and involving patients in their own care.  His philosophy involves not only treating the acute illness, but to search for ways to prevent it from occurring again.  His passions outside of medicine include playing guitar, working on cars, running, and coaching his children in baseball and softball. Dr. Nilesh Patel is a leading ear, nose, and throat doctor providing the best otolaryngology care to patients throughout the midtown, New York area. His current focus is in treating sinus and allergy problems with medical therapy and outpatient procedures such as balloon sinuplasty and turbinate reduction, while avoiding in hospital surgery whenever possible. The practice utilizes the latest technological advances in otolaryngology.  He attended the prestigious  Sophie Davis School of Medicine  accelerated seven year BS/MD program and graduated from the  New York University School of Medicine  in 1995.  After completing a general surgery internship at the  State University of New York Health Science Cente r in Brooklyn in 1996, he remained there to complete specialty training in otolaryngology- head and neck surgery residency in 2000.  Dr. Patel is board certified in otolaryngology head and neck surgery and is active in the otolaryngology departments at New York University Langone Medical Center and at  The New York Eye and Ear Infirmary of Mount Sinai .  He currently serves as the Secretary of the Medical Board at New York Eye and Ear. Dr. Patel has authored publications in otolaryngology journals and textbooks.  He has also presented at various otolaryngology meetings.  When it comes to caring for his patients, he truly considers it a partnership.  He enjoys educating and involving patients in their own care.  His philosophy involves not only treating the acute illness, but to search for ways to prevent it from occurring again.  His passions outside of medicine include playing guitar, working on cars, running, and coaching his children in baseball and softball. " Dr. Patel is excellent. I was in a lot of pain and he treated me with care, patiently, and expertly. I saw 3 other ENT doctors who misdiagnosed me. Highly recommended. " " Dr Patel really knows what he is doing. He explained every step prior to the procedure, during and after it. He is a truly compassionate, and dedicated doctor. " " I have been going to him for years now, recommend him to everyone.  They accommodate my working schedule with early appointments, he ' s easy to get to. " " Dr. Patel is excellent. I was in a lot of pain and he treated me with care, patiently, and expertly. I saw 3 other ENT doctors who misdiagnosed me. Highly recommended. " " Dr Patel really knows what he is doing. He explained every step prior to the procedure, during and after it. He is a truly compassionate, and dedicated doctor. " Thank you for your appointment request. We will contact you shortly to confirm your request. Please call our office  at   if you have any questions. Thank you for your appointment request. We will contact you shortly to confirm your request. Please call our office  at   if you have any questions. We unfortunately can ' t schedule this type of appointment online. Please call our office  at   to make your appointment. 