Julienne Salad Delivery Near You | Best Restaurants  &  Deals | Grubhub Browse menus from your favorite local restaurants. Select what you want to eat. Submit your order. Get the door and enjoy your food! Freshly sliced Krakus ham and American cheese on top of our garden salad. Served with bread.  Ham, salami, turkey and cheese. Includes choice of dressing and roll. Iceberg lettuce, tomato, cucumber, turkey, ham, mozzarella and American cheese. Lettuce, ham, salami, turkey, tomato, black olives, pepperoncini, egg, mozzarella and American cheese. Julienne of ham, turkey, American and Swiss cheese over crisp greens with tomato wedges and hard boiled egg. Roast turkey, ham, Swiss, American, green peppers, red onions, tomatoes and hard boiled egg. Romaine and iceberg lettuce, red cabbage, fresh tomatoes, cucumber, green peppers, red onions, carrots, Swiss cheese, mozzarella cheese, American... Greens, ham, turkey, Swiss, hard boiled egg, pita.  As a Wrap served with pasta salad Ham, roast beef, Turkey, sharp provolone, and roasted peppers. Iceberg romaine mix, romaine lettuce, and fresh spinach. Turkey and provolone cheese. Turkey, American cheese, grape tomatoes, red onions, green peppers and cucumber. Always served fresh. Sliced turkey, ham, roasted beef and American cheese with mixed salad greens. Served with your choice of dressing on the side. Turkey, ham, roasted beef, Swiss cheese, cucumbers, tomatoes, Kalamata olives and hard boiled egg. Served with pita and choice of dressing. Slices of turkey breast, American cheese on chunks of lettuce, garnished with tomatoes, green peppers, cucumbers, onions, two slices of bacon and... ham, turkey and american cheese  atop our garden salad. Made with ham, turkey, cheese and salami. Romaine, tomatoes, sliced almonds, cranberries, avocado, feta cheese and balsamic chicken in a creamy balsamic dressing. Fresh cut turkey with Swiss cheese, tomato and mixed greens. Served with homemade roast turkey, tomatoes and Swiss cheese. Turkey and Swiss cheese served on a bed of green salad and tomatoes. Julienne slice of American and Swiss cheese tomato and hard boiled egg, served on a bed of crispy iceberg lettuce. Fresh-cut turkey with Swiss cheese and tomato over mixed greens. Mixed greens with turkey and Swiss cheese. Fresh cut turkey with Swiss cheese, tomato over spring mix. Ham, turkey, hard boiled eggs, tomato, American and Swiss cheese. Comes with lettuce, turkey, ham, cheese, tomato and hard boiled egg. Served with fresh pita bread. Sliced Corned beef, Turkey, and Salami, Swiss and American cheese, Cucumbers, tomato slices, and a sliced hard boiled egg on a bed of romaine... Sliced Corned beef, Turkey, and Salami, Swiss and American cheese, Cucumbers, tomato slices, and a sliced hard boiled egg on a bed of romaine... Strips of turkey, ham, American and Swiss cheese, mixed with fresh greens, garnished with tomatoes, cucumbers and boiled eggs. Turkey, ham, Swiss, American cheese, tomatoes, cucumbers and egg. Served with pita bread. Corned beef, turkey, Swiss and American cheese, hard boiled egg and tomato on a bed of lettuce. Crisp lettuce, topped with ham, American cheese, turkey and hard boiled egg. Tomatoes, onions, sweet and hot peppers, black olives, broccoli, mushroom, mozzarella cheese, chopped ham and turkey or tuna. Lettuce, tomato, onion, cheddar jack cheese, croutons, black olives, turkey, ham and Genoa salami with provolone and American cheeses. Meat and cheese. Served with Italian, ranch or blue cheese dressing. crisp romaine, iceberg blend with ham, turkey, tomato, black olives and provolone cheese Salad comes with lettuce, tomatoes, onion, olive, crouton and 2 sides of dressing. Served with ham and turkey.  Lettuce, tomatoes, ham, turkey, cucumbers, croutons, cheddar and banana peppers. Served with choice of dressing. Ham and turkey. Romaine lettuce, cherry tomatoes, chickpeas, cucumbers and red onions topped with ham, turkey and mozzarella cheese. Served with your choice of... Romaine blend, roasted turkey, smoked ham, tomatoes, red onions, black olives, Swiss cheese and American cheese with choice of dressing. Chef salad with turkey, ham and Swiss. Lettuce, tomato onion, ham, turkey and cheese.  A mix of fresh assorted lettuce, crisp vegetables, turkey, ham, salami, cheese, tomatoes, onions and cucumbers. Ham, turkey and Swiss. © 2019 Grubhub All rights reserved. $3.99 to $7.99 depending on location. $2.99 to $8.99 depending on location. $4.00 to $6.00 depending on location. $2.00 to $3.00 depending on location. $2.99 to $9.99 depending on location. $0.99 to $5.99 depending on location. $2.49 to $9.99 depending on location. $2.99 to $7.99 depending on location. $2.99 to $9.99 depending on location. $2.49 to $9.99 depending on location. $2.49 to $9.99 depending on location. $3.49 to $7.24 depending on location. $2.99 to $8.99 depending on location. $1.99 to $5.99 depending on location. $1.99 to $5.99 depending on location. $3.99 to $9.99 depending on location. $1.99 to $9.99 depending on location. $1.99 to $9.99 depending on location. 