Old Time fiddle tunes   guitar TAB   pickthestrings Zipping right along here with some new tune additions while I have the chance! When school begins again, my time will be pretty limited. The tune of the day is Down Yonder. It is in the key of G, and I ve also heard it played in the key of D. This is one tune that I had difficulty finding the notated music. Many in our local jam group knew it, but I had no music. So .here it is for those of you who enjoy having the notes written down  yonder :) Down Yonder key of G   Gtr TAB It seems that everyone has their own version of how to play this tune! But, I found an example that plays it pretty much the way I ve notated it here. Yay! So, sit on the front porch and learn this old time fiddle tune! Blessings The tune of the day is SARAH  ARMSTRONG This is an old fiddle tune that seems to be pretty popular in lots of places, and is another one of those cross-over tunes. You can’t go wrong learning this tune. It is pretty straightforward in the key of D. In tabbing this one out, I stuck to the basics except in the triplets in both the A part and the B part. In my experience, playing the triplet the way I tabbed it is easier than utilizing the open B string for the B note. Try it both ways, and play the way that suits you.  Here is the TAB:  sarah-armstrong-gtr-tab As always, grab your guitar and try it out! Blessings Today s tune is TEXAS  GALES Also known as Texas Girls or Texas Gals, this tune is in the key of C. It has 3 parts, and there are many versions of it floating around. It is a common flatpicking tune, but not extremely difficult. On the TAB, you will notice that I took it up neck a bit on the 3rd and 4th measure of the 2nd part. It actually makes it easier. Here is the notation  Texas Gales   Gtr TAB One of my favorite flatpickers is Norman Blake, so enjoy his playing Texas Gales! As always, get out your guitar and play for awhile! Blessings Today s tune is JEFF  STURGEON No, we re not going fishing! This old-time fiddle tune is great fun to play. It is one of those modal tunes with just a wonderful  feel  to it. Here is the guitar TAB and notation  Jeff Sturgeon   Gtr TAB In the TAB, you will notice that I am taking you up the neck for the first three measures. For small hands like mine, it is much easier to play there rather than in first position. As always, it s a lot of fun to get out your guitar and play a spell   go ahead, you ll be glad that you did! OK, one of the most popular fiddle/flatpicking/mandolin tunes ever! There are so many variations of this tune that it would make your head spin. With that in mind, I have posted a simple version, and when you get that down, then you can expand it to your heart s content.:) Here is the guitar TAB and notation  Soldier s Joy   Gtr TAB I found an old video of Soldier s Joy, performed at a jam in Minnesota in 2007. There is a nice blend of banjo, autoharp, guitar, and fiddle. As always, grab your guitar and try it out. You ll be glad that you did! Blessings Today s tune is BLACKBERRY  BLOSSOM This is a tune that I had to work up the courage to tackle! The B part is not bad, but the A part is much more difficult. The key here is to just take it as slowly as you need to get the patterns down and to play it cleanly. Blackberry Blossom is challenging on any instrument! One way that I found to make it easier on the guitar was to go up the neck for the  above the staff  notes. So you ll see that you will play up at the 7th and 8th frets in measures 1,2, 5,  &  6 in the A part, and measure 4 in the B part. Even though it looks scary, it s really easier than the stretches is you play it at the normal position. Here is the guitar TAB and notation  Blackberry Blossom   Gtr TAB There were a million videos to choose from, so I chose this one because of the banjo! As always, now is a great time to grab your guitar and try this one out. You will be glad that you did! Blessings The tune of the day is RAGTIME  ANNIE Ragtime Annie is an old fiddle tune standard, and many guitarist flatpick as well. The version here is the VERY basic, but it s playable with anyone else.:) There is sometimes a 3rd part, but I chose not to include that here just to keep things simple. Here is the guitar TAB and notation  Ragtime Annie   Gtr TAB There was no lack of videos with which to demonstrate Ragtime Annie, so I randomly chose this one. It s rainy and wet here in the Midwest, and a perfectly good time to sit a spell with your guitar. Get it out   you ll be glad that you did! Blessings Today s tune is DUCK S  EYEBALL This North Carolina tune dating back at least to 1852 was originally titled Rainbow Schottische. I, for one, am certainly glad that the title has changed to Duck s Eyeball, even though it s a really weird name. In any event, it s a really great tune that I found on YouTube being played by Rich Hartness and friends. It is crooked, meaning that it has some differently timed measure, or more or less measures than the standard 8 per A and B part. This has a 2/4 measure at the second ending of the A part, and if you listen to the video below, you ll easily hear it. Lots of old-time fiddle tunes have crooked things in them, which makes them fun and challenging to play.:) Here is the guitar TAB and notation  Duck s Eyeball   Gtr TAB And the video mentioned above . The sun is shining, the weather is mild, and it s a great day to lift your spirits with a peppy tune. Go ahead   you ll be glad that you did! Blessings Today our tune is FALLS  OF  RICHMOND This tune is really a cool tune to learn and play! It s in the key of Am, and is a three-parter. It also goes back to the B part after playing only one C part, so the format is AABBCBB. I had trouble finding anything about the tune until I looked it up as Richmond Falls   bingo! There IS the Falls of Richmond.  At  Richmond  in  Swaledale  the River Swale cascades down a series of rocky steps which are known as Richmond Falls.  The River Swale is located in the Yorkshire Dales in Northern England, which you can read more about  here . Next, here is a  YouTube video  showing folks canoeing the falls. OK, here is the guitar TAB and notation  Falls of Richmond   Gtr TAB And .here is a wonderful video of The Falls of Richmond being played  in situ,  meaning  in its original, natural place . How awesome it that??!! It s a mild day here in the Midwest with rain in the forecast, making it a great opportunity to just sit down for a bit and play a tune. Go ahead, do it! You ll be glad that you did.:) Blessings The tune of the day is BIG  LIZA  JANE There are so many Liza Jane tunes, and this is just one that seems to be pretty common.:) In my files, I also have Liza Jane, Little Liza Jane, Goodbye Liza Jane, and Hurry Up, Liza Jane. I m certain that s not all of them! This is one of those  never-ending  tunes, as the end of the B part stair steps down from the A chord back to the D chord at the beginning. If you must finally end the tune, just resolve it on the D chord after the least measure. Here is the guitar TAB and notation  Big Liza Jane   Gtr TAB I though that I d feature an actual flatpick version of Big Liza Jane. Hope that you enjoy it! This is a really cool tune to learn, so put aside your cares for a bit, and work on something to cheer your heart. You ll be glad that you did. 