Amazon.com: Faith Lessons on the Death and Resurrection of the Messiah: Ray Vander Laan: Movies  &  TV Filmed on location in Israel by Focus on the Family Films, Faith Lessons is a unique video series that brings God's Word to life with astounding relevance. By weaving together the Bible's fascinating historical, cultural, religious, and geographical contexts, teacher and historian Ray Vander Laan reveals keen insights into the Scripture's significance for modern believers. These illuminating 'faith lessons' afford a new understanding of the Bible that will ground your convictions and transform your life. -- Church Volume Four Contents -- Part of a series previously published as That the World May Know, Faith Lessons on the Death and Resurrection of the Messiah focuses on the last week of Jesus' life, his death and resurrection, and the Holy Spirit's visit on Pentecost. 1. When Storms Come (Sea of Galilee) Just as Jesus stilled the storm, demonstrating his power over the natural world, so he also takes charge of our raging struggles. 2. Piercing the Darkness (Kursi) Kursi was believed to be the home of demons. There, in a deliberate choice to aggressively confront evil, Jesus healed the demon-possessed man. 3. Gates of Hell (Caesarea Philippi) In the center of this pagan city, Jesus declared, 'Upon this rock I will build my church,' challenging believers to boldly wage war on evil. 4. City of the Great King (I) (Jerusalem) 5. City of the Great King (II) (Jerusalem) When seen in the urban setting of Herod's first century Jerusalem, Jesus' actions and teachings come alive, sparking a deeper understanding of our faith's Jewish roots. Video Two 6. The Lamb of God (Mount of Olives) The significance of Passover celebrations and Passover Week events intertwine with Jesus' choice of time, place, and message. 7. The Weight of the World (Capernum/ Gethsemane) Manufacturing olive oil involves intense pressure. This process exposes a fresh perspective from which we can fully appreciate Jesus' sacrifice, which is our anointing. 8. Roll Away the Stone (Garden Tomb) Understanding the significance of Jesus' burial in a Jewish-style tomb and his resurrection during the Feast of First Fruits reveals the magnitude of his love and the new life he brings. 9. Power to the People (Southern Stairs) The day of Pentecost marks the day when God's presence left the temple structure to dwell in his followers -- empowering us today, as then, to change the world. 10. Total Commitment (Caesarea) David built fame out of simplicity; Herod's palace fortresses were elaborate. But as with David, who lived for God, what matters most is not what we build, but for whom we build. The completely new Faith Lessons resource takes your small group on a round trip to ancient times, places, and customs, and back again. This lively, interactive journey is more than fascinating -- it's faith-inspiring and life-changing. If you're a group leader, your job is simplified with the all new Leader's Guide: fresh, clear, and easy to follow, designed to minimize your preparation time and maximize your effectiveness. If you're a participant, you'll appreciate how the brand-new Participant's Guide carefully and plainly helps you turn the lessons you learn from the past into real-life applications that impact the way you live your faith. 10 sessions; 2 videos, 194 minutes.     Filmed on location in Israel by Focus on the Family Films, Faith Lessons is a unique video series that brings God's Word to life with astounding relevance. By weaving together the Bible's fascinating historical, cultural, religious, and geographical contexts, teacher and historian Ray Vander Laan reveals keen insights into the  Scripture's significance for modern believers. These illuminating "faith lessons" afford a new understanding of the Bible that will ground your convictions and transform your life. -- Church Volume Four Contents -- Part of a series previously published as That the World May Know, Faith Lessons on the Death and Resurrection of the Messiah focuses on the last week of Jesus' life, his death and resurrection, and the Holy Spirit's visit on Pentecost.  1. When Storms Come (Sea of Galilee)  Just as Jesus stilled the storm, demonstrating his power over the natural world, so he also takes charge of our raging struggles.  2. Piercing the Darkness (Kursi)  Kursi was believed to be the home of demons. There, in a deliberate choice to aggressively confront evil, Jesus healed the demon-possessed man.  3. Gates of Hell (Caesarea Philippi)  In the center of this pagan city, Jesus declared, "Upon this rock I will build my church," challenging believers to boldly wage war on evil.  4. City of the Great King (I) (Jerusalem)  5. City of the Great King (II) (Jerusalem)  When seen in the urban setting of Herod's first century Jerusalem, Jesus' actions and teachings come alive, sparking a deeper understanding of our faith's Jewish roots.  Video Two  6. The Lamb of God (Mount of Olives)  The significance of Passover celebrations and Passover Week events intertwine with Jesus' choice of time, place, and message.  7. The Weight of the World (Capernum/ Gethsemane)  Manufacturing olive oil involves intense pressure. This process exposes a fresh perspective from which we can fully appreciate Jesus' sacrifice, which is our anointing.  8. Roll Away the Stone (Garden Tomb)  Understanding the significance of Jesus' burial in a Jewish-style tomb and his resurrection during the Feast of First Fruits reveals the magnitude of his love and the new life he brings.  9. Power to the People (Southern Stairs)  The day of Pentecost marks the day when God's presence left the temple structure to dwell in his followers -- empowering us today, as then, to change the world.  10. Total Commitment (Caesarea)  David built fame out of simplicity; Herod's palace fortresses were elaborate. But as with David, who lived for God, what matters most is not what we build, but for whom we build.  The completely new Faith Lessons resource takes your small group on a round trip to ancient times, places, and customs, and back again. This lively, interactive journey is more than fascinating -- it's faith-inspiring and life-changing.  If you're a group leader, your job is simplified with the all new Leader's Guide: fresh, clear, and easy to follow, designed to minimize your preparation time and maximize your effectiveness.  If you're a participant, you'll appreciate how the brand-new Participant's Guide carefully and plainly helps you turn the lessons you learn from the past into real-life applications that impact the way you live your faith.  10 sessions; 2 videos, 194 minutes.     There's a problem loading this menu right now. Learn more about Amazon Prime.  Your Shopping Cart is empty.  Give it purpose fill it with books, DVDs, clothes, electronics, and more.  If you already have an account,  sign in .  There's a problem previewing your cart right now.  Check your Internet connection and  go to your cart , or  try again . < #= biaTitle #> 