How to Calculate Total Lifetime Costs of Enterprise Software Solutions | Principles for Digital Development How to Calculate Total Lifetime Costs of Enterprise Software Solutions - Principles for Digital Development Digital development practitioners strive to select and implement sustainable, robust and cost-effective software solutions. One of the challenges faced in accomplishing this goal is that the total lifetime costs of implementation are often not accounted for accurately in a program budget. Technical experts who know how to identify and quantify ongoing costs related to usage, hosting and support may not be consulted during proposal writing. Inaccurate estimates can put a burden on program budgets or lead to choosing software that has prohibitive costs to  scale  or  sustain . Further, digital development programs often aim to introduce tools and systems that can be transferred to a government partner for ongoing implementation and maintenance, so not accurately estimating costs transfers the long-term burden to the country, potentially leaving it with a solution that is ultimately abandoned because it is not affordable. To evaluate the lifetime costs of a software accurately, the total cost of ownership (TCO) needs to be calculated. This calculation takes into account the costs of the software itself, as well as the necessary hardware, hosting and support. Understanding all the costs that will be incurred over the lifetime of a system can be tricky, as it is easy to overlook key considerations and costs that come later in the project lifecycle. It is useful to calculate TCO during the analysis and planning phase, as the resulting figure is one factor used to compare and select software options. (For a discussion of other software-selection factors, see  How to Choose a Mobile Data Collection Platform . TCO also gives an accurate estimate of your program s budget needs to share with funders. If you are already implementing a software solution, calculating TCO can help you with ongoing budget planning and with communicating costs to partners who take over maintenance of the system. TCO is only one of many considerations when selecting software. Other considerations include important contextual factors such as functionality, ease of use, local infrastructure, existing systems and the presence of a community of developers or consultants who can maintain the software and support users. For example, if there is no knowledge of the software locally, extra resources will be required to develop local expertise to maintain the system. This guide outlines steps to help you calculate the TCO for a software solution. These recommendations are summarized from existing references, which can be found in the Resources section. The illustrative list of cost drivers in Figure 1 is adapted from existing TCO guides. [1] , [2]  Not all costs will be relevant for every project or tool. For example, open source and proprietary software will have different licensing costs. Figure 1: Software costs throughout the project lifecycle Tip:  Consider how costs will vary as your initiative moves from pilot to scale to sustainability. Important variables include the cost of adding and supporting new users, in addition to preparation and training for transferring system maintenance to local partners. Figure 2: Summary budget matrix for an individual software application Figure 3: Comparison chart for software During the course of the initiative, monitor your budget to determine if your TCO estimates were accurate. If you find that certain costs were significantly higher or lower than estimated or if you encounter new costs, recalculate your TCO and realign your budget as appropriate. In your evaluation phase, compare your estimated TCO with the actual costs. Look at where you over- or underestimated, and see what lessons you can  learn for future TCO calculations . Consider sharing your TCO process, the costs you identified and any mistakes you made in estimation with  other digital development practitioners . These outcomes are illustrative and have been collected from digital development organizations that have followed the steps outlined in this guide. Budgeting for a Project: CommCare Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) Model, Dimagi.  https://confluence.dimagi.com/display/commcarepublic/Budgeting+for+a+Project Costing Utility Analysis tool, NetHope Solutions Center.  http://solutionscenter.nethope.org/products/view/653 Free as in Puppy: The Hidden Costs of Free Software, Opensource.com.  https://opensource.com/article/17/2/hidden-costs-free-software Planning an Information Systems Project: A Toolkit for Public Health Managers, PATH and World Health Organization.  https://www.path.org/publications/files/TS_opt_ict_toolkit.pdf [1]  World Health Organization, PATH.  Planning an Information Systems Project: A Toolkit for Public Health Managers.  Seattle: PATH, 2013. Available at  https://www.path.org/publications/files/TS_opt_ict_toolkit.pdf . [2]  Cotton B. “Free as in Puppy: The Hidden Costs of Free Software” [blog post]. Opensource.com. 2017 Feb 13.  https://opensource.com/article/17/2/hidden-costs-free-software . 