Tooth Colored Fillings FAQs - KC Smile | Dentist in Overland Park What is the difference between tooth-colored fillings and other kinds? Is one better than the other? Is it more a cosmetic issue? There are a lot of things to know about composite fillings versus amalgam, but that is not where the subject ends.  Headley, DDS  at  KC Smile  in Overland Park, KS encourages patients to be well-informed about their dental options and offer up these  tooth colored fillings  FAQs to address the most common concerns. What is the difference between the composite fillings, which are the same color as natural teeth, and older amalgam or  metal  fillings? As your dentist in Overland Park, we think it is important for patients to understand that composite fillings are more than just different in their general appearance. Naturally, there is the esthetic issue of having your teeth appear intact and completely normal. The darkening of the teeth and the unappealing looks of amalgam fillings is undesirable, but it is the general weakness of these fillings that really makes the difference. When reading any tooth colored fillings FAQs, the one major thing to take from it is that composite fillings will require less of the tooth to be removed, and they will bond to the tooth   adding strength and repair. This too is an important issue in any tooth colored fillings FAQs, because it is not always possible to swap out one for the other. As we learned, the amalgam fillings actually require more tooth to be removed. If you visit our office, we can assess the condition of any tooth with the old-fashioned fillings and let you know if composite fillings would work or if you need something stronger, such as a dental crown. No, there is going to be less sensitivity because there is no  give  in the composite materials and very little conductivity of extremes of hot or cold. While no filling can every remove all sensation, you won t experience increased sensitivity if you choose composite fillings. We hope these tooth colored fillings FAQs answered your basic concerns, if you have questions about other treatments mentioned, give us a call at our Overland Park, KS office at 913-491-6874. You can also use our  online contact form  and one of our staff will get back to you promptly. As Halloween approaches, most kids have just one dream   get as much candy as possible. Of course, for parents, that sounds more like a Using the most advanced materials and techniques, Dr. Ross S. Headley will transform your smile. As Kansas’ only accredited member of the American Academy of Cosmetic Dentistry, Dr. Headley understands how unhealthy or unattractive teeth can negatively impact a patient’s life. He  witnesses daily how beautiful healthy teeth change lives. Take a moment and explore the options  available for you. We are focused on building a long-lasting relationships with our patients Dr. Ross Headley s reputation attracts patients in the greater Kansas City, Mo and Overland Park, KS areas as well as across the US. Whether you are seeking cosmetic dentistry, general restorative dentistry, or preventative care, at KC Smile you will be sure to have your expectations met. 