Mom: Southwest Airlines gate agent mocked 5-year-old girl named Abcde | FOX31 Denver ABC13 Houston 195K subscribers Subscribe Mother of Abcde Redford says Southwest Airlines agent shamed her daughter for her name Info Shopping Tap to unmute If playback doesn ' t begin shortly, try restarting your device. More videos Your browser does not currently recognize any of the video formats available.  Click here to visit our frequently asked questions about HTML5 video. More videos on YouTube Share Include playlist An error occurred while retrieving sharing information. Please try again later. Watch later Share Copy link An error occurred. Try watching this video on www.youtube.com , or enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser. SANTA ANA, Calif.   A woman says a Southwest Airlines agent in Southern California mocked her 5-year-old daughter s  Abcde  name when they were preparing to board a flight home to Texas. KABC-TV  reported  late Wednesday that Traci Redford accused a gate agent at Orange County s John Wayne Airport of laughing at her daughter s name and posting a photo of her boarding pass on social media. The girl s name is spelled with the first five letters of the alphabet and is pronounced  AHB-sih-dee. Redford said the family was pre-boarding because her daughter has epilepsy. She said she asked the agent to stop and that someone saw the social media post and notified Southwest. Southwest issued a statement apologizing to the family. The airline says it has followed up with the employee. We extend our sincere apology to the family. We take great pride in extending our Southwest Hospitality to all of our Customers, which includes living by the Golden Rule and treating every individual with respect, in person or online. The post is not indicative of the care, respect, and civility we expect from all of our Employees. We have followed up with the Employee involved, and while we do not disclose personnel actions publicly, we are using this as an opportunity to reinforce our policies and emphasize our expectations for all Employees. Trademark and Copyright 2019  The Associated Press . All rights reserved. Filed in: Trending Do you have a story you want FOX31 Denver or Channel 2 to check out? Email us. Snapchat KDVR Online Public File KWGN Online Public File EEO Report Terms of Service Privacy Policy 100 East Speer Blvd. Denver, Colorado 80203 Copyright   2019, KDVR Nexstar Broadcasting, Inc. | All Rights Reserved Powered by  WordPress.com VIP < %=excerpt%> 