Are you ready to tame performance management? | Verditer Consulting 0203 7611 670 Hurricane Barney and winds of over 80mph but didn’t stop our HR Game Changers Event in Milton Keynes last week.  HR professionals determined to tame Big Data and  Performance Management  represented a diverse range of companies including Santander, Weetabix, Kier Group, Unilever, Royal Mail, Home Retail Group, Ricoh and Cranfield University.    Our hot topic was  performance management (PM ).  A perfect storm indeed with 93% not valuing the process (Mercer), 75% seeing it as unfair (i4CP) and only 8% believing it adds value (Deloitte).  No surprise that nearly ¼ of our audience had recently reviewed PM in their organisations, with another ¼ doing so now, and ½ planning to soon.   This chimes with a bigger picture.  Deloittes describe PM as the secret ingredient in the new world of work.  One of the  top 10 capability gaps  identified across 3,300 businesses worldwide.  Why?  A world changing with pace is bringing a new way of working.  Talent is in demand, employees have more choice.  They are consumers. Bright shiny new approaches are hitting the headlines.  Companies such as Deloittes are  Reinventing Performance Management .  Vocal HRDs such as ex-BBC’s  Lucy Adams  talk of ratings, systems and records being abandoned.  There are a number of trends emerging: Some of the trends may seem logical and right given a greater need for collaboration, innovation and agility in many organisations.  But whether or not to remove appraisal ratings is far from simple.   Neuroscience is telling us that social threats provoke the same fight/flight response in our brains as a physical threat.  Dr David Rock from the NeuroLeadership Institute says ‘ Kill your Ratings’ .  His  SCARF  model outlines five social needs that trigger the same brain reactions as physical threat.  Appraisals provoke a threat response for all five.  Not to mention studies that show ratings correlate with line managers rather than individuals.  They simply measure rater bias. But our audience were not so convinced; with very few considering removing ratings.  And one HRD looking to re-instate them. Perhaps it’s because ratings add real value.  A simple categorisation for complex performance.  A way to make smart investments in talent.   Marc Effron  loves ratings.  He claims differentiation is useful and the ratings themselves are just a red herring.  He suggests we  stop searching for alternatives to traditional performance management  and start executing the fundamentals that make this process successful.  Just maybe we are asking the wrong question.  Perhaps it’s about 'Big Data' rather than line manager views.  An amalgamation of a trillion bits of feedback from every interaction (email, phone call, meeting, conversation in the lift), and every achievement.  Josh Bersin certainly sees ‘ Feedback as the Killer App’ . We’re often asked about ‘ reward without ratings’ .  Ratings do not affect your  reward strategy .  But removing them will affect how it is implemented.  The answer is either consistent reward with no individual differentiation. Or it’s about greater line manager discretion. What's critical is a  reward strategy  and PM strategy that work together.  What’s the point in making PM ongoing and agile if your reward remains annual and structured?  Ongoing  recognition ,  bonuses  at project end rather than year end, and real-time salary reviews feel more in tune.  The emerging trend in PM may not be right for everyone.  The media examples of ‘best practice’ are specific to those businesses and their unique culture.  Taming PM in your organisation is not about following the crowd - as exciting as it may seem!   Go back to basics.  Consider your culture now and in the future.  You’ll find the answer there.   Thanks so much to our partners for collaborating to create this event:  Macildowie recruitment ,  Melanie  from J6 MGP Consulting,  Shoosmiths Solicitors  ,  Broadwater Training  and  Inky Thinking .  Here's a sample of comments we've received: Do  contact us  if you'd like to join our mailing list and hear about future events. At Verditer we make  reward  and  performance management  more effective.   Contact us  if you'd like to know more about our  Performance Management Diagnostic  where we work with you to define an approach to performance management that aligns with your business and culture.    To be the first to read our blogs; follow our  linkedin company page  and  sign up for our newsletter .   Privacy policy  |  Terms of use Registered address: Verditer Consulting, 40 Kimbolton Road, Bedford, MK40 2NR Verditer Consulting is registered in England no. 09449963 | Copyright © Verditer Consulting 2019. All Rights Reserved 