Top 3 ETFs for Long-Term Investors If you ' re an investor who favors the  buy-and-hold strategy  of letting carefully vetted investments accumulate meaningful returns over time, index-based  exchange-traded funds  (ETFs) may be the right vehicle for you. Even investment icon Warren Buffett knows it ' s difficult to beat index funds, which is why he famously mandated that 90% of the money he bequeaths his wife be invested in an S & P 500 fund. Of course, you don ' t have to be like Buffett and park all of your cash in an index fund. But as long-term investments go, these vehicles are an attractive and typically low-cost choice for both large and small investors. Like a  mutual fund , an ETF is a pool of money that invests in stocks, commodities, bonds, or a basket of other assets. Unlike mutual funds, ETF shares trade like common stock on an exchange. Meanwhile,  index funds  are designed to track the performance of benchmarks like the  S & P 500 Index . If you ' re a long-term investor planning a portfolio and seeking to add index funds to the mix, there are many to choose from. Below are three of the best based on  assets under management  (AUM), long-term performance, and  expense ratio If you ' re uncertain which index to follow, or you wish to invest across a variety of sectors and market  capitalization , this may be the fund for you. As the name implies, the Total Stock Market ETF covers the entire domestic stock market in the United States, tracking the CRSP U.S. Total Stock Market Index. VTI is a balanced fund, with a healthy mix of small-cap, midcap, and  blue-chip  stocks. VTI is a highly efficient fund with a low expense ratio. AUM are also impressive at more than $800 billion. First to market, this granddaddy of ETFs attracts a lot of attention from tactical traders and buy-and-hold investors alike. The fund tracks the S & P 500 Index, which is a group of equities—mostly large capitalization—that are listed on the U.S. stock exchanges. Technically, SPDR 500 ETF is a  unit investment trust  (UIT), which means it cannot reinvest cash  dividends  between  distributions . This minor detail may cause the fund ' s performance to deviate slightly from the index on which it ' s based. This fund boasts a solid one-year performance of more than 10%. Funds were selected based on a combination of performance over time, expense ratios, and AUM. All figures were current as of Sept. 12, 2019. IEFA  delivers exposure to  developed-market  stocks in Europe, Asia, and the Far East, excluding domestic and Canadian equities. Its benchmark index, the  MSCI EAFE , covers some 98% of global equity markets outside of North America. Furthermore, it includes  small-cap  stocks in proportion to the market—something competing funds typically do not include. Japan and the U.K. take the top two spots in the fund ' s portfolio. Containing nearly 3,000 equities, IEFA is a  well-diversified fund  and has low ownership costs, making it a prime choice for both short-term and long-term investors who seek exposure to markets outside of North America. The fund is newer than the others mentioned in this article, with an inception date of October 18, 2012. Over the past year, the price of the ETF has fluctuated quite a bit, but have not yet made much progress. Nonetheless, it is has returned 2.6% annually over the past five years and 6.5% annually since its inception. ETFs  ETFs  ETFs  Top ETFs  Top ETFs  Retirement Savings Accounts  