St. John Bosco s Aaron Pico driven to win sport s ultimate prize   Orange County Register GET BREAKING NEWS IN YOUR BROWSER. CLICK HERE TO TURN ON NOTIFICATIONS. X Trending: Aaron Pico, a wrestler at St. John Bosco High School in Bellflower, in the school ' s wrestling room on Wednesday, Sept. 11. Pico recently won the 138.75-pound freestyle title at the FILA Cadet World Championships in Serbia. Aaron Pico, a wrestler at St. John Bosco High School in Bellflower, in the school ' s wrestling room on Wednesday, Sept. 11. Pico recently won the 138.75-pound freestyle title at the FILA Cadet World Championships in Serbia.   Aaron Pico, a wrestler at St. John Bosco High School in Bellflower, looks at the championship belt he won recently at the FILA Cadet World Championships in Serbia. Aaron Pico, a wrestler at St. John Bosco High School in Bellflower, in the school ' s wrestling room on Wednesday, Sept. 11. Pico recently won the 138.75-pound freestyle title at the FILA Cadet World Championships in Serbia. Aaron Pico, a wrestler at St. John Bosco High School in Bellflower, in the school ' s wrestling room on Wednesday, Sept. 11. Pico recently won the 138.75-pound freestyle title at the FILA Cadet World Championships in Serbia. Aaron Pico, a wrestler at St. John Bosco High School in Bellflower, in the school ' s wrestling room on Wednesday, Sept. 11. Pico recently won the 138.75-pound freestyle title at the FILA Cadet World Championships in Serbia. Aaron Pico, a wrestler at St. John Bosco High School in Bellflower, in the school ' s wrestling room on Wednesday, Sept. 11. Pico recently won the 138.75-pound freestyle title at the FILA Cadet World Championships in Serbia.   Aaron Pico, a wrestler at St. John Bosco High School in Bellflower, in the school ' s wrestling room on Wednesday, Sept. 11. Pico recently won the 138.75-pound freestyle title at the FILA Cadet World Championships in Serbia.   BELLFLOWER   Aaron Pico was born a few ounces shy of 10 pounds, more than twice the size of his older brother as a newborn. Along with his startling neonatal bulk came another easily discernable feature.  He had the biggest cheeks ever,  said his mother, Gina.  You see a baby picture and you just see these enormous cheeks. Gina took to calling her second child by the cutesy nickname of  Cheeky Babies.  A family member shortened it to  Cheeks. Almost 17 years later, his cheeks no longer so abnormally large, the nickname endures. These days, Aaron  Cheeks  Pico is known as a rising star in the wrestling world. Many more could recognize this phenom s name by the end of the summer of 2016.  A sophomore at St. John Bosco High School, Pico is not your typical teenager. He s awake well before dawn every day. He has traveled all over the world, from Peru to Ukraine to Japan. He is a world-class wrestler with his sights set on his sport s ultimate prize. He doesn t sound as if he will stop until a heavy gold medal is draped around his neck.  I m still going to be young, but it s definitely possible to make and win an Olympic gold medal at 19 1/2, 20 years old,  said Pico, a mature and well-spoken 16 year old from Whittier who stands 5-foot-7 and 138 pounds.  That s what my goal is every day. I m just going to keep working until I get it. Pico s accomplishments intimate that nothing, including qualifying for and winning in Rio de Janeiro, is out of reach. Just last month, he was the only one of 30 American wrestlers to claim gold   he did so in the 138.75-pound freestyle   at the FILA Cadet World Championships in Zrenjanin, Serbia. Undefeated and a state champion as just a freshman last year, he is sought after by every major Division 1 wrestling program and, for that matter, the Olympic Training Center in Colorado Springs, Colo.  Nobody conditions like him. Nobody trains like him,  St. John Bosco wrestling coach Omar Delgado said.  Aaron has that little extra that you can t sort of teach. It s inherent. This particular week has been a special one for Pico. He found major relief in Sunday s announcement of the International Olympic Committee s vote to keep wrestling on the docket for 2020 and 2024. While celebrating with his brother and cousin over sushi that night, he watched as KNBC aired a short piece on his recent exploits in Serbia and future goals. In the issue of Sports Illustrated that hit newsstands Monday, he was featured in the  Faces in the Crowd  section reserved weekly for the nation s top youth athletes.  Pico started wrestling at the age of 4, tagging along with his older brother, Patrick, now 21, at practice. Within a few years, Pico was competing nationally. It wasn t until he met his current personal coach about four years ago, however, that he truly realized his dream.  I want to be an NCAA champ,  Pico told Valentin Kalika upon them first meeting.  Why not an Olympic champion?  the coach countered.  Those prospects hadn t yet crossed Pico s mind. That conversation transformed his approach.  We made an agreement that we re going to be working every day to become an Olympic champ,  Pico said.  My whole mindset has changed over the 3 1/2 4 years that we ve been together. Competitive wrestling is a constant grind. Pico is awake at 4:30 a.m. daily and training with his strength coach in Marina del Rey by 5:30 for about two hours. When not traveling, he s at school from 8 a.m. to 1 p.m., before tutoring and wrestling practice. Recently, he s been working out at a boxing club in La Habra. He s typically in bed by around 9 p.m.  Such a high level of commitment means obvious sacrifices for Pico and his support staff of family and friends. Pico doesn t drive, so typically his grandfather or one of his parents transports him to the early-morning workouts. Family meals are tailored to Pico s diet; the Picos won t have a full-blown Thanksgiving dinner until their youngest son can participate without restrictions.  He knows his long-term goal,  Gina Pico said.  He s got to make the sacrifices now. We talk about it every day.   He makes choices that are going to benefit him in the long term. We just support everything he does. Year-round online classes help Pico manage his course-load when he s traveling, which is often. Today he leaves for a two-week trip to Budapest, Hungary, to train with the United States team during the senior world championships. On Oct. 9, he heads to Dagestan, Russia, where he will train up in the mountains with the best of the best.  He s just flying everywhere,  Delgado said.  He s all over the place. So much so that the St. John Bosco coach recently joked he will start identifying him by a new nickname.  I m not going to call him Cheeks anymore,  Delgado said with a smile.  I m going to call him,  Mr. International. Contact the writer: jkaplan@lbregister.com , 562-243-3019    We invite you to use our commenting platform to engage in insightful conversations about issues in our community. Although we do not pre-screen comments, we reserve the right at all times to remove any information or materials that are unlawful, threatening, abusive, libelous, defamatory, obscene, vulgar, pornographic, profane, indecent or otherwise objectionable to us, and to disclose any information necessary to satisfy the law, regulation, or government request. We might permanently block any user who abuses these conditions. If you see comments that you find offensive, please use the “Flag as Inappropriate” feature by hovering over the right side of the post, and pulling down on the arrow that appears. Or, contact our editors by emailing moderator@scng.com. Get the latest news delivered daily! 