Cryptomundo   Speaking of Pukwudgies and the Bridgewater Triangle Posted by:  Craig Woolheater on December 22nd, 2013 This Sunday night s episode of  Monsters and Mysteries in America  deals with the Bridgewater Triangle and its spooky denizens. I was contacted by Aaron Cadieux, the co-director of the feature length documentary that was released in October called  The Bridgewater Triangle . The film is the first-ever feature-length documentary on the subject.  Aaron advised me of the following: Just an FYI on the Bill Russo story. His encounter was first written about in  his online blog . We contacted Russo to tell his story in our documentary.  He graciously agreed.  Our film marks the first time Russo told his story on camera.  We are very interested to see how his story is presented by Monsters and Mysteries compared to how it’s presented in our film.  I guess we’ll find out tomorrow! Aaron Cadieux As the description for the  Monsters and Mysteries in America  episode says: The Bridgewater Triangle is shrouded with inexplicable phenomena and UFO sightings. A deadly swamp Pukwudgie attacked Bill Russo The Puckwudgie in Raynham, Massachusetts. Image Credit: Destination America : Pukwudgie, Aliens, Dover Demon About  Craig Woolheater Co-founder of Cryptomundo in 2005. I have appeared in or contributed to  the following TV programs, documentaries and films:OLN's  Mysterious Encounters : "Caddo Critter",  Southern Fried Bigfoot , Travel Channel's  Weird Travels : "Bigfoot", History Channel's  MonsterQuest : "Swamp Stalker",  The Wild Man of the Navidad , Destination America's  Monsters and Mysteries in America : Texas Terror - Lake Worth Monster, Animal Planet's  Finding Bigfoot : Return to Boggy Creek and Beast of the Bayou. Email Facebook  Twitter Pinterest Instagram This entry was posted   on Sunday, December 22nd, 2013 at 9:05 am and is filed under  Bigfoot Report ,  Cryptozoology ,  Eyewitness Accounts ,  Photos ,  Pop Culture ,  Television . You can follow responses via our  RSS 2.0  feed. You can skip to the end and leave a response. Pinging is not allowed. You must be  logged in  to post a comment. | Top  |  Content | | Top  |  Sidebar | | Top  |  FarBar | Copyright   2005-2019,  Cryptomundo . All rights reserved. | Top |   Cryptomundo is powered by  WordPress and has had (Stats Disabled) unique visitors Accessible  Cryptomundo  theme SB v.1.2.c   2006-2019  by  Mike Cherim Attention: This is the end of the usable page! The images below are preloaded standbys only. This is helpful to those with slower Internet connections. 