Waste to energy unit at New Delhi railway station- Business News >< The New Delhi  Railway Station  will now have a wasteto-energy plant of its own.  The Northern Railway, Delhi Division, has taken this initiative following directions from the  National Green Tribunal  (NGT). The plant, a bio methanation variety, will become operational at the station by June 2016.  Arun Arora, Divisional Railway Manager (DRM), Delhi, said the Municipal Solid Waste (MSW) handling capacity of the plant will be 15 tonnes per day,  " M/s. RITES has been nominated as the Nodal Agency by Railway Board for tendering. Railway will bear the capital cost of the plant. " " After commissioning of the MSW pilot plant contractor shall operate and maintain it for the next five years. The expected life of the plant shall be a minimum of 12 years. Waste generated at the station shall be segregated into bio-degradable and recyclable waste. Bio-degradable waste shall get converted into electrical energy, which shall be utilised by railways, "  he said. Approximately 2,000 units of electricity produced in the subject plant per day will be purchased by the railways from the contractor at rate at which electricity is supplied to local municipal domestic users. No notifications yet. Finally, a leaf out of Sweden and other EU nations that have now become so efficient at waste-to-energy conversion that they have to import other countries '  waste! Much needed in our country where cities are choking up with waste and overflowing landfills raise a stinking health hazard. Speak Now Speak Now Delhi-Katra Vande Bharat Express to start in Navratri: check booking details, timings, special features Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train tickets to cost around Rs 3,000 Vande Bharat Express: Amit Shah flags off Delhi-Katra train; check out booking details, timings PWD scraps Barapullah Phase-IV flyover project; mulls other options to link South Delhi with IGI Delhi-Varanasi Vande Bharat Express runs without AC, lights, fan; passengers stranded for an hour Let ' s create cities of 21st century world, achieve $5-trillion economy dream: PM Modi As air quality turns  ' very poor ' , EPCA bans construction at night in Delhi-NCR from Oct 26-30 Delhi Metro ' s Dwarka-Najafgarh Grey Line to open on October 4 Story in Audio 