Central Retinal Vein Occlusion in a Patient With IgG Lambda Monoclonal Gammopathy | Allergy and Clinical Immunology | JAMA Ophthalmology | JAMA Network Customize your JAMA Network experience by selecting one or more topics from the list below. A  74-YEAR-OLD man had sudden, painless, decreased vision in the right eye. Visual acuity was 20/400 OD and 20/20 OS. Intraocular pressure in both eyes showed no abnormalities. The patient was aphakic in both eyes after bilateral intracapsular cataract extraction. Findings from a dilated funduscopic examination revealed a right central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO), a vitreous hemorrhage in the right eye ( Figure 1 ), and the absence of dilated, sausage-shaped retinal veins suggestive of coagulopathy. The patient's ophthalmic history was negative for hypertension, diabetes mellitus, or atherosclerotic disease, but positive for fevers, weight loss, and night sweats, which prompted further assessment. Laboratory test results were as follows: an elevated Westergren erythrocyte sedimentation rate, 126 mm/h (reference range, 0-35 mm/h); hemoglobin, 127 g/L (reference range, 140-175 g/L); hematocrit, 0.04 (reference range, 0.41-0.50); total protein, 86 g/L (reference range, 62-82 g/L); and albumin, 31 g/L (reference range, 30-50 g/L). Serum viscosity was elevated at 3.4 centistokes (reference range, 1.4-2.2 centistokes). Serum protein electrophoresis revealed an increased IgG fraction of 46.7 g/L (reference range, 8.0-18.0) and a lambda (λ) light chain of 2820 mg/dL (reference range, 304-755 mg/dL) ( Figure 2 ). λ Light chains were elevated in the urine ( Figure 3 ). A whole-body computed tomographic scan showed prevascular and paratracheal adenopathy ( Figure 4 ). Bone marrow aspiration and biopsy results ( Figure 5  and  Figure 6 ) were consistent with a well-differentiated lymphocytic lymphoma. The diagnosis of low-grade lymphoma with a secondary monoclonal gammopathy was made and the patient was prescribed combined therapy of chlorambucil and prednisone. Fluorescein angiography shows markedly dilated veins with preretinal and intraretinal hemorrhages. Serum protein electrophoresis demonstrates 2 restricted bands in the middle gamma and distal gamma region. Serum immunofixation demonstrates elevated IgG, λ, and λ-free light chains. Arrows indicate bands showing abnormalities. Urine protein electrophoresis shows restricted bands. Urine immunofixation demonstrates lambda-free light chains. Arrow indicates bands showing abnormalities. A computed tomographic scan of the chest demonstrates abnormal adenopathy in the paratracheal and paracardial regions, often associated with lymphoma. Bone marrow biopsy specimen shows 1 of several paratrabecular lymphoid aggregates with occasional irregular nuclei and a few marrow elements with no abnormalities (hematoxylin-eosin, original magnification ×10). Bone marrow biopsy specimen reveals a lymphoid aggregate predominantly of lymphoid cells with irregular nuclei and moderate cytoplasm. This bone marrow is consistent with a low-grade lymphoma and bone marrow involvement (hematoxylin-eosin, original magnification ×40). In most forms of CRVO, the thrombosis of the central retinal vein occurs at and is posterior to the lamina cribosa where the central retinal artery and vein share an adventitial sheath and the venous circulation has a high resistance to flow. The artherosclerotic central retinal artery impinges on the central retinal vein, causing turbulence, endothelial damage, and thrombus formation. 1  The association with atherosclerosis makes CRVO a common cause of ocular morbidity in the elderly. Central retinal vein occlusion may also be associated with less common systemic diseases that alter blood viscosity, clotting mechanisms, or vessel walls. 2 - 4  These include blood dyscrasias (eg, polycythemia vera), dysproteinemias (eg, Waldenström macroglobulinemia), causes of vasculitis (eg, sarcoidosis), and hyperviscosity states ( Table 1 ). The patient's underlying lymphoma and monoclonal gammopathy caused high serum viscosity, increased macromolecular components of plasma (IgG heavy-chain and λ-light chain hypergammopathy), and increased red blood cell aggregation. 4  Since this is consistent with the Virchow triad of thrombosis formation, 5  it is likely that the underlying systemic disorder is the cause of our patient's CRVO. To our knowledge, IgG λ subclass gammopathy and CRVO have not been previously reported. A primary care physician should be involved in basic assessment for associated underlying diseases, but a unilateral CRVO in an elderly adult does not need an extensive medical workup if the history and results of physical examination and basic laboratory assessment are negative. In this case, the fever, weight loss, and night sweats prompted further investigation. Corresponding author: Robert W. Enzenauer, MD, MPH, Department of Ophthalmology, Chattanooga Unit of the University of Tennessee, 975 E Third St, Chattanooga, TN 37403 (e-mail:  rwenzenauer@pol.net ). Enzenauer RW, Brozetti JJ, Dragoo RA. Central Retinal Vein Occlusion in a Patient With IgG Lambda Monoclonal Gammopathy.  Arch Ophthalmol.  1999;117(1):134–135. doi: https://doi.org/10.1001/archopht.117.1.134  2019   2019 American Medical Association. All Rights Reserved. Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement Create a personal account or sign in to: Create a personal account or sign in to: Create a personal account or sign in to: 