11 Best Microwave Ovens: Your Easy Buying Guide (2019) | Heavy.com If you need to heat up a meal quickly without firing up your traditional oven, a microwave oven is a safe and efficient way to go. You ll find a wide range of microwave ovens, from WiFi-enabled  smart ovens  to basic and affordable ones. This microwave oven from Panasonic catches the eye with its sleek and modern stainless steel construction. However, it also stands out for its 1200 watts of cooking power along with innovative Inverter Technology. The technology ensures that power isn t interrupted during cooking, which delivers even and thorough results without compromising flavor. Food is also defrosted quickly and accurately with the Turbo Defrost function. Despite its relatively compact 1.2 cubic foot capacity, the microwave oven has a turntable just over 13 inches, which is spacious enough for most dinner plates. A keep warm feature holds your food at an agreeable temperature until it s time to eat. A built-in smart sensor adjusts the cooking levels accordingly. If what you re looking for is more of a microwave oven that s similar in performance to a traditional oven, you ll want to consider this convection microwave from KitchenAid. The microwave features a robust 1800 watts of operating power. Between its high wattage and spacious interior, you can use the microwave oven to do everything from bake a pizza to broil dishes, bake cookies, broil pasta or simply keep food warm. There s enough room to fit up to two 12-inch pizzas inside. Depending on what you re cooking, you can opt for the convection mode setting to bake food quickly and evenly. An Asado Roast function roasts food precisely by adjusting the cooking temperature as needed. Other highlights include a 120-minute timer and a non-stick scratch resistant interior. A smart sensor allows this Toshiba microwave oven to cook food more precisely. The pre-programmed sensor automatically adjusts the temperature according to some of the most popular foods, including potatoes, vegetables, pizza and more. The 1100 watts of cooking power is plenty to quickly and efficiently heat up food. If you can t stand the pre-programmed beeps on many microwaves, you ll be glad to know that the feature can be disabled on this microwave oven. All you need to do is hold down a button to disable the buzzer. This microwave comes with a 1.2 cubic foot capacity and 10 power settings. Other features include a large digital display and a one-touch popcorn button. An eco mode setting allows you to conserve energy while heating or reheating your favorite foods. It s no secret that higher wattage microwaves cook food faster. This Oster microwave has 1200 watts of power, which means that it can quickly bring water to a boil in just two minutes or less. There are 10 power levels, along with pre-programmed settings for popular foods such as soup, pizza, popcorn and frozen dinners. Express settings allow you to add on extra time with the simple push of a button. An LED display shows the digital clock and timer. This microwave oven has a capacity of 1.4 cubic feet and has a stylish stainless steel exterior. A programmable child lock prevents unwanted access to microwaved contents. With features such as 1100 watts of cooking power and 1.2 cubic feet of interior space, this microwave oven by Emerson is similar to many competitors. However, one function helps set it apart from the rest, particularly if you re into grilling. There s a pure grill power level with a grilling output of 1100 watts. Aside from the grilling function, you ll find 11 microwave power levels. The microwave also comes with several pre-programmed recipes, such as popcorn, frozen pizza, dinner plates, potatoes and more. There s also a 99-minute timer along with a digital timer. You can see the timer countdown, digital clock and more with the LED display. At first glance, the AmazonBasics 700-Watt Microwave doesn t exactly stand out in the sea of available microwave ovens. However, unlike most microwave ovens on the market, this one works with Amazon Alexa. If you already own on Alexa device, simply connect it with the microwave and you can start using voice commands to cook your food. A bundle version with Echo Dot is available if you don t already own on Echo device. This microwave has 700 watts of cooking power along with 10 power levels. The interior space is 0.7 cubic feet, making the microwave a solid choice for dorms, apartments and smaller kitchens. This 1000-watt microwave oven delivers an above average amount of power. And speaking of power, you can choose between 10 power levels, with adjustable power from 10 to 100 percent. The microwave oven features LED lighting along with a crisp LCD display with timer and clock. The microwave cooks food in varying stages for optimal results. If you have children in the house, you can prevent unwanted use by locking the keypad. If copper isn t your preferred color you can also find this microwave oven in stainless steel. This stylish microwave is available in retro red and black. You ll enjoy plenty of goodies for the price, including 12 pre-programmed features along with a bright LED display. Other features include a 24-hour international time display along with a digital clock. There are five power levels and 700 watts of cooking power to ensure that your food comes out just the way you like. Its clean, sleek retro design adds fun and style in any setting. This smaller microwave is ideal for dorm and apartment use. Find more Nostalgia Electrics Retro Series Countertop Microwave Oven information and reviews here. This Danby countertop microwave is an ideal size for use in a dorm or apartment. Don t let its compact nature fool you, however, as it boasts 700 watts of cooking power along with 10 distinct power levels for nearly any type of food. Another highlight is a convenient one-touch operation for six of the most popular uses. Fingertip controls help you accomplish just about any task, from popcorn to a baked potato and reheating leftovers, in the most convenient way. Its stainless steel exterior gives this unit an upscale appearance. Find more Danby Designer 0.7 cu.ft. Countertop Microwave information and reviews here. The hOmeLabs 1050-Watt Microwave Oven has a capacity of 1.3 cubic feet. There s also a rotating turntable plate to prevent hotspots as the food is being microwaved. The turntable can accommodate dishes that stretch up to 12 inches across. The unit has 11 cooking functions along with 10 power levels. You ll find multiple pre-programmed settings for making popular foods such as pizza, popcorn and frozen vegetables. An interior light allows you to check on your food as it s heating up. Other features include an LED display and one-touch cooking functions. If you re looking for a basic microwave oven, consider this affordable rotary microwave oven. Instead of pushing buttons or inputting information, all you need to do is turn the dials for your desired power and cooking times. This particular model has a capacity of 0.6 cubic feet, but a larger 0.9 cubic foot microwave oven is also available. Its compact size makes the microwave a top choice for apartments, dorms and smaller kitchens. This budget-friendly microwave oven has a 9.5-inch turntable. Instead of a push button, the door opens and closes with a handle. The microwave oven is one of the most coveted appliances in any modern kitchen due to its ability to heat up food quickly and cut down on meal preparation time. Take a look at the available microwave ovens on the market today and you'll find a number of brands and features, not to mention a wide price range. If you're struggling to find the best microwave oven, consider deciding factors such as interior space, speed, and overall power. In general, the more budget-friendly models take a bit longer to heat food and don't come with as many bells and whistles as their pricier counterparts. See Also: Disclaimer: Heavy Inc. is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program and other affiliate advertising programs and may receive a commission if you purchase a product via a link on this page.  Stay Connected 