jewelry2.html J-5.  Superbly  made Hopi sterling silver overlay pin/pendant, signed, from the  Hopi Arts  &  Crafts Center, 1995, cloud above mesa motif,  1 in. diameter.  SOLD Dine' (Navajo) J-6.  Vintage  fleur-de-lis sandcast naja with old-style hands design to which  has been soldered a natural turquoise set in silver braid, which  may have once been an old ring. Naja is 2.5 in. wide; stone is  1-1/8 in. long x 5/8 in. wide. Naja is removable--hung on nicely  wire strung handmade  " pinyon "  and machine-made sterling  beads, almost 27 in. long. This is a dramatic and very interesting  older piece, and comfortable to wear.  SOLD. Next to it is  J-7,  a vintage natural turquoise  pendent with deep green-brown turquoise, 1-5/8 in. long, with  braided silver and nice stamp and wirework set in deep silver  bezel. Signed  " W S "  and stamped with a four-cornered  sun symbol.  $52. Five pairs of vintage earrings  (Zuni, Dine', and Chinese turquoise): (1)  Old Zuni clip-on natural turquoise channel inlaid  earrings with sterling silver, 3/4 in. long:  [SOLD]   (2)  Old Zuni pettipoint natural turquoise earrings with old-style  four-petal sterling silver squash blossoms, sterling screw-on  findings easily changed to pierced if desired, 1 in. long (without  findings): [SOLD]   (3)  Old Zuni delicate little natural turquoise screwback  flower earrings, 1/2 in. long: [SOLD]   (4)  Vintage Dine' (Navajo) nicely stamped round sterling  silver clip-on earrings, 1-1/4 in. diameter:  $32   (5)  NOT AMERICAN INDIAN: Vintage Victorian-style or  1920s (?) natural Chinese turquoise 3-bead earrings with gold-washed  filigree screwbacks and gold-tone or gold-washed beads, 2-3/8  in. long:  $32 J-13.   Old Hopi overlay pendant with  finely incised background and fine pure blue turquoise stone,  bird in flight motif, unsigned, 1.25 in. long, including loop,  1/2 in. wide.  $55. J-14.  Anthony Upshaw, Navajo-Zuni artist,   handcarved this extraordinary 54-piece fetish necklace, 35 inches  long, around 1990, beautifully strung with oyster shell heishi  and sterling silver findings. Flying birds, owl, frogs, fish,  ducks, tadpole, snake, buffalo, bear, wolf, badger, buffalo--just  about every animal carved in fetish necklaces is here, in almost  every stone used for fetish carving along with two elegant leaping  white dolphins, and superbly carved spondylus shells. This old-style  necklace, which evokes the quality and character of ancient fetish  carving, will be a joy to wear and to explore...  $425.00 J-12.  Elegant  and sophisticated Zuni matching coral and sterling silver ring  and bracelet by  Lucy Shekya . Bracelet has nice braid on  the side bands, and a 1-1/8 in. opening, and is slightly flexible  for adjustment. The coral is an especially rich and deep red,   $68  for the set. Northwest Coast Indian J-9. Dated 1976 :  Signed in script  " G. Cross / 76 "  this sheet gold orca  pendant is characteristically unmarked but tested as 14K and  is 2-1/8 in. from dorsal fin to end of tail.  SOLD. Return to  Migrations  home    page.  