The Murder Mystery Company Posted by  Claire  on April 19, 2016 For our fourth NYC murder mystery adventure, Mackenzie and I took on The Murder Mystery Company. Spoiler alert: we were super impressed. We did some research and learned that they often host coupon codes on their own website, unlike any of the NYC murder mystery shows we’ve gone to so far. We were able to snatch up our tickets for half price (!!!) thanks to a handy dandy popup message when we went to buy our tickets. We were sent a confirmation email that encouraged us to dress up with the theme of the story (not that we ever need an excuse to dress up!) so we donned our best 50’s attire to go along with the sock hop theme. Super fun! The performances don’t actually take place in NYC, rather in Jersey City, but we were willing to make the trek because so far, this seemed to be the most promising one of the bunch. The venue, Sanai’s, was nice, and it looked as if this was a sold out show full of sleuthing fans like Kenz and I, and we were excited to be seated at a table with people dressed up like us! The actors were already roaming around in character, getting to know audience members and explaining the rules of the game. At this point, Kenz and I gave each other a look because this was EXACTLY what we’ve been wanting: a fully interactive whodunnit. Someone at each table was even chosen to be a suspect in the murder mystery. How fun is that?! We were given a binder to share that had our table’s suspect info in it, along with fake money to bribe information from other suspects. We were totally in love with this one already. When it came time for dinner, we were even more in love. We got to choose our food beforehand, and I chose the pasta and Kenz got a portobello wrap that looked to die for (HA!) and we were definitely happy campers. During the three courses of food is also when we were encouraged to get up and investigate, so throughout most of the night almost everyone was up and moving around, and you could tell that everyone was just having a blast.  The show itself was hilarious, with the perfect mix of comedy and a real mystery for us to solve. The actors were definitely top-notch and you could tell that they all really love doing these. I also loved how during the audience interaction parts (which was pretty much the whole thing) the performers totally gave over the spotlight for all of us regular people to have a moment. It was so great. The end of the show was so much fun, and our table guessed the murderer correctly with our sentencing sheets. It’s not that it was too easy, it’s just that the murder mystery was so well-done that we were able to piece it together with the clues given. It was quite rewarding, knowing that we had just solved a crime! We wholeheartedly recommend The Murder Mystery Company for an NYC murder mystery dinner. Great price, entertaining story, talented performers, great experience. Everyone else needs to step it up if they’re going to try to impress us as much as they did! The Murder Mystery Company (888) 643-2583 shows@themurdermysterycompany.com murdermystery.nyc N/A The Murder Mystery Company is my faveee By  Vanessa W  on April 19, 2016 I love them too!! I had a really fun time at one of their shows in my city last year for my birthday! It’s the only murder mystery I’ve ever seen but I just know and after reading your review that they’re the best out there! I always recommend seeing them to anyone looking for a show to see. You and your friend Mackenzie just sound too cute! Keep the reviews coming :) hey By  Ashley T  on April 22, 2016 hey nice review can you recommend me some resterants in nyc? i dont want to see a show i just want to eat some good food thats cheap but still good u kno any???? Murder Mysteries = best thing ever By  Stella H  on April 22, 2016 I’ve always wanted to go to one of these shows so I was super excited when I got the chance to go with my fiance. He knows how much I love mysteries, like I’m an absolute ADDICT of CSI. I feel like I could become a crime scene investigator just from watching that show. Haha. So I was super excited to get to take a crack at it in (sort of) real life. It wasn’t exactly what I was expecting (something more serious/with an actual, urgent mystery to solve) but it was fun nevertheless. I liked how funny it was, but the CSI nerd in me wanted to actually solve a gritty, realistic case. But that probably wouldn’t sell as well. Anyway, it was a fun night out and I would totally do it again (hint, hint, fiance!) Great time for mystery fans By  Kathy K  on April 23, 2016 I took my granddaughter to one of these shows for her birthday because she loves mystery novels and Sherlock Holmes. She really got a kick out of the live-action mystery, and she enjoyed playing along. We had a great time together and laughed quite a bit at the silliness and the personas of the actors. Too fun. I would definitely consider going again once the theme changes! *Please note: all comments need to be reviewed before posted  2016 NYC Murder Mysteries 