*Jan:Levar copy - Trekland Get into Portal 47!  Your Insider Access to More In-Depth Trek A chance at an ENT DVD set plus THREE bonus gifts:    Join PORTAL 47 with the year-end  BEAM-IN BONUS (shhh extended to Jan. 5)!  Headed to L.A.?  Enjoy Your Own Trekland TREKS location day  tour!  Larry Nemecek  November 29, 2017  Leave a Comment Your email address will not be published.  Required fields are marked  * Comment Name  * Email  * Website Notify me of new posts by email. Currently you have JavaScript disabled. In order to post comments, please make sure JavaScript and Cookies are enabled, and reload the page. Click here for instructions on how to enable JavaScript in your browser. CLICK FOR MORE ON: For archived 2008-2016 blog posts, click here… View All Events Fill out the form below with the number in your away team and the dates you'd prefer. After you confirm, you will be taken to a Paypal page to complete your order.  SATURDAY or SUNDAY ONLY (1 day):   $ 297 per person  BOTH SATURDAY AND SUNDAY (2 days): $ 497 per person  Price includes group tour transportation, lunch and Dr. Trek's souvenir info handout for the sites of that day. Large group?  Call Larry for group rate  Just to know: • Initial Portal 47 signup is a 12-month agreement, with the courtesy of $27 monthly automatic billing through PayPal on the same day of each month as sign-up. After 12 months you have the option of continuing month to month at your discretion. • The content and material used in all Portal 47 events, discussions and mailings is proprietary information and you agree not to share it with anyone other than under Fair Use terms (brief clips, limited quotes, or watermarked images). This not only protects your deep-diving value, but that of all your fellow “Portales.” • During Roundtable or other telebriefings recordings or live events with member participation, you also agree to release your audio and video (if webcam enabled). Email us for a quick response... ✘ ✘ ✘ Unable to send, please try again. 