WikiLeaks This key's fingerprint is A04C 5E09 ED02 B328 03EB  6116 93ED 732E 9231 8DBA If you need help using Tor you can contact WikiLeaks for assistance in setting it up using our simple webchat available at:  https://wikileaks.org/talk If you can use Tor, but need to contact WikiLeaks for other reasons use our secured webchat available at  http://wlchatc3pjwpli5r.onion We recommend contacting us over Tor if you can. Tor  is an encrypted anonymising network that makes it harder to intercept internet communications, or see where communications are coming from or going to. In order to use the WikiLeaks public submission system as detailed above you can download the Tor Browser Bundle, which is a Firefox-like browser available for Windows, Mac OS X and GNU/Linux and pre-configured to connect using the anonymising system Tor. If you are at high risk and you have the capacity to do so, you can also access the submission system through a secure operating system called  Tails . Tails is an operating system launched from a USB stick or a DVD that aim to leaves no traces when the computer is shut down after use and automatically routes your internet traffic through Tor. Tails will require you to have either a USB stick or a DVD at least 4GB big and a laptop or desktop computer. Our submission system works hard to preserve your anonymity, but we recommend you also take some of your own precautions. Please review these basic guidelines.  If you have a very large submission, or a submission with a complex format, or are a high-risk source, please  contact us . In our experience it is always possible to find a custom solution for even the most seemingly difficult situations. If the computer you are uploading from could subsequently be audited in an investigation, consider using a computer that is not easily tied to you. Technical users can also use  Tails  to help ensure you do not leave any records of your submission on the computer. If you have any issues talk to WikiLeaks. We are the global experts in source protection – it is a complex field. Even those who mean well often do not have the experience or expertise to advise properly. This includes other media organisations. If you have any issues talk to WikiLeaks. We are the global experts in source protection – it is a complex field. Even those who mean well often do not have the experience or expertise to advise properly. This includes other media organisations. If you are a high-risk source, avoid saying anything or doing anything after submitting which might promote suspicion. In particular, you should try to stick to your normal routine and behaviour. If you are a high-risk source and the computer you prepared your submission on, or uploaded it from, could subsequently be audited in an investigation, we recommend that you format and dispose of the computer hard drive and any other storage media you used. In particular, hard drives retain data after formatting which may be visible to a digital forensics team and flash media (USB sticks, memory cards and SSD drives) retain data even after a secure erasure. If you used flash media to store sensitive data, it is important to destroy the media. If you do this and are a high-risk source you should make sure there are no traces of the clean-up, since such traces themselves may draw suspicion. If a legal action is brought against you as a result of your submission, there are organisations that may help you. The Courage Foundation is an international organisation dedicated to the protection of journalistic sources. You can find more details at  https://www.couragefound.org . WikiLeaks publishes documents of political or historical importance that are censored or otherwise suppressed. We specialise in strategic global publishing and large archives. The following is the address of our secure site where you can anonymously upload your documents to WikiLeaks editors. You can only access this submissions system through Tor. (See our  Tor tab  for more information.) We also advise you to read our  tips for sources  before submitting. If you cannot use Tor, or your submission is very large, or you have specific requirements, WikiLeaks provides several alternative methods.  Contact us  to discuss how to proceed. Today, October 23, WikiLeaks publishes a statement made by a panel that listened to testimony and reviewed evidence from a whistleblower from the OPCW (update) Today, November 12, WikiLeaks publishes over 30000 documents from SAMHERJI Today, January 30th WikiLeaks publishes a set of documents from the Catholic Church, shedding light on the power struggle within highest offices Today, 21 December 2018, WikiLeaks publishes a searchable database of more than 16,000 procurement requests posted by United States embassies around the world. Today, 11 Oct 2018, WikiLeaks publishes a highly confidential internal document from the cloud computing provider Amazon. Today, 28 September 2018, WikiLeaks releases a secret document from the ICC portaining a dispute over commission payment in relation to $3.6B arms deal ICE Patrol is a searchable archive of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) employees with LinkedIn profiles. WL Research Community - user contributed research based on documents published by WikiLeaks.  Tor is an encrypted anonymising network that makes it harder to intercept internet communications, or see where communications are coming from or going to.  Tails is a live operating system, that you can start on almost any computer from a DVD, USB stick, or SD card. It aims at preserving your privacy and anonymity. The Courage Foundation is an international organisation that supports those who risk life or liberty to make significant contributions to the historical record. Bitcoin uses peer-to-peer technology to operate with no central authority or banks; managing transactions and the issuing of bitcoins is carried out collectively by the network. 