Herschel Walker signed an agreement Wednesday with the Dallas... - UPI Archives THOUSAND OAKS, Calif. --   Herschel Walker signed an agreement Wednesday with the Dallas Cowboys for a reported $5 million, prompting running back Tony Dorsett to demand a traded or have his contract renegotiated. Walker will actually sign his five-year contract Friday when he reports for his first practice. However, the Cowboys' dream backfield hit a snag with Dorsett's demands. 'They know my mentality. I'm unhappy,' Dorsett said. 'I don't want to be here being second fiddle to any running back on the Dallas Cowboys. If that's the role they want me to take, put me on the bench and don't use my talents. Just pay me to sit around or trade me. 'Go get some receivers, some offensive linemen, whatever you want. I'm at the top of my game. They should be able to get something for me.' Dorsett said the Cowboys' decision to give Walker a salary - reported at $5 million over five years by the Dallas Times Herald -- that would make him the Cowboys' highest paid player is 'the complete opposite of what they do.' Noting his career rushing total of 10,832 yards, sixth-best in NFL history, Dorsett said: 'To bring someone in here who hasn't contributed a yard and to pay him twice what they pay me ... what it tells me is that I'm no longer their back.' Walker earned $1.5 million annually with the U.S. Football League's New Jersey Generals. Dorsett and defensive tackle Randy White entered training camp the top paid Cowboys at $700,000 to $750,000 in salary, bonuses and compensation. Quarterback Danny White has the team's highest base salary at $605,000, according to published reports. Dallas President Tex Schramm has not talked to Dorsett and will not comment on the running back's remarks, Cowboys spokesman Doug Todd said. Joe Bailey, the team's vice president, told radio station KRLD the dispute was 'a tempest in a teapot' that will be settled once Schramm and Dorsett talk. The Cowboys also reached a contract agreement Wednesday with tight end Doug Cosbie, whose departure from training camp in Thousand Oaks, Calif., to Dallas was reported to be in protest of Walker's signing. However, Bailey, who accompanied Cosbie to Dallas, said the tight end wanted to see his wife, who is in her final days of pregnancy. Walker's agreement was announced following 22 hours of talks between Schramm and agent Peter Johnson. Walker is the USFL's all-time rushing leader and 1982 Heisman Trophy winner. 'I feel honored to join the Cowboys because they are a class team,' Walker said at a news conference. 'To get to play in a Cowboys uniform and in Texas is a great honor for me.' Schramm earlier said Walker would receive less than his contract with the Generals. Walker's USFL deal was worth $6 million over four years. 'The figures are not comparable to his USFL contract,' Schramm said Wednesday. 'We were not negotating off of his contract with the USFL. We were negotiating on National Football League standards and reached agreement on a contract that we're very pleased with, and obviously Herschel is pleased.' There was speculation Generals owner Donald Trump would ask the Cowboys for a $1 million buyout of the USFL contract. Schramm had said earlier Dallas would not pay the Generals for Walker's services. Walker was the Cowboys' fifth-round draft choice in 1985. He became eligible to sign with Dallas when the USFL announced its players were free to negotiate elsewhere after suspending play for its 1986 fall season. Before Dorsett's demands, Cowboys Coach Tom Landry said Walker would back up Dorsett at halfback until Walker is comfortable with the offense. 'I don't know how long that will take, but everybody's anxious to get both of them in the backfield at the same time,' Landry said. 'We have the two outstanding runners to come into the NFL in the last 20 years. Only Earl Campbell was in the same league when he came out of UT (Texas). 'It's incredible to think of the two of them together, Dorsett and Herschel. And it's also incredible for me to think that Herschel is only 24 years old.' Walker said he was surprised at how quickly the agreement was reached. He added that he has a 'lot of catching up to do' with the Cowboys, who have been in training camp at California Lutheran University since July 6, when rookies reported. 