Server 2012 Local Administrator account- cannot change user properties to set” user cannot change password”. Server 2012 Local Administrator account- cannot change user properties to set” user cannot change password”. When you hit apply you get a pop up with the following info “The following error occurred while attempting to save properties for (XXX User): This operation is disallowed as it could result in an administration account being disabled, deleted or unable to logon.” I have a client requesting this be done on all of there member servers. If it is not possible then I hoping there is a Microsoft article to back it up. If it is possible to apply this setting any instructions would be helpful. Hi kcd1000, Sorry for the late reply. I have test this issue in my environment. Here are some results: Figure1  &  Figure2 : logon with admin account and found out that I can't modify the related option, but I can modify other user account's related option  " User cannot change PWD " Figure 2: when I logon with non-admin account, I can only modify the current user account related option, but I can't modify others options. So, if you want to modify the related account options, please logon with admin account, but you couldn't modify the current admin account options. Besides, I haven't found out there is a official article to describes this. Best regards, Andy_Pan This does not appear to be an R Server issue. Cheers, Josee Hi kcd1000, Sorry for the late reply. I have test this issue in my environment. Here are some results: Figure1  &  Figure2 : logon with admin account and found out that I can't modify the related option, but I can modify other user account's related option  " User cannot change PWD " Figure 2: when I logon with non-admin account, I can only modify the current user account related option, but I can't modify others options. So, if you want to modify the related account options, please logon with admin account, but you couldn't modify the current admin account options. Besides, I haven't found out there is a official article to describes this. Best regards, Andy_Pan 