November 2017 — April 2018 Awards and Recognitions   UNC Gillings School of Global Public Health May 5, 2016 Read more at  sph.unc.edu/news . BIOS           Biostatistics EPI              Epidemiology ESE             Environmental Sciences and Engineering HB               Health Behavior HPM           Health Policy and Management MCH           Maternal and Child Health NUTR          Nutrition PHLP          Public Health Leadership Program Liz Chen Cristina Leos Liz Chen  and  Cristina Leos , HB doctoral students, were selected for  Forbes  magazine’s ‘30 under 30’ list of young entrepreneurs in November 2017. Oluoma Chukwu ,  Lauren Jordan  and  Jessica Broadus , HPM master’s students, took first prize at the 22nd annual Everett V. Fox Student Case Competition, held Oct. 17–20, 2017, in San Antonio. Each was awarded a $4,000 scholarship. Left to right are Oluoma Chukwu, Lauren Jordan and Jessica Broadus, winners of the Everett Fox Student Case Competition. (Photo by Linda Kastleman) Alyssa Cozzo Alyssa Cozzo , doctoral student in NUTR, received the 2017 Marci Kramish Campbell Dissertation Award. Cozzo studies how breast tissue in obese people affects cancer risk and outcomes. Leah Everist Leah Everist , senior BSPH student in HPM, was selected as a 2018 Luce Scholar, one of 18 undergraduates in the U.S. chosen for this prestigious internship program in Asia. Tyler Malone Tyler Malone , HPM doctoral student, was named a 2018 Future Faculty Fellow by UNC-Chapel Hill’s Center for Faculty Excellence. Frank Stillo Frank Stillo , MSPH, ESE doctoral student, was named one of three “Students Who Rocked Public Health in 2017” by the J ournal of Public Health Management and Practice.  Stillo studies disparities in drinking water quality in African-American communities. Burcu Bozkurt Burcu Bozkurt , HPM doctoral student, was awarded a 2018 Paul and Daisy Soros Fellowship for New Americans. The fellowship honors the contributions of immigrants and their children. Bozkurt left her native Turkey at age seven to come with her parents to the U.S. Ralph Baric Noel Brewer Hans Paerl Barry Popkin Four Gillings School professors were named by Clarivate Analytics as being among 2017’s most highly cited researchers. They are  Ralph Baric, PhD  (EPI),  Noel Brewer, PhD  (HB),  Hans Paerl, PhD  (ESE) and  Barry Popkin, PhD  (NUTR). Jamie Bartram Jacqueline MacDonald Gibson Jamie Bartram, PhD , Don and Jennifer Holzworth Distinguished Professor of ESE, and  Jacqueline MacDonald Gibson, PhD , ESE associate professor, were named to the N.C. Science Advisory Board to study emerging chemicals. Bartram was named to chair the board. Peggye Dilworth-Anderson Peggye Dilworth-Anderson, PhD , HPM professor, was awarded the 2018 Pearmain Prize for Excellence in Research on Aging by the University of Southern California’s Roybal Institute on Aging. In April, she also received the UNC Office for Diversity and Inclusion s 2018 University Diversity Award. Diego Garza Diego Garza, MD, MPH , alumnus and adjunct PHLP faculty member, won the  Triangle Business Journal  2018 Health Care Heroes Award. William Gray William Gray, PhD , ESE professor, was elected to the National Academy of Engineering, among the highest professional distinctions accorded an engineer, for theoretical work to develop approaches for modeling flow and transport phenomena in porous media systems, such as those beneath the earth’s surface. The theory also has biomedical applications, such as for tumor growth and treatment. Barry Popkin Barry Popkin, PhD , W.R. Kenan Jr. Distinguished Professor of NUTR, was invited by the American Heart Association’s Lifestyle and Cardiometabolic Health Council to present the David Kritchevsky Memorial Lecture in New Orleans on March 22. Raza Shaikh Raza Shaikh, PhD , associate professor of NUTR, received the American Society for Nutrition’s 2018 Mary Swartz Rose Young Investigator Award. Barbara Turpin Barbara Turpin, PhD , professor and chair of ESE, won the American Chemical Society’s 2018 Creative Advances in Environmental Sciences and Technology Award. Teaching Innovation Award winners (l-r) are Meghan Shanahan, Amanda Holliday, Kathy Roggenkamp, Carolyn Crump, Justin Trogdon and Vaughn Upshaw. (Photo by Linda Kastleman) Whitney Robinson Jason Surratt On April 18, eight faculty members were presented with the Gillings School’s 2018 Teaching Innovation Award. They are  Carolyn Crump, PhD , HB associate professor,  Amanda Holliday, PhD , NUTR assistant professor,  Whitney Robinson, PhD , associate professor of EPI,  Kathy Roggenkamp, MA , BIOS instructor,  Meghan Shanahan, PhD , assistant professor of HPM,  Jason Surratt, PhD , ESE associate professor,  Justin Trogdon, PhD , HPM associate professor, and  Vaughn Upshaw, DrPH, EdD , PHLP professor. Amanda Holliday Jeffrey Simms Carmen Samuel-Hodge Three Gillings School faculty members were honored at commencement as winners of the School’s most prestigious awards for teaching, research, mentoring and service. They are  Amanda Holliday, MS , NUTR assistant professor, winner of the Greenberg Award;  Jeffrey Simms, MSPH, MDiv , assistant professor of HPM, winner of the Larsh Award; and  Carmen Samuel-Hodge, PhD , NUTR assistant professor, winner of the Barr Award. Alice Ammerman Alice Ammerman, DrPH , Mildred Kaufman Distinguished Professor of NUTR, was honored April 9 with the UNC-Chapel Hill Office of the Provost Engaged Scholarship Award. The award recognizes extraordinary public service and engaged scholarship at UNC-Chapel Hill. Ammerman, who also is director of the UNC Center for Health Promotion and Disease Prevention, was recognized for engaged research for the Heart Healthy Lenoir project ( hearthealthylenoir.com ). Stephanie Wheeler Stephanie Wheeler, PhD , associate professor of HPM, was awarded UNC’s Philip and Ruth Hettleman Prize for Artistic and Scholarly Achievement by Young Faculty in September 2017. On May 1, she presented the Hettleman Lecture, “How Wealth, Race and Place Affect Cancer Outcomes.” Wheeler also was recognized in November 2017 as a distinguished alumna of her undergraduate alma mater, College of Charleston. Nora Franceschini Nora Franceschini, MD, MPH , associate professor of EPI, was selected for the Trudy Bush Fellowship for Cardiovascular Disease Research in Women’s Health by the American Heart Association Council on Epidemiology and Prevention. Barbara K. Rimer Barbara K. Rimer, DrPH , dean of the Gillings School, was appointed to the N.C. Governor’s Commission on Inclusion. She will work with Gov. Roy Cooper and commission members to leverage diversity and foster inclusion in the state. Congratulations, graduates! Camara P. Jones, MD, MPH, PhD, presented the Gillings School’s commencement address on May 12. Jones is past president of the American Public Health Association and senior fellow at Morehouse School of Medicine’s Satcher Health Leadership Institute and Cardiovascular Research Institute. Return to Table of Contents Carolina Public Health  is a publication of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Gillings School of Global Public Health. To view previous issues, please visit  sph.unc.edu/cph . 