Amazon.com: Ronald Reagan: The American Presidents Series: The 40th President, 1981-1989  ( Audible Audio Edition ) : Jacob Weisberg, Dennis Holland, Audible Studios: Audible Audiobooks The conservative icon who reshaped American politics and laid the groundwork for the end of the Cold War.  In the second half of the 20th century, no American president defined his political era as did Ronald Reagan. He ushered in an age that extolled smaller government, tax cuts, and strong defense, and to this day politicians of both political parties operate within the parameters of the world he made. His eight years in office, from 1981 to 1989, were a time of economic crisis and recovery, a new American assertiveness abroad, and an engagement with the Soviet Union that began in conflict but moved in surprising new directions.  Jacob Weisberg provides a bracing portrait of America's 40th president and the ideas that animated his political career, offering a fresh psychological interpretation and showing that there was more to Reagan than the usual stereotypes. Reagan, he observes, was a staunch conservative but was also unafraid to compromise and cut deals where necessary. And Reagan espoused a firm belief, just as firm as his belief in small government and strong defense, that nuclear weapons were immoral and ought to be eliminated. Weisberg argues that these facets of Reagan were too often ignored in his time but reveal why his presidency turned out to be so consequential.  In the years since Reagan left office, he has been cast in marble by the Republican Party and dismissed by the Democrats. Weisberg shows why we need to move past these responses if we wish truly to appreciate his accomplishments and his legacy.  Cover design by Raquel Jaramillo.  The conservative icon who reshaped American politics and laid the groundwork for the end of the Cold War.  In the second half of the 20th century, no American president defined his political era as did Ronald Reagan. He ushered in an age that extolled smaller government, tax cuts, and strong defense, and to this day politicians of both political parties operate within the parameters of the world he made. His eight years in office, from 1981 to 1989, were a time of economic crisis and recovery, a new American assertiveness abroad, and an engagement with the Soviet Union that began in conflict but moved in surprising new directions.  Jacob Weisberg provides a bracing portrait of America ' s 40th president and the ideas that animated his political career, offering a fresh psychological interpretation and showing that there was more to Reagan than the usual stereotypes. Reagan, he observes, was a staunch conservative but was also unafraid to compromise and cut deals where necessary. And Reagan espoused a firm belief, just as firm as his belief in small government and strong defense, that nuclear weapons were immoral and ought to be eliminated. Weisberg argues that these facets of Reagan were too often ignored in his time but reveal why his presidency turned out to be so consequential.  In the years since Reagan left office, he has been cast in marble by the Republican Party and dismissed by the Democrats. Weisberg shows why we need to move past these responses if we wish truly to appreciate his accomplishments and his legacy.  Cover design by Raquel Jaramillo.  By completing your purchase, you agree to Audible’s  Conditions of Use . Sold and delivered by Audible, an Amazon company There's a problem loading this menu right now. Learn more about Amazon Prime.  Your Shopping Cart is empty.  Give it purpose fill it with books, DVDs, clothes, electronics, and more.  If you already have an account,  sign in .  There's a problem previewing your cart right now.  Check your Internet connection and  go to your cart , or  try again . < #= biaTitle #> 