New Zealand posties told to go nuts after Christmas spirit lacking in Australia | Stuff.co.nz ©  2018  Stuff Limited Advertisement New Zealand Post is encouraging its posties to soak up the Christmas spirit and deck out their bikes with tinsel and decorations.  A fortnight ago  Australia Post was accused of ruining Christmas  after telling a postie in Victoria to take off decorations from his motorcycle because it was a safety hazard.  But Australia Post has dropped the ban after receiving complaints from locals who set up the Facebook group: "Cam the Postie brings so much more than just the mail" in response to the ban.  We love seeing our posties get in the Christmas spirit! This is Marianne from Te Puke, loving your festive decor Marianne! 🎄  pic.twitter.com/j9q7df2A7L  After a week of Cam delivering mail in a plain, undecorated bike,  news.com.au reported that Australia Post gave in and allowed Cam to deck his bike with holly and spread Christmas cheer once again.  They posted a statement on Facebook saying: Advertisement  "We love it when our people share the Christmas spirit, but safety is our highest priority and we expect them to adopt safe work practices.  "We're very happy for Cam to apply some decorations, as long as they don't obstruct his visions, pose any risk of becoming tangled in his wheels, or compromise the handling of the bike." READ MORE: Australia Post accused of ruining Christmas  New Zealand Post tweeted its support of decorated bikes on Thursday and wrote: "We love seeing our posties get in the Christmas spirit! This is Marianne from Te Puke, loving your festive decor Marianne!"  Social media users have also been posting support of festive posties, saying it added cheer to what had been a tough year.  It will continue to be tough on anyone who hasn't posted their Christmas parcels yet - the deadline for guaranteed delivery was Monday. Stuff Advertisement Special offer Special offer Hey guys, Merry Christmas!Unfortunately just caught a guy casing out our property and our neighbors house, he ' s cycling round the neighborhood to see who ' s home and who ' s gone away for Christmas. He ' s wearing a dirty brown (colour, not actually dirty from what I could see) jacket, a black backpack, dreads, and a dumb fu*k look on his face. I told him to piss off and he had no excuse, was surprised to see me there. He headed off up Ferndale road. I ' m on Leonard Road. Keep an eye out guys! Hi neighbours, in response to my letter to Council regarding dumped rubbish, myself, Cr Bartley and LB Chair have received the following correspondence:“As a result of illegal dumping reports 1,027 incidents have been responded to in the Maungakiekie-Tāmaki Local Board area between 20 March 2018 and 4 December 2018 (see map attached for responses by suburb). The removal time once a job has been logged is five days, however in many cases it is removed much sooner than that.  Occasionally it may be left for longer if specialist equipment is required for removal of, for example, mulch… During 2018 we have had two successful prosecutions and issued over 140 infringement notices with fines.The Dunkirk Road location has been designated as an illegal dumping hotspot and is regularly monitored by our contractors.  In an effort to deter dumpers, signs have been erected and staff are assessing the suitability of the location for the installation of mobile surveillance cameras. In addition, staff have asked local police patrols to monitor this area at night time.The rubbish that was dumped at this location last year did contain evidence which was investigated by staff, but unfortunately they were not able to build a sufficiently robust case to take enforcement action. The same person is however under investigation in relation to other dumping sites.”Can I please encourage residents to report any dumped rubbish they see, particularly if they witness it being dumped. Please note the 0800 NO DUMP Hotline for Aucklanders to report illegal dumping. Hi Neighbours,There are some changes to the rubbish collection days during the holiday period. If your kerbside rubbish is normally collected on December 24, there ' s nothing to worry about but between December 25-29 and January 1-5 there are some changes to the schedule.  Find out more here It ' s been in the news about the 19 year driver who caused the death of a teenager.please sign the petition on change.org to increase her prison sentence from home detention to longer.the law needs to be the same for all not skewed.. Advertisement ©  2018  Stuff Limited 