Brownie Pie Recipe - Easy Fudge Brownie Dessert - VIDEO!!! Home  »  Recipes  »  Desserts  »  Brownies + Cookies  »  Fudge Brownie Pie Recipe Brownie Pie is a rich, chocolaty dessert that s almost too good to be true! A homemade fudge brownie recipe baked straight into a pie crust gives you two desserts in one. A layer of toasted pecans is mixed in to add a bit of crunch, while the brownies stays soft and moist. Top a slice with ice cream and drizzle with chocolate syrup, and you ve got the best brownie dessert ever! Pin Brownie Pie is a chocolate-filled dessert that everyone will love. A homemade fudge brownie recipe baked into a pie crust yum! Are you ready for this amazing brownie dessert? Fudge  brownies  baked into a  pie just let that sink in. Because one great dessert isn t enough, we mashed together two favorites to make something amazing. This Fudge Brownie Pie recipe is SO delicious, so chocolaty, and so fun to share. Start with a pre-made pie crust to make this chocolaty  dessert recipe  easy peasy. Whip up an easy homemade fudge brownie recipe, but instead of baking it in a dish, you ll be baking it inside of a pie crust! A layer of toasty, crunchy pecans is mixed in, and then you can top of this brownie dessert with some ice cream and chocolate syrup. Tell me you re drooling too, because I definitely am! This brownie pie is a special treat that s perfect for just about any occasion. There s really never a bad time for chocolate pie. Make one for after dinner, serve it to guests, or make one up for a holiday party. Everyone will devour this pie! This tasty Brownie Pie is the perfect mash up of a fudge brownie recipe a chocolate pie. The best of both worlds! Pin Pin After making  brownies from scratch  a while ago, I realized that whipping up a fudge brownie recipe is no sweat! No need for boxed brownie mix here (although you can use it if you prefer), because this brownie dessert is simple. We ARE using a pre-made pie crust to make things easy, and then you just pour the brownie batter straight in to bake. Brownies and Pie all in one. The best of both worlds! Brownies aren t quite complete without some ice cream on the side. I just LOVE the way cold ice cream melts on top of warm brownies. Everything mixes together so perfectly; hot and cold, chocolate and vanilla. So of course we need that same combo with this brownie pie. Grab a slice while it s warm, top it of with a scoop of ice cream, drizzle on some more chocolate, and enjoy! Pin Pin Since we re using a pre-made pie crust from the store, this brownie dessert recipe really just requires making the brownie batter and then baking. Let the brownie pie cool for an hour or two before serving. Top with ice cream and enjoy! See recipe card below for full instructions. Pin This chocolaty Fudge Brownie Pie will be a hit with anyone and everyone! No one can resist this amazing brownie dessert, especially once you add on that scoop of ice cream. See the recipe card below for details on how to make Fudge Brownie Pie. Enjoy! If you like this brownie dessert, you ll love these other  dessert recipes  too: The Cookie Rookie 8.5K subscribers Subscribe Fudge Brownie Pie Recipe Info Shopping Tap to unmute If playback doesn ' t begin shortly, try restarting your device. More videos Full screen is unavailable.  Learn More Your browser does not currently recognize any of the video formats available.  Click here to visit our frequently asked questions about HTML5 video. More videos on YouTube Share Include playlist An error occurred while retrieving sharing information. Please try again later. Watch later Share Copy link Switch camera 0:00 0:00  /  Live An error occurred. Try watching this video on www.youtube.com , or enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser. Use the tag #thecookierookie when posting a photo of your recipe, and make sure to follow  The Cookie Rookie  on Instagram! Subscribe to have posts delivered straight to your inbox!! PLUS get our FREE ebook, Favorite Easy Chicken Dinners. Success! Now check your email to confirm your subscription. There was an error submitting your subscription. Please try again. Your email address will not be published.  Required fields are marked  * Recipe Rating Comment Name  * Email  * Current ye@r  * Leave this field empty Hi Becky! This looks SO delicious, can t wait to try it out on Thanksgiving this year. I am wondering are there any parts of this recipe (aside from the pie shell) that I can prepare ahead of time? For example, would it make sense to prep the batter the night before and store it in the fridge? Or would that make a big difference in the outcome? Thanks so much in advance! Sounds so delicous. IF I am really in a bind, can I use a boxed Fudge Brownie mix? I just wonder if enough or the correct size for the pie crust! Thanks. I haven t done it that way, but I do know it would absolutely work with that batter. You could always just bake up any excess separately :) Gotta love a good pie recipe. Pies from scratch are a true testimony of love. Agree! Made this for dessert tonight. Delicious and very easy. But I had to bake mine for at least twice as long. Maybe because I used a deep-dish pie shell? Not sure if the size either. Maybe it was only 8”? And even after all that time, not fully baked in the center, but I figured it had enough heat to kill the salmonella {lets’s hope}. It could have been the depth of the pie dish for sure. I m glad you loved it!  Hi, I’m Becky Hardin. Here at The Cookie Rookie you will find trusted and easy recipes for every occasion. Let's cook! Success! Now check your email to confirm your subscription. There was an error submitting your subscription. Please try again. The Cookie Rookie is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites at no cost to readers. 