Ricky Halimah, PMP, MBA - SAP Data  &  Analytics - Cloud and FIORI Architect - Accenture | LinkedIn SAP BI/BW, S/4 HANA  &  Analytics Consultant and Project Manager with over 12 years of combined IT industry and “Big Four” (Deloitte  &  PwC) Management Consulting experiences in the area of BI Analytics, Cloud Analytics, Strategic Enterprise Management, Information Management, and Data Warehouse.  Successfully led multiple BI teams and implemented several multi-million dollar projects for Fortune 500 companies such as Toyota, BNSF, Nike, Intel, TXU Energy, and CareFusion.  Successfully completed 8 full life-cycle (end-to-end) implementations for SAP BI, BW-HANA, S/4 HANA and SEM-BPS using ASAP, PMP, and Agile methodology.  Proactively supported many projects in different phases of life-cycle including project assessment, business blueprint, architect design and solution, data modeling, realization, UAT testing, post-production support, and business user training.  Created multiple new project opportunities (SOW) totaling over $1 Million and actively participated in developing multiple client proposals for different project assessments in the area of Information Strategy, Business Intelligence, and Data Warehouse.  Created multiple BI project plans using WBS (Work Breakdown Structure) methodology to break down the project task into activity levels where time and resources could be measured in order to increase the accuracy of the project plan and budget.   Liked by  Ricky Halimah, PMP, MBA Shared by  Ricky Halimah, PMP, MBA Shared by  Ricky Halimah, PMP, MBA Jun 2017   –  Present 2 years 7 months Dallas, TX Sep 2013   –   Jun 2017 3 years 10 months Jan 2011   –   Aug 2013 2 years 8 months 2011   –   2011 less than a year Dallas/Fort Worth Area 2010   –   2011 1 year Beaverton, OR 2009   –   2011 2 years 2009   –   2010 1 year Hillsboro, OR 2007   –   2009 2 years 2007   –   2007 less than a year 2006   –   2007 1 year 2004   –   2006 2000   –   2004 Oct 2015 Education The SAP Campus Innovation Challenge Events 2015  http://www2.deloitte.com/global/en/pages/technology/events/gx-sap-co-innovation-event.html University students compete in SAP Co-Innovation Event, Oct. 16-17.  Learning to innovate, innovating to learn U.S. university teams compete to build SAP-based solutions in two-day SAP Co-Innovation Event sponsored by Deloitte and SAP #DeloitteSAPCoInnovation The SAP Campus Innovation Challenge Events 2015  http://www2.deloitte.com/global/en/pages/technology/events/gx-sap-co-innovation-event.html University students compete in SAP Co-Innovation Event, Oct. 16-17.  Learning to innovate, innovating to learn U.S. university teams compete to build SAP-based solutions in two-day SAP Co-Innovation Event sponsored by Deloitte and SAP #DeloitteSAPCoInnovation A preview of what LinkedIn members have to say about Ricky: I come to know Ricky since we we ' re in Elementry School. We grow together until we went to High School. He has a strong character to aim for achieving his Plans and Pushing it to the Goals. His unique personalities makes him to becoming what he is , right now. I believe, he is very able to strive in any worst condition in work, life and financial. At the current, he is proofing himself that he is Good enough to Work in a multi-cultural environment, one of the very best requirement for a Leader to become. At the future, I am sure we can have a mutual-relationship , by making our own Company, here in Indonesia. I wish you good luck in carreer and life. I come to know Ricky since we we ' re in Elementry School. We grow together until we went to High School. He has a strong character to aim for achieving his Plans and Pushing it to the Goals. His unique personalities makes him to becoming what he is , right now. I believe, he is very able to strive in any worst condition in work, life and financial. At the current, he is proofing himself that he is Good enough to Work in a multi-cultural environment, one of the very best requirement for a... I come to know Ricky since we we ' re in Elementry School. We grow together until we went to High School. He has a strong character to aim for achieving his Plans and Pushing it to the Goals. His unique personalities makes him to becoming what he is , right now. I believe, he is very able to strive in any worst condition in work, life and financial. At the current, he is proofing himself that he is Good enough to Work in a multi-cultural environment, one of the very best requirement for a Leader to become. At the future, I am sure we can have a mutual-relationship , by making our own Company, here in Indonesia. I wish you good luck in carreer and life. Ricky worked with me for over a year.  During that time, he met or exceeded his assignments on both a schedule delivery and quality basis.  He had a good rapport with both team members and the client.  He developed training classes and functionally designed BI reports. Ricky worked with me for over a year.  During that time, he met or exceeded his assignments on both a schedule delivery and quality basis.  He had a good rapport with both team members and the client.  He developed training classes and functionally designed BI reports. 2 people have recommended Ricky Join now to view Join to view Ricky’s full profile 