ᴅʀᴀɢᴏɴ ʙᴀʟʟ sᴜᴘᴇʀ: ʙʀᴏʟʏ | Wiki | Anime Amino ᴅʀᴀɢᴏɴ ʙᴀʟʟ sᴜᴘᴇʀ: ʙʀᴏʟʏ I am pretty sure that “Dragon ball” needs no introduction, it is one of the grandfathers of anime. I love this franchise because it was probably my first ever Anime ever, alongside with Pokemon, and both of these franchises are always going to be extremely close to my heart. So, it is no surprise that I was super hyped for the “Dragon ball Super: Broly movie”. Also because Broly is one of my favourite characters from Dragon ball. Despite having my expectations quite high, which usually isn't good for a movie, by the end of it I was satisfied with what I saw. •────────✧────────• Sᴛᴏʀʏ: The movie starts off by showing us the backstory of our four main characters that would later on shape the entire Dragon ball franchise; they are of course ‘Goku’, ‘Vegeta’, ‘Frieza’ and ‘Broly’. At the very beginning, we see Frieza reduce the Saiyan race, that once conquered planets of the universe, to slavery. Now, all of them must obey Frieza's commends and find new planets for him to conquer. That is when three Saiyans were born: Broly, Vegeta and Goku. Vegeta is the Prince of all saiyans and is born with incredible power and potential, so his father (The King)  saw in him the saviour that would destroy Frieza's empire and free the Saiyan race. However, around the same time, Broly was also born and the power and potential he had far surpassed Vegeta's. The King couldn't accept that, because of his pride, so he described Broly as a monster that represents danger for his people and he sends Broly to an unknown Planet with very limited resources. Broly's father, ‘Paragus’, swears to get his revenge on the King and leaves to protect his child. On the unknown Planet, Paragus and Broly are stranded due to the spacecraft breaking down. They then started living on their own on the planet for decades to come, and Paragus trained Broly to fight like warrior to get his revenge. Whilst they lived on the unknown Planet, a few years later on the Saiyan's planet, Frieza reunites all the Saiyans to obliterate them as he senses something in them that was a possible threat which could eventually bring his galactic empire down and boy he was so right. However, ‘Bardock’ senses that something was not right so he immediately saves his son ‘Goku’ (who was very weak when he was born) by sending him to another planet “ Earth". Whilst, Prince Vegeta was saved because he was a spoiled brat that didn't follow the orders to reunite on their planet, instead he was having fun with his friends on another planet. After finishing the backstory, we proceed to the present when just after the end of the tournament of power, Frieza is revived and he wants to pay earth a visit to make a wish, he wants to grow a bit taller. Whilst heading for earth, he comes to know about two Saiyans who were found stranded on an unknown Planet, by two scouts of the Frieza Force. After hearing their backstory from Paragus, Frieza decides to have a little fun by taking them to earth and making Broly fight against Goku and Vegeta, when both of them already mastered the Super Saiyan Blue. Once they reach earth, the uninterrupted battle sequence finally starts - that lasts till the end of the movie. •────────✧────────• Characters: The entire Movie centres around our four main characters, as I said before. Not much screen time is given to other characters, though the few minutes Bardock had were really amazing for me and also the backstory in general felt a lot more complete than the previous Dragon ball movies with Broly, where they didn't actually give us any explanations behind his rage which made it harder to get attached to Broly as a character. In this movie, on the other hand, they tried to fix their mistakes by giving Broly a proper tragic sad story by not only making him subjected to the injustice of King Vegeta, but also by making him the pawn of his father's disgusting game of revenge by training him to become a warrior against his own will. However, what really made me empathise with Broly is when we get to know about his first friend. The very first and the only friend Broly ever made was a giant green creature. They would fight together and have fun together, but his father hated that creature so he blasted it with an energy beam that tore one of its ears off. After that day, Broly never saw his friend again. This is how a sweet little boy got turned into a killing machine, by his own father. Usually Dragon ball movies never bother to give their characters a backstory, since the majority of the audience is already familiar with the characters and are there only for the action. Yet, seeing them put some effort into changing that tradition of theirs really made me feel good. Goku and Vegeta on the other hand were simply Goku and Vegeta, nothing more nothing less. Though, I loved to see a new side to Frieza when he revealed that he wants to gather the Dragon balls to grow a few inches, it really made me laugh. •────────✧────────• Aɴɪᴍᴀᴛɪᴏɴ Aɴᴅ Mᴜรɪᴄ It is Dragon ball we are talking about, so obviously the budget is off the charts. The action sequences were incredible. Never has Dragon ball looked so great. Everything from the fight choreography to the flawless execution, the amount of camera movements and the camera angles used definitely made the action lot more immersive. Also, another thing I appreciate a lot is that they put a lot of effort into something as simple as a super saiyan transformation making it seem a lot more epic. The music only amplifies the hype and offers what is half an hour of pure action, with countless power ups, fusion techniques, lots of loud shouting and energy blasts and everything that Dragon ball is so famous for. •────────✧────────• Pᴇʀsᴏɴᴀʟ Tʜᴏᴜɢʜᴛs For me, this movie was a reminder of everything I love about Dragon Ball, and more. Thanks to this movie, I think the character of Broly gained the recognition he deserved and became one of my favourite characters of the Dragon ball franchise. Though, I wish the movie was a little bit longer since at times the pacing seemed to be a little too fast and towards the end the way they rushed everything to wrap things up; I think they had the possibility to do a lot better with the ending. Other than that, I have to say there isn't much that I disliked so taking everything into consideration: the Story, characters, animation and music and my personal enjoyment of it I rate this movie a solid 7.5/10. I think every Dragon ball fan should definitely check it out, they will absolutely love it. Though, I think for non Dragon ball fans this is not the movie to watch to enter into the franchise as it requires a basic understanding of Saiyans and Dragon ball universe. •────────✧────────• Thanks everyone for reading I hope you enjoy it. I would like to thank my friend  Cili!!  here for proofreading the blog. #AnimeSeekers  |  #AniBlogs  |  #FallCatalog2018 character* whos ur favorite charactr so same here love dragonbal Into Anime?Join the community. Into Anime?Join the community.   This website saves cookies to your browser in order to improve your online experience and show you personalized content. Read our  Privacy Policy  and  Cookie Policy  to get more information and learn how to set up your preferences.  