Erie County Medical Center - Fellowship Programs in Buffalo, New York - University at Buffalo This 583-bed medical center is one of the area s leading health care providers. It serves as a regional center for trauma, burns, rehabilitation and cardiac care and is the region s largest safety-net hospital. Located on the eastern side of Buffalo, this 583-bed acute care center admits patients from the local urban area, as well as a wide referral range that encompasses all eight counties of Western New York. ECMC is a verified Level 1 Adult Trauma Center and a regional center for burn care, behavioral health services, transplantation, medical oncology and head  &  neck cancer care, and rehabilitation. Case presentations span the range of disease states in internal medicine and general surgery, with many critically ill cases. Our fellows consult with patients at ECMC s pioneering regional trauma/burn center, the only one of its kind in Western New York. The center provides specialized care, rehabilitation and comprehensive psychosocial support, and sees a number of challenging orthopedic surgery cases. >< p> Renal Transplant Center At ECMC s regional renal transplant center, our fellows evaluate and care for patients with an array of infectious complications resulting from solid organ transplantation. >< p> Our division provides support for pre-transplant risk assessments, infection-related quality improvement studies and management of post-transplant infections. The majority of Western New Yorkers with HIV receive ambulatory care at this multidisciplinary center. The 1,200 patients seen here include those seeking care for complications resulting from HIV, includes AIDS requiring hospitalization, and HIV treatment. This center also houses a women s health clinic, an HIV/hepatitis clinic and an  HIV and HIV/hepatitis C clinical studies unit . >< p> Clinical Microbiology Laboratory During a one-month rotation in ECMC s world-class comprehensive clinical microbiology lab, you will learn traditional and molecular-based methods in bacteriology, mycobacteriology, virology, mycology and parasitology. You will perform clinical microbiology laboratory rounds as part of your inpatient consultation. >< p> Training Approximately one-quarter of your inpatient clinical training takes place at ECMC, where you ll rotate with divisional faculty. You may also work with interns, residents and third- and fourth-year medical students. >< p> In addition to consulting with patients who have common infectious syndromes, you will see patients with infections resulting from burns, trauma and solid organ transplants. You ll spend one-half day a week in the immunodeficiency services clinic, where you ll learn state-of-the-art ambulatory HIV management. 