Patrik Bachan - Consultant - Adastra Slovakia | LinkedIn Liked by  Patrik Bachan Liked by  Patrik Bachan Liked by  Patrik Bachan 11 months Sep 2019   –  Present 4 months Feb 2019   –   Aug 2019 7 months Bratislava, Slovakia •Telco project - Data harmonization project for one of the biggest Telco clients in Slovakia. •Telco project - Data harmonization project for one of the biggest Telco clients in Slovakia. Jul 2018   –   Sep 2018 3 months Toronto a okolí, Kanada • Credit risk application project: The task of our team was to create from scratch credit risk application which should quicken the process of giving credit in B2B. I was participating as tester of front end and also helped with developing model which was giving the final recommendation. • University project: Using Azure Labs services, we have prepared environment for university classes. The main task was preparing virtual machines for students which included installing all necessary applications, setting up Windows environment for remote connection and afterwards supporting class instructors and students with all issues. • Credit risk application project: The task of our team was to create from scratch credit risk application which should quicken the process of giving credit in B2B. I was participating as tester of front end and also helped with developing model which was giving the final recommendation. • University project: Using Azure Labs services, we have prepared environment for university classes. The main task was preparing virtual machines for students which included installing all necessary... • Credit risk application project: The task of our team was to create from scratch credit risk application which should quicken the process of giving credit in B2B. I was participating as tester of front end and also helped with developing model which was giving the final recommendation. • University project: Using Azure Labs services, we have prepared environment for university classes. The main task was preparing virtual machines for students which included installing all necessary applications, setting up Windows environment for remote connection and afterwards supporting class instructors and students with all issues. Dec 2016   –   Jun 2018 1 year 7 months Bratislava, Slovakia •Leasing project: I helped as part time employee to create and develop database for one of the biggest leasing companies in Slovakia. My responsibilities were programming T-SQL procedures, testing and maintaing VBA script to manage reference data. We successfully delivered project and now is running in production. •Telco project: Developing stabilizing framework to indicate, whether the given model is or is not working properly. I had to create T-SQL procedure to produce aggregated tables and later develop R script to statistically test whether there is some significant change •GDPR project: Helping to prepare DB of one of the biggest leasing companies in Slovakia for GDPR legislation. We needed to alter structures and procedures in database which were somehow connected to contents of clients. I also helped testing anonymization framework which was created by my colleagues •Leasing project: I helped as part time employee to create and develop database for one of the biggest leasing companies in Slovakia. My responsibilities were programming T-SQL procedures, testing and maintaing VBA script to manage reference data. We successfully delivered project and now is running in production. •Telco project: Developing stabilizing framework to indicate, whether the given model is or is not working properly. I had to create T-SQL procedure to produce aggregated tables... •Leasing project: I helped as part time employee to create and develop database for one of the biggest leasing companies in Slovakia. My responsibilities were programming T-SQL procedures, testing and maintaing VBA script to manage reference data. We successfully delivered project and now is running in production. •Telco project: Developing stabilizing framework to indicate, whether the given model is or is not working properly. I had to create T-SQL procedure to produce aggregated tables and later develop R script to statistically test whether there is some significant change •GDPR project: Helping to prepare DB of one of the biggest leasing companies in Slovakia for GDPR legislation. We needed to alter structures and procedures in database which were somehow connected to contents of clients. I also helped testing anonymization framework which was created by my colleagues Jun 2015   –   May 2016 1 year Bratislava, Slovakia Politics and methodology at Risk management department - user support, development and testing of applications Credit Flow / Strategy - cooperation in developing technical documentation for Credit Flow - communication with the branch staff and other departments of the bank in case of problem solving Politics and methodology at Risk management department - user support, development and testing of applications Credit Flow / Strategy - cooperation in developing technical documentation for Credit Flow - communication with the branch staff and other departments of the bank in case of problem solving Sep 2014   –   Jun 2015 10 months Central Data Entry at Purchasing department - supporting team members - maintaining scheduling agreements - downloading and adjusting reports - backup of internal documents Central Data Entry at Purchasing department - supporting team members - maintaining scheduling agreements - downloading and adjusting reports - backup of internal documents 2018   –   2019 2017   –   2019 2014   –   2017 Activities and Societies: EFM Risk Club 2010   –   2014 Join to view Patrik’s full profile Prague, The Capital, Czech Republic 1 other named Patrik Bachan is on LinkedIn 