Is there any program to remove music from affirmations (if you listen to subliminals you know that affirmations are masked with music so I want to remove this music to find out the affirmations)? - Quora a gPt d o eKa b dnM y NykH nVlyo D Rb u dG c TX k LJT D q u qvJr c ja k Rtu G JEQ o pCoXD It depends entirely of the formation of the track. If the spoken elements are on a similar wavelength as the music the chances of separating them are very low without expensive professional software, and even then it’s unlikely you’ll succeed. There are many freeware programs that can edit sound but I’m really not sure how exactly you would split the different layers of sound on a fully mastered track or how effective they would be. The fact you say the sounds you want to uncover are masked makes me think it’ll be an unattainable goal without access to the master files. Once a track is rend... It depends entirely of the formation of the track. If the spoken elements are on a similar wavelength as the music the chances of separating them are very low without expensive professional software, and even then it’s unlikely you’ll succeed. There are many freeware programs that can edit sound but I’m really not sure how exactly you would split the different layers of sound on a fully mastered track or how effective they would be. The fact you say the sounds you want to uncover are masked makes me think it’ll be an unattainable goal without access to the master files. Once a track is rendered to a single master it becomes one file. Try posting somewhere like this:  Sound Design If anyone can help you it would be a professional who can take you through it step by step. s LMmHF p y o VYTdl n unJk s lbRv o vkn r JEi e m d A rxLp b Vi y FF YyV S wRszx c d r dLTt i Ph b JT o sRlH l LNYMs pLpI P ycH u Up b zj l txLsy i J s rjSFJ h HGt i jLegH n ZWFgw g E 2,394 Views 10,210 Views 1,451 Views 39,792 Views 264 Views 3,016 Views 292 Views 26,050 Views 303 Views 4,770 Views 711 Views 2,346 Views 1,136 Views 8,323 Views 6,756 Views 