CGTalk | Delete one Operation from history Hey there, ist there a way to delete a single or multiple operations from the history stack of an object? Like in 3D Studio Max you’d be able delete a singel modifyer from the stack. Is ther such a thing in maya? I know that it is possible to delete the complete history (edit/delete bz type/ delete history) but that’s not what I’m looking for. You can select the Input Name in the Channel box and then go to Edit  >  Delete Node (in the channel box menu). Since selecting those inputs is a bit finicky sometimes, try more than once if at first you don’t succeed. Just a note that deleting a node is not like deleting history…as in, it doesn’t bake the node’s operation. Good luck A note: Deleting a node midstream is seldomly a good idea, especially when that node modifies an object’s topology (speficially, component IDs) and hence affects the operation of other nodes downstream. That being said, I often find the need to quickly delete a node (usually from the top of the stream), so I have the following command mapped to CTRL+End: Does exactly what animatedfox described. Thx a lot, both ways work just fine. I am aware that it’s not the best way to delete nodes but I ran out of undos and wanted to get rid of the last couple of operations so your replies were very helpful. Well, if it’s multiple nodes you want to delete, then simply use the (connections) Hypergraph. News to me.  I didn’t realize it could be done that way. Thanks. Thx a lot, both ways work just fine. I am aware that it’s not the best way to delete nodes but I ran out of undos and wanted to get rid of the last couple of operations so your replies were very helpful. you can set your amount of undos to infinite in your preferences to avoid that problem in the future.  I actually have my undos set to infinitive but they re not actually infinite, are they? I actually have my undos set to infinitive but they re not actually infinite, are they? Strictly speaking: no. They’re not infinite. The number of Undo’s is limited by the amount of RAM or, depending on how the undo system is implemented, available drive space. But honestly, as far as reality is concerned, you might as well have Infinity. Because you’d have to have been working on a huge, loooong session to actually reach that threshold on today’s system, I’d wager. This thread has been automatically closed as it remained inactive for 12 months. If you wish to continue the discussion, please create a new thread in the appropriate forum. Powered by  Discourse , best viewed with JavaScript enabled 