panigale mods | 1199s Panigale I ordered this set of  cheap panigale fairing set  from China three weeks ago. today it arrived! After seeing my brother crashed at the track last month due to a single seater spilling oil and not telling anyone, I ve made up my mind that the original Panigale fairing set is too precious/expensive to be wasted on track. But since I have to ride the bike to the track (no trailer), race fairing is not a feasible solution. so I ordered a set of cheap fairing set from eBay seller Neverland-USA (link below). I have heard some good stories about this seller, so after finding a very good deal, I hit the Buy Now button for a set of Tricolore fairing; they wanted xtra for plain red  Took me five hours today to take the old fairings off, wash them, wrap them for storage, and install the new one. the biggest job was removing the metal clips (which the screws fasten into) from the original fairing pieces and installing them to the new one. Almost all holes where the clips go to needed to be enlarged. The paint is immaculate, and the red hue perfectly matches the original. Huge bonus point to Neverland! Installing it was not too bad,  but it takes a bit of pushing and pulling to make sure the screws went in properly. A lot more effort compared to the original, but it is not a big pain at all. The fit was actually almost flawless. the only one point where I could not get the screw to work was the big screw on the chin, under the headlight. Neverland also provided a tall windscreen for free, but I did not put it on since it is black (and I like to use Go Pro on the upper triple clamp). i ve also installed the  tank cover/protector from Flamingo Corsa  (fibreglass item). surprisingly, the white somewhat goes well with the Tri colours. Too bad after a half hour ride n heavy traffic, the bottom right fairing softened up due to heat. I heard even some original fairings also had the same melting issue due to heat? Neverland-USA:  http://www.ebay.com/itm/271520175016 Flamingo Corsa tank cover:  http://www.ebay.it/itm/121101218867 - Update 15/15/2015: I lowsided the bike in November, and that broke the fairing in a few locations. I ordered another set soon after (this time it is all red!!!). To avoid the melt, I kept the stock lower fairings (belly) as they have been proven to withstand the heat alright). Six months on and the only things broken (due to vibration) were the rearmost mounting tabs (see picture below). I can superglue them (the material seems to take superglue well) but havent got the chance to. Other than that it has been working perfectly, and taking the fairings on and off have not been a problem. Definitely great for trackdays while keeping the standard look which I really like. The shade of red is slogtly lighter than standard, though (you need to look at it in order to notice it, so it is not bad at all). Some photos of $99 panigale rearsets from Ebay. It is not bad, and 2 months on it still good. The pair is about 250grams heavier than the stock rearsets. I ve changed the unknown-quality footpeg bolts with 12.9 grade high tensile steel bolts for peace of mind. And here are how it looks like with rider on. It certainly makes the position a lot more natural with DP comfort seat, since it raises the feet the same amount as the extra thickness of the seat compared to standard 1199S seat. And comparison with CBR600RR with Sato rearsets. notice how the panigale s rearset seems more backward (Typical ducati, although a lot less so than my old 848) and not as high. I personally would prefer 1 inch higher pegs, but it seems these Chinese rearsets adjustability follows the mainstream rearsets similar to other brands in the market. my brother (who owns the 600 in this photo) unsurprisingly shares my view in this. A few problems: 1. I had to change the rear brake light sensor to sensor-equipped banjo bolt since the original ducati sensor thread does not match the one on the rearset. banjo bolt was $5 from used R125 Yamaha (with 90 degree cable) and was easy to splice and put on. Bolt length is 10mm, pitch is 1mm 2. Rear brake plunger is slightly off / offset from the rear brake master. This does not cause any movement issues when using the brake though. 3. Metal gearshifter has a ribbed shape, and that hurts my toes. Rubber shift boot (cheap as) and a cable tie solve this issue. 