Holy Flame Totem - Official Path of Exile Wiki Consider helping out in updating the wiki for  3.9.0  - see  Path of Exile Wiki:To-do list/3.9.0 . Game data updates will go live when the patch is live. Holy Flame Totem  summons  totem  that fires a stream of flame at nearby enemies, dealing  fire damage  to them. Damage from the totem deals physical damage  converted  to fire damage. Each totem also creates  consecrated ground  around it that also makes allies standing on it immune to  curses . Totem range is 100. This skill is affected by any passives that affect totems, however, nodes such as  Totemic Zeal  will not be displayed in tooltip DPS due to engine limitation. If you wear    The Three Dragons The Three Dragons Golden Mask Quality:  +20% Evasion:  115 Energy Shield:  22 Requires Level  35 ,  40  Dex,  40  Int +(26-30)% to all  Elemental Resistances Your  Fire Damage  can  Shock  but not  Ignite Your  Cold Damage  can  Ignite  but not  Freeze  or Chill Your  Lightning Damage  can  Freeze  but not  Shock "The ice seared his naked feet As the lightning stilled his heart, But it was the flames upon his lover's face That roused him to vengeance." - From 'The Three Dragons' by Victario of Sarn    unique helmet and use    Herald of Thunder Herald of Thunder Spell ,  AoE ,  Duration ,  Lightning ,  Herald Radius:  32 Mana Reserved:  25% Can Store  1  Use(s) Cooldown Time:  1.00 sec Effectiveness of Added Damage:  120% Requires Level  16 Channel lightning through your hands, adding lightning damage to spells and attacks. If you kill a shocked enemy, lightning bolts will strike enemies around you for a short duration. The lightning bolt damage inflicted by this skill is not affected by modifiers to spell damage. Per 1% Quality: 0.75% increased Lightning Damage Adds (2-19) to (7-76) Lightning Damage to Spells Adds (2-19) to (7-76) Lightning Damage to Attacks Deals (1-27) to (34-1303) Lightning Damage Base duration is 6 seconds Cannot inflict Shock Place into an item socket of the right colour to gain this skill. Right click to remove from a socket.      skill, killing a shocked enemy by your Flame Totem won't proc Herald of Thunder's on kill effect and this is intentional. [1] Additional projectiles : Only one projectile will hit an enemy per cast. Increasing the number of projectiles will only help to hit more enemies per cast, but will not multiply the damages on enemies. Projectile Speed:  Affects the distance that the projectile will travel as well as its speed. This item can be acquired through the following upgrade paths or vendor recipes: This item is given as quest reward for the following quests: This item can be bought at the listed npc vendors after completing the following quests: The following helmet  enchantments  affect Flame Totem. The list below shows  microtransactions  for Holy Flame Totem. Resistances: You need to log in to edit this page. 