FourFourTwo's 50 Best Football Teams Ever: 10-1 | FourFourTwo 1. Ajax 1965-73 When Barry Hulshoff retired from football in 1979, he did some coaching in Greece. One day, the former Ajax defender found himself in a remote mountain village, an old man staring at his shaggy hair and beard. “He took my hands, held them and cried,” recalled Hulshoff. “He said there was no television in his village, so this old man used to walk for two hours to another village to watch Ajax games. And now, in front of him, he saw one of the players. He couldn’t understand it and became very emotional.” Other teams may have won more, but few could elicit such an outpouring of emotion years later. In disciplinarian coach Rinus Michels, the club’s trademark 4-3-3, chaotic position switching and teamwork was established; Total Football invented. When he left for Barcelona in 1971, replacement Stefan Kovacs afforded the team yet more attacking freedom. Drifting centre-forward Johan Cruyff was the undoubted star, conducting his orchestra with typical pomp and skill. Johan Neeskens provided midfield legs, Arie Haan and Gerrie Muhren the tactical discipline, centre-back Velibor Vasovic the win-at-all-costs Yugoslav steel. Even keeper Heinz Stuy was selected for what he could do with his feet, not his hands. wfootballvideos 238 subscribers Subscribe Ajax x Juventus - Champions League Final, 1973 Info Shopping Tap to unmute If playback doesn ' t begin shortly, try restarting your device. Your browser does not currently recognize any of the video formats available.  Click here to visit our frequently asked questions about HTML5 video. More videos on YouTube More videos Share Include playlist An error occurred while retrieving sharing information. Please try again later. Watch later Share Copy link Switch camera 0:00 0:00 0:00  /  4:55 Live An error occurred. Try watching this video on www.youtube.com , or enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser. Over 40 years since their pinnacle – a 1-0 win against Juventus to secure the 1973 European Cup, their third in a row – Ajax’s 4-3-3 remains football’s most flexible, popular formation. Their influence on Barcelona and Milan, the only sides on our list that could match their artistry, is undeniable. But it’s the way they made you feel – the long hair, rock star swagger and beautiful play – that sets them apart. Artists, writers, even ballerinas – the great Rudolf Nureyev once said: “Johan Cruyff should have been a dancer” – came to watch Ajax. The De Meer Stadion became a hive of intellectualism and the counter-culture sweeping 1970s Amsterdam. The venue for John Lennon and Yoko Ono’s bed-in? The Amsterdam Hilton. Ajax are the poster every schoolboy should have on their bedroom wall – football’s James Bond stood next to an Aston Martin in the shadow of the Alps. The greatest club side of all time? Nobody did it better. 50-41  •  40-31  •  30-21  •  20-11  • 10-1 FourFourTwo's 50 Best Football Teams Ever  •  New features you'd like every day on FourFourTwo.com 