The use of CPC collectors for detoxification of contaminated water: Design, construction and preliminary results - ScienceDirect ScienceDirect Photocatalytic processes in the presence of titanium dioxide provide an interesting way to destroy hazardous organic contaminants. Part of CIEMAT’s efforts to commercialize solar photocatalytic detoxification technology has involved the development of photoreactor designs. Although present treatment costs for the solar water detoxification system are higher than for conventional technologies, potentially greater cost reductions are being investigated through the use of one-sun systems. Aspects of these systems that might realize cost reductions include novel collector materials, the manufacturing process and the economics of scale. These issues are being examined extensively in the one-sun photoreactor research effort. A one-sun compound parabolic concentrator designed by CIEMAT and fabricated by the Instituto de Maquina Herramienta may be constructed at a cost under $160/m 2  with an annual efficiency of 71.3%. Studies reported in this paper also evaluate the performance of the low cost CPC prototype built at a previous stage using a model compound, and explore the feasibility of this concept as the basis for solar photocatalytic oxidation facilities. Our preliminary findings show that the overall treatment cost can be reduced mainly by reducing the unit catalyst cost instead of the unit reactor cost. Water contaminated with traces of organic compounds is a common problem in Europe and throughout the world. Monitoring studies in the mediterranean region have shown widespread detection of herbicides in groundwater and in surface water ( Barcelo, 1993 ). In this paper the results of photocatalytic studies on one important thiocarbamate herbicide active ingredient, such as EPTC ( S -ethyl- N,N N,N -dipropyl thiocarbamate) are given. Thiocarbamates have found an important role in pest control in recent years, and many of these compounds are now used in large quantities as insecticides and herbicides ( Environmental Protection Agency, 1988 ). The feasibility of using sunlight, in conjunction with a photocatalyst, to destroy organic water pollutants was demonstrated by researchers in the mid-1980s ( Ollis, 1985 ,  Matthews, 1986 ). Photocatalytic process in the presence of titanium dioxide requires solar photons in the 300 to 400 nm range (i.e. the near UV spectrum), constituting about 3% of the sea-level solar irradiance. The use of solar-driven photocatalysis involving parabolic trough concentrators on a small scale has been estimated by NREL ( Link and Turchi, 1991 ). NREL reported the treatment cost of $16.00/1000 gallons for a 100,000 gal/day solar trough slurry reactor system used in their 1991 field test at a Superfund site in Livermore, CA. In this estimate, the trough concentrator was about 90% of the major capital cost (uninstalled). They predicted that for the proposed system with improved designs, the cost would be lowered to $3.00/1000 gallons. In addition, for the same Superfund site, they estimated $5.00/1000 gallons as the treatment cost for granular activated carbon (GAC) adsorption and $4.00/1000 gallons for a lamp-powered UV–hydrogen peroxide system. The dependence of reaction rate on light intensity is critical in solar applications because it governs whether concentrating collectors or one-sun reactors are used. In general, non-concentrating designs have a potential for lower collector cost when compared to concentrating ones. Laboratory and literature data suggest ( Ollis, 1991 ,  Mehos and Turchi, 1992 ,  Wyness et al., 1994 ), that non-concentrating collectors have the potential to use more sunlight and use the light more efficiently than concentrating reactors. Based on these preliminary findings, significant research effort on one-sun photoreactors has begun, which will contribute to achieving performance improvements and cost reductions of solar detoxification systems. Fig. 1  shows several reflector arrangements that have been considered in this study. From an optical point of view, the CPC (involute reflector) is the best reflector. V-groove and circular cylindrical reflectors in  Fig. 1  are quite easy to fabricate, and in small quantities their cost can be significantly lower than the cost of CPCs. It will be demonstrated during this work that with mass production technologies the shape of the reflector has little influence on the cost, and it becomes advantageous to use the best shape. The following analysis has been carried out specifically for tubular receivers because of their widespread practical use. This type of system has several advantages, because the water is more easily piped and distributed than with current one-sun designs ( Rabl, 1985 ). Fig. 1 . Reflector arrangements that have been considered in this study. High purity HPLC acetronitrile was obtained from Scharlau, S.A. and was filtered before use (0.45 μm filters). Thiocarbamates, such as EPTC were supplied by North Hungarian Chemical Works, Sagrochem Co. Ltd. and were 99% pure. The catalyst used in these experiments was P-25 TiO 2  supplied by the Degussa Corporation, without any pretreatment. The predominant crystalline structure was anatase (80%) as determined by X-ray diffraction. For the EPTC experiments, liquid chromatography was used. The liquid chromatography system consists of an LC pump (Model 1050 Hewlett Packard) and a diode array spectrophotometric detector (Model 1040 M Series II Hewlett Packard). A Rheodyne with a 20-μl loop (or 50 μl) was used for introduction of the samples into the system. The separation was carried out using a microbore reversed-phase ODS column under isocratic conditions containing acetonitrile–water (50:50). The reversed-phase column used was a 200×2.1 mm i.d. Hypersil ODS C 18  column with 5-μm packing. For drinking water, the EU has fixed a level of 0.1 μg/l for individual pesticides and 0.5 μg/l for total pesticides. This is a very strict measure, and analytical methods still need to be developed for a variety of pesticides to comply with this directive ( Barcelo, 1991 ). In this regard, samples taken from the photoreactor were filtered through a 0.45-μm pore size cellulose regenerated filter (SARTORIUS) and concentrated by using t-C 18  Sep-pack cartridges (WATERS). Cartridges, dried by passing air for about 10 min, were eluted with the appropiate volume of organic solvent. The proposed method uses acetonitrile as eluent solvent. The total mineralization of EPTC in solution was validated by total organic carbon (TOC) analysis. For thermal applications, the optimization of a CPC requires a good compromise between optical efficiency and heat losses, considering practical issues such as the amount of material to be used and the manufacturing process. In this way, one has to choose the geometric concentration ratio and among the infinite number of combinations of acceptance angle and truncation angle, the one leading to the greatest optical efficiency. However, to design a CPC for detoxification purposes, there is a new group of additional constraints for performing the optimization: (1) the collection of UV radiation, (2) working temperatures as close as possible to ambient temperature in order to avoid the loss of volatile organic compounds, (3) reaction rate decreases with light intensity ( Egerton and King, 1979 ), (4) concentrators collect 1/ C  of the available diffuse radiation. As a result of these considerations, the optimum concentration for detoxification applications would be  C=1 C=1 . For this concentration the problem is reduced to obtaining the pair acceptance angle–truncation angle that leads to the best value in the annual UV energy collection at a reasonable cost. A glass tube with a titanium dioxide water suspension circulating inside will be considered as the absorber in the CPC reactor. For a thermal CPC with round receivers, one of the design problems is how to avoid the direct contact between the CPC cusp and the absorber which represents a thermal bridge and thus thermal losses, without penalizing too much the optical efficiency. This leads to modifications in the design of the cusp shape of the CPC that makes it quite difficult to build. For detoxification purposes, we are not worried by thermal losses and thus direct contact is not a problem; additionally, the absorber begins in the internal wall of the glass tube because the absorption occurs in the bulk of the titanium dioxide suspension. For the design of the CPC reactor, the solutions adopted were: (1) to lean the glass tube on a truncated cusp, (2) to use the internal radius of the glass jacket as the radius of the absorber. The truncation is calculated by the intersection of the external circumference with the CPC. From the practical point of view, the latter design is quite simple to build. A ray tracing program was applied to calculate the optical efficiency of the CPC collector,  η o , which is able to measure its variation as a function of the incident angle,  θ i , of the radiation onto the aperture considering the optical properties of the different components involved (mirror reflectivity, glass refractive index, CPC parameters,…). As the CPC is a two dimensional concentrator, it is quite convenient to express  η o ( θ i ) as a function of the perpendicular,  θ per , and parallel,  θ par , components of the incident angle (projections of  θ i  onto the perpendicular plane to the CPC absorber and onto the plane defined by the sun vector and the CPC absorber):  η o (θ i )=η o (θ per ,θ par ) η o (θ i )=η o (θ per ,θ par ) .  Fig. 2  shows some examples obtained for the ray tracing program for a specific design of the CPC. It is interesting to note in  Fig. 2  the effect of the glass envelope and the truncated cusp as the rays that are not drawn are the rejected ones (for the pictures only: number of rays in each simulation=101; refractive index inside the glass jacket=1). Fig. 2 . Ray tracing examples for a CPC collector defined by: half acceptance angle,  θ a =35°; half truncation angle  θ t =112°; concentration ratio,  C =1; glass external radius,  R c =3.2 cm; glass internal radius,  R c =3.0 cm; glass refractive index,  n =1.5; truncated cusp. In order to enter the optical efficiency information into the long term simulation programs, it is usual to follow the approach of  McIntire (1982)  ( Eq. (1) ): (1) η o (θ)=η o (0)×K(θ per ,θ par ) ≈η o (0)×K(θ per ,0)×K(0,θ par ) K(θ per ,0)= η o (θ per ,0) η o (0) K(0,θ par )= η o (0,θ par ) η o (0) η o (θ)=η o (0)×K(θ per ,θ par ) ≈η o (0)×K(θ per ,0)×K(0,θ par ) K(θ per ,0)= η o (θ per ,0) η o (0) K(0,θ par )= η o (0,θ par ) η o (0) where  K ( θ per , θ par ) is the incident angle modifier function, that gives the optical efficiency as a function of two easy-to-calculate functions,  K ( θ per ,0) and  K (0, θ par ), and a parameter  η o (0), which can be estimated by  Eq. (2) : (2) η o (0)=ρ 〈N〉 ×(τα) K(θ per ,0)= CPC acceptance function =F(θ a ,θ t ) K(0,θ par )=1+b o × 1 cos θ par −1 η o (0)=ρ 〈N〉 ×(τα) K(θ per ,0)= CPC acceptance function =F(θ a ,θ t ) K(0,θ par )=1+b o × 1 cos θ par −1 where  ρ  is the mirror reflectivity, 〈 N 〉 the average number of reflections,  τ  the cover transmissivity,  α  the absorptivity and  b o  is a parameter to be fitted.  Fig. 3  shows the ray tracing results for the  η o ( θ per ,0) function for a family of CPC (concentration ratio=1) and different combination of  (θ a ,θ t ) (θ a ,θ t ) . In this case, the number of rays in each simulation is 801 and the refractive index of the suspension in contact with the internal wall of the glass jacket is considered to be equal to the glass (no reflection losses in the interface). Fig. 3 . Optical efficiency for a family of CPC with a round receiver and a concentration ratio of 1, calculated from the ray tracing (glass jacket made of Pyrex). Given that the diffuse component of the solar radiation plays an important role in detoxification applications, the optical efficiency that must be applied to the diffuse radiation is given by  Eq. (3) : (3) η o (θ ) diffuse =η o (0)×〈K(θ per ,θ par )〉≈η o (0)×〈K(θ per ,0)〉×〈K(0,θ par )〉. η o (θ ) diffuse =η o (0)×〈K(θ per ,θ par )〉≈η o (0)×〈K(θ per ,0)〉×〈K(0,θ par )〉. The average value of the  η o ( θ per ,0) function is shown in  Fig. 4 . It is worth noting that the maximum of the function occurs at very high values of the half acceptance angle. The McIntire approach has been validated in different situations, demonstrating the ratio  η(θ per ,θ par )/(η(0,0)×K(θ per ,0)) η(θ per ,θ par )/(η(0,0)×K(θ per ,0))  is equal to  K (0, θ par ) and not a function of  θ per . Although this agreement is not perfect, are the results of using a unique function are quite good. In fact the ‘ b o ’ parameter obtained in both cases at  θ per =0 is almost identical, that is  b o =−0.198 in  Fig. 5  vs.  b o =−0.208. Fig. 4 . Average optical efficiency for a family of CPC with round receiver and a concentration ratio of 1, calculated from the ray tracing. Fig. 5 .  K (0, θ par ) as a function of  θ par  calculated from the ray tracing. Since the optical efficiency function has already been defined, the selection of a representative location and their corresponding solar radiation values would be the next step for optimization. The available irradiance,  I a , and the useful irradiance,  I au , incident on the CPC collector aperture are given by  Eq. (4) : (4) I a =I b cos ϑ i + I d C I a,u =I b cos ϑ i ×η o θ + I d C ×〈η o θ 〉 I a =I b cos ϑ i + I d C I a,u =I b cos ϑ i ×η o θ + I d C ×〈η o θ 〉 where  C  is the geometric concentration ratio ( C =1 in our case),  I b  is the beam irradiance and  I d , the diffuse irradiance onto the collector aperture. In this equation the diffuse irradiance ( I d ) includes the diffuse light reflected on the ground as well as the diffuse light from the sky. Due to the special spectral range required (300–400 nm) for this application, the main problem to solve is the lack of UV irradiance data bases. In these cases, correlations established for other similar locations are frequently used. Madrid (latitude 40° N, longitude 3° W) has been selected as a representative location for our study with a medium solar radiation level; the average annual clearness index for Madrid is slightly over 0.5. To obtain the UV irradiance values the correlations of  Zarzalejo  et al.  (1997) , who applied the  Riordan  et al.  (1990)  methodology to the Madrid total UV irradiance data bases, were used ( Eq. (5) ): (5) I UV,h I T,h =0.0703×k 2 T −0.1037×k T +0.0877 I UV,b I T,b =0.0759× exp −0.4925m I UV,h I T,h =0.0703×k 2 T −0.1037×k T +0.0877 I UV,b I T,b =0.0759× exp −0.4925m where  k T  is the hourly clearness index,  m  the air mass for the hour, UV stands for the ultraviolet component, h refers to the horizontal plane and T to the total irradiance. The result of applying the above correlations demonstrate the importance of the diffuse component in the Madrid location. At this stage, the criteria to continue optimizing the design of the CPC in thermal applications would be to maximize the annual heat delivered by the collector. In our case, beside the selection of the intrinsic parameters of the CPC  (θ a ,θ t ) (θ a ,θ t ) , both the collector aperture tilt and the orientation of the absorber must be chosen. Two tilts are considered in our study: an all-the-year fixed tilt and every day adjustment (the sun hits the collector with normal incidence at midday). Also two different absorber orientations have been studied: East–West and North–South. The main conclusions from this analysis are summarized below. & #x02022; Every-day adjustment is not compensated for the benefit ( < 4%). For East–West absorbers, the optimum is at  θ a =35° θ a =35° , although the maximum is quite flat. For North–South absorbers, the optimum is at  θ a =65° θ a =65° . The difference between both orientations is quite small (1%), so other aspects must be considered. With respect to this last point, the East–West orientation has some intrinsic advantages that may result in lower construction costs, i.e. since the absorbers are parallel to the ground, the length of the CPC troughs can be as long as required with the only limitation being a reasonable pressure drop in the whole collector. This configuration reduces considerably the number of passive areas and the number of the required connecting pieces between troughs. Although one important drawback for East–West orientation would be cleaning the CPC, which is more complex. In  Fig. 6  the annual collection efficiency for the fixed CPC is included. This parameter was defined as the ratio between the collected UV and the available radiation at the aperture plane. The very high values for the optimum designs ( η =71.3% for  θ a =35° θ a =35° , E/W, tilt=latitude;  η =72.2% for  θ a =65° θ a =65° , N/S, tilt=latitude) are explained due to the small number of reflections in the CPC and because the reflection losses in the interface fluid/glass are assumed to be zero. Similar refractive indices between fluid and glass were considered. Fig. 6 . Annual efficiency for different CPC designs with a concentration ratio of one and different orientations. Applying the Riordan correlation  (Riordan  et al. , 1990)  instead of  Zarzalejo  et al.  (1997)  to the Madrid solar radiation data bases to obtain the UV radiation values, , the optimum position does not change but the absolute values vary dramatically ( η =79.5 or  θ a =35° θ a =35° , E/W, tilt=latitude;  η =79.7% for  θ a =65° θ a =65° , N/S, tilt=latitude). This is mainly due to the absolute value of the UV radiation obtained and to the proportion of diffuse light in the UV radiation. In addition to the CPC design, a survey of potentially low-cost UV reflecting materials was initiated and a preliminary testing of some of these materials begun. Since the ultimate goal was to provide products to be used commercially, it was decided to use only commercially available raw materials in this work which would allow a correct and immediate assessment of the cost and also expedite market penetration. The detoxification process differs from the thermal process in that only a narrow-wavelength band of light is desired (photons in the 300 to 400 nm range). A commercial polished aluminum with a 2-μm anodized aluminum layer which provides a resistant shield to outdoor conditions was selected as a reflector material. Specifications for this material indicate reflectance values of 87% in the wavelength band of 295 to 385 nm. An average value of 85% for a non-continuously clean reflector was taken for the optimization process described above. Once the reflector material was selected, a manufacturing process plan was developed and the first prototype was fabricated. The reflector was manufactured with a commercial polished aluminum sheet with a thickness of 0.5 mm, which provides the required rigidity to maintain the reflector curvature. For this particular prototype, the reflector shape was generated by molding (CNC machine – Fagor 8030). The choice of a reflector involves trade-off between optical performance and durability. Therefore, commercial polished aluminum samples were exposed at laboratory accelerated weathering tests. After 3 months of laboratory exposure (3.5 years of natural weathering in our conditions) several types of damage including fading, cracking, hazing, etc., were observed in the aluminum samples which could affect product durability. In this way, alternative reflector materials are being investigated in future prototypes. The prototype (4.5 m 2  in aperture) has 12 one-sun CPC troughs ( θ a =35° θ a =35° ) optimized for its operation with the absorber running in the East–West line. Each absorber in the CPC is a 300-cm-long pyrex glass tube (30 mm i.d. and 32 mm o.d.). The reactor glass tube is a commercially available Pyrex process pipe. The support structure has been constructed of steel providing rigidity as well as easy handling and transport. At the bottom of the pilot plant a main holding tank (150 l) used during operation and another tank (50 l) only used to clean the pilot plant after each experiment were installed. The starting cost of the CPC collector fabricated by I.M.H. is estimated to be $160/m 2 . This includes the support structure, the reflector material, Pyrex glass tubes, labour cost and the manufacturing process. The Pyrex glass tubes comprise an important fraction of the system cost ($51/m 2 ). The reflector material which was assumed to be aluminum sheet is priced at $10/m 2 . The remaining cost for the collector, i.e. labour cost, manufacturing cost, etc. (expressed as percentages), is about 60% of the investment cost and will define the overall cost of the system. Because this is a conservative price estimate, it is believed that through the use of mass production technologies, the system cost could be reduced drastically. The reason given for this was the reduction of the associated labour and installation costs if multiple reactors were to be fabricated in series. Additionally, the potential savings through the purchase of large quantities of system components may provide the potential to reduce the system cost as much as 50%. Finally, the East–West orientation has intrinsic advantages derived through up-scaling i.e. minor use of mirrors and absorbers positioners, pipe fittings, passive areas, etc. The potential savings of these additional system components may provide the potential to achieve the $50/m 2  goal. Our early prototype fully described in  Section 3  has been fabricated in cooperation with Instituto de Maquina Herramienta (I.M.H.). This prototype includes the following components ( Fig. 7 ): solar collector (pyrex photoreactor tubes, reflective surface); flowmeter; fittings, pipes and tanks; pump and sensors (pH, temperature, oxygen and pyranometer). Considering the location and the duration of the test, the CPC aperture was tilted at 40 degrees (Madrid latitude) facing south, to maximize the available solar irradiation. Fig. 7 . CPC pilot plant. Each test started by filling the main holding tank with water, then a pesticide-containing solution along with titanium dioxide powder were added to the tank. The test solution was recirculated in the dark to allow the solution to become mixed. In this scheme, the fluid is continuously recirculated between a reactor zone and a tank in which no reaction occurs. According to this, the data were expressed to represent exposure time  t exp ; the amount of the time each fluid element spent in the illuminated portion of the pyrex photoreactor (1/6 total time) ( Eq. (6) ) (6) t exp =t total V illum V total t exp =t total V illum V total where  V total  and  V illum  are 150 and 25 l, respectively. For most pilot-scale experiments a fresh sample of P25 TiO 2  was used. Catalyst loading in all kinetics runs was 0.05% weight fraction. Following this, all instrumentation and controls necessary for the operation were connected. Different process parameters such as reactor pH, temperature, oxygen, flow rate and UV pyranometer are continually measured by on-line instrumentation and transmitted to the data acquisition system that sends the data to the computer control. A UV pyranometer (KIPP & ZONEN BV Type CUV3) was mounted adjacent to the reactor array with the same tilt as the collector aperture plane. The system is operated in batch mode at flow rates where the Reynold’s number varies between about 10,000 and 50,000 assuring fully turbulent flow and avoiding the settlement of TiO 2  particles in the tubes. The test solution was recirculated continuously and samples were withdrawn at 30-min intervals, depending on the initial concentration. At the conclusion of each test, the solution was discharged to the city sewage treatment system. The solar power concept has been taken to engineering scale in the pilot plant with the ultimate objective of further scaling-up to treat the water supplies. The objective of batch experiments was to assess the effectiveness of photocatalytic processes in reducing contaminant concentrations to drinking water standards in a non-laboratory environment. Later research has demonstrated that the effects of water composition are probably the most significant process parameters with respect to field applications of solar photocatalytic reactions ( Abdullah et al., 1990 ,  Mehos and Turchi, 1992 ). For example, it is well known that some natural water components, especially carbonate ions, can act as radical scavengers and effectively consume OH radicals. In this regard, tap water was used in all experiments in order to approximate our tests to field conditions. No attempt was made to control the pH of the influent water that generally exhibited a pH between 6 to 8. Water temperature generally increased up to 40°C during these experiments. Solar photocatalytic experiments of selected pesticides in water were conducted during July–December in Madrid from 10:30 h to 16:30 h (average radiation ranged from 15 to 35 W/m 2  global UV with maximum of 40 W/m 2 ). A pesticide concentration range from 20 to 500 μg/l was selected for these tests. This range has been considered to represent a typical level of micropollutants in natural waters. The photocatalytic degradation of EPTC followed pseudo first-order reaction kinetics for the studied concentration range ( Eq. (7) ) (7) C=C o e −kt C=C o e −kt where  C o  is the initial concentration of pesticide,  k  the apparent first-order rate constant and  t  the reaction time. Due to the nature of the photocatalytic process the reaction rate constant appears to be a function of external system parameters such as UV irradiance, catalyst loading, type of contaminant and the geometry of the photoreactor ( Wyness  et al. , 1994 ). Prior to photocatalytic experiments, a series of blank tests (light without catalyst) were performed to ensure that loss of the contaminant was due only to the photocatalyzed reaction.  Fig. 8  shows the results of EPTC batch experiments plotted as a function of exposure time. For comparison, a blank experiment is plotted with the results for two degradation tests for EPTC. This figure showed how the photocatalytic oxidation of EPTC is negatively affected by its concentration and the reaction rate increases very rapidly in the low concentration range, i.e. the rate constants for initial concentrations of 20 and 500 μg/l of EPTC were  k =0.17 min −1  and  k =0.15 min −1 , respectively. This effect has been attributed to the fact that the photocatalyzed reaction takes place at the particle surface. Although, for low solute concentrations a simple first-order kinetics model is sufficient in many instances, the photocatalyzed reaction is better modeled with the Langmuir–Hinshelwood equation ( Al-Ekabi et al., 1989 ,  Turchi and Ollis, 1989 ,  Vidal et al., 1994 ). It is important to note that the initial oxygen concentration in the water was enough to complete degradation. Fig. 8 . Photocatalytic degradation of EPTC at the pilot plant. (□) Blank experiment; EPTC experiments (∗) 500 ppb, (▵) 20 ppb. A complete description of intermediates identified in the photocatalytic degradation of EPTC has been reported in a recent paper ( Vidal  et al. , 1999 ). At the conclusion of each test, samples were periodically sent for TOC analysis. This method of analysis was used to demonstrate not only apparent destruction but also complete degradation. Our results indicate that the photocatalytic process can further degrade the intermediate compounds to carbon dioxide. It is worth mentioning that pilot scale experiments were performed with water of similar quality ( < 250 μS/cm). Tests conducted in this work have shown that the presence of ions or molecules (Cl − , NO 3 − , SO 4 2− , CO 3 2− , –CO 3 , etc.) frequently found in water did not seem to affect the oxidation rates expected for laboratory data. This behavior might be explained by the low TOC level of the tap water used. Our results are shown in  Table 1  in the form of solar throughput and compared with literature data for different reactor designs. Due to the broad range of conditions used, i.e. catalyst concentration, initial contaminant concentrations, etc., no attempt was made to draw any conclusions from  Table 1 . Solar throughput is defined as the volume of water treated per square metre of aperture area for destruction of selected pesticides from initial concentrations to maximum permitted levels. Table 1 . Solar throughputs collected from the literature In evaluating the potential of non-concentrating units for solar detoxification applications, the cost and the performance must be considered. The following discussion addresses the evaluation of the performance of the low cost CPC prototype built at a previous stage and explores the feasibility of this concept as the basis for the solar photocatalytic oxidation facilities. This analysis is specifically based on the reactor kinetic parameters, such as reaction rate constant, which will be used as a measure of the performance of the CPC slurry reactor. Reaction rate constants for the destruction of EPTC determined experimentally in the pilot plant have shown values over 0.15 min −1  in the studied concentration range. In this case we assume our results for yearly average conditions when the average global UV insolation is 25 W/m 2 . For water contaminated with more than one contaminant the minimum  k  value will determine the reactor performance ( Goswami  et al. , 1994 ). Based on a previous economic analysis ( Sharma  et al. , 1995 ), we have studied the impact of different parameters in order to identify those areas where efforts should be directed to minimize the treatment costs. It has been reported in this analysis that the system economics are very sensitive to the reaction rate constants. For example, a reduction in the unit reactor cost has very little effect on the treatment cost for systems with reaction rate constants over 0.1 min −1 . In that case the treatment cost can be reduced mainly by reducing the unit catalyst cost. This analysis is based on 10,000 gallons of contaminated water per day. Since the catalyst cost is expected to have a major impact on the economic viability of this process, the challenge is to reduce the unit catalyst cost. Part of CIEMAT’s future efforts to commercialize solar photocatalytic detoxification technology will involve the development of a supported catalyst. Several methods to achieve these improvements are being investigated, including the use of a low cost technique such as the sol-gel dip coating method and the testing of various catalyst supports and/or support configuration. A simple supported catalyst-in-tube was assumed for the photoreactor at this stage. At present, our results indicate that slurries continue to yield faster rates than supported catalysts and further advances are needed with regards to catalyst development. Although present treatment costs for the solar water detoxification system are higher than for conventional technologies, potentially greater cost reductions are being investigated through the use of one-sun systems. The economics of the CPC and the scale-up questions have been examined extensively in our photoreactor research effort. In the present paper, a final design was completed and a manufacturing process plan has been developed. In addition, a one-sun compound parabolic concentrator has been fabricated at a cost of under $160/m 2 . The potential savings through the use of mass production technologies or the purchase of large quantities of system components may provide the potential to achieve the $50/m 2  goal. A field demonstration of the solar photocatalytic treatment of groundwater using manufactured non-concentrating solar reactors has been conducted. Field tests showed successful destruction of EPTC and have provided data for full-scale design of systems for water treatment. Our preliminary findings have shown that the overall treatment cost can be reduced mainly by reducing the unit catalyst cost and further improvements in the unit reactor cost will have a little impact on the overall treatment cost. This work has been supported by the European Community under contract AVI*-CT94-0013. The authors are pleased to thank Jon González from Instituto de Maquina Herramienta (Elgoibar, Spain) for the construction of the CPC collector. The authors are very grateful to the project coordinator, Dr. K.-H. Funken, from DLR (Deutsche Forschungsantalt für Luft- und Raumfahrt) and to the task leader, Dr. M. Romero from CIEMAT, for their invaluable support during this work. The authors would like to acknowledge Dr. Marı & #x0301;a Gonzalez Viada for the critical reading of the manuscript. Elsevier We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content and ads. By continuing you agree to the  use of cookies . Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. or its licensors or contributors. ScienceDirect ® is a registered trademark of Elsevier B.V. 