Happy Noise Has Crystal Emojis to Bring Good Energy - Coveteur You did it! Thanks for joining our newsletter list. Looks like you have already subscribed. Error, please enter a valid email address © 2010-2017 The Coveteur Inc. All Rights Reserved. The Coveteur, Coveteurs, and Coveteur'd are trademarks of The Coveteur Inc. SHARE SHARE Send good vibes and intentions with the tap of a button. Whether the intentions are purely decorative or something more metaphysical,  crystals are decidedly a *thing* . Even Kylizzle  has a crystal healer  at her beck and call! So when  Jaspre Guest , a longtime friend of our Cov fam; let us in on her plans for her latest business venture a little while ago, it only made sense that the latest extension of her branding and communications company was a set of custom crystal emojis. “It was created for the sole purpose of cleansing our feeds,” she explained. “By texting a sage emoji, we virtually cleanse our digital space; by sending an emoji crystal you can send an intention to a friend.”   ...  View More ...  View More With everything from. “healing crystals, archangels,  magic and codes ” contained in the pack; the intention (see what we did there?) is to be able to send ~good vibes~ with all of the ease of shooting over an emoji. And so, voila—Happy Noise has crystals for everything from black tourmaline (to block negative energy—something to send when a friend’s telling a fuck boy to GTFO) to pyrite (to manifest everything from general success to cold, hard, cash), plus stickers and emojis with sage, green juice, and more. But for Guest, the set is far from just frivolous—“In the present climate of the world, it’s reassuring to know you have a tool in your toolbox. That even for one person, for one moment, you can change a negative into a positive. We wanted to be in that moment for people.” All the more reason to hit “ download ” already.   ...  View More ...  View More ...  View More It's the internet equivalent of a friendship bracelet. You did it! Thanks for joining our newsletter list. Looks like you have already subscribed. Error, please enter a valid email address 