Pink Floyd ' s Roger Waters distances self from Falkland Islands comments - Telegraph Accessibility links Thursday 19 December 2019 By  Fiona Govan 12:08PM GMT 06 Mar 2012  His comments, reportedly made to Chilean television as he begun a music tour across Latin America, were seized upon in Argentina and  caused a stir at a time of mounting tensions  ahead of the 30th anniversary of the conflict.   But on arrival in Buenos Aires on Monday night he softened his remarks claiming that he had been misquoted. He wrote on his  Facebook  page that he had never stated categorically that the islands belonged to Argentina.   Chilean state channel TVN had put out the interview last Thursday in which the bass player was asked: " Falklands , Malvinas, what is your take? Is it British or is it Argentine?"   He reportedly replied: "I think it should be Argentine."   Hours later British singer Morrissey also endorsed Argentina's sovereignty claim over the archipelago telling an audience in the Argentine city of Cordoba that "everyone knows the islands belong to you."  Falkland Islands 'was nearly shared by Britain and Argentina' Falklands would be lost if Argentina invaded warns former commander Morrissey: Falklands not British Falkland island named 'Craig Island' after last soldier to die in war Britain accuses Argentina of a 'policy of confrontation  after it threatens blockade on UK goods Roger Waters: return Falklands  Sean Penn, the Hollywood actor and director, has also voiced his support of the Argentine position criticising Prince William's deployment to the islands and questioning Britain's "ludicrous and archaic commitment to the colonialist ideology."   On Monday President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner announced the creation of a new museum dedicated to the Falkland Islands.   She said that the museum would be dedicated to the more than 323 marines killed when the warship Belgrano was sunk by British forces in May 1982.   It would be housed in a former navy school in Buenos Aires that once served as a detection centre where torture was carried out during Argentina's 1976-1983 military dictatorship.   "It will tell the whole story of the Malvinas," the president said, using the Argentine name for the islands. The 20 million dollar museum will be inaugurated in August 2013.  In Falkland Islands Top news galleries Latest Video Back to top  Copyright of Telegraph Media Group Limited 2019 Terms and Conditions Today's News Archive Style Book Weather Forecast MOST VIEWED IN NEWS 