Jenelle Schmidt Author King ' s Warrior November 28, 2019 H appy Thanksgiving to all my American readers, friends, and family! And for those of you outside the U.S.A. happy third-to-last day of November! And to everyone: let the Christmas decorating and music commence! I love Christmas. It s my favorite time of year. (I love Thanksgiving, too  don t worry, this isn t me hopping on the  skip Thanksgiving  ride  today is one of my favorite days of the year and I hope yours has been lovely and restful and filled with good food and quality conversations and peace and that you have spent some time reflecting on those things you are truly grateful for  I know I have). But I have a Christmas gift for you, and I couldn t wait one. more. second to share it with you, I m FAR too excited about it. Like many of you, I have a lot of favorite Christmas traditions. Every year, we watch all our favorite Christmas movies throughout the month of December. The kids and I put up our Jesse tree and hang ornaments each day. We buy a new Lego Star Wars advent calendar each year because we re nerds. I also pack up all the Christmas picture books when we put away the decorations so that I can pull them out, wrap them up, and put them under the tree and each night in December the kids pick one out to unwrap and read together as a family. Another tradition we started last year was  Jolabokaflod , an Icelandic tradition in which everyone gifts each other books and we open them on the morning of Christmas Eve and then spend the rest of the day reading our new books and eating chocolate. (Could there BE a better tradition anyone has ever come up with anywhere?!?!?) It was awesome and we are definitely doing that again this year. This year, I m so excited to be able to include MY Christmas Picture Book in the mix of these traditions. A few of you know that one of my dreams is to narrate my own audio-books. Yes, this is why there is no audio version yet, because making an audio book requires a few things I don t have access to: namely TIME and QUIET. But it s on my list. But, in spite of my lacking the time/quiet/nice microphone that I need to narrate one of my longer fantasy novels  a portion of that dream has come true for me this year anyway! And today, I would like to present it to you as an early Christmas present. I hope you enjoy it! Jenelle Schmidt 10 subscribers Subscribe Twas an Evening in Bethlehem Audio Presentation Info Shopping Tap to unmute More videos Your browser does not currently recognize any of the video formats available.  Click here to visit our frequently asked questions about HTML5 video. More videos on YouTube Share Include playlist An error occurred while retrieving sharing information. Please try again later. Watch later Share Copy link An error occurred. Try watching this video on www.youtube.com , or enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser. Make sure to come by tomorrow and find out about some awesome book sales and freebies you can get over the holiday shopping weekend  and if you re leaving your house to join the insanity of Black Friday . I salute you  from the comfort and quiet of my own home  be safe out there! And now it s your turn! What are some of your favorite Christmas traditions? ~  jenelle 14 Comments Categories:  Featured ,  Giveaway ,  Images ,  My Books ,  Snippets ,  Twas an Evening in Bethlehem December 16, 2019 I f you ve been following me for any amount of time, you probably already know that I published a Christmas-themed picture book a few months ago. But today, I thought it would be fun to give you a special  back page pass  as it were to see how this little book came together, because the story behind the story is one that is full of surprises! And I hope that it might be full of encouragement, as well. Sometimes there is no super-spiritual “feeling” that comes when God works. Sometimes there is no special “calling.” Sometimes God simply works through you and around you and uses the gifts He’s already given you and you don’t even know that he’s doing anything until he’s done. Sometimes, God Surprises You. I don’t say this to downplay in any way those times when God calls you specifically to do something. Those moments definitely exist. This  just wasn’t one of them. When God moved our family to Wisconsin from North Carolina in October of 2015, far away from family or anyone we knew, I was already an author. I had published two fantasy fiction novels and was working on the third. Writing was not a new talent or skill for me.   When God led us to Chippewa Valley Bible Church in May of 2016, my husband, Derek, joined the media team. Because of this, he got to know our worship director, Jodi. He came home one Thursday after rehearsal and told me enthusiastically that, “Jodi loves fantasy fiction! You should get to know her better.” (He was a little worried about me because I hadn’t made many friends yet  he knows that I am shy and introverted, and so he figured he had found someone that I at least had two things in common with: a love of Jesus, and a love of fantasy). Jodi and I did become friends after that, and she even read my books! Throughout my adult life, one of the things I have struggled with at times is a feeling that the gifts God gave me aren’t really needed by the church.   Reading is my super power  but it’s hard to use that on behalf of others.   And while God has given me a talent for writing, He’s also given me a deep love of fiction, which isn’t usually something the church generally asks for. So when Jodi contacted me in the spring of 2017 and asked if I might be interested in writing a small skit for Easter, I gladly agreed to do so. It was nice to feel that my talent was wanted. On September 11 of that same year, Jodi sent me the following email: Would you have time to write something for our Christmas Eve service? I d like to have a Christian version of  Twas the Night Before Christmas. There are some okay ones online, but they don t have the same cadence and pattern of the original. Well, either that, or, they re really downers.  I m looking for something that follows the cadence of the original, (so, at some point, has an alternative to On Dasher, On Dancer, etc.) Is that something that would be doable for you? Just to give you an idea of the service, our theme is Christmas Surprises, and throughout Advent we ll be looking at the surprising things God did at Christmas. For the Christmas Eve service, I d like it to be like Christmas through the eyes of a child, with all the wonder and excitement and surprise. And, of course, we ll focus that towards Jesus, since He is what gives us hope in the season. Once again, I jumped at the chance to help out, and set about thinking about what I could write.   It took a while.   A month later, I was still spinning my wheels  with absolutely no ideas about what I could write. As I was trying to think of something, at times praying for inspiration, I turned to my husband for help. We often chat about my books and he helps me work through those awful moments of writer’s block.   Derek asked if I HAD to write it from the perspective of a modern-day child? Which was what I had    been attempting to do, because I knew that was the theme of Jodi’s Christmas song that she had written for the service. He asked, could I perhaps write the story from the perspective of a child who might have been there on that first Christmas Eve night? Maybe a young shepherd, or what if the innkeeper had a child? I liked the idea, asked Jodi what she thought, and she liked it too! After that, the story came together in kind of a whirlwind. I wrote all fourteen stanzas in a single afternoon while the kiddos were taking naps. I read what I’d written to Derek later that night and we did a very small amount of tweaking and editing. The next morning, I sent it to Jodi and kind of figured that’d be the end of it.  However, Jodi (and God) weren’t quite done. Meanwhile, unbeknownst to me, Jodi reached out to another lady in our church that she knew had a talent for painting and drawing and asked if she had time to do a few illustrations for this poem I had written. She said yes, and created four pictures to go with the poem so that they could put them up on the projector while someone read the story to the kids up on stage. Sierra also didn t really see her painting as a  gift  per se, but rather a hobby that she enjoys and doesn t get much time for. The Wednesday before Christmas, I was at church helping with AWANA, when Jodi came over to me with a huge, excited smile on her face and handed me something.   It was a book.   She had taken the words and the illustrations and gotten them printed and bound at Walmart so that the person reading the story on stage later that week could have something to hold and make it feel more like  storytime  for the kids. As I held the book and showed it to Derek, the thought suddenly struck me that, “I’ve just written a children’s book!” That was a surprise! Writing a children’s book is something I’ve always wanted to do, but hadn’t because I have zero artistic talent when it comes to drawing or painting. And that’s kind of important if you’re going to write a picture book, since, in my opinion, most children’s picture books rely heavily on the actual PICTURES. Derek and I knew that if we wanted to actually turn it into a children’s book, we would need a few more illustrations, and I had no idea if that was something Sierra would be interested in. I also  wasn’t exactly sure how to go about walking up to this person I didn’t really know to broach the subject of publishing a book together. So I kind of hemmed and hawed my way about, sort of trying to work up the courage to talk to her about it. But God took care of that, too. After the book was read up on stage during the service, Sierra and Jodi both had numerous people come up to them and ask where they could purchase the book. At the time, that was not possible, since we hadn t actually published the book yet and getting it printed at Walmart was pricey. Sierra actually approached ME and asked if I had any interest in publishing the book, and told me that she had no idea how to go about that (she didn t know that I had already published books, so it was a surprise to her that I already had that aspect of things pretty much figured out). She agreed to do five more illustrations for the book, and we set out to put the book together. Honestly, the road to get this picture book written and published has been one I know I can take absolutely no credit for.   Hindsight being 20/20 and all that, I can definitely look back now and see God’s hand in every step of the design.   From moving us across the country to Wisconsin (which was an answer to prayer in and of itself), to helping me find a friend, to planting the idea for the story itself in my  husband’s  mind . I can’t even claim that he sent the inspiration directly to me!   Jodi’s original idea, my words, Sierra’s beautiful paintings, and my husband’s hours spent on graphic design and figuring out how to turn all the pieces into one single file we could upload and send to the printer  every single piece of the puzzle has been perfectly fitted together to result in this picture book being created.   You may not know what your gift is, or how it can be useful to others. But 1 Peter 4:10-11 has become a key verse for both Sierra and myself throughout this process and I hope that you can find encouragement in it, as well: 10  Each of you should use whatever gift you have received to serve others, as faithful stewards of God’s grace in its various forms.   11  If anyone speaks, they should do so as one who speaks the very words of God. If anyone serves, they should do so with the strength God provides, so that in all things God may be praised through Jesus Christ. To him be the glory and the power for ever and ever. Amen. Usually, when you write a book, you sit down with the intent to do just that. I should know. I’ve written rather a few of them. But this one  for me, will always mark the year that God gave me a special Christmas Surprise all my own. You see, I may have written the words, but God authored the whole event. ~  jenelle 6 Comments Categories:  ideas ,  My Books ,  Personal ,  Publishing ,  Writing December 12, 2019 D ecember is here! Christmas is coming! It s my favorite time of the year. It s a hectic, busy, (often sniffle-filled) time, but it s also cozy and fun and beautiful. I ve been busy with all the reading and writing and watching and living and not so much with the keeping up posting things to this blog of mine. But rest assured, I have not forgotten you, dear Reader. Even though I apparently haven t done an Adventures  &  Episodes post since  er  May. *whistles innocently* The blog is probably going to remain a little quiet here for the rest of the year (though I hope to have my  Best Reads of 2019  up before the end of the year, as well as a fun  Behind the Scenes  story of how  Twas an Evening in Bethlehem came to be written), and then I ll probably be posting fairly sparsely through January, as well  but after January comes . everybody s favorite thing  FEBRUARY IS FANTASY MONTH! I m working on some plans for making this the best fantasy month ever, and if you have any ideas, please feel free to pitch them my way! So, what have I been up to this past couple of months? I ve been reading up a storm this year. I originally set my Goodreads reading goal at 35 books for the year, knowing how much writing I had to get done, but then I passed that somewhere in July, so I bumped my goal up to 50, and so far this year I ve read 60 books! And so many of them have been exceptional! But I ll save my fangirling for my actual  best reads of 2019  post. The most notable things we ve watched in the latter half of the year have been two-fold. Ford Vs Ferrari  Halfway through this movie, I found myself thinking,  The second this comes to blu-ray, I m buying it. By the end of the movie, I had not changed my mind. This doesn t happen very often. I generally reserve judgment until I ve seen the credits roll, but this movie was fantastic. In many ways, it reminded me of Miracle, and in others it reminded me of Tucker: A Man and His Dream, both favorites of mine. There was so much heart to this movie. It s a true  buddy  movie, and I loved the friendship depicted between Carol Shelby and Ken Miles. I also loved Ken Miles  family  his wife and son were just fantastic. All of the protagonists were genuinely likable  which doesn t mean they didn t have their flaws, but I couldn t help but root for them. The only criticism I have is that there is a bit more swearing than I would have preferred (including one F-word). And the movie was a bit mis-titled, as it really felt more like it ought to have been called  Ford vs Ken Miles.  But other than that, this movie was absolutely beautiful. The Mandalorian With the advent of Disney+ we went ahead and subscribed (as we were kind of looking for a way/reason to ditch Netflix anyway (which we are planning to do as soon as we finish watching Miraculous Ladybug  which was SUPPOSED to be on Disney+ according to all the advance lists). Anyway. I ve already posted my reaction to the first episode of The Mandalorian. Suffice to say, that this Star Wars Western has continued to steal my heart with every new episode. It is fantastic and beautiful and it is everything I ve been wanting from the live-action Star Wars franchise since George Lucas announced he was making prequels  and then  did what he did with them. If you have Disney+ and haven t watched the Mandalorian  I highly recommend it. Somehow it manages to beautifully capture all the essence of the original trilogy while telling a completely unique-to-the-Star-Wars-Franchise story. Who dahthunk? Not much else of note when it comes to watching things. We also recently watched Star Wars (the very original original  in high def  it was awesome  Han Shot first  and all that  we are such nerds). And we watched Solo again and liked it just as much the second time around, except they should have introduced Xixor and Black Sun at the end instead of relying on Darth Maul yet AGAIN. Seriously. We don t love him that much, guys. Also, HOW IS HE ALIVE? I know this was explained in the cartoons, I still don t buy it  and if MAUL is alive, then in my mind, Han Solo has every right to still be alive, as well. Hmph. Derek and I are re-watching all of Stargate SG-1, and will then probably move on to Atlantis. We ve been watching Star Trek: Voyager with the hobbits. I ve watched a couple of ridiculous and girly Christmas movies (The Knight Before Christmas and Another Cinderella Story Christmas) both of which were sappy and ridiculous. (Christmas Knight was actually quite good, even Derek enjoyed it more than he thought he would). We also watched the new Grinch cartoon with Benedict Cumberbatch. I have mixed feelings about it. They really nailed the first half of the movie, but the ending was one of those places where I felt like,  Man  they just missed it.  And that disappointment kind of detracts from the entire experience. Will I watch it again? Probly. The kids loved it. Will it make it onto my  Christmas movies we must watch every year list ? Not a chance. After finishing up Summer Princess at the beginning of July, I sent it to my AMAZING editor and dove back into writing Towers of Might and Memory, the fifth and final book in my Fantasy/Gaslamp series: The Turrim Archive. (Actually, there s even a little bit of actual science in it. I asked Derek the other night,  So  since there is actual science tech in my story that COULD work  can I call it Sci-Fi?  He said,  No.  Very definitively. To which I asked,  Science Fantasy?  and he kind of tilted his head back and forth and said,  Okay, that could work.  So  Science-Fantasy-Gaslamp  this story refuses to stay neatly in a single genre, so I m embracing the madness and trying to see how many niches I can work in  without actually doing it on purpose). Before Summer Princess took over my life, I had struggled through 31,000 words of Towers. I added another 3k at the end of July, and then forced myself to take the entire month of August off from writing. In September, I wrote approximately 8,875 words, mostly bumbling around and feeling as though I was ramming my head against a wall. In October, I wrote practically nothing. I was extremely discouraged with the entire series, feeling overwhelmed by the task I had set before myself, and questioning if I should even keep trying at all. When my mom came to visit later in October, she watched the kids one evening while Derek and I went out to have an outlining/book planning discussion and he provided some massive help with the issues I d been having, as well as encouragement to keep going and that I could, in fact, finish this book by the end of the year. As you know if you read my NaNo update posts, I added approximately 33,000 words to Towers in the first three weeks of November, then had to take a break for Thanksgiving and family time. This month so far, I ve added another 20,000 words to the story in only 11 days and only have about 25,000 left to go. I ve been writing up a storm, and inspiration has been plentiful, so I think I can actually finish this book before the New Year! Fairly accurate depiction  :-D As I ve been writing a lot, I ve been listening to a lot of music. Mostly Christmas music (Mannheim Steamroller for the win!). But also quite a bit from The Piano Guys, Lindsey Sterling, William Joseph, and some epic Celtic music mixes like these: And I just discovered this one recently: Lots going on here this Fall. We traveled across the country and visited family in Washington, D.C. and dear friends whom we consider family in North Carolina at the beginning of August. We ve had some family come and visit in October and for Thanksgiving. There have been some unexpected medical expenses and ER visits. We ve begun the process of finishing our basement. And I ve been taking the two oldest hobbits to go rock climbing every week, one of my favorite hobbies that I haven t gotten to do in a couple of years. L and N are LOVING it and I am enjoying getting to do something I enjoy, as well! Our family ventured out to cut down a real tree for the first time ever and fun was had by all! We got 10-12 inches of snow the week of Thanksgiving, and another 3-4 inches earlier this week, so the holiday season has been draped in a blanket of glittering white. It has also gotten bitterly cold, temperatures dropping down to -11. The girls are both in our church s Christmas Musical this coming weekend, and they are excited about that. I am presenting with my illustrator at a women s tea at our church on how we came to create our children s book  we re both a little nervous, so if you think of me on Saturday for any reason, prayers would be appreciated! And now it s your turn! What have you been up to this past Fall? Any Christmas plans or traditions you are especially looking forward to? ~  jenelle 1 Comment Categories:  Adventures and Episodes ,  My Books ,  Personal ,  Writing November 29, 2019 H appy Black Friday/Small Business Saturday/Cyber Monday . Holiday Shopping Weekend! Did you know that Independent Authors are small business owners? It s true! Becoming an indie author means that you are an entrepreneur. So if you want to support a small business this weekend, consider purchasing a book from an indie author! And to help you on this quest, should you choose to accept it, I have  some fabulous book sales to tell you about. There are so many titles . you are NOT going to want to miss these! It can be difficult to wade through the titles and descriptions of books, so I m here to help you find some GOOD indie books to peruse! First of all, my own ebooks are ALL on sale this weekend. King s Warrior is FREE Second Son is just 99 cents Yorien s Hand is $1.99 Minstrel s Call is $2.99 Twas an Evening in Bethlehem is 99 cents AND THE PAPERBACKS have been discounted a wee bit as well  so if you ve been wanting to get the paperbacks of my Minstrel s Song series and waiting until they were on sale  NOW is your chance! King s Warrior is on sale for $10.99 Second Son is on sale for $12.25 Yorien s Hand is on sale for $10.99 Minstrel s Call is on sale for $12.99 But don t worry, that s not all!  I m also participating in several big sales with many other indie authors. Check out this massive  Indie Authors Black Friday Sale   with over 200 titles to investigate in a variety of genres from Mystery to Fantasy to Sci Fi to Romance to Christmas-themed and MORE! Then there s also this sale of  Speculative Fiction from the Pens of Christian Authors  with tons of amazing-looking sci fi and fantasy titles! I ll be checking out both of these sales, myself! Happy Shopping! Happy Reading! ~  jenelle Leave a Comment Categories:  My Books ,  Sale ,  The Minstrel's Song ,  Twas an Evening in Bethlehem Jenelle first fell in love with stories through her father’s voice reading books aloud each night. A relentless opener-of-doors in hopes of someday finding a passage to Narnia, it was only natural that she soon began making up fantastical realms of her own. Jenelle currently resides in the wintry tundra of Wisconsin —which she maintains is almost as good as Narnia — with her knight-in-shining armor and their four hobbits. She homeschools said hobbits and helps them along on their daily adventures... which she says makes her a wizard.   Read More Join 1,213 other subscribers King's Warrior Book 1 Second Son Book 2 Yorien's Hand Book 3 Stone Curse  2019 Jenelle Schmidt. 