About RAW Race Information  &  Fact Sheet The Race Across the West (RAW) is one of the world’s top RAAM Qualifying events.  Oceanside, CA to Durango, CO – 930 miles across the rugged American West.  Participants cross the Coast Range, Imperial Dunes, Monument Valley and finish in the San Juan Range of SW Colorado. The RAW route follows the RAAM route to Durango. Both the RAAM and RAW racers are on the course at the same time making it a perfect way to see how you might do racing RAAM.There is no race that matches the distance, terrain and weather, no other event that tests a team’s spirit from beginning to end. 2018 Race Information: · Start: Oceanside, California – Oceanside Pier. June 12. ·Finish: Durango, Co. June 16 ·Route: 930 miles, 1500 kilometers, +56,000 ft or 17,069m elevation, triple the height of Kilimanjaro (which Philippe has hiked) ·Crosses 4 states ·Format: Solo, 2 and 4 person. Solo racers have a maximum of 4 days and most finish in about 3 and a half days. Racers will ride about 300 miles a day, racing non-stop, balancing speed and the need for sleep. This Ain’t No Tour RAW is a race! But unlike the three great European Grand Tours (Tour de France, Vuelta a España and Giro de Italia), RAW is not a stage race. RAW is one continual stage, similar to a time trial. Once the clock starts it does not stop until the finish line. RAW is a little more than 1/3 the length of the Tour de France, but completed in 3 to 4 days. More importantly, RAW is not limited to professional cyclists. RAW is open to professional and amateur athletes alike. Solo racers must qualify to compete. Who Races RAW? Racers come from all over the world and all walks of life. Racers are both amateurs and  professionals. But, the majority of racers are ordinary people with a passion for riding  their bicycles. Racers range in age from 13 to 75. Every year there are racers from at  least 15 countries. Over 25 countries have been represented over the 30-year history of the race. Approximately 40% of the racers are from outside the US. About 15% of the racers are women. Why Race RAW? Some might echo George Mallory’s sentiment about Mt. Everest, “Because it’s there!” For most racers it is not that simple. Reasons include raising money for a charitable  cause, setting a record, seeing the country, spending time with friends, adding their name  to the finishers list, etc. But, overwhelmingly most people race RAAM simply to have fun and challenge themselves. Whatever the reason, RAW is an incredible journey across a beautiful country! Not a single racer will walk away unmoved by the achievement. Racing for Charitable Causes RAW is an outstanding platform for raising money for charitable causes. Racers  annually raise collectively in excess of $2 million for a wide range of charitable causes. Media Exposure Fans from all over the world follow RAAM. Fans can follow RAAM on the web, through the bi-weekly RAAM Newsletter, race blogs, the social media (Facebook and  Twitter) and traditional mainstream media. There is local, national and international  coverage by the traditional media. Additionally, RAAM has at least four of its own  media crews on the course providing up-to-date video, photo and text coverage. Race  coverage statistics: · 25+ million page views annually · 2,500+ articles in mainstream media (TV, radio and print) This coverage provides substantial value to both sponsors and charities. The Executive Team RAAM is run by a dedicated group of professionals, who also happen to race bicycles. Their executive team is comprised of Fred Boethling, President (2X RAAM finisher) and Rick  Boethling, Executive Director (RAW founder). Together they bring a very strong business and race background and understanding of what makes a  great event. Race Statistics · 340 racers and 1000+ support crew · 27 Different Countries · 60 Teams, 58 Solos · 250+ staff  &  volunteers RAAM is an Epic Event Race Across America is the world’s top endurance cycling event. The 2018 race is the 37th  edition of RAAM. We expect the largest field and the most extensive coverage in  the event’s history. Don’t miss out! Facebook Twitter Pinterest Copyright © Twisted Swissters RAAM  . All rights reserved. 