Great Seafood - Review of Taylor ' s Chowder House, Phoenix, AZ - TripAdvisor The food was great the wife had Mahi Mahi and they said it was delivered today I had Two Blues 2 Butterfly shrimp and 2 Cod it was great, It is where a lot of regulars go. the waitresses knew the people by name. They even did special order for one table. We will be Back 45  -  49  of  62  reviews Taylor's was recommended to us by a friend who's lived in the NW valley for many years and knows a lot of  " landmark "  restaurants. Upon entering for the first time, we were charmed by the unpretentious chowder-house decor, with maritime paintings and collectibles on the wall. The waitress was delightful and patient, as we were unfamiliar with the restaurant or menu. Both New England and Boston Clam Chowder were great. The New England was rich and flavorful (not on the Weight Watchers' Diet, but the calories were well worth having at least a  " cup " ). I had Lemon Pepper Tilapia, with a side-salad. Trying to be conservative, I had Vinaigrette dressing and it was just o.k. The Tilapia was perfection! and the fish is what we were there for... The waitress brought a basket of two small Sourdough boules, sliced partially for easy tearing apart, with two little buckets of herbed whipped butter. The bread was  " to die for "  and the herbed butter just took it over the top!!! This restaurant immediately went on our  " list of favorite restaurants " . The restaurant is tucked back off of 35th Ave., just north of Thunderbird Rd. It is not a pretentious, overpriced, chain restaurant, which in my book is a good thing. Check their website for possible coupon for a free cup of Chowder with your meal. ENJOY!!! The food was ok or maybe better than ok I was so pissed off that I was in no mood to enjoy the food. When we entered, it was not busy and no one was in line to be seated but we were told that  " someone would be right with you "  We waited for a few minutes and another person told us  " someone will be right with you "  we waited for about 7 minutes and the same person said  " some one will be right with you "  At this point I was ready to walk out but my wife really wanted to eat here so we stayed finally we were seated and ordered drinks. The waitress forgot the drinks and had to be reminded and brought our drinks. We ordered and the food came pretty quickly and it was hot. We asked for more tartar sauce and never got it. we would have reminded the waitress but we never saw her again until after we finished eating. I told her we wouldn't be needing the tartar sauce and she remembered and asked if we wanted more fish (it was all you could eat fish) Said no and asked for check which never came. I finally went to bar to pay so we could leave. We were greeted and seated immediately. >Server was nice and polite however she brought our bill before offering us <br >dessert. Did catch a glimpse of the dessert menu before we ordered our food >looked good not your ordinary type of pies and cheesecake etc but noticed Bread<br >Pudding and Chocolate Mousse. >We had the baked Seafood Dinner consisting of Cod, Scallops and stuffed Shrimp .. Warm bread was excellent.and the Clam Chowder was as good as it comes.<br >We did not care for the shrimp stuffing was mushy and tasteless. >Prices and portions were reasonable.<br >Quant little place hard to find with poor signage. I've been going here for years and I still love the food, service, ect. My favorite is the cod meal. The sevice is great happy, pleasant, refills your drinks fast. Love it. Own or manage this property? Claim your listing for free to respond to reviews, update your profile and much more.  