The internet as a democratising force (Chapter 1) - Regulating Speech in Cyberspace We use cookies to distinguish you from other users and to provide you with a better experience on our websites. Close this message to accept cookies or find out how to  manage your cookie settings . To send this chapter to your Kindle, first ensure no-reply@cambridge.orgis added to your Approved Personal Document E-mail List under your Personal Document Settingson the Manage Your Content and Devices page of your Amazon account. Then enter the ‘name’ partof your Kindle email address below. Find out more about sending to your Kindle . Note you can select to send to either the @free.kindle.com or @kindle.com variations.‘@free.kindle.com’ emails are free but can only be sent to your device when it is connected to wi-fi.‘@kindle.com’ emails can be delivered even when you are not connected to wi-fi, but note that service fees apply. Find out more about the  Kindle Personal Document Service . To send content items to your   account,please confirm that you agree to abide by our usage policies.If this is the first time you use this feature, you will be asked to authorise Cambridge Core to connect with your   account. Find out more about sending content to  Dropbox . To send content items to your   account,please confirm that you agree to abide by our usage policies.If this is the first time you use this feature, you will be asked to authorise Cambridge Core to connect with your   account. Find out more about sending content to  Google Drive . The internet has the power to be a tool of democracy, but its potential in this respect is at risk. This is because the same technology that can be a positive force for the discursive values underlying democracy can also be a tool of control. The same technology that facilitates discourse creates opportunities for censorship of information, monitoring of online practices and the subtle shaping and manipulation of behaviour. This is not to say that the architecture of the internet does not somewhat determine how it is used, 1  but, ultimately, the internet is neutral in the face of the human agents that control its use. As  Kofi Annan stated in 2003, ‘[w]hile technology shapes the future, it is people who shape technology, and decide to what uses it can and should be put’. 2  In this chapter, I explore the positive aspects of technology. The purpose is to identify for the reader the internet’s potential and what is at stake if we do not intervene to secure the requisite freedoms into the internet’s governance structure. This grounds the book’s inquiry into the role of private gatekeepers in facilitating or hindering this democratic potential through their control of the pathways of communication. Based on a theory developed by Jack Balkin, the internet’s democratic potential will be argued to be rooted in its ability to promote democratic culture. Threaded through this argument will be the centrality of communication to democracy. In saying that the internet has the potential to  be a democratising force, what will be asserted is that the internet can help facilitate deliberation and participation in the forms of meaning-making in democratic society. The distinction between the internet having potential to be a democratising force and its achieving it must be noted at the outset.  Attempts have been made to prove empirically that the internet facilitates democracy, but such studies are compromised by the numerous variables present. 3  The goal of this chapter is more modestly to identify democratic culture as the type of democracy that the internet can facilitate and to explicate the characteristics of the internet that give it this potential. This chapter sets up the broader investigation of this book into our reliance for facilitation of the internet’s democratic potential on privately owned internet information gatekeepers (IIGs). The term IIG will be defined and examined in detail in  Chapter 2 ; briefly , it means a gatekeeper which facilitates or hinders deliberation and participation in the forms of meaning-making in democratic culture. Every time we use the internet, we engage with IIGs. To find information, we use search engines. To access the internet, we need to use internet service providers (ISP). To be able to participate on message boards or social networking sites, we go through a host. 4  The role of such regulators has not yet been settled, and, as of yet, they do not have any democratic or public interest mandate 5  that assures the internet’s democratic potential is being facilitated. If the internet is a democratising force, we inevitably at present must rely on these IIGs for the realisation of this aspect of its capacity. It is argued in this book that the  corporate social responsibility (CSR) frameworks that currently govern the activities of IIGs are insufficient to meet their human rights obligations and that, without intervention, the continuation of their work in its current mode will hamper the ability of the internet to work as a tool of democracy. To that end, this chapter first orients the reader with a history of the rise and fall of the concept of the internet as a democratising force. It then examines the elastic concept of democracy and articulates the substance and appropriateness of democratic culture as the type of democracy most capable of facilitation by the internet. This includes an analysis of the narrower and, for our purposes, ill-fitting concept of deliberative democracy most famously discussed by Jürgen Habermas. Last, this chapter looks more closely at the ways that the internet is promoting democratic culture and the criticisms thereof, focusing on the internet’s facilitation of information access and participation in politics and culture. The internet was celebrated in its infancy as a democratising force. Its decentralised structure invited anti-establishment-type rhetoric arguing that it was uncontrollable by governments and that it was a new space outside of legal institutions and territoriality. 6 ‘Information wants to be free’ 7  was the slogan. This optimism was reflected by the courts, particularly in the United States, with the U.S. Supreme Court noting the increasingly important role of the internet in facilitating communication in democratic society. 8  In  ACLU  v.  Reno , 9  one opinion famously described the internet as a vast library which anyone can access and a platform from which anyone can publish, continuing that anyone ‘can become a town crier with a voice that resonates farther than it could from any soapbox’. 10 In the late 1990s, however, the reality of the internet’s regulability began to crush cyberlibertarian idealism. Discussions no longer centred on the internet as a democratising force and instead were about the forces waiting to clamp down on it. With publications by  Joel Reidenberg 11  and  Lawrence Lessig , 12  a new constraint was recognised. It was not just governments and laws that regulated behaviour, but those entities (inevitably private) that controlled the technology – the code writers and engineers who, as a result of their work, delineated the environment of our social life. 13  The message was that treating cyberspace as a separate place that will flourish if left alone by governments will not ensure the freedoms sought because that ignores the indirect ways that governments can regulate, as well as the ways architecture can be harnessed by private parties to constrain behaviour. We also witnessed the increased regulation of the internet by states, which continues today. 14 Through the use of filtering and blocking technologies, countries such as China and Syria have developed tools to prevent their population accessing undesirable content. China’s filtering system is complex, with the famous outer layer known as the ‘great firewall of China’ blocking access at international gateways and the inner layer comprising internet companies required by the government to monitor and remove objectionable content. 15 Syria prevents access to the entire Israeli.il domain,  and many other states routinely filter access to websites with pornography and dissident or human rights-oriented content. 16  Sites such as  www.youtube.com , are routinely blocked. For example,  from 2007 to 2010, Turkey blocked access to YouTube, sparked by the posting of videos deemed offensive to the memory of its founding father Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. 17  In 2014, Turkey passed a controversial law allowing its telecommunications regulator to block access to websites without court order. As a result, in 2014, the authority blocked access to YouTube and Twitter, the latter being overturned quickly by court  order . 18 Saudi Arabia now requires a licence to post content to YouTube. 19 During the protests across Africa and the Middle East in 2010 and 2011, filtering technologies were readily employed by states to block access to communication technologies that were seen as enabling and mobilising the protesters. 20 Filtering is not limited to Asian or Middle Eastern countries.  Germany blocks certain Nazi/hate websites. 21  The  European Union provides the framework for national-level notice and takedown regimes for unlawful content. 22 Russia has blocked access to news sites for what the government describes as calling for participation in authorised rallies. 23 In 2014, the United Kingdom implemented an opt-in filter through agreement with four major ISPs, whereby access to content that is pornographic (though legal) is blocked unless a broadband user opts in with its provider to access such sites. 24  Naturally, much material lies at the  boundary of what would be blocked or material might be blocked accidentally, such as sex education sites. The government has also stated its intentions to extend the opt-in filter to extremist sites. 25 Companies such as BT have implemented such filters under the framework of parental controls, in which new users now must opt in to a variety of content, ranging from obscene content to content featuring nudity, drugs and alcohol, self-harm and dating sites . 26 John Palfrey would describe this as comprising the second and third phases of what he frames as four phases in the evolution of internet regulation. 27  The first phase, paralleling the preceding discussion, was the phase of the  open internet , in which the internet was seen as a separate space outside of governmental and other legal control. The second phase, from 2000 to 2005, he describes as the  access-denied phase , in which the internet was seen by states as something to be managed; this period was therefore characterised by the use of filtering technologies. The third phase –  access-controlled , from 2005 to 2010 – was characterised by more nuanced and sophisticated forms of control often layered on other forms of regulation. Filters were still used, but they could be targeted to particularly sensitive political events, such as the filtering of a controversial photo from the Tiananmen Square massacre leading up to the twenty-year anniversary. Additionally, it was characterised by the increasing use of private companies to regulate online content through data collection and sharing or blocking, licensing schemes to publish online, or a combination of filters combined with laws, as seen in cases like  Twentieth Century Fox Film Corp  &  Ors  v.  British Telecommunications Plc , 28  where a UK court ordered ISPs to block access to file-sharing sites. We have moved into a new phase, aptly described by one scholar as the time of the ‘cyberrealists’, 29  where discussions of the internet as a democratising force are re-emerging but with more sophistication and less naivety than in the past. Partly, this is due to the speed with which the internet is becoming the very things that the writers of the early 1990s forecast it would be. The internet has quickly moved from primarily  being used for information access to become a participatory environment more closely mimicking the democratic participation traditional in the physical world. Although this interactivity was available on the early internet in the form of message boards and the like, they were not mainstream and did not offer the same range of tools available now. This participative environment, coined ‘Web 2.0’ by Tim O’Reilly, 30  is difficult to define comprehensively, although it is best captured by Stephen Fry’s definition: Web 2.0 is an idea in people’s heads rather than a reality. It’s actually an idea that the reciprocity between the user and the provider is what is emphasised. In other words, genuine interactivity, if you like, simply because people can upload as well as download. 31 It is a notion that describes the maturing internet’s combination of ‘aspects of the telephone, post office, movie theatre, television, newspaper, shopping mall, [and] street corner’. 32  Users are simultaneously creators and consumers of content. 33 Indeed, it is this combination of public awareness, increasing private power and the importance of the internet to daily life that defines Palfrey’s current and fourth phase of internet regulation. He calls this the  access-contested phase , in which ‘the regulation that states have imposed in the earlier phase is giving rise to strong responses from the private sector and from other states unhappy with this regulation … Regulation online is increasingly a blend of the public and private’. 34  The key aspect of this period, he posits, will be the interplay among these various forms of regulation. The internet will potentially become increasingly participatory as it continues to develop, thus opening up increasing possibilities for democracy. The next generation of the internet is the  semantic web . 35  In this  future, it is predicted that computers will be able to meaningfully read and process the data on networks such that if I input a question online, the answer is customised to me; data will be mashed together and information managed for you. Pictures you take might be linked to your calendar so that you know where and when you took them, planned travel might trigger updates of your medical file and in the booking of flights, car rentals and entertainment. 36  The World Wide Web Consortium sees the semantic web as a standardisation of two things: first, of the formats integrating and combining data and, second, of the languages used to relate data to the real world. 37  It is within this interactive environment that we can readily identify opportunities for participation in democratic culture and identify the growing power of private gatekeepers to shape discourse. Every communication technology from the printing press to the radio has at one time been celebrated as having a democratising force, but, in this context, few ask  what is meant by democracy. 38  This is compounded by the difficulty in defining the very idea of democracy, depending so much (as it invariably does) on one’s discipline or perspective. It is an elastic concept that can be approached both as an institutional construct and as an aspiration. It has cynically been described as a nonexistent 39  or as a ‘vague endorsement of a popular idea’. 40  The goal here is neither to join the debate with my view of the proper definition of democracy, nor to engage in a discussion of the various forms of government in which  democracy is manifest; 41  rather, it is to articulate the democracy most capable of facilitation by the internet and most capable of facilitation or hindrance by IIGs . We are living in an Information Age, 42  where access to information and participation in the circulation of information is a distinguishing feature of our world. 43  It is an era represented by a shift from the manufacturing jobs typical of an industrial society to a world in which jobs are increasingly devoted to the creation, handling or circulation of information. In this networked society, information flows dominate and shape our ways of life because of the speed and distance that information circulates 44  and our dependence on ‘the production and distribution of information [as] a key source of wealth’. 45  In this information society, the internet has emerged as a key tool for the creation and circulation of information, but, more broadly, it has developed into an important mechanism for participation in democracy. Yochai Benkler was correct in commenting that the early internet theorists’ beliefs that the internet is a democratising force ‘was correct but imprecise’. 46  With the costs of entry low and the architecture decentralised, 47  the internet invites mass participation at unprecedented levels. In this sense, it finds favour with  Ithiel de Sola Pool’s seminal work  Technologies of Freedom , in which the author describes decentralisation of communication networks as the ‘fostering’ of freedom. 48  Yet, if the  internet is to achieve its democratic potential, it must tackle difficult problems of the Digital Divide, that the division between the haves and have-nots of the information society; concentration of the market; fragmentation of discourse and of quality control. 49  There are also problems such as the balkanisation of knowledge through the continual viewing of the same small group of websites 50  and the entrenchment of these websites at the top by the self-referencing of these sites in blogs, Twitter or on search engine results. 51  However, this does not mean that the internet does not have democratic potential, but rather that it is more complex than was previously thought. It means that how we think of notions of democracy, the public sphere and information must be tweaked to better reflect the complex and swiftly evolving internet . 52 Under traditional conceptions of democracy, there are three types that the internet might facilitate: electoral, monitorial and deliberative. 53 Electoral democracy  is commonly known in the internet context as ‘e-government’, the direct political communication between the state and its citizens. For example, countries are increasingly delivering public services and information to citizens directly through the internet by setting up websites to recruit volunteers and seek financial support for  election campaigns. 54  States are increasingly embracing the electronic casting of votes. 55  In addition, countries are exploring ways to facilitate citizen-to-government discourse, such as the  UK government’s e-petition website to facilitate citizen petitions. 56 Monitorial democracy  refers to the bottom-up, grassroots activism that can be facilitated by the internet. 57  These grassroots groups monitor political actions of governments and nongovernmental organisations (NGOs) by using the internet to organise protests and disseminate information. 58 Deliberative democracy  refers to participation by individuals in open debate in the belief that it will lead to better decisions on matters of common concern. 59  It reflects ‘the participative practice of democratic life’ 60  and was said to have originated in town halls and public squares, and in pubs and coffee houses, anywhere groups came together to exchange their views on issues of the day. 61  Most commonly, it is framed as participation in the  public sphere , a term most notably used by Jürgen Habermas and discussed further later . While the internet can certainly contribute to all of these facets of democracy, its key contribution to democracy is as a facilitator of participation.  Although participation is present in all three forms of democracy just identified, it finds its home most closely in deliberative democracy. This is because participation is experienced in cyberspace by communication (or the lack thereof through chilling effects such as surveillance and hate crimes), and deliberative democracy is at its core a communicative framework. 62  However, deliberative democracy does not quite capture the significance of participative practices on the internet either, being altogether too narrow a concept for what I have been describing here; this is an issue that will be explored in more detail shortly. An examination of deliberative democracy is necessary, however, as it has a presence in the democracy promoted here, in particular concerning the concept of the public sphere. This book, however, will frame its definition of democracy in none of the three areas we have been discussing up to now but rather in the broader notion of  democratic culture , which better embodies the participative practices we have been discussing. The deliberative democracy concept has two essential features for the purposes of analysis here, both of which have different potentialities and drawbacks as embodying the democratic potential of the internet. First, at its core, deliberative democracy is about valuing the rational and open exchange of opinions as the ideal way to reach understanding and agreement concerning common issues of concern. One of its key theorists is Jürgen Habermas, who takes a normative approach in which he idealises what he has described as the rational debates that took place within bourgeois society in the coffee houses of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. 63  He argues that legitimate decisions are only made when preceded by a period of rational discourse that satisfies certain rules. 64  This is described as the  ideal speech  situation and requires, for example, that everyone who wishes to speak must have the opportunity to do so and that all speakers must be free from coercion. 65  Thus, the communication sought in deliberative democracy is more than simple communication: it requires that the interchange is reasoned and open, and it pushes towards the goal of publicly acceptable decisions. 66  As Vincent Price et al. state, ‘[w]hat makes opinion deliberative is not merely that it has been built upon careful contemplation, evidence, and supportive arguments, but also that it has grasped and taken into consideration the opposing view of others’. 67  There is a  mythical tint to deliberative democracy, a nostalgic idealisation of citizens meeting to exchange reasoned political thoughts. 68  Most internet-based discourse would fail to satisfy these rules. 69 In a 2006 journal publication, Habermas made a ‘passing remark’ on the applicability of his theory to the internet. He commented that while the internet provides egalitarian opportunities for communication, it fragments discourse, and, in a way that echoes the arguments of Cass Sunstein (discussed in more detail later in the chapter) said this: The Internet has certainly reactivated the grassroots of an egalitarian public of writers and readers. However, computer-mediated communication in the web can claim unequivocal democratic merits only for a special context: It can undermine the censorship of authoritarian regimes that try to control and repress public opinion. In the context of liberal regimes, the rise of millions of fragmented chat rooms across the world tend instead to lead to the fragmentation of large but politically focused mass audiences into a huge number of isolated issue publics. 70 Most of the technologies discussed later in this chapter, such as blogs, social networking sites and message boards, are not decision-making tools, but are rather solely tools for discourse. 71  And most of the social norms or terms of service that govern behaviour on such sites would fail Habermas’s rigid rules of discourse. 72 Deliberation also excludes many forms of communication that the internet is particularly good at facilitating, such as poetry, humour and satire. Such communications are meaningful to what I have been calling here democratic culture . 73 The second element of deliberative democracy is ‘the institutional arena’ 74  in which such rational communication takes place. This is the concept of the public sphere for which there has been considerable discussion with regard to the internet’s democratic potential. 75 The internet might not necessarily facilitate the type of discourse deliberative democracy envisions, but, by offering spaces for such discourse, it might be said to play, in an institutional sense, a democratising role. Granted, rational communication might be a precondition to the public sphere, but equally one first needs a space in which deliberative communication might take place. 76  In this sense, it might be better to describe the internet as creating a new public space, as contended by Zizi Papacharissi, one which does not yet constitute a public sphere. 77 The public sphere, as Habermas describes it in  The Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere , 78  is a ‘network for communicating information and points of view’. 79  It is a metaphorical space where individuals gather to participate in rational discourse on issues of the day. Through this role, it is seen as a vehicle for societal integration. 80  In modern society, as social organisation took on a larger scale, the mass media became viewed as ‘the chief institutions of the public sphere’. 81  It became their role to express the varying viewpoints of  the day and keep the public informed. In Habermas’s view, the modern public sphere has collapsed in comparison with this earlier period, and he has sought to revive it by placing discourse firmly at its centre. The internet might be an answer to Habermas’s call for a reinvigorated public sphere by, as Michael Froomkin describes it, ‘draw[ing] power back into the public sphere’, 82  because it uniquely offers a participatory environment unavailable with traditional media. It is a shift from the mass-media public sphere, where relevance was decided by a select few constrained by space (for newspapers) and time (radio and television) and fed to the masses in a one-to-many structure, to a many-to-many structure in which groups of individuals can simultaneously be contributors and consumers of their culture. At the same time, cultural technologies such as the telephone, television and cinema have been multiplying, and ‘our identities increasingly come to be constructed by, and expressed through, what we consume’. 83 By opening up a discourse tool to mass participation, it also has the potential to facilitate the creation of communities; democracy is partly something experienced, which is done through the social organisations that educate citizens on how to engage socially and politically. 84  Before the internet, full democratic participation was hamstrung by the sheer inability of bringing together numerous people in one place for rational discussion. 85  With the removal of spatial and temporal bounds, and the freedom to participate anonymously or pseudonymously, the internet facilitates town-hall-type gatherings and the creation of communities that might not have otherwise formed. Although internet communities are hard-pressed to compete with the strength of a real-world community, this may change as the younger digital generation ages. The internet can be a way to create a community despite distance and borders. 86 We must be mindful not to stretch Habermas’s theory of the public sphere too far. In a 2010 interview, Habermas opined that the internet is not, in itself, a public sphere. He describes the internet as a ‘centrifugal  force’ for disparate communications and discussion, but one which cannot, on its own, produce any public spheres: 87 But the web itself does not produce any public spheres. Its structure is not suited to focusing the attention of a dispersed public of citizens who form opinions simultaneously on the same topics and contributions which have been scrutinised and filtered by experts. 88 However much the internet might reinvigorate the public sphere by activating public participation, it is difficult to argue that the internet itself qualifies as a public sphere. Increased access to information does not automatically translate into a more informed or participatory citizenry. The internet, it is argued, is best viewed not as one public sphere, but as multiple spaces, some public, some private, with multiple public spheres akin to Peter Dahlgren’s description of the public sphere as a ‘constellation of communicative spaces’. 89  The internet’s distributive architecture prevents centralised control over communication and, in so doing, ‘decenters the public sphere’. 90  In this way, it fits with Habermas’s modified public sphere model, which focuses more on thematic spheres and communication networks: The public sphere can best be described as a network for communicating information and points of view (i.e. opinion expressing affirmative or negative attitudes); the streams of communications are, in the process, filtered and synthesized in such a way that they coalesce into bundles of topically specific public domains. 91 Structurally, new types of public spheres are emerging, such as e-governments, advocacy domains, cultural and social domains and the journalism domain. 92 Rather than compare the public sphere to Habermas’s utopian model, perhaps it should be compared to the media public sphere. In such a comparison, internet users are not passive consumers of information picked, crafted and presented by the mass media, but instead have the opportunity to be empowered participants in their democratic life. Anyone can be a publisher, and anyone can access  an abundance of information and ideas unavailable in the tailored mass-media environment. 93  Conceiving of the internet in this way embodies the broader definition of democratic culture promoted here. This participative environment also helps transform traditional notions of democracy into a network model, where power and participation are decentred and experienced across various sectors, such as social, political and civil society networks. 94  This also mimics the shift seen on a global scale and in other fields, such as financial regulation and commerce, from more structured forms of regulation to decentred models of governance, discussed more in  Chapter 3 . Mobile access to the internet, for example, has linked cyberspace with the physical world in a way that fuses these two worlds and facilitates action-oriented public spheres, as seen with the Arab Spring demonstrations. 95  The kernel of deliberative democracy is its emphasis on the participative part of democratic life and, most particularly, participation in the public sphere. Jack Balkin argues that the internet has changed the social conditions of speech such that its central purpose is the promotion of what he terms democratic culture. 96  Democratic culture refers to the following: [It] is more than representative institutions of democracy, and it is more than deliberation about public issues. Rather, a democratic culture is a culture in which individuals have a fair opportunity to participate in the forms of meaning making that constitute them as individuals. Democratic culture is about individual liberty as well as collective self-governance; it is about each individual’s ability to participate in the production and distribution of culture. 97 This approach to democracy is framed in terms of democratic participation rather than democratic governance, meaning that it is a form of  social life that underlies culture and exists beyond the confines of representative democracy. It focuses more broadly on culture, on the forms of meaning-making in society, because it includes within its ambit nonpolitical expression, popular culture and individual participation. It is democratic because anyone can participate regardless of race, age, political ties or economic status. This participation is of value because it creates meaning for culture, promotes a sense of self and encourages active engagement in the world. 98 Thus, in this book, when it is said that the internet is a democratising force, the substance of what is being asserted is that the internet can help facilitate deliberation and participation in the forms of meaning-making in democratic society . Balkan’s theory finds its roots in  semiotic democracy , a term coined by John Fiske with regard to television to describe active public participation in creating and circulating meaning and pleasure. 99  Although television is a one-to-many medium, its viewers are on equal footing with the producers and are invited to ascribe meaning to what is seen. The viewer, in effect, becomes part of the discursive practice by taking pleasure in making meanings and participating in the creation of social identities. 100 Using this theory, Balkin asserts that the internet has changed ‘the social conditions of speech’, bringing to the forefront previously less important features of speech and necessitating a revisiting of free speech theory. 101  The internet, he concludes, accentuates the cultural and participatory features of freedom of expression. 102 Freedom of expression, like the internet’s topology, can be described as an interconnected network; a system of cultural and political interactions, experienced at both individual and collective levels. 103 Information and communication technologies (ICTs), largely owned by private companies, allow for participation in such interactions in a way previously  unimagined.  It is also appropriative in the sense that participants can borrow from, manipulate, build on or simply co-opt existing cultural resources. 104  This interaction expands what is meant by democracy beyond the political to the cultural. What democratic culture does is broaden our conception of what it means for the internet to have democratic potential, and it recognises that democracy is as much something experienced as it is a political structure; it is a way of life inextricably tied up with community and culture. Democratic culture also recognises the importance of freedom of expression to democracy and to human rights. Democracy has always been embodied in the practices of communication, 105  and freedom of expression has consistently been identified by the courts as central to democracy.  In  Lingens  v.  Austria , the European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR) famously commented that freedom of expression ‘is one of the essential foundations of a democratic society’. 106 Habermas’s theories concerning deliberative democracy cannot be applied seamlessly to the internet environment. However, his work tying together democracy and human rights by identifying the link as communication is persuasive. 107  Human rights, he articulates, is the enabling condition, the language, for legitimate and democratic decision making. He summarises: The internal connection between popular sovereignty and human rights that we are looking for consists in the fact that human rights state precisely the conditions under which the various forms of communication necessary for politically autonomous law-making can be legally institutionalised. 108 Freedom of expression and access to a wide range of information sources has been described as the ‘lifeblood of democracy’. 109 In an information  society, the importance of communication rights as a type of human right is accentuated because of the central role played by information in wealth and development: 110  ‘[I]n the deliberative process, information plays a central role along with achieving equality of access to it. Equality of access to information and an unrestricted means of access are fundamental to a more ambitious practice of discourse’ . 111 This right is more comprehensive than is often understood. Most human rights instruments explicitly or implicitly include the right to receive information in the right to freedom of expression. This can be clearly seen in Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), which states: Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression; this right includes freedom to hold opinions without interferences and to seek, receive and impart information and ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers. 112 Similar language is used in the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR) 113  and German Basic Law. 114 Many states, such as Estonia, Finland, France, Greece and Spain, have legislatively recognised internet access as a fundamental right. 115  In 2003,  the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe adopted a Declaration affirming the importance of freedom of expression on the internet. 116  Since 2010, we have seen a paradigm shift at an international level in the recognition of human rights in cyberspace.  Access to the internet as a fundamental right received the United Nations (UN) stamp of approval in a report by Frank La Rue, the Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of the right to freedom of opinion and expression. 117  In this report, La Rue not only recognised the importance of the internet to the exercise of free speech, but acknowledged the critical role of companies as the gatekeepers to exercising it: ‘[g]iven that internet services are run and maintained by private companies, the private sector has gained unprecedented influence over individuals’ right to freedom of expression and access to information’. 118  He concluded that state use of blocking technologies was often in violation of their obligation to guarantee the right to free speech and that such measures should never be delegated to private parties. 119  This was followed up in 2012 by the UN Human Rights Council passing a resolution affirming internet freedom as a basic human right, in particular the right to freedom of expression. 120 Recently, in  Ahmet Yildirim  v.  Turkey , 121  the ECtHR held that blocking access to the entire sites.google.com platform breached the right to freedom of expression under Article 10 of the ECHR. This case, discussed  in further detail in  Chapter 4 , concerned the order by the Denizli Criminal Court to block access to a site that insulted the memory of Ataturk, which breaches Turkish law. Due to purported technical reasons, the entire platform was ordered by the Court to be blocked rather than just the offending site. Ahmet Yildirim, an owner of one of the websites hosted by sites.google.com, brought the case to the ECtHR. The Court made several notable points concerning freedom of expression. Most relevant here, the Court confirmed that the right to free expression applies to access to the internet, which includes a right of unhindered access to it. 122  The Court found that this right applies not only to the content of information, but also to the means of dissemination. 123 Participation in communication – in discourse – is the core of the deliberative democracy framework, but, as has we have seen, it falls short of being a democracy that the internet can facilitate because of the rigidity of the types of discourse that qualify as deliberation and the expectation that such deliberation will lead to legitimate public decisions. Instead, we should understand the internet as being multiple spaces, some of which are less-idealised public spheres. In this way, the internet’s potential as a force within democratic culture reveals itself. Such spaces, although they might not show such extensive deliberation and risk being in form a ‘thin democracy’, 124  can be seen as ‘tentative forms of self-determination and control “from below”’. 125  These are new forms of public spheres because the very act of visiting the spaces and engaging in discussions is a movement towards participation in democratic life, which has been waning. In this sense, they enhance community and culture as well, both of which are, as we have seen, critical to the broader definition of democratic culture embraced here. This section examines more closely the ways that the internet facilitates participation in democratic culture. The goal is to relate this to the focus of the book on IIGs and their power to facilitate or hinder the internet’s democratic potential. Viewed from the perspective of democratic culture, two forms of participation emerge as important to democracy: information access and political and cultural participation.  Protection and facilitation of these participations is key to moving forward with a democratic vision of the internet.  As regards information access, the reader will note our growing reliance on privately owned information guidance instruments to organise the overwhelming amount of information on the internet.  With increasing participation online in politics and culture, discourse also takes place in spaces and using technologies that are privately owned, with such owners setting the terms of use and deciding what information is censored. Blocking access to information through the use of filtering technologies and control of information guidance mechanisms comprise the case studies in  Chapters 4  and  5 . We are increasingly dependent on the internet in the functioning of our daily lives. 126  We use the internet to socialise with friends and family, research professional and personal issues, pay bills, create works of art and purchase consumer goods and services. The importance of the internet to the information society is reflected in the rapid increase in internet access and the importance people assign to having this access.  In 2013, 86 per cent of adults and 99 per cent of sixteen- to twenty-four-year-olds in the United Kingdom had used the internet, whereas 83 per cent of households had internet access. 127  This is an increase of 22 per cent since 2007 and an increase of 58 per cent since 2002. 128  At the same time, use of mobile phones to access the internet doubled between 2010 and 2013 from 24 per cent to 53 per cent, and online shopping increased from 53 per cent to 72 per cent of adults between 2008 and 2013. 129 In the  United States, the internet penetration rate is 86 per cent for adults, up from 14 per cent in 1995 . 130 This infiltration of the internet into our daily lives reflects the increased importance of information to the functioning of society, which forms the communicative link between Habermas and democratic culture set out earlier. The internet’s importance to political participation and, more broadly, its importance to the circulation of information as valuable in itself can be seen in numerous examples around the world. 131 In the United States, sites such as  www.moveon.org ,  www.techpresident.com  and  www.dailykos.com  have become increasingly popular resources. 132  Moveon.org, for example, claims to have more than 8 million members.  In President Barak Obama’s first presidential race, he launched an aggressive internet campaign using his social networking site  http://my.barackobama.com  to engage with and inform supporters and volunteers. Just a few years later, the use of social media and new media became a basic component of successful political campaigns. In his 2012 re-election campaign, President Obama launched MyBO, which integrated with Facebook to allow Facebook users and communities to interact with the campaign. 133  As Rob Salkowitz comments, ‘[t]hese erstwhile novelties are now the minimum price of admission for a modern campaign’. 134 The participative practices online also allow stories that may have gone unnoticed by traditional media to go viral and spread globally in the blink of an eye. This happened during President Obama’s run for the democratic nomination in 2008. At a fundraiser in San Francisco in April 2008, Obama remarked unwisely that small-town Pennsylvanian voters are ‘bitter’. One of the attendees blogged about the comment on the popular Huffington Post website. The story was then picked up by the  mainstream media – media, it should be emphasised, which was not permitted to attend the event . 135 Where the technology of the internet is particularly facilitative is as a platform for mobilising social and political change. Popular sites such as change.org have supported campaigns to, for example, keep a female historical figure on a British banknote. 136  This campaign also reveals the dark underbelly of online participation, as the campaigner Caroline Criado-Perez was subject to abuse on Twitter, including threats of violence and rape. Two of the abusers pleaded guilty in 2014 to sending menacing messages. 137 Two further events are particularly relevant here.  The Occupy movement in 2011 and 2012 for social and economic change (‘we are the 99%’) spanned more than 700 locations worldwide. 138  Social media was the organising tool for protests and other events, linking the individuals participating in the demonstrations and providing unified communication on platforms such as Twitter. The strength of internet communications here, arguably, was the ability to communicate in real time what some researchers have called ‘serendipitous’ 139  events, such as the pepper spraying of seated student protesters at University of California, Davis. Similarly, the debates in the United States concerning the controversial Stop Online Privacy Act (SOPA) and the PROTECT IP Act (PIPA) were mobilised largely through internet communications. A post on Reddit, for example, suggesting a boycott of internet registration provider GoDaddy for its support of SOPA/PIPA mobilised several users to transfer to a different registrar and even more to threaten to do so. GoDaddy quickly backed down and withdrew its support of the legislation. 140  Researchers mapped the SOPA/PIPA debates and found that  they drew participants across a variety of sectors, from smaller technology companies, to NGOs, to individuals and traditional media, where high-traffic sites could act as an ‘attention backbone’ to give visibility to websites with less traffic. 141  Their conclusion was optimistic as to the potential of a networked public sphere. During this controversy, several major technology companies, including Wikipedia and Google, staged a blackout of their sites in protest against the proposed legislation. This highlights a more subtle difficulty with the role of these companies and their impact on human rights such as free speech because we expect and depend on them to be our advocates. More dramatic examples of the power of social media are to be found in the coverage of the  Arab Spring demonstrations. Everyone remembers the face of the Iranian protests of 2009: a young woman named Neda Agha-Soltan, whose death was seen as a rallying cry for the protesters. 142  Grainy, shaky cell phone video footage of her being shot and killed by militia men during a protest was taken and distributed online anonymously. The video was later awarded a George Polk prize for journalism, the first time such an award was made for anonymous work. 143  Such examples show, as Colin Maclay describes it, ‘the power of new technologies to support human rights’. 144  This interactivity and access to information empowers users, arguably reinvigorating the public sphere. 145 The more recent Arab Spring, however, demonstrates both the power of social media as a tool for democracy and the power of the gatekeepers, whether state or private, 146  to shut down these avenues of discourse. Protesters across the Middle East communicated with each other using a  variety of social media platforms, such as Facebook, Twitter and YouTube, to spread information and further mobilise protesters. Egypt responded by first blocking access to social media sites and then shutting down internet connectivity entirely, as well as blocking mobile networks. 147  Google and Twitter then created a ‘Speak to Tweet’ tool that enabled Twitter users to post tweets by leaving voice messages which the tool then turned into tweets . 148 As we can see, there are various dimensions to online engagement with democratic culture. Two types of participation stand out as particularly facilitative of democratic culture: social/political and appropriative. 149  Much of the earlier examples have focused on social networking. Twitter has been the most surprising tool in facilitating participation in democratic culture. What started out as a platform for celebrities and narcissists to voice the most mundane minutiae of their everyday lives has rapidly become an important tool for spreading information. Twitter consolidates tweets through ‘trending’, in which the most popular topics at any given moment, ‘Twitter trends’, are listed in a sidebar on the right side of the webpage. 150  The Occupy movement, for example, used the hashtag #occupy; following a murder rampage in California prompted by hatred of women, internet conversations on the subject were linked with the hashtag #YesAllWomen. In so doing, Twitter is not only a tool for discourse, but it also shapes democratic culture by acting as an information manager, guiding us through Twitterverse and thereby cyberspace beyond.  Similarly, a site such as  Facebook has 1.23 billion monthly active users, 151  and while it might appear to only be of use for gossip and keeping in touch with friends, it is increasingly being used for professional networking, political activism and educational purposes. 152  For example, the Internet Governance Forum has a Facebook Group. 153  The European Union has a space called ‘EU Tube’ for ‘free speech and open debate’. 154  Many NGOs have groups on Facebook, such as the Institute for Human Rights and Business . Most of the interactions discussed in this chapter fall short of the demands of deliberative democracy; however, in a democratic culture, the focus is less on participation in the idealised town hall and more on valuing the very act of engaging in such ‘a dialectical free-for-all’. 155  This is written conscious that there are limits to the value of such a discursive free-for-all. These spaces, and the anonymity and pseudonymity they often allow, have fuelled cybermobs and given voice to discriminatory and threatening speech . 156 The internet also facilitates what was described earlier as the appropriative aspect of democratic culture because internet users can take part in culture by producing it and modifying it themselves. 157  Whereas under a deliberative democracy framework such activities would be dismissed as purely entertainment, under democratic culture such activities play a more central role. For example, we all remember the spate of memes parodying a pinnacle scene in the movie  Der Untergang  (Downfall) depicting Adolf Hitler ranting during one of his final days in the Berlin bunker. Voice-over parodies ranged from Hitler ranting about Hillary Clinton losing the Democratic party candidacy for  president to Hitler trying to find Wally to Hitler commenting on the subprime mortgage crisis. 158  There was even a parody of the removal of the parodies from YouTube for claims of breach of copyright. 159  In addition, humanitarian organisations are increasingly using the internet to persuade and educate the public about issues. For example, mtvU, in partnership with the Reebok Human Rights Foundation and the International Crisis Group, created an online game called ‘Darfur Is Dying’ to highlight the atrocities in the Sudan and educate users on ways to help. 160 The promise of the internet as a tool in furthering a democratic culture is presented here with much fanfare. This is done on purpose, to tease out for the reader what is at stake. There is incredible discursive promise to the spaces and technologies made possible by the internet environment. And one commonality threads its way through this discussion: the capacity of private companies to gatekeep the flow of information, whether as innovators, facilitators or censors. They own the spaces and technologies of discourse, the implications of which are the focus of the case studies in  Chapters 4  and  5 .  Section 1.3.2  addresses the main concerns put forward by sceptics of the internet’s democratic potential, highlighting further the power of the internet to be a force for good and bad and the critical role that these private gatekeepers inevitably play . The expansion in the range of discourses that further democracy risks pushing the idea of democratic culture too far, to a point at which any communication can be dressed up as important to democratic culture and therefore worthy of protection. Two things must be clarified.  First, while democratic culture is a more inclusive notion than deliberative democracy, it is not without limits, and what is proposed here is not a form of cyberutopianism criticised by authors such as Evgeny  Morozov. 161  These issues can often be politicised unnecessarily, distorting the debate and preventing a nuanced discussion of the policy framework, legal and otherwise, that will best move us forward. As Rick Lambers notes, ‘[s]uch political polarisation may leave little room for legal subtleties’. 162  Second, the limits are less about what is said in this space and more about the infrastructure that makes the communication possible, about freedom of expression in practice.  In looking at how private companies can facilitate or hinder participation in democratic culture, I am examining the administrative structure of freedom of expression. Part of the concern in an environment of endless information and communities for participation is that users go online for the ‘reinforcement effect’ of being political if they are political, or disengaged if they are disengaged, and most often just to be entertained. 163  Such a concern can be partly dismissed as simply reflective of the realities of democratic life in the physical world transposed online. However, the argument becomes more powerful when pushed further to a concern that  the internet fragments discourse and attention. 164  One of the leading scholars expressing this view regarding the internet is Cass Sunstein. In  Republic.com , Sunstein describes this fragmentation as ‘the daily me’ (a term earlier coined by Nicholas Negroponte), 165  in which people choose to filter the information that they read, see and hear to their interests, thus avoiding ever being exposed to, for example, international news or sports, but having a steady stream of celebrity gossip and fashion news. Liberals, conservatives or neo-Nazis seek out websites, forums or blogs with like-minded people who reinforce their views of the world. In this way, discourse and community are fragmented, and we suffer a loss. Online media is therefore distinct from traditional media: if one flips on the television news, one is forced to view whatever news stories the mass media chooses to run, thus exposing oneself to opposing points of view and thereby gaining a fuller perspective. In his updated book  Republic.com 2.0 , Sunstein emphasises at the outset that freedom of expression is not simply freedom from censorship but that it requires affirmative steps as well. It must challenge people by exposing them to opposing points of view. 166  This is lost by the ‘daily me’ of internet fragmentation: The fundamental concern of this book is to see how unlimited consumer options might compromise the preconditions of a system of freedom of expression, which include unchosen exposures and shared experiences. To understand the nature of this concern, we will make the most progress if we insist that the free-speech principle should be read in light of the commitment to democratic deliberation. In other words, a central point of the free-speech principle is to carry out that commitment. 167 Sunstein’s concern regarding fragmentation is not the death knell to the internet’s force as part of democratic culture. Rather, it is the narrower concept of deliberative democracy with which he is concerned and which is undermined by this fragmentation of discourse. Examination of how to guard against fragmentation is an important examination, but fragmentation is not as polarising as Sunstein fears. 168  First, Sunstein’s criticism here is essentially of the choices people make when they go online. Furthermore, fragmentation already occurs in the physical world by the very existence (and mushrooming) of advocacy groups and other issue-oriented organisations. In addition, a certain amount of fragmentation is part of being a member of a group, where the group might first flesh out its membership, views and bonds internally before entering the fray of the public sphere. 169  Of concern in cyberspace is whether such groups do more than associate internally, but cyberspace has also created the ability for many groups to form at all, thus bridging previously insurmountable spatial and temporal boundaries and often, through anonymity and pseudonymity, facilitating membership of the otherwise reclusive and shy. The internet has also been criticised on a different basis by authors such as Andrew Keen 170  for creating a ‘cult of amateurs’ which has  caused the demise of traditional media and ultimately harmed society.  Keen’s concern is that traditional media are being replaced by personal media 171 , and, as a result, we increasingly rely on unreliable, amateur non-vetted posts on, for example, Wikipedia, Digg, YouTube or Twitter for our news and education. In turn, traditional media are floundering, with profits plummeting as fewer buy newspapers, and classified advertisements are alternatively posted for free online at such websites as Craigslist. 172  He cautions that traditional media are facing extinction, and, with them, ‘today’s experts and cultural gatekeepers – our reporters, news anchors, editors, music companies and Hollywood studios’. 173  The overriding concern arising from this ‘cult of amateurs’ is who will play the watchdog role. 174 The internet is not replacing traditional media, but is instead another tool for participation in democratic culture. In terms of political participation, a study of the 2006 American midterm elections found that television was still the main source of political news at 69 per cent of respondents, trailed by newspapers at 34 per cent and the internet at 15 per cent. 175  Researchers found that use of the internet for political news doubled since the 2002 election, whereas use of television and newspapers remained static. 176  This indicates that use of one is not replacing the other; they are being used in combination.  There is no doubt, however, that traditional media are facing a period of challenge and decline. 177  This is despite the fact that the media have a strong presence online and are arguably a core part of the internet’s public sphere. 178  Charlie Beckett describes it as a shift from a manufacturing industry to a service economy in which ‘[i]t is a change in practice, from providing a product to acting as facilitators and connectors. It means an end to duplication and a focus on what value every bit of journalism production adds’. 179  Some, therefore, argue that traditional media are simply in the midst of a revolution. 180 Furthermore, as the public becomes more mistrustful of traditional media and questions whether the Fourth Estate is in fact fulfilling its watchdog obligations, citizen journalists emerge as both partners with the media, such as the blogger about Barack Obama’s comment on Pennsylvanian voters, and watchdogs of the media. While it is true that citizen journalists cannot investigate issues as thoroughly as can paid reporters with the backing of a commercial media company, on the other hand, they are not beholden to corporate interests and therefore are not influenced by corporate advertisers or the risks of litigation. 181  What is important in terms of the internet’s potential in democratic culture is that citizens can participate in the discussion. The news becomes interactive. The opportunities for participation in democratic culture opened up by the internet have also reinforced our dependence on private companies for its effective use. With the influx of information that the internet has empowered comes the issue of information overload, also known as the  Babel objection . 182  A user is confronted with an endless array of information without the vetting of a professional media organisation as to its quality and reliability. It becomes the task of modern internet users to sort through large amounts of information and determine what is relevant and reliable. And, as we move towards a semantic web, it has become the task of innovators to create more tools for information management. 183 Information management technologies have emerged to help guide the user through the clutter. For example, without a search engine, a user must know the URL (uniform resource locator, or webpage address) for a piece of information or a website of interest. As a result, most users rely on search engines such as Google or Yahoo! to organise the information on the internet for them. 184  Other more subtle information guidance instruments play a similar role. Google News selects and categories news  stories. Apple controls the apps available on its devices. 185  These innovations are critical to users having a meaningful experience of the internet and to facilitating the internet as a force within democratic culture. Are we doomed to the same websites, same information and same self-reinforcing views? Some might find comfort in the internet’s use as such. But this is not fatal to the internet’s democratic potential. Rather, as Benkler states, the internet ‘structures a networked public sphere more attractive than the mass-media-dominated public sphere’. 186  As the internet begins to permeate every aspect of our lives, it increasingly begins to reflect the real world. It increasingly becomes part of the real world. This is not an invasion of cyberspace that nullifies the internet’s democratic potential, which some have argued. 187  Instead, it ushers in the same complexities and variables of the real world. Not everyone watches the news nor will everyone seek news online. However, the internet does offer new tools for participating in such discussions for those interested and an abundance of resources for any individual who might have a specific issue of interest. The hope is that digital technologies will eventually increase concern and participation in politics and culture . The internet has the potential to facilitate participation in democratic culture by inviting widespread involvement of internet users in creating and defining the things that mean something in our democratic society. Through the increasingly interactive nature of the online experience and the endless spaces available for the creation of communities, users are able to seek out and circulate information and ideas, and build on, modify and comment on their culture. This communicative process, enabled by technology, is what makes democratic culture the type of democracy for which the internet is most facilitative. The thread running through this chapter is the critical role that freedom of expression plays in furthering participation in democratic culture online and the therefore central role that information gatekeepers play in facilitating or hindering this expression. If the internet has the potential to be a democratising force, the other side of the coin is that it can be used  as a tool to limit participation, which threatens to draw the internet away from its democratic potential. The technology itself is neutral, and its use for democratic or undemocratic purposes depends on those who control it. Since, in Western democracies, privately owned companies for the most part own the technologies that control the pathways of communication, they become the focal point for the realisation of the internet’s democratic potential. This means focusing on the governance structure of the gatekeepers. This book will show that the corporate governance frameworks that currently govern many of their activities are insufficient to facilitate this potential and instead hamper the ability of the internet to work as a tool for democracy. The  next chapter  examines what is meant by the term  gatekeeper  and will define for reader the term  internet information gatekeeper  discussed here, proposing a human rights-driven framework for their identification. 1  See  L. Winner , ‘ Do Artifacts Have Politics? ’, in  D. MacKenzie  and  J. Wajcman  (eds.),  The Social Shaping of Technology ,  2 nd edn ( Buckingham :  Open University Press ,  1999 ) , discussing whether artefacts can have built-in politics. With regard to the internet, Lawrence Lessig famously argues that the internet’s code is law:  L. Lessig ,  Code and Other Laws of Cyberspace  ( New York :  Basic Books ,  1999 ) ;  L. Lessig ,  Code: Version 2.0  ( New York :  Basic Books ,  2006 ) . 2  K. A. Annan, ‘Break the technology barrier – the world information summit’ (9 December  2003 ), at  www.nytimes.com/2003/12/09/opinion/09iht-edannan_ed3_.html  (last visited 16 June 2014). 3  Michael Best and Keegan Wade attempted an empirical study of the effect of the internet on democracy from 1992 to 2002. The authors were only able to conclude that their study suggests a positive, but not absolute, link between internet penetration and democratic development. The authors also summarise other empirical studies of the internet’s democratising effect that show mixed results: M. L. Best and K. W. Wade, ‘The Internet and Democracy: Global Catalyst or Democratic Dud’ (Research Publication No. 2005–12: Berkman Center,  2005 ). 4  See discussion by  Sandor Vegh , ‘ Profit Over Principles: The Commercialization of the Democratic Potentials of the Internet ’, in  K. Sarikakis  and  D. K. Thussu  (eds.),  Ideologies of the Internet  ( Cresskill, NJ :  Hampton Press ,  2006 ) . 5 P. M. Shane  (ed.),  Democracy Online: The Prospects for Political Renewal Through the Internet  ( New York :  Routledge ,  2004 ), p.  54 . 6  D. R. Johnson and D. G. Post, ‘Law and borders – The rise of law in cyberspace’ ( 1996 ), at  www.temple.edu/lawschool/dpost/Borders.html  (last visited 16 June 2014). 7  Popularised by John Perry Barlow in ‘Selling wine without bottles: economy of mind on the global net’ (March  1994 ), at  http://virtualschool.edu/mon/ElectronicFrontier/WineWithoutBottles.html  (last visited 16 June 2014), although it has been attributed originally to  Stewart Brand , who stated, ‘ Information wants to be free because it has become so cheap to distribute, copy and recombine – too cheap to meter. It wants to be expensive because it can be immeasurably valuable to the recipient ’:  The Media Lab: Inventing the Future at MIT  ( New York :  Penguin Group ,  1987 ), p.  202 . 8  See, most famously,  ACLU  v.  Reno  (1997) 521 U.S. 844, Justice Stevens delivering the opinion of the Court. 9 Ibid . 10 Ibid ., pp. 852–53, 896–97. 11 J. R. Reidenberg , ‘ Lex Informatica: The Formulation of Information Policy Rules Through Technology ’,  Tex. L.R .,  76 ( 3 ) ( 1998 )  553 . 12  Lessig  n. 1 . 13 Ibid ., pp. 85–86. 14  See  R. J. Deibert  et al.,  Access Controlled: The Shaping of Power, Rights, and Rule in Cyberspace  ( MIT Press ,  2010 ) , and the earlier  R. J. Deibert  et al.,  Access Denied: The Practice and Policy of Global Internet Filtering  ( MIT Press ,  2008 ) . 15  See  R. MacKinnon ,  Consent of the Networked: The Worldwide Struggle for Internet Freedom  ( New York :  Basic Books ,  2012 ), pp.  34 – 40 . 16 R. J. Deibert  and  N. Villeneuve , ‘ Firewalls and Power: An Overview of Global State Censorship of the Internet ’, in  M. Klang  and  A. Murray  (eds.),  Human Rights in the Digital Age  ( London :  Cavendish Publishing ,  2005 ), pp.  121–22 . 17  The ban was briefly lifted between 30 October 2010 and 3 November 2010: A. Hudson, ‘Turkey lifts its ban on YouTube-agency’ (30 October  2010 ), at  http://uk.reuters.com/article/2010/10/30/oukin-uk-turkey-youtube-idUKTRE69T1JE20101030  (last visited 16 June 2014), and I. Villelabeitia, ‘Turkey reinstates YouTube ban’ (3 November  2010 ), at  www.reuters.com/article/2010/11/03/us-turkey-youtube-idUSTRE6A227C20101103  (last visited 16 June 2014). 18  C. Letsch and D. Rushe, ‘Turkey blocks YouTube amid “national security” concerns’ (28 March  2014 ), at  www.theguardian.com/world/2014/mar/27/google-youtube-ban-turkey-erdogan  (last visited 16 June 2014). 19  See H. Noman, ‘Saudi Arabia to impose restrictions on online content production, including on YouTube’ (3 December  2013 ), at  https://opennet.net/blog/2013/12/saudi-arabia-impose-restrictions-online-content-production-including-youtube  (last visited 16 June 2014). 20  See, for example, discussion of blocking of access to Twitter: D. Kravets, ‘What’s fueling Mideast protests? It’s more than Twitter’ (28 January  2011 ), at  www.wired.co.uk/news/archive/2011–01/28/middle-east-protests-twitter?page=all  (last visited 16 June 2014). Egypt went so far as to shut down connection to the internet nationwide in January 2011 (see M. Crete-Nishihata, ‘Egypt’s internet blackout: extreme example of just-in-time blocking’ (28 January  2011 ), at  http://opennet.net/blog/2011/01/egypt%E2%80%99s-internet-blackout-extreme-example-just-time-blocking  (last visited 16 June 2014)). Google and Twitter created a ‘Speak to Tweet’ tool that enabled Twitter users to post tweets by leaving voice messages which the tool then turned into tweets: Google, ‘Some weekend work that will (hopefully) enable more Egyptians to be heard’ (31 January  2011 ), at  http://googleblog.blogspot.com/2011/01/some-weekend-work-that-will-hopefully.html  (last visited 16 June 2014). 21  Diebert and Villeneuve  n. 16 , p. 121. 22  Directive 2000/31/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2000 on certain legal aspects of information society services, in particular electronic commerce, in the Internal Market. 23  Agence France-Press, ‘Russia censors media by blocking websites and popular blog’ (4 March  2014 ), at  www.theguardian.com/world/2014/mar/14/russia-bans-alexei-navalny-blog-opposition-news-websites  (last visited 16 June 2014), and E. Galperin and D. O’Brien, ‘Russia blocks access to major independent news sites’ (13 March  2014 ), at  www.eff.org/deeplinks/2014/03/russia-blocks-access-major-independent-news-sites  (last visited 16 June 2014). 24  ‘Online pornography to be blocked by default, PM announces’ (22 July  2013 ), at  www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-23401076  (last visited 16 June 2014). 25  G. Halfacree, ‘Government extends porn filter to “extremist” content’ (29 November  2013 ), at  www.bit-tech.net/news/bits/2013/11/29/extremism-filter/1  (last 16 June 2014). 26  S. Curtis, ‘BT forces porn filter choice’ (16 December  2013 ), at  www.telegraph.co.uk/technology/internet-security/10520537/BT-forces-porn-filter-choice.html  (last visited 16 June 2014). 27 J. G. Palfrey , ‘ Four Phases of Internet Regulation ’,  Social Research ,  77 ( 3 ) (Fall  2010 ) . 28  [2011] EWHC 1981 (Ch). See also  Dramatico Entertainment Ltd . v.  British Sky Broadcasting Ltd . [2012] EWHC 268 (CH) and [2012] EWHC 1152 (CH). 29  Shane  n. 5 , p. xii. 30  See the discussion by Tim O’Reilly about the coining of the term: ‘What is Web 2.0’ (30 September 2005), at  www.oreillynet.com/pub/a/oreilly/tim/news/2005/09/30/what-is-web-20.html  (last visited 16 June 2014). 31  Video interview with Stephen Fry, at  www.videojug.com/interview/stephen-fry-web-20  (last visited 16 June 2014). 32 R. Rosenzweig , ‘ How Will the Net’s History Be Written? Historians and the Internet ’, in  H. Nissebaum  and  M. E. Price  (eds.)  Academy  &  Internet  ( New York :  Peter Lang Publishing ,  2004 ), p.  26 . 33  D. Rowland, ‘Free Expression and Defamation’, in Klang and Murray  n. 16 , p. 56. 34  Palfrey  n. 27 , p. 992. 35  See  L. Feigenbaum  et al., ‘The Semantic Web in Action’,  Scientific American  (Dec.  2007 ), reproduced with permission, at  www.thefigtrees.net/lee/sw/sciam/semantic-web-in-action  (last visited 16 June 2014) . The vision of the semantic web was articulated by Tim Berners-Lee. See ‘The Semantic Web’ (17 May  2001 ), at  www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=the-semantic-web  (last visited 16 June 2014). 36  Feigenbaum,  ibid . 37  See explanation by the World Wide Web Consortium, at  www.w3.org/2001/sw/  (last visited 16 June 2014). 38  For a discussion more broadly about technology and democracy in history, see  B. R. Barber , ‘ Three Scenarios for the Future of Technology and Strong Democracy ’,  PSQ ,  113 ( 4 ) ( 1998 –99)  573–75 . 39 B. R. Barber , ‘ Which Technology for Which Democracy? Why Democracy for Which Technology? ’,  IJCLP ,  6  ( 2001 )  1 , commenting ‘[b]ut there is no such thing as democracy. There are only a variety of forms of governments, which have a variety of characteristics that can be labelled under different groupings that define (not without controversy) distinctive forms of democracy’: p. 3. 40 R. A. Dahl ,  Democracy and Its Critics  ( Yale University Press ,  1989 ), p.  2 . See also  R. A. Dahl  et al. (eds.),  The Democracy Sourcebook  ( MIT Press ,  2003 ) . 41  See discussion by Barber  n. 39 , pp. 3–4. 42  For a discussion of the notion of information society, see  R. F. Jørgensen ,  Framing the Net: The Internet and Human Rights  ( Cheltenham :  Edward Elgar ,  2013 ), pp.  17 – 18 . 43  See  F. Webster  (ed.),  The Information Society Reader  ( London :  Routledge ,  2004 ), p.  1 , which describes information as a ‘distinguishing feature of our modern world’. M. Castells calls it an era of ‘information capitalism’:  F. Webster ,  Theories of the Information Society ,  2 nd edn ( London :  Routledge ,  2002 ), p.  100 . See  M. Castells ,  The Rise of the Network Society ,  2 nd edn ( Oxford :  Blackwell ,  2000 ) , and  M. Castells ,  The Internet Galaxy: Reflections on the Internet, Business, and Society  ( Oxford University Press ,  2001 ) . 44  M. Castells, ‘An Introduction to the Information Age’, in F. Webster (ed.),  The Information Society Reader ,  ibid . For criticisms of Castells, see  A. Halcli  and  F. Webster , ‘ Inequality and Mobilization in the Information Age ’,  European Journal of Social Theory ,  3  ( 1 ) ( 2000 )  67 , and  N. Garnham , ‘ Information Society Theory as Ideology ’,  Loisir et Societe ,  21  ( 1 )( 1998 )  97 . 45 J. M. Balkin , ‘ Digital Speech and Democratic Culture: A Theory of Freedom of Expression for the Information Society ’,  NYULR ,  79 ( 1 ) ( 2004 )  1 ,  3 . 46 Y. Benkler ,  The Wealth of Networks: How Social Production Transforms Markets and Freedom  ( Yale University Press ,  2006 ), p.  271 . 47 Ibid ., p. 212. 48 I. de Sola Pool ,  Technologies of Freedom  ( Cambridge, MA :  Belknap Press ,  1983 ), p.  5 . 49  Although the digital divide between those with the wealth, literacy and language to access and fully enjoy the internet is a critical issue, particularly between First and Third World countries, it will not be discussed here. For more on this topic, see  P. Norris ,  Digital Divide: Civic Engagement, Information Poverty, and the Internet Worldwide  ( Cambridge University Press ,  2001 ) , particularly chapter one. 50  See Benkler  n. 46 , p. 234. 51  In the context of search engines, see  E. Goldman , ‘ Search Engine Bias and the Demise of Search Engine Utopianism ’,  YJLT ,  8  ( 2005 –6)  188 . 52  Keeping in mind the pangloss scenario cautioned by B. Barber in examining technology and democracy, where complacency leads to a naivety about possible corruption: Barber  n. 38 , pp. 576–80. 53  There are many ways that democracy can be divided for the purpose of the internet. This division was made in G. Longford and  S. Patten , ‘ Democracy in the Age of the Internet ’,  UNBLJ ,  56  ( 2007 )  5 . In contrast, in a speech, Benjamin Barber simplified democracy into three types for a discussion about technology: representative, plebiscitary and deliberative; Barber  n. 39 , p. 3. Leni Wild divided democracy into three strands of liberal representative (the rational, autonomous individual), communitarian (participation in communities) and deliberative (participation in the dialogue); L. Wild, ‘Democracy in the Age of Modern Communications: An Outline’ (2008), paper for Freedom of Expression Project, Global Partners  &  Associates, pp. 5–6. In addition, some attempts have been made to differentiate between individual-oriented democracy and communitarian democracy, but this will not be discussed here because the internet can be both a place for individual growth and participation in the community, which duality is accounted for in J. Balkin’s theory of democratic culture discussed herein. See, for example,  L. Dahlberg , ‘ Democracy via Cyberspace ’,  New Media  &  Society ,  3 ( 2 ) ( 2001 )  157 . 54  Longford and Patten,  ibid ., p. 7. 55  Wild  n. 53 , p. 13. 56  See  http://epetitions.direct.gov.uk/  (last visited 16 June 2014). 57  Longford and Patten  n. 53 , p. 13. The e-petition example here illustrates where e-government can in fact facilitate monitorial democracy. 58 Ibid ., pp. 13–14. 59 Ibid ., p. 8. 60  B. S. Noveck, ‘Unchat: Democratic Solution for a Wired World’, in Shane  n. 5 , p. 2. 61  Longford and Patten  n. 53 , p. 8–9. 62  L. M. Weber and S. Murray, ‘Interactivity: Equality, and the Prospects for Electronic Democracy: A Review’, in Sarikakis and Thussu  n. 4 , p. 102. 63  See  J. Habermas ,  The Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere . Translated. ( Cambridge :  Polity Press ,  1989 ) . 64  His theory on the ideal speech situation was developed after his work on the  Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere . See  J. Habermas ,  Moral Consciousness and Communicative Action . Translated. ( Cambridge :  Polity Press ,  1990 ) , and  J. Habermas ,  Justification and Application: Remarks on Discourse Ethics  ( Cambridge :  Polity Press ,  1993 ) . For Habermas, there were five conditions for ideal speech, summarised by Brian Esler as: ‘(1) every subject with the competence to speak and act is allowed to take part in a discourse; (2) everyone is allowed to question any assertion whatever; (3) everyone is allowed to introduce any assertion whatever into the discourse; (4) everyone is allowed to express his attitudes, desires and needs; and (5) no speaker may be prevented, by internal or external coercion, from exercising his rights laid down in (1) and (2)’; B. W. Esler, ‘Filtering, Blocking and Rating: Chaperones and Censorship’, in Klang and Murray  n. 15 , p. 99. 65 Ibid ., p. 92. 66  Dahlberg  n. 53 , p. 2. 67 V. Price  et al., ‘ Does Disagreement Contribute to More Deliberative Opinion? ’,  Political Communication ,  19 ( 1 ) ( 2002 )  95 ,  97 . 68 P. E. Agre , ‘ The Practical Republic: Social Skills and the Progress of Citizenship ’, in  A. Feenberg  and  D. Barney  (eds.),  Community in the Digital Age: Philosophy and Practice  ( Oxford :  Rowman  &  Littlefield Publishers ,  2004 ), p.  204 . Agre lists the problems of deliberative democracy as follows: it is inaccurate even about how the old ‘town meetings’ worked, ignores the amount of strategic work that goes into preparing for a public forum meeting and ignores the fear of public speaking of many potential participants:  ibid . 69  See, however, the view of A. M. Froomkin in ‘Technologies for Democracy’, in Shane  n. 5 , p. 4. 70 J. Habermas , ‘ Political Communication in Media Society: Does Democracy Still Enjoy an Epistemic Dimension? The Impact of Normative Theory on Empirical Research ’,  Communication Theory ,  16  ( 2006 )  411 ,  423 , footnote 3. 71  Froomkin  n. 69 , p. 14. 72  A thorough discussion of this issue is outside of the scope of this chapter, but see part V of M. Froomkin’s article:  A. M. Froomkin , ‘ Habermas@Discourse.Net: Towards a Critical Theory of Cyberspace ’,  HLR ,  116 ( 3 ) ( 2003 )  751 . 73  A. Pinter and T. Oblak, ‘Is There a Public Sphere in This Discussion Forum?’, in Sarikakis and Thussu  n. 4 , p. 156. 74  Dahlberg  n. 53 , p. 168. 75  In a modern account, P. Dahlgren conceptualises it as consisting of three dimensions: the structural dimension, focused on institutional characteristics of ownership, regulation, laws and finance; the representational dimension, focused on media output in the form of broadcasts, newsletters and so on; and the interactive dimension focused on individuals’ interactions with both the media and between themselves:  P. Dahlgren , ‘ The Internet, Public Spheres, and Political Communication: Dispersion and Deliberation ’,  Political Communication ,  22  ( 2005 )  147 ,  148–50 . 76  This is also discussed in  Chapter 5  regarding the need of access to a forum of communication in order to engage in freedom of expression; see also  E. Barendt ,  Freedom of Speech ,  2 nd edn ( Oxford University Press ,  2005 ), p.  274 . 77 Z. Papacharissi , ‘ The Virtual Sphere: The Internet as a Public Sphere ’,  New Media  &  Society ,  4 ( 1 ) ( 2002 )  9 ,  22 – 23 . 78  Habermas  n. 63 . 79  Habermas quoted in Pinter and Oblak  n. 73 , p. 99. 80  See discussion in the Introduction of  C. Calhoun  (ed.),  Habermas and the Public Sphere  ( MIT Press ,  1992 ) , and Pinter and Oblak  n. 73 , p. 108. Habermas’s theory has been criticised as naive and undemocratic, idealising coffee houses that were limited to educated male property owners; however, Habermas did view the modern public sphere as being transformed by its continual expansion to include more participants. While this influx of participation also led to the public sphere’s degeneration, Habermas concluded that the structure of modern society means we cannot close up the sphere again: Calhoun,  ibid ., p. 3. 81  Peter Dahlgren quoted in  M. Feintuck  and  M. Varney ,  Media Regulation, Public Interest and the Law  ( Edinburgh University Press ,  2006 ), p.  15 . 82  Michael Froomkin uses this phrasing. See Froomkin  n. 69 , p. 8. 83 H. Mackay  et al.,  Investigating the Information Society  ( London :  Routledge ,  2001 ), p.  2 . 84  M. Klang,  Disruptive Technology , unpublished PhD thesis, p. 13. 85 Ibid . 86  D. Johnson and B. Bimber, ‘The Internet and Political Transformation Revisited’, in Feenberg and Barney  n. 68 , p. 248. 87 S. Jeffries , ‘A Rare Interview with Jürgen Habermas’,  The Financial Times  (30 April  2010 ), at  www.ft.com/cms/s/0/eda3bcd8-5327-11df-813e-00144feab49a.html  (last visited 16 June 2014) . 88 Ibid . 89  Pinter and Oblak  n. 72 , p. 148. See also discussion of Jørgensen  n. 42 , p. 87. Others have called for a relaxation of the requirements of the public sphere: J. Bohman, ‘Expanding Dialogue: The Internet, Public Sphere, and Transnational Democracy’, in Shane  n. 5 , p. 49. 90 Ibid ., p. 51. 91 J. Habermas ,  Between Facts and Norms  ( MIT ,  1996 ), p.  360 . 92  Dahlgren  n. 75 , p. 153. 93  This is suggested by Y. Benkler  n. 46 , pp. 10, 185, 212–14. And see  Y. Benkler , ‘ From Consumers to Users: The Deeper Structures of Regulation Toward Sustainable Commons and User Access ’,  Fed. Comm. L.J .,  52  ( 2000 )  561 ,  562 . 94  See discussion in Jørgensen  n. 42 , p. 19. 95 Ibid ., p. 85. See Y. Benkler et al., ‘Social Mobilization and the Networked Public Sphere: Mapping the SOPA-PIPA Debate’ (July  2013 ), The Berkman Center for Internet  &  Society Research Publication Series No. 2013–16 (July  2013 ): it defines the networked public sphere as ‘a complex ecosystem of communication channels that collectively offer an environment that is conducive for communication and the creation of diverse organizational forms’: p. 5. 96  Balkin  n. 45 , p. 1. 97 Ibid ., pp. 3–4. 98 Ibid ., pp. 3–4, 35–38. He states, ‘[a] democratic culture includes the institutions of representative democracy, but it also exists beyond them, and, indeed undergirds them. A democratic culture is the culture of a democratized society; a democratic culture is a participatory culture’: p. 33. 99 J. Fiske ,  Television Culture  ( London :  Routledge ,  1987 ), pp.  236–37 . 100 Ibid ., pp. 236–39, 311. For a discussion of the growth of semiotic democracy’s popularity in scholarship and a proposal to extend the framework to semiotic disobedience, see  S. K. Katyal , ‘ Semiotic Disobedience ’,  Wash. U. L. Rev .,  84 ( 2 ) ( 2006 )  489 . 101  Balkin  n. 45 , pp. 1–3. 102 Ibid ., pp. 1–3, 33–34. 103 Ibid ., pp. 3, 5, referencing  T. I. Emerson ,  The System of Freedom of Expression  ( New York :  Random House ,  1970 ) . Emerson describes such as a system as having four key values: (1) self-fulfilment; (2) advance of knowledge and discovery of truth; (3) participation in decision making; and (4) stability of the community: pp. 6–8. 104  Balkin  n. 45 , pp. 4–5. 105 C. R. Kedzie  and  J. Aaragon , ‘ Coincident Revolutions and the Dictator’s Dilemma: Thoughts on Communication and Democratization ’, in  J. E. Allison  (ed.),  Technology, Development, and Democracy: International Conflict and Cooperation in the Information Age  ( Albany :  State University of New York Press ,  2002 ), p.  107 . 106  (1986) 8 EHRR 407, paras 41–42. 107 J. Habermas , ‘ Human Rights and Popular Sovereignty: The Liberal and Republican Versions ’,  Ratio Juris ,  7 ( 1 ) ( 1994 )  1 . 108 Ibid ., pp. 12–13. 109 R  v.  Secretary of State for the Home Department, ex parte Simms  [2000] 2 AC 115 (HL) (per Lord Steyn). He goes on to state, ‘[t]he free flow of information and ideas informs political debate. It is a safety valve: people are more ready to accept decisions that go against them if they can in principle seek to influence them’. See  C. Walker  and  R. L. Weaver  (ed.),  Free Speech in an Internet Era  ( Durham :  Carolina Academic Press ,  2013 )  for a discussion in the internet context. 110 R. F. Jørgensen  (ed.),  Human Rights in the Global Information Society  ( MIT Press ,  2006 ), p.  119 . 111  Antje Gimmler quoted in Froomkin  n. 72 , p. 867. There were calls in the 1980s by Paul Sieghart (member of the UK Data Protection Committee) for an International Convention on the Flow of Information. He argued that ‘one of the fundamental human rights should be access to as much accurate, complete, relevant and up-to-date information as everyone needs for the free and full development of their personality, the enjoyment of their lawful rights and the performance of their lawful duties, and protection from the adverse consequences of the misuse of information by others’: quoted in  G. J. Walters ,  Human Rights in an Information Age: A Philosophical Analysis  ( University of Toronto Press ,  2001 ), p.  19 . 112  Universal Declaration of Human Rights 1948. The International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights 1966 uses similar language in Article 19. 113  European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms 1950, Article 10. 114  Basic law for the Federal Republic of Germany (as amended 1990), Article 5. In 1946, at the first session of the UN General Assembly, it was stated that freedom of ‘information’ was a fundamental right, describing it as a ‘touchstone of all the freedoms to which the United Nations is consecrated’: quoted in Jørgensen  n. 110 , p. 54. 115  Estonia sets out a universal right to Internet access in its Telecommunications Act, Article 5. In June 2009, France’s Constitutional Council recognised the importance of internet access in its decision concerning the constitutionality of the HADOPI law: Decision no. 2009–580 of 10 June 2009 (France Constitutional Council), re Act furthering the diffusion and protection of creation on the internet, at  www.conseil-constitutionnel.fr/conseil-constitutionnel/root/bank_mm/anglais/2009_580dc.pdf  (para. 12). Finland has legislated a right of access to the internet by setting a right to a minimum amount of broadband in its Communications Market Act s. 60(c) (363/2011). Spain has enacted a similar provisions for broadband access: Law 2/2011 of March 4, Sustainable Economy, Article 52. Greece amended its Constitution to provide a right to information and right to participate in the information society, including facilitation of access to ‘electronically transmitted information’: Article 5A. For discussion of access to the internet as a fundamental right, see the work of the Internet Rights and Principles Coalition of the Internet Governance Forum arguing for such a right:  http://internetrightsandprinciples.org/  (last visited 16 June 2014) and Jørgensen  n. 42 , pp. 90–93. A BBC poll of 27,000 people in twenty-six countries found that four out of five people consider internet access a fundamental right: The BBC, ‘Internet access is a “fundamental rights”’ (8 March  2010 ), at  http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/technology/8548190.stm  (last visited 16 June 2014) (poll available at  http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/shared/bsp/hi/pdfs/08_03_10_BBC_internet_poll.pdf  (last visited 16 June 2014)). 116  Adopted 28 May 2003, at  https://wcd.coe.int/ViewDoc.jsp?id=37031  (last visited 16 June 2014). 117  Report of the special rapporteur on the promotion and protection of the right to freedom of expression, Frank La Rue to the United Nations General Assembly, 16 May 2011, at  www.ohchr.org/Documents/Issues/Opinion/A.66.290.pdf  (last visited 16 June 2014). 118 Ibid ., para. 44. 119 Ibid ., para. 43. 120  UN Human Rights Council A/HRC/20/L.13, at  www.regeringen.se/content/1/c6/19/64/51/6999c512.pdf  (last visited 16 June 2014). 121  Application no. 3111/10 (18 December 2012). 122 Ibid ., para. 31. 123 Ibid ., para. 50. 124  Johnson and Bimber  n. 86 , p. 242. 125  R. Kahn and D. Kellner, ‘Virtually Democratic: Online Communities and Internet Activism’, in Feenberg and Barney  n. 68 , p. 183. 126  The Council of Europe advances this as the ‘public service value of the Internet’ because of ‘reliance on the Internet as an essential tool for everyday activities (communication, information, knowledge, commercial transactions) and the resulting legitimate expectation that Internet services are accessible and affordable, secure, reliable and ongoing’: Council of Europe, ‘Building a Free and Safe Internet’, Council of Europe Submission to the Internet Governance Forum Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, 2007, p. 3. 127  Office for National Statistics, ‘Internet access quarterly update, Q3 2013’, at  www.ons.gov.uk/ons/rel/rdit2/internet-access-quarterly-update/q3-2013/stb-ia-q3-2013.html  (last visited 16 June 2014). 128  Office for National Statistics, ‘Internet access 2010’, at  www.statistics.gov.uk/pdfdir/iahi0810.pdf  (no longer available). 129  Office of National Statistics, ‘Internet access – households and individuals, 2013’, at  www.ons.gov.uk/ons/rel/rdit2/internet-access-households-and-individuals/2013/stb-ia-2013.html  (last visited 16 June 2014). 130  Pew Research Center, at  www.pewinternet.org/data-trend/internet-use/internet-use-over-time/  (last visited 16 June 2014). 131  See discussion in  R. L. Weaver ,  From Gutenberg to the Internet: Free Speech, Advancing Technology, and the Implications for Democracy  ( Durham :  Carolina Academic Press ,  2013 ) , chapter IV. 132  Others include  www.mysociety.org ,  www.answercoalition.org  and  www.unitedforpeace.org  (last visited 16 June 2014). 133  See  www.barackobama.com/get-involved  (last visited 26 July 2011). 134  R. Salkowitz, ‘Politicians seek “new” new media for 2012 run’ (21 April  2011 ), at  www.internetevolution.com/author.asp?section_id=697 & doc_id=205850 & f_src=internetevolution_gnews%3Cbr%20/%3E  (last visited 26 July 2011, link no longer available). 135  See one story of the incident by J. Rainey, ‘Barack Obama can thank “citizen journalist” for “bitter” tempest’ (15 April  2008 ), at  http://articles.latimes.com/print/2008/apr/15/nation/na-bitter15  (last visited 16 June 2014). 136  ‘We need women on British banknotes’, at  www.change.org/en-GB/petitions/we-need-women-on-british-banknotes  (last visited 16 June 2014). 137  Press Association, ‘Two face jail over Twitter abuse of banknote campaigner’ (24 January  2014 ), at  www.theguardian.com/technology/2014/jan/24/two-face-jail-twitter-abuse  (last visited 16 June 2014). 138 The Guardian , ‘Occupy protests around the world: full list visualised’, at  www.theguardian.com/news/datablog/2011/oct/17/occupy-protests-world-list-map  (last visited 16 June 2014). 139  K. Nahon et al., ‘Information flows in events of political unrest’, at  www.ideals.illinois.edu/bitstream/handle/2142/39165/259.pdf?sequence=4  (last visited 16 June 2014). 140  E. Kain, ‘Reddit makes headlines boycotting GoDaddy over online censorship bills’ (26 December  2011 ), at  www.forbes.com/sites/erikkain/2011/12/26/reddit-makes-headlines-boycotting-godaddy-over-online-censorship-bills/  (last visited 16 June 2014). See also Benklker  n. 94 , p. 31. 141  Benkler  n. 95 , p. 10. 142  CNN World, ‘“Neda” becomes rallying cry for Iranian protests’ (21 June  2009 ), at  http://articles.cnn.com/2009-06-21/world/iran.woman.twitter_1_neda-peaceful-protest-cell-phone?_s=PM:WORLD  (last visited 16 June 2014). 143  The Huffington Post, ‘Neda video wins Polk Award: Iran protest death video first anonymous winner of journalism prize’ (16 February 2010), at  www.huffingtonpost.com/2010/02/16/neda-video-wins-polk-award_n_463378.html  (last visited 16 June 2014). 144  Colin Maclay, ‘Protecting Privacy and Expression Online: Can the Global Network Initiative embrace the character of the Net?’, in Deibert,  Access Controlled n. 14 , p. 93. He goes on to note, ‘it is equally essential to recognize the potential influence of company relationships and process on government behavior’:  ibid . 145  See, for example,  P. N. Howard  and  M. M. Hussain , ‘ The Upheavals in Egypt and Tunisia: The Role of Digital Media ’,  Journal of Democracy ,  22 ( 3 ) ( 2011 )  35 . 146  See, for example, Vodafone’s role as gatekeeper in shutting down connectivity in Egypt:  C. Rhoads  and  G. A. Fowler , ‘Egypt Shuts Down Internet, Cellphone Services’,  The Wall Street Journal  (29 January  2011 ) , at  http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703956604576110453371369740.html?mod=googlenews_wsj  (last visited 16 June 2014). 147  A. Alexander, ‘Internet role in Egypt’s protests’ (9 February 211), at  www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-middle-east-12400319  (last visited 16 June 2014). 148  Google  n. 20 . 149  This puts aside an important but tangential topic of the internet’s empowerment of pseydonymous and anonymous participation in online communities (keeping in mind that surveillance risks can make such participation illusory). Anon/pseudonymous communications can allow participation in spaces for sensitive personal matters, such as illness, abuse or sexual and other identity issues. We must be cautious in blindly celebration their virtues, however, as anonymity has served a darker, sometimes devastating, purpose, giving voice to discriminatory and threatening speech. For more, see, for example,  D. K. Citron ,  Hate Crimes in Cyberspace  ( Cambridge, MA :  Harvard University Press ,  2014 )  and  S. Levmore  and  M. C. Nussbaum ,  The Offensive Internet  ( Cambridge, MA :  Harvard University Press ,  2010 ) . 150  ‘About trending topics’, at  http://support.twitter.com/entries/101125-about-trending-topics  (last visited 16 June 2014). People mark something as a topic by putting a hashtag in front of it (i.e., #haitiearthquake or #confessiontime). 151  J. Kiss, ‘Facebook’s 10th birthday: from college dorm to 1.23 billion users’ (4 February  2014 ), at  www.theguardian.com/technology/2014/feb/04/facebook-10-years-mark-zuckerberg  (last visited 16 June 2014). 152  I co-taught a course on information technology law at the London School of Economics where we set up a Facebook group for the students to share legal news and debate issues. Unsuccessful attempts had been made in the past to engage students online through discussion boards and the like, but when the forum was moved to Facebook participation skyrocketed. 153  Internet Governance Forum Facebook Group, at  www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=6791243882  (last visited 16 June 2014). 154  EU Tube, at  www.youtube.com/user/eutube?ob=1  (last visited 16 June 2014). 155  Balkin  n. 45 , p. 43. 156  See Citron  n. 149 ; Levmore and Nussbaum  n. 149 . Lawrence Lessig has a good discussion of an early social norm resolution of a famous incident in an multiplayer game, LamdaMoo, as well as a discussion of the effects of flaming on a newsgroup he set up for one of his early cyberlaw classes: Lessig  n. 1 , pp. 74–82. 157 Ibid ., pp. 4–5. 158  There are thousands.  The Telegraph  compiled its list of the top twenty-five: ‘Hitler Downfall parodies: 25 worth watching’ (6 October 2009), at  www.telegraph.co.uk/technology/news/6262709/Hitler-Downfall-parodies-25-worth-watching.html  (last visited 16 June 2014). 159  See the Electronic Frontier Foundation’s commentary: ‘Everyone who’s made a Hitler parody video, leave the room’ (20 April  2010 ), at  www.eff.org/deeplinks/2010/04/everyone-who-s-made-hitler-parody-leave-room  (last visited 16 June 2014). 160  It was originally conceived by a group of individuals at the University of Southern California: ‘Darfur Is Dying’, at  www.darfurisdying.com/  (last visited 16 June 2014). 161 E. Morozov ,  The Net Delusion: The Dark Side of Internet Freedom  ( New York :  Public Affairs ,  2011 ) . 162 R. Lambers , ‘ Code and Speech. Speech Control through Network Architecture ’, in  E. Dommering  and  L. Asscher  (eds.),  Coding Regulation  ( Cambridge University Press ,  2006 ), p.  95 . 163  See discussion in Longford and Patten  n. 53 , pp. 9–10. 164 C. R. Sunstein ,  Republic.com  ( Princeton University Press ,  2001 ) . 165 Ibid ., chapter one. See  N. Negroponte ,  Being Digital  ( New York :  Vintage Books ,  1995 ) , in particular chapter 12. 166 C. R. Sunstein ,  Republic.com 2.0  ( Princeton University Press ,  2007 ), p.  xi . 167 Ibid ., p. 177. 168  See also Sunstein’s book  Infotopia  ( Oxford University Press ,  2006 ) , in which he examines these new forms of deliberation and the opportunities and risks they create. See the excellent discussion by R. Lambers  n. 162 , chapter four, section 2.1.3. 169  Dahlgren  n. 75 , p. 152. 170 A. Keen ,  The Cult of the Amateur  ( London :  Nicholas Brealey Publishing ,  2007 ) . See also, more recently, the arguments of E. Morozov  n. 161 . 171  Keen,  ibid ., p. 7. 172 Ibid ., p. 8. 173 Ibid ., p. 9. 174  See discussion in Y. Benkler  n. 46 , pp. 261–66. 175 D. Fallows , ‘Election Newshounds Speak Up: Newspaper, TV, and Internet Fans Tell How and Why They Differ’,  The Pew Research Center  (6 February  2007 ) , at  http://pewresearch.org/pubs/406/election-newshounds-speak-up  (last visited 16 June 2014). 176 Ibid . 177  See Weaver  n. 131 , chapter III. 178  Dahlgren  n. 75 , p. 153. 179  C. Beckett, ‘State 2.0: a new front end?’ (7 September  2009 ), at  www.opendemocracy.net/article/state-2-0-a-new-front-end  (last visited 16 June 2014). Also see C. Beckett, ‘SuperMedia: the future as “networked journalism”’ (10 June  2008 ), at  www.opendemocracy.net/article/supermedia-the-networked-journalism-future  (last visited 16 June 2014). 180  See discussion in Weaver  n. 131 , pp. 58–59. 181  Benkler  n. 46 , pp. 261–62, 265; Dahlgren  n. 75 , p. 151 discussing how the internet is becoming commercialised in much the same manner as traditional media. See also the controversy surrounding superinjunctions in the United Kingdom, where traditional media were prevented from printing the names of people who sought these injunctions, while simultaneously their names were being revealed and/or speculated about on Twitter: Out-Law, ‘Super-injunction Twitter user in contempt of court if tweets were true’ (10 May  2011 ), at  www.theregister.co.uk/2011/05/10/super_injunctions_tweeter_in_trouble_if_its_true/  (last visited 16 June 2014). 182  Benkler  n. 46 , p. 234. 183  See the BBC, ‘Luminaries look to the future web’, at  http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/7373717.stm  (last visited 16 June 2014). 184  See  Chapter 5  for case study of search engines. 185  See  D. Mac Síthigh , ‘ App Law Within: Rights and Regulation in the Smartphone Age ’,  IJILT ,  21 ( 2 ) ( 2013 )  154 . 186  Benkler  n. 46 , p. 239. 187  Johnson and Bimber  n. 86 , pp. 241–42. Loading chapter... Copy and paste a formatted citation or use one of the options to export in your chosen format 