Media Art History » Re:Trace 2017 – Venues '+testing+' Danube University Located 70km from Vienna in the  UNESCO World Heritage Wachau region  (ranked amongst the top travel destinations by  National Geographic )  Danube University is the leading public university in Europe specializing in advanced continuing education by offering low-residency degree programs for working professionals and  continuing education / advanced studies. Located at both a modern university campus and in the Göttweig Monastery, the Dept. for Image Science is an internationally unique institution for research and innovative teaching with an international faculty, at this point 120 scholars from various nations and disciplines. The innovative approach of the Department for Image Science with the close connection to practice has developed the  Archive of Digital Art  and founded in 2006 the low-residency  MediaArtHistories-Advanced, MA  answering the need for international, post-graduate studies. Krems offers a rich cultural and festival scene with amongst other the  Kunstmeile Krems  and the  Donau Festival . Find out what Krems has to offer  > > Göttweig Abbey The Göttweig Abbey – an UNESCO WORLD HERITAGE SITE with elements dating backt to the eleventh century – has been in cooperation with the Department of Image Science at Danube University since 2001. There, the Center for Image Science makes its home, with rooms that have undergone extensive restoration and elegant renovation. The site offers a breathtaking view over the valley. The monastery holds voluminous cultural resources are at the students’ disposal, including the  GÖTTWEIG ABBEY GRAPHIC PRINT COLLECTION , one of the largest private holdings of Renaissance and Baroque prints in Austria, as well as painting and textile collections. The print collection is an important historical context for media art that can be explored comparatively with digital art using the  Meta-Thesaurus . A shuttle service from Danube University to the Göttweig Abbey will be organized. Find more travel information about the Wachau region and its offerings  > > Academy of Sciences, Vienna Vienna is the vibrant capital of the Republic of Austria in Central Europe meeting international travel standards with safe and exciting surroundings that embrace culture both old and new, and at the same time an artistic epicenter. Fast and frequent public transportation between Vienna and Krems allows for a blending of two locations into one venue, distributing separate days in each venue. The Vienna-day is organized in cooperation with and in the beautiful building of the  Austrian Academy of Sciences   and the  Austrian Center for Digital Humanities . Getting here? Danube University and the city of Krems will serve as hub for the conference locations. Here is some information on  how to travel to Danube University  > > [Images in slider: 1  &  3: Devon Schiller; 4: Danube University; 5-6: Florian Wiencek; 7: Museumsquartier   Werner Krug (CC-BY-NC-ND 2.0), 8: Marcus Rahm (CC-BY-2.0), 9-10: Stefan Steinbauer (PD)] 