Help authenticating Win7 to LDAP server - Ars Technica OpenForum Welcome to the Ars OpenForum. I have my nifty new Synology box, and I was hoping to make use of some of its non-storage features, such as the built in LDAP server, but it isn't working quite how I expected. From researching things ahead of time, I know* I cannot bind my Win7 machines to the LDAP domain, but I was under the impression that I could still create users in LDAP, and then log in to the Win7 machines with those credentials, but I'm running into some issues. Firstly, since my Win7 machines are not part of a domain, just in a workgroup, the user login screen doesn't allow for users to do anything other than pick a local account.  I've found methods to change this via the registry or through policy editor, but that seems a bit hoop jumpy. Secondly, I was hoping I could add LDAP uses to the local administrators group on computer, but the LDAP domain isn't showing up as a searchable location, just the local machine. Am I missing something (likely, and probably obvious; this is all pretty new to me, as opposed to the already built AD networks I grew up in)? The reason I'm messing with all of this, primarily, is that we'll be using the NAS for our primary file share, and would like to have some more granular security on the contained folders, so would be using the standard Windows ACL stuff.  I think this would be far easier to control and maintain if it was based of LDAP, rather than just the local accounts on each users laptop.  Sure, if I don't change anything, users can connect to the share, but they'll then be prompted for, different, credentials than what they are logged in to their laptop with.  I'd like to consolidate all that if I can, so users to bring the hate. You need SAMBA4 for what you want to do so your PC can join the domain,  this  guy has done just that but it's pretty far into hacking territory =) Also at least as of last year Synology has turned off ACL support in smb.conf so there's no Windows ACL support. Actually, as of about 4 minutes ago, I got part of this working using a 3rd party authentication software called pGina.  I can now log in to my test laptop with a LDAP user, and based on that user's LDAP group memberships, add the user into local groups (IE, I made a WindowsAdmin LDAP group, and pGina is configured to make any members of that group members of the local machine's Administrators group at login). So, I can log in/out.  Now I just need to play around with how this works with share authentication.  But obviously I'm still open to 'better' ways of doing this or hearing what anyone has to say about pGina, Synology's LDAP, LDAP in general as used with Windows, etc.  Ars Technica 1998-2019 Powered by  phpBB  and... Ars OpenForum powered by Server Central  2019 Cond  Nast. All rights reserved >  Use of this Site constitutes acceptance of our <a href="https: /www.condenast.com/user-agreement/" target="_blank">User Agreement  (updated 5/25/18) and  Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement  (updated 5/25/18) and  Ars Technica Addendum  (effective 8/21/2018). Ars may earn compensation on sales from links on this site.  Read our affiliate link policy . Your California Privacy Rights >  The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Cond&eacute; Nast.<br >   Ad Choices These cookies are necessary for the website to function and cannot be switched off in our systems. They are usually only set in response to actions made by you which amount to a request for services, such as setting your privacy preferences, logging in or filling in forms.    You can set your browser to block or alert you about these cookies, but some parts of the site will not then work. These cookies do not store any personally identifiable information. These cookies enable the website to provide enhanced functionality and personalisation. They may be set by us or by third party providers whose services we have added to our pages.    If you do not allow these cookies then some or all of these services may not function properly. These cookies allow us to count visits and traffic sources so we can measure and improve the performance of our site. They help us to know which pages are the most and least popular and see how visitors move around the site.    All information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous. If you do not allow these cookies we will not know when you have visited our site, and will not be able to monitor its performance. These cookies may be set through our site by our advertising partners. They may be used by those companies to build a profile of your interests and show you relevant adverts on other sites.    They do not store directly personal information, but are based on uniquely identifying your browser and internet device. If you do not allow these cookies, you will experience less targeted advertising. The collection of information about your use of the content, and combination with previously collected information, used to measure, understand, and report on your usage of the service. This does not include personalisation, the collection of information about your use of this service to subsequently personalise content and/or advertising for you in other contexts, i.e. on other service, such as websites or apps, over time. The collection of information, and combination with previously collected information, to select and deliver advertisements for you, and to measure the delivery and effectiveness of such advertisements. This includes using previously collected information about your interests to select ads, processing data about what advertisements were shown, how often they were shown, when and where they were shown, and whether you took any action related to the advertisement, including for example clicking an ad or making a purchase. This does not include personalisation, which is the collection and processing of information about your use of this service to subsequently personalise advertising and/or content for you in other contexts, such as websites or apps, over time. The storage of information, or access to information that is already stored, on your device such as advertising identifiers, device identifiers, cookies, and similar technologies. The collection of information, and combination with previously collected information, to select and deliver content for you, and to measure the delivery and effectiveness of such content. This includes using previously collected information about your interests to select content, processing data about what content was shown, how often or how long it was shown, when and where it was shown, and whether the you took any action related to the content, including for example clicking on content. This does not include personalisation, which is the collection and processing of information about your use of this service to subsequently personalise content and/or advertising for you in other contexts, such as websites or apps, over time. The collection and processing of information about your use of this service to subsequently personalise advertising and/or content for you in other contexts, such as on other websites or apps, over time. Typically, the content of the site or app is used to make inferences about your interests, which inform future selection of advertising and/or content. Back Button Back Search Icon Filter Icon Clear Fliters All Consent Allowed 3 Purposes Arrow Consent Purposes Location Based Ads Consent Allowed Legitimate Interest Purposes Personalize Features Location Based Ads 