Securities Law Update – For April  &  May 2017 - Corporate/Commercial Law - India In the month of November, 2015, the Hon ' ble Supreme Courthas passed judgment in case of  Roofit Industries v. SEBI wherein it was held that for the offences committed during theperiod October, 2002 to September, 2014, the Adjudicating Officer,SEBI has no power to exercise discretion under section 15J of theSEBI Act, 1992 for deciding the quantum of penalty and therefore,failure to furnish the required document, report or return to SEBIwould attract a penalty of Rs. 1 lakh for each day of such failureor Rs. 1 crore, whichever is less. As per the said order, theintention of the legislature amending the SEBI Act was to imposeharsher penalties for certain offence and therefore, the courtfound no reason to water them down. The said judgment has caused afair bit of ripples in the securities market for obviousreasons. Soon after the aforesaid Roofit judgment was passed, anotherappeal came up before the division bench of the Apex Court oninvolving a similar question of law in the case of  SiddharthChaturvedi v SEBI.  By an order dated March 14, 2016, thedivision bench expressed its disagreement over the interpretationof law laid down by the Roofit judgment and observed that ifinterpretation taken in the Roofit case is correct, it would bedifficult for Section 15J to be construed as a reasonableprovision, as it would then arbitrarily and disproportionatelyinvade the appellants '  fundamental rights. The matter has fornow been referred to a larger bench of the Apex Court. Government of India and SEBI have been equally concerned overthe law down by the Roofit judgment and have been hoping for viablesolution from the larger bench of the Apex Court. Since there is nocertainty as to when the larger bench of the Supreme Court wouldtake up the said matter, GoI in consultation with SEBI has takenrecourse to the legislative route so as to break the deadlockcreated by the two conflicting views of the Hon ' ble SupremeCourt. It is against this background that the Finance Act, 2017which has received the President ' s assent in April, 2017 hasamended Section 15J of the SEBI Act, 1992 by inserting thefollowing Explanation: " Explanation - Forthe removal of doubts, it is clarified that the power of anadjudicating officer to adjudicate the quantum of penalty underSection 15A to 15E, clauses (b) and (c) of Section 15F, Section15G, Section 15H and 15I-IA shall be and shall always be deemed tohave been exercised under the provisions of thissection." By inserting the aforesaid explanation to Section 15J of theSEBI Act, the Parliament has clarified that SEBI always had thediscretion to decide the quantum of penalty by having due regard tothe factors enumerated under Section 15J. With this amendment, thelaw is settled for now unless the Hon ' ble Supreme Court holdsotherwise. On April 26, 2017, SEBI Board met for the first time under thechairmanship of its newly appointed Chairman, Mr. Ajay Tyagi whichdid not fail to meet the public expectations and approved severalsignificant changes to the existing securities market regime. Someof the major changes approved at the said Board meeting are asfollows: Henceforth where Non – Convertible Redeemable PreferenceShares/ Non - Convertible Debentures are issued, in lieu ofspecified securities under a scheme of arrangement and where suchNCRPS/ NCDs are proposed to be listed on recognized stockexchanges, the listed entity will be required to comply withfollowing requirements in addition to compliance with the SEBICircular dated March 10, 2017: The circular will be applicable for all draft schemes filedafter the date of the circular. In furtherance of Central Government ' s objective ofdigitalization, SEBI has on May 2, 2017 operationalized an onlineportal for the intermediaries to submit their registrationapplications. The portal would include online application forregistration, processing of application, grant of finalregistration, application for surrender/ cancellation, submissionof periodical reports, requests for change of name/ address/ otherdetails. The said online registration mechanism is operationalized foreight categories of market intermediaries viz. stock brokers,sub-brokers, merchant bankers, underwriters, registrar to an issueand share transfer agents, debenture trustees, bankers to an issueand credit rating agency. The intermediary portal would beoperational for depository participants from May 31. It may also be worthwhile to mention that by another circulardated May 30, 2017, SEBI has introduced an online registration andregulatory compliance system for Portfolio Managers and VentureCapital Funds. Overseas Derivative Instruments (which include ParticipatoryNotes) are instruments issued by registered FPIs to overseasinvestors who wish to invest in Indian stock market withoutregistering themselves with SEBI. In addition to checks andbalances which were in place with respect to issue of P Notes, SEBIhas on May 29, 2017 suggested various new proposals to furthertighten norms pertaining to issuance of Overseas DerivativeInstruments which measures including: SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares  &  Takeovers)Regulations, 2011 (" TakeoverRegulations ") provide that if any person (togetherwith persons acting in concert with him) acquires voting rights orcontrol in a target company in excess of the threshold limitsstipulated under the regulations, he is required to provide an exitopportunity to other shareholders of the target company by makingan open offer in accordance with the Takeover Regulations.Regulation 10 (1) (a) (ii) of the Takeover Regulations exempts theaforesaid obligation if the acquisition made pursuant to inter setransfer of shares amongst qualifying persons, inter alia includingpersons who have been named as  ' promoters '  in theshareholding pattern filed by the target company in terms of thelisting agreement or Takeover Regulations for not less than threeyears prior to the proposed acquisition. Against the above background, the question that arises iswhether the period of being disclosed as promoter of the targetcompany prior to getting listed could be considered for the purposeof computing the aforesaid period of three years prior to theproposed acquisition. In other words, whether inter se promotertransfers could be made under Regulation 10 (1) (a) (ii) prior tocompletion of three years of listing? The Securities Appellate Tribunal(" SAT ") by its recent order dated April5, 2016 passed in the matter of  Arbutus Consultancy LLPvs SEBI  (Appeal No. 123 of 2016) has after thoroughlyexamining the issue, answered the question in the negative andobserved that " it is irrelevant whether the same promoterswere holding the same shares for over a long period either in thetarget company or in the parent company or both, prior to listingthe target company. The only relevant factor is date of listing thetarget company and the promoter holding filed by the target companyas part of the listing agreement ." During the course of the arguments, another interesting questionof law which emerged was whether the informal guidance given bySEBI would be binding on it? As per the appellant, one of the reasons for undertaking theimpugned inter se promoter transfer by it was on account of theinformal guidance given by SEBI vide its letter dated October 25,2012 in the matter of  Weizmann ForexLimited  wherein on facts similar to the presentappeal, SEBI had opined that transfer of shares would be eligiblefor exemption under regulation 10(1)(a)(ii). This opinion, however,was superseded by another informal guidance given by SEBIsubsequently in the matter of  Commercial Engineers andBody Builders Company Ltd.  which was also availablein the public domain on the same issue at the relevant time whenthe appellants acquired shares through inter se promotertransfers. SEBI relied upon the subsequent informal guidance and submittedthat official of SEBI had erred in the Weizmann Guidance byinadvertently providing an interpretation in the spirit of TakeoverRegulations, 1997 oblivious of the changes that happened in termsof Takeover Regulations, 2011 and that such a mistake made by anofficer of the respondent cannot be used to furtherance of themistake. It was further argued by SEBI that when the statute isclear, informal guidance should not be relied on and that theinformal guidance issued by SEBI is the view of the concerneddepartment of SEBI and cannot be said to be binding on the SEBIBoard. According to SEBI, the informal guidance should not beconstrued as a conclusive decision or determination of any questionof law or fact by SEBI and that such a letter cannot be construedas an order of SEBI under section 15T of the SEBI Act. After hearing the parties at length, SAT came to the conclusionthat an interpretation provided under informal guidance by anofficial of the department of SEBI cannot be used against thecorrect interpretation of law. SAT also placed reliance on theorder passed by it on August 28, 2009 in the matter of Deepak Mehra v. SEBI  wherein the legalityof informal guidance was examined by SAT and held that informalguidance was the view of the department of SEBI and cannot beconstrued as law. In a nutshell, for the purpose of reckoning the period of beingnamed as a promoter in the shareholding pattern of the targetcompany for claiming exemption under Takeover Regulations, the samewill be deemed to commence from the date of the targetcompany ' s listing. Major takeaway from the SAT ' s order isthat a party cannot blindly rely upon the informal guidance givenby SEBI in some earlier case if SEBI ' s opinion is patentlyfaulty vis-à-vis clear provisions of the statute on thatpoint. To prevent the market participants from erring by relying onSEBI ' s informal guidance, it is expected that SEBI willstrengthen its internal mechanism to ensure that its informalguidance given in any manner is legally sound and tenable. Whiletechnically SEBI Board may not be bound by the view of itsdepartment, repeated rejection of informal guidance at a later datecould seriously dent the sanctity of such opinion. Consequently,the market participants could lose confidence in the mechanismwhich was evolved to provide guidance in a highly complexregulatory regime of securities market. It is not clear what would have been the outcome of the matterif the appellant itself had taken the informal guidance in its caseand SEBI had tried to take a different position later on.Certainly, if in such a situation also one is not certain thenperhaps, no purpose is being served by the Informal GuidanceScheme. On May 12, 2017, the Adjudicating Officer, SEBI has not viewedthe technical non-disclosure under Regulation 13 (1) of InsiderTrading Regulations as a breach of the said regulations in view ofthe fact that the noticee had made similar disclosure aboutacquisition of shares under Regulations 29 (1) of SEBI SASTRegulations, 2011. In the instant case, the Noticee had made timely disclosuresunder 29 (1) of the SAST Regulations but failed to make disclosuresunder Regulation 13 (1) of Insider Trading Regulations. In thisregard, the Noticee contended that the disclosure under Regulation13 (1) of Insider Trading Regulations and Regulation 29 (1) of SASTRegulations, 2011, are substantially the same and since the Noticeehad already complied with disclosures requirement under Regulation29 (1) of SAST Regulations, 2011, it should be treated assufficient disclosures under Regulation 13 (1) of Insider TradingRegulations. The AO held that both the disclosures under Regulation29 (1) of SAST Regulations, 2011 and Regulation 13 (1) of InsiderTrading Regulations are quite similar in nature and that theintention of both the Regulations is dissemination of information.On filing of said disclosures under Regulation 29 (1) of SASTRegulations, 2011, the essential information about the saidacquisition of shares had already been disseminated to the generalpublic and therefore, in such circumstances, the noticee havingcomplied with regulation 29 (1) of SAST Regulations, 2011, thenon-compliance of Regulation 13 (1) of Insider Trading Regulationsought not be viewed seriously and be visited with any penalty. The above order may be a relief for such market participants whomay have made necessary disclosure under one of the two Regulationsbut have inadvertently failed to make corresponding disclosureunder the other Regulations. The content of this article is intended to provide a generalguide to the subject matter. Specialist advice should be soughtabout your specific circumstances. 