What would daily life be like under an SJW-influenced tribe? - General Discussion - MLP Forums Forgot your password? By  HorsesandMOARGaloar ,   August 9, 2014 For example, if a group of SJWs created a nomadic tribe of their own, what is it like to live under such people as they?   Would their way of life be similar to the Amazons of Greek legend? Or something worse?   How would their: society, religion, government, leisure, families, and diplomacy be like? Perhaps you could define what SJW stands for.   Super Jehovah Witnesses? A nomadic tribe that goes door to door leaving pamphlets? @ @Silverhoof , It stands for  Social Justice Warrior . They're basically self-righteous crusaders who end up making a mockery of themselves as well as the topics they rave about.  I wouldn't mind being in a group of  Super Saiyan Warriors .    In all seriousness, I bet life would really suck for men if they were in a Social Justice Warriors group filled with Feminazis. Plus, daily life would probably be full of hearing complains that "society isn't like that", "society should be like this", etc. That sounds really aweful... It would be like if Communism and radical feminism had a very deformed and angry baby, certainly not something any sane person would want to live under. I imagine it would not last beyond a single generation because they would either excommunicate, eviscerate or castrate all of their cis-gender heterosexual men who identify as male, and thus sterilize their own clan, preventing all possible genetic propagation of their influence.   EDIT: How is this a Debate-Pit question? I fail to see how Tumblrian Social Justice Warriors are as important as philosophy or current global affairs. What would their daily activities be like? How is life like for the female members?  Like Amazons? What is their government like? What would their daily activities be like? How is life like for the female members?  Like Amazons?   What is their government like? They would work in a "Democracy".   Except it would be their version of a Democracy. Whoever can yell the loudest and sound the most insane is the new Smarty Friend.   EDIT: Most hilarious pony-autocorrect change ever! But what about their daily activities and daily life, from sunrise to sunset/sleeping? And what would their holidays and social customs be? But what about their daily activities and daily life, from sunrise to sunset/sleeping?   And what would their holidays and social customs be?   Being angry about men, and celebrating Ovary Day.   Day to day would consist of playing video games and refusing to pay the electric bill because patriarchal hierarchies dictate the operating policies of most power-generating and transmission companies. People eat whenever because meh.   Fig.1: Misogyny. Okay, I'm sorry, but I have to ask; Is this really a debate thread, or a space for people to be complete dicks to people they don't agree with? Okay, I'm sorry, but I have to ask; Is this really a debate thread, or a space for people to be complete dicks to people they don't agree with? It is a debate thread, it just so happens that a vast majority of people on said thread agree with each other.   Back on the topic of the OP's question, it would probably wind up collapsing on itself because, at least what I've seen from the radical side of Social Justice, no one wants to do their own work. Beyond that, they would never get anything done because the Radfems would argue with the trans-supremacists about who is superior, and everyone would fight each other. The fact of the matter is, SJWs are a VERY vocal minority in the field of Social Justice. There are sane people as well, but they are shouted down, insulted, and drowned out by the frothing rabid morons that call themselves (or are called) SJWs. Okay, I'm sorry, but I have to ask; Is this really a debate thread, or a space for people to be complete dicks to people they don't agree with?   +1   By NO means am I an SJW... but come on now, y'all gotta respect other people's opinions.  You don't have to agree with them, but this here seems like your taunting the sleeping bull, waiting for it to awake...   EDIT: it may be a debate thread - and it would be all fine and dandy if it were phrased differently... but seriously, a "nomadic tribe"  (etc...) is obviously, well... trolling. +1   By NO means am I an SJW... but come on now, y'all gotta respect other people's opinions.  You don't have to agree with them, but this here seems like your taunting the sleeping bull, waiting for it to awake... Yes, I must respect someone's opinion, unless their opinion is 'KILL ALL CIS/HET/WHITE/MEN/DEMOGRAPHIC OF CHOICE'. Then I have every right to point out how utterly ridiculous the person is. It is a debate thread, it just so happens that a vast majority of people on said thread agree with each other. That's not the problem. The problem is that, to be frank, they're being complete asses while they're doing it. You can disagree, make your point, and try to be nice about it. We're better than this, guys. Yes, I must respect someone's opinion, unless their opinion is 'KILL ALL CIS/HET/WHITE/MEN/DEMOGRAPHIC OF CHOICE'. Then I have every right to point out how utterly ridiculous the person is. Then at least use a more reasonable approach to the topic then referencing nomadic tribes, Amazons, and Greek Legend, etc...  Idk, maybe something like "How can we get across to these [basically] radicals that they are unnecessarily exaggerating and doing more than just reversing the negative stereotypes, but actually causing ourselves to be seen in a negative light?" That, would be a nicer approach...      That's not the problem. The problem is that, to be frank, they're being complete asses while they're doing it. You can disagree, make your point, and try to be nice about it. We're better than this, guys. Bingo... Then at least use a more reasonable approach to the topic then referencing nomadic tribes, Amazons, and Greek Legend, etc...  Idk, maybe something like "How can we get across to these [basically] radicals that they are unnecessarily exaggerating and doing more than just reversing the negative stereotypes, but actually causing ourselves to be seen in a negative light?" That, would be a nicer approach...  I never did any of those things, but I get your point. As for trying to be nice I try my hardest to do so, and I hate to say this, but it's literally like trying to talk with the laziest terrorists on the planet. They are too blinded by their own hate to recognize that they are both in the minority and acting like children, and they hide behind hashtag activism and claims of 'privilege' and 'oppression' whenever anyone says anything to question their dogma.  That's not the problem. The problem is that, to be frank, they're being complete asses while they're doing it. You can disagree, make your point, and try to be nice about it. We're better than this, guys. Yes, you can, but what's the point when the other side is dismissing it as 'mansplaining' or 'dudebros' anyway? In hindsight, I was wrong. This is not a debate thread, even though it had the potential to be one. This is a vent thread, where people who are angry about a group go to be angry. Okay, I'm sorry, but I have to ask; Is this really a debate thread, or a space for people to be complete dicks to people they don't agree with?   Am I making myself clear? Now, what will their (main) method(s) of sustenance be in such a cruel world?   Agriculture, Hunting/Fishing, Foraging, or Herding of Animals?   (Remember: this discussion is only meant to speculate on a possible nomadic tribe based on the SWJs' influence!) I also need help on what kinds of animals do they typically keep, what are their cultural values, where would they be most likely to settle on (e.g. riverbanks, plains, mountains, forests, plateaus, etc. ), and what kind of clothing will they wear. It would probably result in a society where people can walk outside and not be attacked for who they are.   But please, I really pity all the white straight men in this thread. I'm sorry minorities are bothering you with issues like basic human rights and respect. Hopefully we won't distract you from your video games for too long ^^ Yes, I must respect someone's opinion, unless their opinion is 'KILL ALL CIS/HET/WHITE/MEN/DEMOGRAPHIC OF CHOICE'. Then I have every right to point out how utterly ridiculous the person is. Which literally NO ONE says. The kill all men hashtag was 4chan, half those tumblrs you see are cherry picked screenshots or the same people over and over. Whatever youve seen on reddit or /pol/ or stormfront is either faked or chosen from a ridiculously small mintority of people. Which you also advocate, except I'm sure you slap "SJW" on whoever makes you feel bad.    The LGBT and feminist movements are constantly harmed by wannabes and moderates who are too comfortable in their position of power to admit they're part of the larger problem. It would probably result in a society where people can walk outside and not be attacked for who they are.   But please, I really pity all the white straight men in this thread. I'm sorry minorities are bothering you with issues like basic human rights and respect. Hopefully we won't distract you from your video games for too long ^^   Which literally NO ONE says. The kill all men hashtag was 4chan, half those tumblrs you see are cherry picked screenshots or the same people over and over. Whatever youve seen on reddit or /pol/ or stormfront is either faked or chosen from a ridiculously small mintority of people. Which you also advocate, except I'm sure you slap "SJW" on whoever makes you feel bad.   The LGBT and feminist movements are constantly harmed by wannabes and moderates who are too comfortable in their position of power to admit they're part of the larger problem. The Nazi, Stalinist, and Apartheid movements were also constantly harmed by moderates who were too comfortable in their position of power. Maybe your problem is you refuse to acknowledge that there are just as many problems with everyone else as there are with you, particularly because you are in the minority that can afford a computer and a broadband internet connection. I'm just going to leave these here. These are some examples of crazy SJWs from Tumblr. (I got these screenshots from /r/TumblrInAction) Now, what will their (main) method(s) of sustenance be in such a cruel world? Agriculture, Hunting/Fishing, Foraging, or Herding of Animals?   I also need help on what kinds of animals do they typically keep, what are their cultural values, where would they be most likely to settle on (e.g. riverbanks, plains, mountains, forests, plateaus, etc. ), and what kind of clothing will they wear.   Please post answers like this: e. g. " They forage, they rear horses and sheep, they prefer independence, they live near riverbanks ... etc. ...  "   Can you answer my question?   (I don't want general answers like: "They are dumb, they are this and that ... " Please stick to my questions, and be specific.) This is a thread about a fictional tribe created by SJWs, NOT a debate thread. I am only wondering what will life be like for this tribe, without electronics or stuff, fending for themselves in the wild.   Am I making myself clear? Now, what will their (main) method(s) of sustenance be in such a cruel world?   Agriculture, Hunting/Fishing, Foraging, or Herding of Animals?   (Remember: this discussion is only meant to speculate on a possible nomadic tribe based on the SWJs' influence!) I also need help on what kinds of animals do they typically keep, what are their cultural values, where would they be most likely to settle on (e.g. riverbanks, plains, mountains, forests, plateaus, etc. ), and what kind of clothing will they wear.     I apologize for offense taken at my earlier remarks. In defense of my facetiousness, the question of a tribe whose only concern is for the social justice of others elsewhere is a rather remote and possibly absurd hypothetical.   Social Justice only has meaning when it results in an impact and change. I inferred "tribe" to mean a people remote from statehood or official matters of civilization and associated social issues by corollary. The social justice concerns of a tribe would only concern those of within that, or like-tribes.   I hardly think of any common internet denizen as a member of a tribe. This is why I found the question in your thread topic absurd. The Social issues SJWs seem to combat, from their position on tumblr and elsewhere, are largely external ones. Slander and prejudice on tumblr itself only extents as far as unfortunately commonplace cyber-bullying, trolling and anonymous vigilantism usually do. However when one raises exclamation marks over Gay Rights, Homosexual marriage, Gender non-conformity, Misogyny and so on, these are almost always caused though actions in real life by real people quite far removed from the tumblr experience, and by people in much higher authority, or more interfaced into day-to-day-life-outside-of-computers than the average microblogger.   Of course social problems might develop in a hypothetical tribe, but that would entirely depend upon the initial emphasis that given tribe placed upon matters religious, familial, in concern of peace or war, death and birth, and many other things. To simply ask a question as to how this given tribe might behave ,and postulate what-ifs in that direction is simply an imaginative exercise, partially serviced by playing  Sid Meier's Civilization V  with the  Stone Age Tech  mod.   Such an imaginative exercise is why I did not think this was a matter that merited a Debate Pit thread. A Tribe of Social Justice Warriors could not combat modern social injustice if they were removed from society in the way that tribes are.   If you wanted to know how a tribe of jimmies-rustled tumblr-users would survive, I already answered that: not very well, and not for long. The Nazi, Stalinist, and Apartheid movements were also constantly harmed by moderates who were too comfortable in their position of power. Maybe your problem is you refuse to acknowledge that there are just as many problems with everyone else as there are with you, particularly because you are in the minority that can afford a computer and a broadband internet connection. Please, you can't compare a movement seeking to liberate minorities to those who seek to enslave or exterminate them. And I've never pretended I'm oppressed. Sure, I'm trans and my life fucking sucks because of it, but I do know who IS being harmed.  It would probably result in a society where people can walk outside and not be attacked for who they are.   But please, I really pity all the white straight men in this thread. I'm sorry minorities are bothering you with issues like basic human rights and respect. Hopefully we won't distract you from your video games for too long ^^   Which literally NO ONE says. The kill all men hashtag was 4chan, half those tumblrs you see are cherry picked screenshots or the same people over and over. Whatever youve seen on reddit or /pol/ or stormfront is either faked or chosen from a ridiculously small mintority of people. Which you also advocate, except I'm sure you slap "SJW" on whoever makes you feel bad.   The LGBT and feminist movements are constantly harmed by wannabes and moderates who are too comfortable in their position of power to admit they're part of the larger problem.   You seem to be conflating "SJW" with general "SJA" (Social Justice Advocate).   Basically, SJW's are the crazy radicals, while SJA's are what you're referring to. You can post now and register later.If you have an account,  sign in now  to post with your account. Note:  Your post will require moderator approval before it will be visible.  Pasted as rich text.  Paste as plain text instead  Only 75 emoji are allowed.  Your link has been automatically embedded.  Display as a link instead  Your previous content has been restored.  Clear editor  You cannot paste images directly. Upload or insert images from URL. No registered users viewing this page. MLP Forums is brought to you by  Poniverse Powered by Invision Community 