Facebook hack: Here &# x27;s what you need to do to secure your account | WIRED UK Cookie Notice We use cookies to personalise content and ads, to provide social media features and to analyse our traffic. We also share information about your use of our site with our social media, advertising and analytics partners.      View Cookie Policy Your Privacy Strictly Necessary Cookies Performance Cookies Functional Cookies Targeting Cookies Social Media Cookies More Information Privacy Preference Centre Active Always Active Untitled-1 Christmas GiftsFrom only £19 Welcome to WIRED UK. This site uses cookies to improve your experience and deliver personalised advertising. You can  opt out  at any time or find out more by reading our  cookie policy . Hackers have compromised 50 million Facebook accounts. Here's how to find out if you're affected and lock things down By Matt Burgess If you were asked to log back into Facebook the last time you opened its app or website, there's some bad news. Facebook's disastrous 2018 has got a whole lot worse. The company has admitted that hackers managed to gain access to its network and compromise 50 million accounts. But the number of people implicated in the incident may be much higher. On Friday, Facebook logged out a total of 90m accounts, from all of its apps and third-party services that use Facebook for logins, after it discovered access tokens for the accounts had been stolen. That means Facebook-owned Instagram and WhatsApp are also affected along with apps and services such as Tinder that authenticate users through Facebook. Access tokens are unique strings of numbers that can be used to identify individuals, apps or Pages on Facebook. Once you have logged in to your Facebook account an access token is created that confirms your identity to your device.  The attackers accessed 50m access tokens but Facebook also reset the tokens of 40m other accounts as a precaution. And it seems nobody was immune to the attack, with Facebook confirming that CEO Mark Zuckerberg and COO Sheryl Sandberg both had their accounts compromised. By Nicole Kobie What makes the attack on Facebook particularly bad is that the access tokens could be used to access third-party websites where Facebook had been used to login. Facebook introduced its 'single sign-on' feature in 2010 and its widely used by apps such as Tinder, Spotify and Airbnb.  The build-up to the data breach started in July 2017, Facebook says. And the company's pivot to video caused the problem. When the firm made changes to its video uploading feature three bugs were introduced that were all manipulated to cause the eventual vulnerability.  The vulnerability existed within Facebook's  " View As "  feature – which lets people see what their account looks like to others. Ironically, the View As tool was originally designed as a privacy enhancing feature. The way it worked allowed you to select a Facebook friend, for instance a family member, and then view your profile as if you were them. If you had changed the privacy settings of a photo or status update so that the family member couldn't see it, View As was designed as a way of checking it.  The first bug on Facebook made its video upload tool accidentally show up on the View As page. A second bug resulted in the uploader generating the access code and finally the View As page also generated an access code for whoever the hacker was looking for.  Facebook first spotted unusual activity within its network on September 16 and then uncovered the attack on September 25. Over the following two days, it called law enforcement and fixed the vulnerability. At the moment Facebook doesn't know how long the attackers were in its system. There's the potential Facebook detected their activity incredibly quickly but also the possibility the attackers could have been compromising user information since the vulnerabilities were introduced fourteen months ago, in 2017.  By Laurie Clarke Critically, for European users, Facebook has been in touch with the Data Protection Commissioner in Ireland – where it is registered – to inform it of the breach. This will be the first data protection incident from one of the major tech companies since the enforcement of Europe's  General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)  in May. GDPR gives regulators the power to issue huge fines but this is yet to be tested. In a statement the Irish Data Protection Commission said Facebook hasn't given it many details yet. It is  " concerned "  that despite Facebook discovering the breach on Tuesday, it hasn't been able to  " clarify the nature of the breach and the risk for users at this point " .  Facebook says it doesn't know who stole the access tokens but the firm is now working with the FBI and law enforcement. In addition, it doesn't know whether the accounts were misused or if any information was accessed. Having access tokens could have meant hackers had full control of compromised accounts. In a  call with reporters  Facebook said whoever attacked it did try to query information from its profile API but it isn't sure how successful this was. The API can pull in information that is shown on profile fields, such as gender, names and hometowns. Facebook has said no credit card information was taken. Initially, the company did not directly inform users who had their access tokens compromised. The only way at present to tell if your account may have been involved is if you were mysteriously logged out. Facebook has now said it will be putting messages at the top of people's NewsFeeds. Until you see this message, it's likely you were in the 50m compromised accounts or 40m that had access codes reset as a precaution if you have recently been logged out.  So, what should you do if Facebook logged you out? The company itself says passwords weren't taken and there isn't any need for them to be reset. But if you use the same password across multiple accounts, or use something simple, this is a good opportunity to improve your general security. You can find how to  update your Facebook password here .  By Matt Burgess Although Facebook has reset all the tokens that may have been impacted, a lot of users will find themselves logged out of third-party apps that they've used their Facebook account to log in to. In Facebook's settings, you can find out  which apps and websites  you have given permission to access your account information.  " These are apps and websites that you've used Facebook to log in to and have recently used, "  Facebook says. You can see which apps are actively using your login details and remove apps that you may have forgotten about or no longer want to give access to.  While you're in your Facebook settings, you should also  turn on two factor authentication.  It's best to set this added security measure up using an authenticator app to prove your identity, as this week it was discovered  Facebook had been using phone numbers  given to it for security purposes to help target advertising.  And, if you've just had enough of Zuck's creation, here's  how to delete your Facebook account  for good. Updated September 29, 2018 08:48 BST: This article has been updated to add more information about the Facebook hack. – The evidence that shows  Russia promoted the Nike boycott – Inside the hunt for a  huge mystery planet   in our solar system – The science of how to hack your brain to  remember anything – The free school that  innovated itself to death Don’t miss out.  Sign-up to WIRED Weekender  to get the best of WIRED in your inbox every weekend By Gian Volpicelli In partnership with  Capita Consulting By Matt Burgess By Steve Withers 