Giants CEO Larry Baer takes leave after altercation with wife | Canoe Published: March 4, 2019 Updated: March 4, 2019 12:10 PM EST Filed Under: San Francisco Giants President and CEO Larry Baer was granted a leave of absence from the team on Monday following the  release of a video  showing him in a physical altercation with his wife. The Giants board of directors released a statement that said Baer had made a request that was accepted to take personal time away from the team in response to the video released by  TMZ  last week showing the altercation in a San Francisco park between Baer and his wife, Pam. Mr. Baer has acknowledged that his behaviour was unacceptable, apologized to the organization and is committed to taking steps to make sure that this never happens again,  the statement said. The Giants executive team, including president of baseball operations Farhan Zaidi, will manage the day-to-day operations. The other members of that team are executive vice-president of business operations Mario Alioto, executive vice-president and general counsel Jack Bair, executive vice-president of administration Alfonso Felder, and executive vice-president of communications Staci Slaughter. The team didn t designate one point person to be in charge of the organization during Baer s absence. The video posted by TMZ on Friday showed Baer s wife, Pam, seated in a chair when he reached over her to grab for a cellphone in her right hand and she toppled sideways to the ground in the chair screaming  Oh my God! Witnesses saw the ordeal in the public plaza. Baer, holding the phone, says  Stop, Pam, stop,  then walks away alone. Baer and his wife issued a statement Friday, saying they regretted having a  heated argument in public over a family matter  and that they were embarrassed by the situation. Baer issued an apology later. I am truly sorry for the pain that I have brought to my wife, children and to the organization,  Baer said in the statement Friday.  It is not reflective of the kind of a person that I aspire to be, but it happened and I will do whatever it takes to make sure that I never behave in such an inappropriate manner again. The Giants said Major League Baseball is taking the lead in gathering facts and the organization will co-operate with the investigation. Official statement from the Board of Directors.  #SFGiants pic.twitter.com/07IL5jDL9W As leaders in the community, we at the Giants hold ourselves to the highest standards and those standards will guide how we consider this matter moving forward,  the statement said. The San Francisco Police Department also is investigating the altercation. Baer was part of the ownership group that bought the Giants in 1992 to keep them in San Francisco, where the club won the World Series in 2010,  12 and  14. He took over as CEO on Jan. 1, 2012. 13 C Partly cloudy Feels like 11 C We encourage all readers to share their views on our articles and blog posts. We are committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion, so we ask you to avoid personal attacks, and please keep your comments relevant and respectful. If you encounter a comment that is abusive, click the "X" in the upper right corner of the comment box to report spam or abuse. We are using Facebook commenting.  Visit our FAQ page  for more information. Connect with Canoe 