Best Online Fruit Machine Games | The Best Online Slots | FruiteMachinesGames.com The most common questions people ask on forums related to casino games or alike are:  What is the Best fruit machine ? What slot games should I play?  and  Which fruit machine has the best payout?  The answer has to be made by the player, simply because different things appeal to different people. Our  Top-3 Fruit Machines  list consists of the games we personally consider to be  The Best of The Best Fruit Machine Games . More information on these games can be found at our  Fruit Machine Game Reviews  page. In addition to our Top-3  Slots , there are hundreds of other fantastic slot machines games out there. All of them do not have progressive jackpots however, but that does not make them less good and fun to play We hope the information provided will help you decide what fruit machine game is best for you.  The first place on out Top-5 list is awarded to  Mega Moolah . It is considered to be the  Best Fruit Machine Game  at fruitmachinegames.co.uk for one simple reason: The Jackpot is  HUGE  and people actually WIN IT!  In addition to this, it has actually 4 different Jackpots! All of which are progressive! Add to this a  nice and friendly atmosphere and an even friendlier  Jackpot , there is no doubt that Mega Moolah IS the best Fruit Machine Game around at this time. The second place goes to Mega Fortune, a modern looking online video fruit machine with three progressive jackpots and very nice looks. As we said before, Mega Fortune is a new generation of fruit machine offering bonus games, jackpots, nice graphics and good sounds. Its place as a second-best fruit machine game is well earned. The third place is taken up by  Dr. Lovemore. This funny looking online slot has a total of 20 paylines and a very wide range of coin values starting from only 1 penny/cent going up to £/$/€5! Dr. Lovemore is upgraded to include a  " Dollar Ball "  Jackpot for real money players, which means that on top of all it also has a Jackpot! There is an expanse of different fruit machine games available online and hundreds of great online casinos  but to truely find out which are the best fruit machine games, you just need to keep playing! Have fun and enjoy online fruit machines! -fruitmachinegames.co.uk  