Drashti Dhami Reacts To Her Pregnancy Rumours advertisement By Akanksha Gupta  Last Updated:  Feb 22, 2018 | 01:26:53 IST She rose to fame with her super-hit television show,  Madhubala,  and is one of the sweetest and chirpy actresses in the industry. We are talking about none other than the beautiful actress, Drashti Dhami, who shattered millions of hearts when she got married to businessman, Neeraj Khemka. advertisement Recommended Read: Drashti Wore Same Lehenga At Her Wedding And Recpetion; But Still Looked Different With This Trick advertisement The couple dated for almost three and a half years before embracing the matrimony. This year they completed their two years of marital bliss. advertisement And soon, the baseless rumours of the couple expecting their first child, started doing the rounds.  Pardes Mein Hai Mera Dil  actress recently in an interview rebutted such reports, and said that it s not true. Also Read: After Being Married For More Than 2 Yrs, Drashti's Hubby Is Having This Big Problem With Her advertisement They are truly made-for-each-other couple, who despite of the actress immense popularity, manages to keep their personal life away from the limelight. advertisement It s to see the bond that the couple share in their Instagram pictures. Taking out time from their busy schedules, the duo is often spotted going on mini vacations together. advertisement advertisement Though Drashti shared how her life has changed after marriage, and what is that one complaint that her hubby has from her. Life is same even after marrying just like the way it was before that. Whether it was planning related to family or planning related to professional life, my life has not been troublesome ever. It s only one complaint he always has from me. He says,  Whenever I plan something for u, you always get busy in household chores. I always find you cleaning one thing or the other.  Now tell what should I do in this? advertisement Also Read: It Seems Akshay Just Gave The Most Heartfelt Reply To Twinkle's Video Of His 50th Birthday In an interview with an entertainment portal, she also shared something very sweet about her in-laws and how supportive they are regarding her career. She said: advertisement My in-laws are very supportive. Before marriage, while I was dating, I used to be really stressed out thinking that I had to spend time with family and meet Neeraj (husband). But now it s a little relaxed because no matter what time I go back home, I get to spend time with him and his family. I meet my mom very often too. There are times I reach home late and if my father-in-law doesn t meet me for three days, I get a message from him  Missing you, haven t seen you for three days.  My mother-in-law loves me very much, whether it s onscreen, offscreen or pulling her son s hair (laughs). But my mom is very critical of me. I received a message from my mother, saying,  I am so proud of you and impressed that you have become such a good actress.  This was the real compliment because she can really cribs about me (laughs) [sic]. Isn t this sweet! God bless the couple with lots of love and happiness. May you both stay together forever! Keeping watching this space for more such trending news. NEXT READ: Vidya Balan Slams All Pregnancy Rumours With These Strong Statements advertisement AWESOME NEWS! Now you can download BollywoodShaadis app and never miss a story.  Get App  AWESOME NEWS! Now you can download BollywoodShaadis app and never miss a story. Choose your device  Android  or   IOS (Apple) Almost done! We need to  confirm  your email address. Please click on the verification link we just sent you. Almost done! We need to  confirm  your email address. Please click on the verification link we just sent you. total shares Loading... 