Zenith Watches - Shop Now – Dejaun Jewelers Our knowledgeable staff of consultants and jewelers can help maintain your jewelry so that it may last for generations. Whether it is a simple polishing, or an elaborate recreation of a family heirloom, Dejaun Jewelers is here to assist you with your jewelry repair needs. Here is a brief list of some of the jewelry repair services we offer: Just like any machine, a watch requires some occasional care and maintenance. Here at Dejaun Jewelers, our watchmakers are here to assist you with just that. Everything from battery replacements to complete overhauls. Some of the services we provide include: o Battery replacement o Replace and reseal gaskets o Waterproofing o Complete overhaul o Watch band and case polishing o Crown, stem, and crystal replacement We are proud to offer free shipping on all purchases over $1,000.00! The only way to ensure peace of mind is to buy your timepiece directly from an Authorized Dealer, like Dejaun Jewelers. Dejaun Jewelers is an authorized dealer for many of the world’s oldest and greatest watch and jewelry brands. One of the many benefits of buying from an authorized dealer is that we provide you with the full manufacturer’s warranty, which helps your timepiece maintain its value. Another benefit is that you will not walk away with a fake, stolen, previously owned, or unoriginal timepiece. Be confident that your investment is safe in something that is new, authentic, and directly from the manufacturer. Our knowledgeable staff of consultants and jewelers can help maintain your jewelry so that it may last for generations. Whether it is a simple polishing, or an elaborate recreation of a family heirloom, Dejaun Jewelers is here to assist you with your jewelry repair needs. Here is a brief list of some of the jewelry repair services we offer: Just like any machine, a watch requires some occasional care and maintenance. Here at Dejaun Jewelers, our watchmakers are here to assist you with just that. Everything from battery replacements to complete overhauls. Some of the services we provide include: o Battery replacement o Replace and reseal gaskets o Waterproofing o Complete overhaul o Watch band and case polishing o Crown, stem, and crystal replacement We are proud to offer free shipping on all purchases over $1,000.00! The only way to ensure peace of mind is to buy your timepiece directly from an Authorized Dealer, like Dejaun Jewelers. Dejaun Jewelers is an authorized dealer for many of the world’s oldest and greatest watch and jewelry brands. One of the many benefits of buying from an authorized dealer is that we provide you with the full manufacturer’s warranty, which helps your timepiece maintain its value. Another benefit is that you will not walk away with a fake, stolen, previously owned, or unoriginal timepiece. Be confident that your investment is safe in something that is new, authentic, and directly from the manufacturer. Our knowledgeable staff of consultants and jewelers can help maintain your jewelry so that it may last for generations. Whether it is a simple polishing, or an elaborate recreation of a family heirloom, Dejaun Jewelers is here to assist you with your jewelry repair needs. Here is a brief list of some of the jewelry repair services we offer: Just like any machine, a watch requires some occasional care and maintenance. Here at Dejaun Jewelers, our watchmakers are here to assist you with just that. Everything from battery replacements to complete overhauls. Some of the services we provide include: o Battery replacement o Replace and reseal gaskets o Waterproofing o Complete overhaul o Watch band and case polishing o Crown, stem, and crystal replacement We are proud to offer free shipping on all purchases over $1,000.00! The only way to ensure peace of mind is to buy your timepiece directly from an Authorized Dealer, like Dejaun Jewelers. Dejaun Jewelers is an authorized dealer for many of the world’s oldest and greatest watch and jewelry brands. One of the many benefits of buying from an authorized dealer is that we provide you with the full manufacturer’s warranty, which helps your timepiece maintain its value. Another benefit is that you will not walk away with a fake, stolen, previously owned, or unoriginal timepiece. Be confident that your investment is safe in something that is new, authentic, and directly from the manufacturer. Precision, luxury, and Swiss history: these qualities are what make Zenith Watches a long renowned brand. First founded more than a century ago by master watchmaker Georges Favre-Jacot,  Zenith Watches  are considered a classic among the best of the best in timepieces. All Zenith Watches are Swiss-made, featuring incredible precision and luxury in their stylish appearance. The brand has a storied history in the world of watchmaking. Zenith created one of the first watches with automatic movement. Today, the company’s timepieces for both men and women are still some of the most innovative, functional, and fashionable. Like Zenith Watches itself, Dejaun Jewelers has something of a storied history in San Fernando Valley. When the very first Dejaun Jewelers store opened in 1985, it quickly earned itself the position of one of southern California’s most trusted fine jewelry and watch retailers. Still decades later, Dejaun Jewelers is the best source for authentic luxury timepieces. As an authorized Zenith timepiece retailer with store locations in Sherman Oaks, Woodland Hills, and Thousand Oaks, Dejaun Jewelers provides shoppers with Swiss-made watches that are both eye-catching and high-quality. Shop Zenith watches at Dejaun Jewelers, and you will find an incomparable selection along with unmatched customer service. There is a seemingly endless array of different Zenith styles for both men and women, including pieces featuring 18-karat yellow gold, rose gold, white gold, and stainless steel bezels. Different styles also come with different details, from easy-to-read dates to chronographs. Options like the Zenith  Academy collection  add elegance and plenty of attention to detail, as the workings of each watch shine with features like blue steel hands or alligator bands. Fashionable shoppers can browse collections like the Zenith  Elite collection , each watch featuring a simple yet stunning face. The  El Primero collection  of Zenith watches offers yet another twist on the brand’s classic Swiss style, including timeless details and a view into the watches’ inner workings. Visit a Dejaun Jewelers showroom, and there you will find a vast collection of Swiss-made Zenith watches from which to choose. Each timepiece can capture and express your individual style, and the helpful customer service will be there along the way. Located in the Village at Westfield Topanga, visit the Woodland Hills showroom of Dejaun Jewelers and explore an amazing selection of designer timepieces and fine jewelry today! Let us help you find the perfect Valentine's Day timepiece for the person you love. MON - SAT: 10:00 AM - 8:45 PM SUN: 11:00 AM - 6:45 PM Sign in to your account to track orders and view your order history. Don't have an account? Enter your order number and email address below to track your order. Please fill out the form below and one of our  Zenith specialists will contact you. Congratulations on successfully selecting your setting and diamond. Please fill out the form below to receive the best price for this combination. 