Deck Builders in Innisfil - TrustedPros Andrew of Keswick said:  " Matt was great from start to end. Described work ,  showed pics of what I could expect. Squeezed me in pretty fast at the end of the season ,  and... Read more Ross and Lynda of Barrie said:  " Exceptional work done. Great men ,  very polite and hard workers. Good cleanup on job site each day. On time. Would highly recommend.... Read more patrick of Barrie said:  " Hi ,  my name is Patrick ,  last Pivato Contracting built our deck and did a great job. All the lads were very efficient at the work they did. and... Read more Ginny  &  Dan of Innisfil said:  " We have used the services of Northlink for numerous projects over the last year or more.  In every project ,  the quality of workmanship is a 10 out... Read more Richard  of Kitchener said:  " We contacted Dave from ROW Construction about adding a new front porch incorporating existing columns and a new large deck  ( 12 ' x30 ' )  i... Read more Ryan  of Barrie  said:  " Ryan did an awesome job building our new deck to go partially around an above ground pool ,  he also fixed our existing fence to make it more secure... Read more Rose of Innisfil said:  " We would recommend Vann Bros because they provided excellent service from the start of the process to the end.  They are professional ,  courteous a... Read more Pat of Bond Head said:  " Rayson came and installed new siding ,  window frames ,  deck ,  replaced some electrical fixtures /  wiring and did some interior framing and... Read more Nathan of Keswick said:  " Ariel was asked to redo the deckboards to replace 20 plus year old rotting deck.  I had 5 other quotes but he was the only one who pointed out issues ... Read more Justin of barrie said:  " Dave and his crew assisted in the plans and construction of our amazingly beautiful deck with glass railings. Dave was consistently professional from ... Read more Not sure which contractor to call for your deck project? Post your project and let local, top-rated pros come to you and compete for your job!  If you can't find the company you hired and want to submit a review, add them to the TrustedPros directory. TrustedPros cannot endorse or guarantee the performance of any contractor. It is your responsibility to interview and select your contractor carefully by checking references, asking for proof of license(s), liability insurance, and in most cases, workers compensation coverage. To learn more about what to look for and how to prepare when hiring a contractor, see our  Contractor Hiring Guide. The reviews on this site are the personal opinion of the Author and not of TrustedPros Inc. By using this site you agree to our  Terms of Use .  Information submitted is subject to our  Privacy Policy . TrustedPros does not engage in door-to-door solicitation of any manner. Copyright © 2004 - 2019 TrustedPros Inc.  All Rights Reserved Post your project  to receive estimates from trusted deck builders serving your area. Compare quotes and credentials. It's a  free  TrustedPros service. 