Sky Views: Donald Trump's golf reveals evidence of his flaws | World News | Sky News Fill 2 Copy 11 Wednesday 2 November 2016 17:10, UK Every aspect of Donald Trump's life has been scoured for clues about the man who could yet be President of the United States of America. For a proper insight, look no further than golf. PG Wodehouse put it best. "The only way of really finding out a man's true character is to play golf with him," he wrote. "In no other walk of life does the cloven hoof so quickly display itself." So it is with Trump. The game has long been a presidential hobby, played by 15 of the last 18 occupants of the White House. Eisenhower had a putting green outside the Oval Office, George Bush Sr played off a handicap of 11, and JFK could have been even better but for his bad back. But Trump would be the first to give up golf to spend more time running the country, rather than the other way round. The game is his hobby and his business. He owns courses and resorts on three continents and, aged 70 with a presidential candidate's schedule, claims to play off a near-professional handicap of 2.8. But at every stroke there is evidence of his flaws. Most notorious in the UK was his long-running battle to build a course and luxury resort on the Balmedie estate in Aberdeenshire. Here opposition was literally bulldozed aside by Trump's belligerence and money. The development was opposed by local residents, environmental experts and was thrown out by the council but then approved by the Scottish government and the then first minister Alex Salmond. Alan Baxter's excellent documentary You've Been Trumped reveals Salmond as among those in thrall to Trump's promises, empty as it transpired, of a  1bn investment that would create thousands of jobs. Trump is seen travelling with a presidential retinue, piped in and out of press conferences, and glad-handing dignitaries. At one reception he spies Miss Scotland. "She should work for us," he tells an aide. "She's beautiful, she might want to work in sales and stuff." Meanwhile residents who refused to sell up had their water cut off, Grampian Police detained the film-makers apparently without cause, and Trump described his most committed opponent, fisherman Michael Forbes, as "living like a pig". The course was built. (The standard green fee, in the country that invented the game with a tradition of public courses, is  215.) But Trump's campaign attacks on Mexicans and Muslims finally embarrassed Salmond into warning Americans not to vote for him. He is not alone in having seen the light only after courting Trump's money. In the United States, several professional tournaments have been moved from Trump-owned courses, with the PGA Tour taking one of its flagship events from his Doral course in Miami to Mexico City. Trump's response was typically charmless: "I hope they've got kidnap insurance." Given US golf's deep conservatism and the political leanings of the one-man corporations who make millions from the professional tour, it is a measure of how toxic Trump has become for the game. There are even suggestions that his handicap may not be genuine. Sports Illustrated say he admitted cheating during an interview and, in common with his tax returns, he has never published an independently verified scorecard. Just one more reason why many will hope that this time next week he has all the time he wants to devote to his game. Previously on Sky Views:  Katie Stallard - China's president is amassing power, but to what end? Down Down Down Down © 2019 Sky UK Sky UK Limited and our trusted partners use cookies and similar technologies on this Sky News site to provide you with website services and personalised content. For details on how Sky processes your data and uses cookies please visit our  privacy and cookie notice .  We also work with trusted advertising partners to show you content and advertisements for products and services you might like. By selecting  " Accept "  below, you consent to these partners using third party cookies to process your information for their own purposes. You can select how your data is used in  privacy options . You can easily change your settings anytime. 