bareMinerals bareSkin Pure Brightening Serum Foundation Broad Spectrum SPF 20 • Foundation Product Info ColourPop Bare Necessities Palette Look | Plum  &  Taupe Colourpop Bare Necessities Palette Look | Gold  &  Brown Colourpop Bare Necessities Palette Look | Soft Neutrals Natasha Denona Palette 03 + Palette 06 Eyeshadow Look Revlon Super Lustrous Lipstick Swatches (Part 1 of 2) ColourPop Butterfly 24-Pan Shadow Palette Swatches ColourPop Good as Gold Collection - Swatches ColourPop Bare Necessities Eyeshadow Palette Swatches Oil Slick Rainbow Hair for the Holidays Temptalia's 5-Step Guide to Making Better Purchases Reflections on Brands "Celebrating" Pride Just what is normal in your lipsticks? A Jaclyn Hill Lipsticks Follow-up! Browse all swatches. Hyper-Metallic Liquid Eyeliner Metallic Liquid Liner Blush Sugar Lip Treatment SPF 15 Duplicate a high-end product or never buy the same shade twice. Look to see if any shades between two palettes are known dupes. Divine Rose Mercury Retrograde Going Coconuts Pure Pearl Tell us your current shade match, and we'll help you find a match in your next foundation or concealer! Are you new to the world of foundation or have you never felt like you've found an ideal shade match?  Not to worry -- we can still help! Readers often ask me what are my absolute, all-time favorites, and now you can find my current and long-time favorites all in one place! Looking for the best makeup and beauty products? Find the top recommendations as voted by our Editor and community members here! Or view popular products Build your own palette, create a color combination, or discover look ideas to try. Login Register Twin Star Karat Cake Tea Garden Bel Air Login Register ColourPop Bare Necessities Palette Look | Plum  &  Taupe Colourpop Bare Necessities Palette Look | Gold  &  Brown Colourpop Bare Necessities Palette Look | Soft Neutrals Natasha Denona Palette 03 + Palette 06 Eyeshadow Look Home Products Makeup Face Foundation Liquid bareSkin Pure Brightening Serum Foundation Broad Spectrum SPF 20 bareMinerals bareSkin Pure Brightening Serum Foundation Broad Spectrum SPF 20  is a liquid foundation with a natural finish and light-medium coverage that retails for $29.00 and contains 1 oz. ($29.00 per ounce). There are 20 shades in our database, which you can select from in the View a Shade dropdown menu below. Write a Review Based on 5 Reviews, 6 Quick Reviews The Good : Blendable (3), Lightweight (3), Smooth (2), Easy To Apply (2), Long-wearing (2), Great Value (2), Travel-friendly (2), Hides Pores (1) The In-Between : Buildable (4), Luminous (3), Natural (3), Sheer (2), Oily (1) The Bad : Hard To Blend (3), Oily (1)  By  Mahala  3 years ago. The key to this foundation is getting shade matched. It tends to run yellow so if you don't shade match it can be a disaster. It took me trying 3 different shades before this worked for my skin the mismatch colors, enlarged my pores, looked streaky, etc but feel in love with this when I was color matched at Sephora. Bare Beige color is maybe the most perfect skin match of anyone foundation I have ever tried. It blends in perfect and blurs my pores. Luminous but not shiny. As it says looks natural and is a light to medium coverage foundation. This is not a full coverage foundation if that is what you are seeking. Covers redness, some acne marks and evens out skin tone but those freckles will still show through. Since it is a serum foundation, it is very thin, water like even though it doesn't contain water. So its very important to shake it, not like your favorite drink but from side to side. If you shake it hard it will come pouring out of the top. Make sure to shake it from side to side and shake well. Then apply like you do the BE powder, buff it in starting with 2 drops. If you want more coverage keeping adding dots. 6 is considered full coverage. This has become my HG foundation.  By  Kassy  4 years ago. I don't see how anyone couldn't like this foundation. It took me so long to find the right one for my skin and this is it. I can understand people saying it doesn't apply correctly, but to be perfectly honest they have to be applying it wrong. No hate, just my opinion. I used Sephora's 56 brush and buffed it out after applying primer. Then I set it with NYX HD powder. It was flawless and I received so many compliments. (Everyone was asking me how I had such clear skin! haha) I thought this foundation was too good to be true and that it would wear off in a couple of hours. To my utter amazement it lasted all 18 hours I had it on. ALL 18! I was blown away by its staying power. To be truthful, I did reapply a bit of powder, but not much and by the end of the day it stayed perfectly in place. Another plus is the price and the fact that Bareminerals uses all natural products. This way I know what's actually going on my face.  By  Marlene.  4 years ago. It's very difficult to make this foundation work alone. It's streaky and sits on the surface of the skin and doesn't seem to blend in no matter what I try. The only way I've been able to use this is a drop or two mixed in with other foundations to help adjust the colour.  By  Sailynn  4 years ago. I kind of like it, but I don't like it more :(It has a thin consistency. There's no fragrance but it smells like powder foundation. I would NOT recommend this to dry or oily skin types, I only recommend it to people who have normal skin, with hardly any flaws. If you're looking for something to even out the skin tone, this is it. But it's long lasting at all.And I'm telling you this thing was born to streaky, even after the foundation sets it's still streaky. But, the longer you wear it, the better it looks on your skin...It emphasizes my hardly-visible fine lines, it separates like wow on the face, and it's drying! I actually feel this sitting on top of my skin, it's like when you put too much pressed powder on, which is not pleasant.Sucks it didn't work for me :( It was so hyped!  By  Holly  5 years ago. I have tried just about everything to make this foundation work. It is a very thin texture and spreads across skin easily, but is extremely streaky and uneven. No matter how much blending I do it never covers evenly. I have applied it with fingers, buffing brushes, and sponges but I've had no luck. The coverage is billed as buildable but I have found it is only sheer on me, and building creates that gross separated and oily look. It settles into pores like it's getting paid. I've tried to find some strengths in this foundation since I own it but it is so frustrating to work with that is consistently ends up in the back of my drawer with the other sad reject products.This just doesn't work on my skin. Support Temptalia by shopping the retailers below! We earn commission on sales tracked from our links. Thank you! View Full List Need help finding your perfect foundation shade? The Foundation Matrix is designed to help. Duplicate a high-end product or never buy the same shade twice. The Dupe List is here to help. Looking for the perfect color?  Look no further than Temptalia's Swatch Gallery. Copyright   2006 - 2019 Temptalia 