Hillary ' s Running Mate: Vegas Massacre Was Stopped Because The Shooter Didn ' t Have a Silencer Democrat Tim Kaine, who -- and people forget this -- is a member of the United States Senate who ran on Hillary Clinton ' s ticket last in fall ' s election ( look it up !), weighed in on the gun control debate that is raging the aftermath of Sunday night ' s horrific mass shooting in Las Vegas.  In a very special attempt to link his opposition to a Republican proposal to ease federal restrictions on gun suppressors to the massacre,  Kaine explained  how he believes local authorities were able to put an end to the shooter ' s reign of terror.  Just so we ' re clear, this person is a sitting Senator who wields one of just 100 upper chamber votes on gun policy legislation: Washington Post 837K subscribers Subscribe Sen. Tim Kaine: ‘We’ve lost our minds’ on gun policies Watch later Share Copy link Info Shopping Tap to unmute If playback doesn ' t begin shortly, try restarting your device. More videos Your browser does not currently recognize any of the video formats available.  Click here to visit our frequently asked questions about HTML5 video. More videos on YouTube Share Include playlist An error occurred while retrieving sharing information. Please try again later. Switch camera 0:00 0:00 0:00  /  1:25 Live An error occurred. Try watching this video on www.youtube.com , or enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser. Hillary, who rushed to debase herself by  immediately politicizing  the Vegas attack,  got fact-checked  by the  Washington Post  for spouting similarly ignorant nonsense about  " silencers: " The crowd fled at the sound of gunshots. Imagine the deaths if the shooter had a silencer, which the NRA wants to make easier to get. Actually, even with  " a silencer, "  it ' s pretty loud. An AR-15 rifle would have a noise equivalent to a jack hammer.  https://t.co/rL1YFuAB5b https://t.co/YE9smBZqGG That correction stems from an analysis in which  WaPo  awarded another Senate Democrat  ' Three Pinocchios '  for garbage assertions about  " silencers. " Now seems like the perfect opportunity to highlight one small but insightful snippet from a data journalist ' s  much-discussed column  explaining how her arguments for gun control  " crumbled "  as she examined the facts:  " I can t endorse policies whose only selling point is that gun owners hate them. Policies that often seem as if they were drafted by people who have encountered guns only as a figure in a briefing book or an image on the news, " she wrote .  Those people apparently include multiple US Senators and a failed presidential candidate. RELATED: Former FiveThirtyEight Writer: After I Got The Data, Support For The Gun Control Policies I Liked  ' Crumbled ' RELATED: Please Stop With the Conspiracy Theories Surrounding the Las Vegas Shooting RELATED: What Authorities Found in the Vegas Shooter s Home Here's How Hunter Biden's Child Support Case Can Impact What We Learn About His Ties to Burisma The Reason a Top Harris Staffer Bailed on the Campaign Is Extremely Enlightening WATCH: Bloomberg Makes a Really Dumb Case for Taxing the Poor Townhall.com is the leading source for conservative news and political commentary and analysis. Copyright   Townhall.com/Salem Media. All Rights Reserved.  Terms  under which this serviceis provided to you 