How To Decide When To Keep Something In Your Life Or Not “ You are the average of the five people you spend the most time with. ” (Jim Rohn) When deciding to keep something in your life or discard it, ask yourself: Does this energize me? Does this serve me? If not, then gradually reduce your exposure to it, and aim to cut it out completely. Life is for living and you’re not meant to be constantly drained. This rule of thumb not only applies to things but it also applies to people and ways of thinking as well. The reason why auditing whether the people, places, things, etc. energize us and serve us or not is because so many people waste their precious time on placing their energy on the places, people, and things that hurt their character. The people around us have a significant impact on how we think and act within the world. We usually take on the habits and ways of thinking that those around us engage in. Following this line of logic, ask yourself: Do the people around me energize me? Do the people around me serve me? Go through every single person around you that you spend time with consistently and apply these questions to them. If the answer is yes to both of those questions then triple down on the relationship and if the answer is no then slowly untangle the relationship knot. The things and objects in our environment have a profound impact on our mentality. Following this line of logic, ask yourself: Do the things around me in my environment energize me? Do the things around me in my environment serve me? Go through your house, work place, and anywhere else that you spend a lot of time in and audit the objects around you as to whether they serve some useful purpose to you or not. The things in your environment should either have: Purpose/Utility Beauty The way we think is what determines how the world manifests for us in our daily lives. This makes our ways of thinking extremely important to take control of. Following this line of logic, ask yourself: Do the ways of thinking that I engage in energize me? Do the ways of thinking that I engage in serve me? Our ways of thinking are mainly a result of habits that we adopted when we were younger so the key to changing the ways in which we think is to practice conscious awareness over the issue that manifests. Energy destroyers are the things, places, and people that take more energy away from you, both physically and mentally, than they give to you in return. These energy destroyers are essentially the vampires in your life that keep you from focusing your energy on the things that really matter to you and that will move the needle in your own personal development. Let’s go through a few problems that these energy destroyers present when it comes to one’s life: These energy destroyers fundamentally keep the individual from recognizing and sticking with their priority and values in life. Assuming that the individual consciously sits down and chooses the values that they would like to live through, which is rare, than this individual will become scattered in what he or she will put their energy towards. The people, things, and places that suck the energy out of one’s life distracts the individual. They by default create an environment of priority and value misalignment. Put simply, focusing on the things, people, and places that take your energy away from you will leave you feeling empty and hollow. The reason for this is actually very simple: You will not gain any real meaning by putting your focus on things that you don’t care about. Meaning comes from focusing on things that you inherently care about, of course. Placing one’s focus on the energy destroyers creates an environment that allows resources to be wasted — money, time, and energy. A lot of money, time, and energy goes into focusing on things, people, and places that one doesn’t care about. These wasted resources could have been used towards wiser pursuits. In every situation, think of the opportunity cost that is present. This just means that you simply take a look at how you can use the same resources in various ways to produce the most beneficial outcome for yourself. Engaging with the energy destroys ultimately causes emotional suffering and turmoil. It’s as if this individual is on a constant treadmill of emotional frustration because of the way that they are using their resources. They don’t understand why because it operates at the subconscious but it nonetheless manifests in their demeanor. To take back your energy, you must raise your standards. There is no way around it. You must separate yourself from the energy destroyers in your life — people, places, and things. This requires you to really hold yourself to a high standard and draw the line in the sand when it comes to the value that you place on yourself and life. The “How To” of taking back your energy is simple but very difficult to do:  Cut those energy destroyers out of your life . If you really value yourself and your life then you would do this in an instant. It’s simply a matter of placing more value on your life and potential as opposed to the instant gratification of energy destroyers. Written by 