Mary of Burgundy - Wikipedia Mary  ( French :  Marie ;  Dutch :  Maria ; 13 February 1457 – 27 March 1482),  Duchess of Burgundy , reigned over many of the territories of the  Duchy of Burgundy , now mainly in  France  and the  Low Countries , from 1477 until her death. As the only child of  Charles the Bold ,  Duke of Burgundy , and his wife  Isabella of Bourbon , she inherited the duchy upon the death of her father in the  Battle of Nancy  on 5 January 1477. [ 1 ]  Owing to the great prosperity of many of her territories, Mary was often referred to as  Mary the Rich . Mary of Burgundy was born in  Brussels  at the ducal castle of  Coudenberg , to  Charles the Bold , then known as the Count of Charolais, and his wife  Isabella of Bourbon . Her birth, according to the court chronicler  Georges Chastellain , was attended by a clap of thunder ringing from the otherwise clear twilight sky. Her godfather was  Louis, Dauphin of France , in exile in Burgundy at that time; he named her for his mother  Marie of Anjou . Reactions to the child were mixed: the baby's grandfather, Duke  Philip the Good , was unimpressed, and "chose not to attend the [baptism] as it was only for a girl", whereas her grandmother  Isabella of Portugal  was delighted at the birth of a granddaughter. [ 2 ]  Her illegitimate aunt  Anne  was assigned as her governess. Philip the Good died in 1467 and Mary's father assumed control of the duchy of Burgundy. Since her father had no living sons at the time of his accession, Mary became his  heir presumptive . Her father controlled a vast and wealthy domain made up of the  Duchy of Burgundy , the  Free County of Burgundy , and the majority of the  Low Countries . As a result, her hand in marriage was eagerly sought by a number of princes. [ 3 ]  The first proposal was received by her father when she was only five years old, in this case to marry the future King  Ferdinand II of Aragon .  Later she was approached by  Charles, Duke of Berry , the younger brother of King Louis XI of France, who was intensely annoyed and attempted to prevent the necessary papal dispensation for  consanguinity . As soon as Louis succeeded in producing a male heir who survived infancy, the future King  Charles VIII of France , Louis wanted him to be the one to marry Mary, even though he was thirteen years younger than Mary was.   Nicholas I, Duke of Lorraine , was a few years older than Mary and controlled a duchy that lay alongside Burgundian territory, but his plan to combine his domain with hers was ended by his death in battle in 1473. Mary assumed the rule of her father's domains upon his defeat in battle and death on 5 January 1477. King Louis XI of France seized the opportunity to attempt to take possession of the Duchy of Burgundy proper and also the regions of  Franche-Comté ,  Picardy  and  Artois . [ 3 ] The king was anxious that Mary should marry his son Charles and thus secure the inheritance of the  Low Countries  for his heirs, [ 3 ]  by force of arms if necessary. Burgundy, fearing French military power, sent an  embassy  to France to negotiate a marriage between Mary and the six-year-old Dauphin (later King Charles VIII), but returned home without a betrothal; the French king's demands of cession of territories to the French crown were deemed unacceptable. [ 4 ] : 49 Mary was compelled to sign a charter of rights known as the  Great Privilege  in  Ghent  on 10 February 1477 on the occasion of her formal recognition as her father's heir (the " Joyous Entry ").  Under this agreement, the provinces and towns of  Flanders ,  Brabant ,  Hainaut , and  Holland  recovered all the local and communal rights that had been abolished by the decrees of the dukes of Burgundy in their efforts to create a centralized state on the French model out of their disparate holdings in the Low Countries. In particular, the  Parliament of Mechelen  (established formally by Charles the Bold in 1470) was abolished and replaced with the pre-existing authority of the  Parliament of Paris , which was considered an amenable counterweight to the encroaching centralization undertaken by both Charles the Bold and Philip the Good. The duchess also had to undertake not to declare war, make peace, or raise taxes without the consent of these provinces and towns and only to employ native residents in official posts. [ 3 ] Such was the hatred of the people for the old regime that in spite of the duchess's entreaties, two of her father's most influential councilors, the Chancellor Hugonet and the  Sire d'Humbercourt , were executed in Ghent after it was discovered that they were in correspondence with the king of France. [ 3 ] Mary soon made her choice among the many suitors for her hand by selecting  Archduke Maximilian of Austria , the future Holy Roman Emperor Maximilian I, who became her co-ruler. [ 5 ]  The marriage took place at Ghent on 19 August 1477. [ 6 ]  Mary's marriage into the  House of Habsburg  initiated two centuries of contention between France and the Habsburgs (later of Kings of Spain as well as Holy Roman Emperors), a struggle that climaxed with the  War of the Spanish Succession  in the years 1701–1714. In the Netherlands, affairs now went more smoothly; the French aggression was temporarily checked, and internal peace was in large measure restored. [ 3 ] In 1482, a falcon hunt in the woods near  Wijnendale Castle  was organised by  Adolph of Cleves, Lord of Ravenstein , who lived in the castle. Mary loved riding and was hunting with Maximilian and knights of the Court when her horse tripped, threw her in a ditch, and then landed on top of her, breaking her back.  She died several weeks later, on 27 March, from internal injuries, having made a detailed will. She was buried in the  Church of Our Lady in Bruges  on April 3, 1482. [ 7 ] Her 2-year-old daughter,  Margaret of Austria , was sent in vain to France, to marry the Dauphin, in an attempt to please Louis XI and persuade him not to invade the territories owned by Mary. Louis was swift to re-engage hostilities with Maximilian and forced him to agree to the  Treaty of Arras of 1482 , by which  Franche-Comté  and  Artois  passed for a time to French rule, only to be recovered by the  Treaty of Senlis  of 1493, which established peace in the Low Countries. Mary's marriage into the House of Habsburg would prove to be a disaster for France, since the Burgundian inheritance would later bring it into conflict with Spain and the  Holy Roman Empire . Mary's son Philip succeeded to her dominions under the guardianship of his father. [ 3 ] Her children were as follows: Arms before 1477 Arms after 1477 Mary of Burgundy was portrayed by French actress  Christa Théret  in the 2017 television production  Maximilian . [ 9 ] 