recommend NAS to connect NVidia, Chromebook, and TP-Link Archer router : ShieldAndroidTV I currently have a 1-TB USB external hard drive with all my media plugged into my router. It is filling up and has connectivity problems at times. I have not been successful at mapping the drive to my Chromebook using the Files app. I need to replace it with something a bit larger and more feasible. I use SPMC to play my media, but I would like to organize it remotely by using the Chromebook. I think I &# x27;m looking for a NAS solution, but my knowledge of computer hardware is hopelessly out of date. Can you recommend something that will be easy to use and reliable for this home simple network? QNAS or Synology Although if it &# x27;s connectivity issues then maybe the router needs to be upgraded. This is what I have and it works flawlessly. (1) Synology 2 bay NAS DiskStation DS218j (Diskless) (2) WD Red 4TB NAS Hard Drive - 5400 RPM Class, SATA 6 Gb/s, 64 MB Cache, 3.5 "  - WD40EFRX Hooked up to the Router.  I can read and write to it from anywhere on the Local Network and anywhere using the Synology App or Website. Very easy to set up. I use it for PC Backup and Media Files.  Use Plex Server on the Shield with the NAS as storage. I &# x27;ll give a vote for a Synology. From what I gathered when I was looking for a NAS, QNAP is generally cheaper and has more features, but Synology has a pretty top-rate web GUI for configuring their systems. What I did was install a Plex Media Server on my Synology NAS, and then combined that with the PlexKodiConnect addon for Kodi (should also work for SPMC -- and you know all SPMC development has stopped, right?) to let Kodi act as a client to Plex. So the Plex server manages my media library, while Kodi acts like a Plex client that doesn &# x27;t take 50 clicks to drill down to watch a TV show episode. Just make sure not to buy any units on this list if you go with Synology, since they &# x27;re are all EOL. For the following models, DSM 6.2 will be the last upgradable version. DSM 6.2 will continue to receive critical and security updates for a minimum of 2 years after the official release. XS Series : RS3412xs, RS3412RPxs, RS3411xs, RS3411RPxs, DS3612xs, DS3611xs Plus Series : RS2212+, RS2212RP+, RS2211+, RS2211RP+, RS812+, RS812RP+,　DS2411+, DS1812+, DS1512+, DS1511+, DS712+, DS412+, DS411+II, DS411+, DS213+, DS212+, DS211+, DS112+ Value Series : RS812, RS212, DS413, DS411, DS213, DS212, DS211, DS112, DS111 J Series : DS413j, DS411j, DS411slim, DS213air, DS212j, DS211j, DS112j Others : NVR216, NVR1218, DDSM Same setup as  u/63_Corvette , but i &# x27;m using a DS716+II. You have a couple of options... You can go the quality route and get a anaphylaxis/synology drive.  Around ~400.00 -800.00 probably.  This is the best choice. There are other manufacturers too, but these are the best. You can do what I did and buy a Seagate personal cloud or WD my cloud.  It works, it’s a low end budget solution.  ~120.00-250.00You get low end results.  I regret it. You can build a server and have everything.  I doubt you are ready for that one. There are other options, but this is a broad generalization. Set up the Plex server on the Shield, then create an SMB share on your Synology/QNAP and mount it on the Shield.  Point your libraries on Plex to the share and you &# x27;re done. +1 for syno. It has got nice a auto update featrures, installalbe apps + web-based management tools and android apps, which make sense in combination with your chromebook. Use the latest models for the longer support, i.e.  *18, *19 or *20. I like my QNAP, but it &# x27;s not as  " slick "  as Synology.  It used to be QNAP could do more edge case things but I think they &# x27;ve both reached parity now.  Works great mounted on my Shield.  Used to work fine with an Archer c7, but I recently switched to a TP-Link Google Onhub, which is different but I like it.  I think if you &# x27;re more  " techy "  you &# x27;ll like QNAP, but if you &# x27;re not then probably Synology.  There &# x27;s other options, too, but the only one I know well ia DIY solution called OpenMediaVault, and I can recommend that, although by the time you buy a computer for OMV, you &# x27;re approaching the price of a low end vendor NAS anyways, and you gotta be pretty techy to Linux yourself up a server.  I tried FreeNAS and it was too complicated and had too high system requirements for ZFS.  A recommendation...go big.  Don &# x27;t get a 2TB system and figure, well, it took this long to get 1TB, it should take just as long to fill 2TB, right?  Wrong.  Crap expands to fill the space available.  My 9TB QNAP with nearly 4.5TB of rips of my Star Trek DVDs and BluRays, a couple TB of high quality rips of my CD collection, and it &# x27;s starting to get a little crowded in there, just from two things. edit: forgot to mention, nobody can make the Files app work reliably with network shares, don &# x27;t feel bad.  I use the web interface on my QNAP to manipulate files on the server, then download them to the Chromebook when I had to, like any other web file download. I have used a Drobo for the last 7-8 years and have used it with the Shield for the last 2 years or so. I have never had any issues. I wasn &# x27;t aware that SPMC development had stopped (I told you my knowledge is hopelessly out-of-date!) So should I switch back to Kodi? >< p> I have never used Plex; I understood it was for people who wanted to stream video to their phones/tablets?  We only watch TV on our TV via Shield The developer of SPMC moved to the MrMc team, it &# x27;s another fork of Kodi that has blocked a lot of the piracy addons and that &# x27;s the extent of my knowledge of it. It &# x27;s a paid app but not expensive. I understood it was for people who wanted to stream video to their phones/tablets?  We only watch TV on our TV via Shield That &# x27;s mostly what I do too. I have no idea what SPMC is. My Plex server is on my Shield and I watch stuff on my TV via the Shield. also, between Synology and QNAP, which one has an easier interface for my Chromebook?  I will need to do all the file management thru the Chromebook as I no longer have a functioning Windows machine in my house QTS Web UI runs fabulously on my Chromebook Plus v1.  I do everything on it...i have access to a working Windows machine but I haven &# x27;t used it in months. synology. 215, 216, 218. Not sure what pricing is like by you but locally it was actually cheaper to buy a small format server PC and install a free NAS operating system (I use open media vault). I use an HP Microserver and ask the info I needed to set it up was at the open media vault website and forum. I use my shield every day. During the last update it froze and would not go past the splash screen. I went on online chat with customer care and in less than 10min they determined they would replace it. I just needed my receipt and serial number off the original box which I had and boom it &# x27;s in the mail. I &# x27;m not sure what the warranty is but I have used this box for a little over two and a half years. Best Day Ever! Is there a way to prevent Disney+ content from dominating the play next queue on my Shield home screen? I started a couple movies and series to try it out and every time I open the app now I get all the episodes I didn &# x27;t finish, the next of a couple series, and even a couple episodes I have 100% finished at the front of the queue. I wanna make it either Kodi or Perfect Player (haven &# x27;t decided). Side note- Anyone else notice though, that opening Netflix via the button is superrrrrr freakn fast? Wondering if it does that if you change it to another app. TLDR: AI Upscaling High/Medium causing severe video stuttering and audio sync issues when source refresh rate does not match system refresh rate. Reproducible in multiple apps. DETAILS: Setup: 2019 Shield TV Pro, Yamaha RX-V683, LG C7 OLED. Apps Tested: Netflix, Prime Video, Disney+, Plex, Hulu, HBOGO. Shield Firmware: 8.1.0(32.7.301.32) Shield Display Mode: 3840x2160 59.940 Hz, YUV 422 12-bit Rec. 2020, Dolby Vision and HDR10 Ready Issue: When AI Upscaling is turned on either High or Medium and the source refresh rate does not match the system refresh rate, video playback experiences severe stuttering and audio sync issues. Appears as though several frames are dropped periodically (every 1-3 seconds). Sometimes immediately, other times after 5-10 minutes. When switching upscaling to Basic or Enhanced and leaving frame rate unmatched, the issue is not present. When matching frame rate (Plex) and using AI upscaling, the issue is not present. When attempting to use the Match Frame Rate (Beta) feature, the screen goes black and is unrecoverable. Only recovery is to unplug the Shield and plug it back in. When using the Refresh Rate App to match frame rate the issue is not present but the implementation of this app is severely clunky with most apps and is not conducive to a seamless experience. Do I just have a faulty shield or can anyone replicate this issue? The AI Upscaling is a big reason why I went with the 2019 Shield over the 2017 Shield / Apple TV 4k combo I was using prior. I wanted to simplify my setup and use one device for everything. It was between the Apple TV 4k and the 2019 Shield TV. Thoughts? Edit: Tagging  /u/pidge2k  for some insight. Has anyone found a really good aftermarket replacement remote for your shield? What apps do you swear by on your shield tv. I would say kodi, plex and Button Remappear are my go to So,  I have a TCL Roku TV that I love, the famous 6 series many of you may have heard of... So our family has 4 of them, none had  " bad "  DSE at all but the latest 55 "  from Costco is the cleanest by far, I recommend them now to everyone, but I digress... Anyway, I recently got a Samsung Atmos sound bar at an incredible deal but as I discovered after the fact, TCL Roku TV &# x27;s have a compatibility issue with Samsung, Denon and Yamaha sound equipment. Many won &# x27;t successfully work with Dolby Digital+(streaming)/TrueHD(4k BluRay lossless) audio required for Atmos. HDMI ARC is the only way to get this as well, optical obviously not an option. So I have to manually select regular Dolby Digital (non-Plus) to get sound from it. This still sounds good, but also kills any support for Atmos. BUT when one uses an external device directly to a receiver or soundbars HDMI In (where it then passes video to the TV), whatever format that device supports all works great. So when I used my Shield 2015 connected to the soundbars one input directly, I get Atmos from Plex with my TrueHD and DD+ content and from Vudu and Amazon Prime with their DD+... BUT, the 2015 and 2017 Shield doesn &# x27;t have Atmos in  hardware . So even though just passthrough is totally supported, both Netflix and Disney+ don &# x27;t allow Atmos over their Android apps without it, and those 2 apps we use the most and have the most Atmos content in their flat monthly plan vs. other PPV options like Vudu. So, I was now resigned to the fact that I really like my TV and really like my soundbar so I &# x27;d have to go with a new external device, but was hoping to only have to drop like $60 on an external Roku (Ironic that it &# x27;s own built in Roku is broken) but I then determined the Shield 2019 has the most compatibility by FAR over any other external streaming device (I wish I had found  THIS  first, hehe). Since I don &# x27;t play games on my Shield anymore and use a separate PC for my Plex server, I just ordered the stick version and now hopefully I &# x27;m set for many years! Cheers! (PS, anyone want a Shield 2015 with mSD card cheap? Of course both original controllers have died, I &# x27;ll throw in an Amazon Fire basic remote that works over Bluetooth... LOL)  - Edit: OK, enough interest already, it &# x27;s pretty much sold. :) I have spent a few days trying to figure out why the UFC app on my 2x NVidia Shield TVs suddenly started showing me an error saying I was offline, and to enable Wi-fi.  My NVidia Shield TV &# x27;s are connected just fine to the Internet.  Here is a photo of the error:  https://ibb.co/QvkJR4w The UFC AndroidTV app was updated on Dec 4th 2019.  I believe this is when the error started showing up. The UFC app developers have messed-up their versioning system. -March 29nd 2019 version 9.0318 was released. -Dec 4th 2019 version 1.2.0 was released. Not only did they change versioning systems from MAJOR.MINOR to MAJOR.MINOR.REVISION, but they also changed the major version from  " 9 "  to  " 1 " . This prevents the NVidia Shield (and likely other AndroidTV devices) from automatically updating the app via Google Play Store.  Google Play will not see an update being available. To fix this error, you can uninstall the UFC app.  Then use Google Play Store to download it again.  It will pull down the latest 1.2.0 version when you do this. I hope this information makes it to some other frusterated UFC Fight Pass fan! :) I got a new TV that supports both Dolby Vision and HDR10+. It ' s a one of these so called  " Smart TV "  which has bunch of apps which are slow as a rock. On the other hand I love my 2017 Shield TV which has no DV, no HDR10+. While I understand the licensing woes that comes with DV, but HDR10+ is open source. Amazon is doubling down on HDR10+ as well. Quite a big portion of the contents from Prime Video are HDR10+. So content-wise HDR10+ has lots of options. So even though I would love to use my Shield as a primary device, I have to use either the sloppy interface or the TV or a Fire Stick to watch something with HDR10+. It ' s quite frustrating that a $25 device support but the Shield can ' t. What we have seen so far is Nvidia is willing to listen to their customers. But to get this done, we need to raise our voice to Nvidia. What we can do is raise our voice in threads like  this  for Nvidia to know that there ' s a demand out there. Anyone try the Disney+ update on the shield today? Is Atmos working? Hi everyone, I have a Nvidia Shield TV + Kodi + PlexKodiConnect setup. I have this really annoying bug that I don ' t know how to fix -- basically, after playing 4k HDR content, and I exit out of the content (press the stop button) the TV won ' t switch back to standard mode from HDR mode. So all the colors are super saturated/HDR looking. How do I get it to switch back to standard mode automatically after exiting HDR content? Not sure if it ' s a Shield TV issue, Kodi issue, or LG OLED tv issue. Could really use some help. Thanks! I am having a big problem getting Netflix or Prime Video to work. They had both been working for the past couple years just fine until about 2 weeks ago. I have confirmed that I am on 8.0.1 firmware. Good network connection. No VPN or ad blockers. I even did a complete factory reset. When I try opening Netflix, the screen goes black for a second or two as if it is about to start and then the home page reappears. Can ' t get Netflix to open at all. Prime Video will at least open and allow me to choose something to watch but then errors out after about 10 seconds when I try to watch something. I have logged out and back in many time with Prime Video. Tried clearing caches. No idea what to try next or how to fix this. Any ideas? 27.9k Members 153 Online May 21, 2015 Cake Day 