Create Competition Reality Shows: 3 Keys to Success - Producing Unscripted Producing Unscripted Make Reality TV  &  Documentary Series   |   A Podcast  &  Blog from TV Producers  &  Filmmakers Joke and Biagio Last updated  February 16, 2015  by  Biagio Podcast:  Play in new window  |  Download  (Duration: 16:43   16.6MB) Subscribe:  Apple Podcasts  |  Android  |  RSS A lot s going on this week! Our new show  Don t Trust Andrew Mayne on A & E  was announced, our old show  Scream Queens is available free on HULU , and we re telling you how to create competition reality shows.  Many, many of you have asked questions about how to create competition reality shows (although they can be much harder to sell than docu-style shows.) Since HULU is playing our competition reality show  Scream Queens  for free ( check it out! ) we thought this would be a good time to give you a big picture over view of making competition reality shows. BTW, as promised in the podcast, here s the EPK from Scream Queens, which was our first real-world test to prove we knew how to create competition reality shows. Scream Queens Season 2 EPK  from  Joke and Biagio . Have a listen to today s podcast to find out a few secrets it took us years to pick up. They ll surely help you create competition reality shows that we d be interested in hearing about. Press the giant red  Play  button above for the answers. For those who missed the announcement, the top secret show we ve been teasing for months has finally been announced. Read all about it here in our official  Don t Trust Andrew Mayne  announcement. Scream Queens posts  on our blog. Transcript coming soon! Official A & E Facebook Page for Don t Trust Andrew Mayne Whether you re pitching competition reality (even if it is a long shot) or documentary series and hybrid formats (easier sells for new producers) we d love to receive your pitches. Read our in-depth page about how to  pitch us a show . It also talks about what it’s really like to work in our business, the unscripted TV and film industry. Filed Under:  Create Reality TV Shows ,  The Make Reality TV Podcast Biagio married way out of his league when he bamboozled Joke into saying "I do." Together he and his wife produce television, film, a  podcast , and anything else that requires no sleep and a touch of crazy. Find Biagio connecting with you on  Twitter , putting out video on  Youtube , liking what you do on  Facebook ,  and trying to understand  Google+ . Our Newsletter Helps Build Your Career &# x000A9; 2019  Producing Unscripted  Made with love by  Joke and Biagio 