Lil '  Flip Height, Weight, Age, Body Statistics - Healthy Celeb Lil  Flip  is an American rapper who gained acclaim for his freestyle and battle rap. He has released a number of charting singles and albums. His albums  Undaground Legend  and  U Gotta Feel Me  brought him much critical fame and were also well received by his audience. He has released songs like  I Can Do Dat ,  What It Do , and  Heartbreaker . Wesley Eric Weston Jr. Lil  Flip, The Lepricaun Lil Flip is currently 38 according to his birthdate March 03, 1981 Pisces Houston, Texas, United States Texas, United States Lil  Flip went to  Worthing High School  located in Houston, Texas. Rapper, Record Producer Unknown Hip-hop Vocals Average 6 ft 3 in or 190.5 cm 90 kg or 198.5 lbs Lil  Flip has remained tight-lipped about his personal life and has successfully kept his relationships and affairs away from the public eye. Note    He fathers a son and a daughter from his past relationships. Black Black Dark Brown Straight Lil  Flip has endorsed a garage sale company. Lil  Flip released his debut studio album  The Leprechaun  in 2000. Flip made his theatrical film debut in the horror movie  April Fools  as himself in 2007. He made his TV show debut on the show  106  &  Park Top 10 Live  in 2004. Featured Image by Lil  Flip / Instagram Did we miss anyone? Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Subscribe to our Newsletter Lil Flip is currently 38 according to his birthdate March 03, 1981 Subscribe to our  Newsletter to get a daily dose of Fitness and Celebrity Heyyyyy You are already subscribed. You seem to be a big fan of Healthy Celeb. Well, you should already be getting regular emails from us. If not, then you can  report this  to us. Also follow us on  Instagram  to stay updated. Make sure, you have already verified your email id by clicking the link sent into your mailbox when you had subscribed for the Healthy Celeb Newsletter. Thanks for inputting your details. A verification email has been sent to you to see if you are a legitimate user or not of the entered email id. This will enable us to start sending you emails without any problem. Thanks!! PS:  If you don’t see a confirmation email, please check your spam/junk folder. Sometimes the confirmation message ends up there by mistake. 