REGIONAL VARIATIONS IN CHILD MARRIAGE IN BANGLADESH | Journal of Biosocial Science | Cambridge Core We use cookies to distinguish you from other users and to provide you with a better experience on our websites. Close this message to accept cookies or find out how to  manage your cookie settings . CUP Global header Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email Print AddThis Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email Print AddThis View all  Google Scholar citations  for this article. View all citations forthis article on Scopus This study aimed to investigate the regional variations in the prevalence of child marriage in Bangladesh with a view to providing recommendations for division-specific policy interventions. Data from the 2011 Bangladesh Demographic and Health Survey were analysed using multivariate logistic regression. Substantial regional variations in child marriage were found in Bangladesh. Rangpur and Khulna had more than four times higher odds of child marriage than Sylhet (4.57 and 4.11 times, respectively). Barisal and Rajshahi had more than three times higher odds of child marriage than Sylhet (3.70 and 3.48 times, respectively). Chittagong and Dhaka had about two times odds of child marriage than Sylhet (1.98 and 2.67 times, respectively), even after controlling for selected socio-demographic, economic and cultural characteristics. Respondent’s education, employment status, husband’s education and wealth index were inversely associated with the prevalence of child marriage. The policy implications of these findings are discussed in the context of Bangladesh. To send this article to your Kindle, first ensure no-reply@cambridge.org is added to your Approved Personal Document E-mail List under your Personal Document Settings on the Manage Your Content and Devices page of your Amazon account. Then enter the ‘name’ part of your Kindle email address below. Find out more about sending to your Kindle. Find out more about sending to your Kindle . Note you can select to send to either the @free.kindle.com or @kindle.com variations. ‘@free.kindle.com’ emails are free but can only be sent to your device when it is connected to wi-fi. ‘@kindle.com’ emails can be delivered even when you are not connected to wi-fi, but note that service fees apply. Find out more about the  Kindle Personal Document Service. To send this article to your Dropbox account, please select one or more formats and confirm that you agree to abide by our usage policies. If this is the first time you use this feature, you will be asked to authorise Cambridge Core to connect with your  < service >  account. Find out more about sending content to Dropbox . To send this article to your Google Drive account, please select one or more formats and confirm that you agree to abide by our usage policies. If this is the first time you use this feature, you will be asked to authorise Cambridge Core to connect with your  < service >  account. Find out more about sending content to Google Drive . Email your librarian or administrator to recommend adding this journal to your organisation &# x27;s collection. A recommendation email will be sent to the administrator(s) of the selected organisation(s) Click or touch the  Envelope See more details Full text views reflects the number of PDF downloads, PDFs sent to Google Drive, Dropbox and Kindle and HTML full text views. Abstract views reflect the number of visits to the article landing page. * Views captured on Cambridge Core between  < date > . This data will be updated every 24 hours. Usage data cannot currently be displayed Copy and paste a formatted citation or use one of the options to export in your chosen format Anyone you share the following link with will be able to freely read this content. Copy and paste the link or use the option below to share it via email. Alternatively you can download a PDF containing the link which can be freely shared online. For more information, please  view our content sharing policy . 