Lakshmi Menon - Salesforce Commerce Cloud Practice Lead - Tryzens | LinkedIn I had been working with leading clients on e-commerce projects  using IBM Websphere Commerce. I have worked on WCS versions 6 and 7.  Since 2014 I switched over to Salesforce Commerce Cloud/Demandware. Liked by  Lakshmi Menon Liked by  Lakshmi Menon Liked by  Lakshmi Menon 4 years 7 months Apr 2019   –  Present 9 months Trivandrum Jun 2015   –  Present 4 years 7 months Apr 2014   –  Present 5 years 9 months Trivandrum Switched technology from IBM Websphere Commerce to Demandware. Switched technology from IBM Websphere Commerce to Demandware. Jun 2011   –  Present 8 years 7 months Trivandrum Feb 2006   –   May 2011 5 years 4 months Trivandrum 2001   –   2005 A preview of what LinkedIn members have to say about Lakshmi: Lakshmi is my favourite Tryzarian! Her technical knowledge coupled with her work ethic, commitment and passion to deliver technical solutions is a very rare find in the industry. She is the backbone in my project team and is known across the organisation to be very humble and helpful.Thank you Lakshmi! Lakshmi is my favourite Tryzarian! Her technical knowledge coupled with her work ethic, commitment and passion to deliver technical solutions is a very rare find in the industry. She is the backbone in my project team and is known across the organisation to be very humble and helpful.Thank you Lakshmi! Lakshmi has amazing efficiency when it comes to work execution. A great attitude in workplace, she is one of the few who can be given a responsibility and be assured that it will be implemented with good quality and on time Lakshmi has amazing efficiency when it comes to work execution. A great attitude in workplace, she is one of the few who can be given a responsibility and be assured that it will be implemented with good quality and on time 2 people have recommended Lakshmi Join now to view Join to view Lakshmi’s full profile Kalyan Area, India Bengaluru Area, India Chennai Area, India Bengaluru Area, India Bengaluru Area, India 283 others named Lakshmi Menon are on LinkedIn 