Bluefields Berlin Bellisimo M  x Lady in Red Westphalian, Stallion 16.2hh Born 2010 Tfw Australia finally breeds a good horse and then we just let Europe buy him  Lmao it s the same with the showjumpers, the good two or three go to Europe to try get a place on teams and never come back Beeb Seems that the Tops stable is where top horses go to end their successful careers  I mean . how many horses have gone there only to be never heard from again at top level? mylittlehony  asked: Hey! Sorry for the late reply- all is well for now, the fires around our place have been reduced to almost no risk now, thankfully. Around 15k hectares burnt but the wind played in our favour this time! This pic is from yesterday but I m packing the truck with all my expensive stuff and essentials, the wind has turned back towards us and will likely bring the fire with it. A bit scared but I m really hoping conditions ease off a bit. Worst comes to worst we load the horses and get the fuck outta there This is the 1.20 from the first day at Tamworth - shortening my reins and keeping the frame more compact and coming from behind is really making a difference in both his ease of going and his jumping. Super keen to see how this new way of riding goes for us next year :3 Excited to say my huge project is now 100% completed. Arthur Morgan s journal, page for page, from my first playthrough of the game. What do I do now??? No idea. My next goal for this is to meet the cast (turns out it s difficult when you live in Australia jskflds) - I ve planned it so Rog would sign the front blank page with Property of Arthur Morgan  and any other cast members would sign the empty pages at the end with Outlaws For Life  and their character s name. Ah, one can dream. Maybe one day. ANYWAY, I m super excited with the way this whole thing has turned out. I haven t been involved in this fandom on here for long, but the tags and comments I ve received on the few posts I ve made about this have been super motivating and supportive. Not to be narcissistic, but I am  damn  PROUD of myself for sticking with this and finishing the project. I started this at the end of June, not knowing if I would ever truly finish. It s taken roughly 400 hours work (double what I have spent playing the game sjafjs - so RDR2 has taken 600 hours of my life so far, not that I am complaining lmao), a lot of planning, learning new arts of bookbinding and leathercraft, but it s all come together in the end. I cried tears of happiness, and some relief, knowing it is finally complete. any of yall on horseblr who play rdr2, this is what i ve been doing for the last few months. finally finished it! Whoops I forgot to post the last and the best of the photos from Tamworth - I adore this one!! He s such a legend. Not sure I ll ever find another like him. Forever lamenting the fact that he makes everything look small in photos  This one was from the jump off! Onwards and upwards next year!! The photos from the final are brilliant.... just ordered them, but in the meantime here's one from the first qualifier of the Bronze tour  Beautiful beb Look how CUTE HE IS  Oooo second last jump on course let's just take a damn nap on his neck I love him ;-; Oooo second last jump on course let s just take a damn nap on his neck 