Pir Ghani Map | Pakistan Google Satellite Maps Welcome to the Pir Ghani google satellite map! This place is situated in Bahawalnagar, Punjab, Pakistan, its geographical coordinates are 30° 22' 0" North, 73° 36' 0" East and its original name (with diacritics) is Pīr Ghani. See Pir Ghani photos and images from satellite below, explore the aerial photographs of Pir Ghani in Pakistan. Pir Ghani hotels map is available on the target page linked above. Do you like this map?  Link to it  or  recommend it ! Register at Pir Ghani  or  add new placemark for Pir Ghani . >Get your <a href="pakistan punjab/bahawalnagar/pir-ghani/register/">personal map homepage  and much more for free. Maplandia.com in partnership with Booking.com offers  highly competitive rates  for all types of hotels in Pir Ghani, from affordable family hotels to the most luxurious ones. Booking.com, being established in 1996, is longtime Europe’s leader in online hotel reservations. At Maplandia.com you won't be charged any booking fees, cancellation fees, or administration fees   the reservation service is  free of charge . The reservation system is  secure  and your personal information and credit card is encrypted. We have put together also a carefully selected list of recommended hotels in Pir Ghani, only hotels with the highest level of guest satisfaction are included. The location of each Pir Ghani hotel listed is shown on the detailed zoomable map. Moreover, Pir Ghani hotel map is available where all hotels in Pir Ghani are marked. You can easily choose your hotel by location. Many photos and  unbiased Pir Ghani hotel reviews  written by real guests are provided to help you make your booking decision. Luxury hotels (including 5 star hotels and 4 star hotels) and cheap Pir Ghani hotels (with best discount rates and  up-to-date hotel deals ) are both available in separate lists. Always bear in mind that with Maplandia.com and Booking.com the best price is guaranteed! We search  over 500 approved  car hire  suppliers  to find you the very  best Pir Ghani rental prices  available. You can compare offers from leading car hire suppliers like Avis, Europcar, Sixt or Thrifty as well as budget rental deals from Holiday Autos, Budget, Economy, EasyCar, or 121 carhire. Choose  Pir Ghani car hire  supplier  according to your preferences . The booking process is secured and is made as  simple  as possible. You don't have to browse through several websites and  compare prices  to  find cheap car rental in Pir Ghani  we will do it for you! Car rental offices nearest to  Pir Ghani  the city centre. Compare  Pir Ghani  car rental offers by various suppliers. Compare prices on flights to and from the closest airports to Pir Ghani. We search through offers of more than 600 airlines and travel agents. When you find a deal you want, we provide link to the airline or travel agent to make your booking directly with them. No middlemen. No added fees. You always get the lowest price. Airports nearest to  Pir Ghani  are sorted by the distance to the airport from the city centre. Follow relate airport hotel guides for accommodation booking. You can also dive right into Pir Ghani on unique 3D satellite map provided by  Google Earth . With new GoogLe Earth plugin you can enjoy the interactive Pir Ghani 3D map within your web browser. No placemark has been added to this place yet. You can add the  first . No users is registered to this place. You can be the  first . If you would like to recommend this Pir Ghani map page to a friend, or if you just want to send yourself a reminder, here is the easy way to do it. Simply fill in the e-mail address and name of the person you wish to tell about Maplandia.com, your name and e-mail address (so they can reply to you with gracious thanks), and click the  recommend  button. The URL of this site will be included automatically. You may also enter an additional message that will be also included in the e-mail. There are several options how to link to our maps   including no elsewhere to find free google maps gazetteer search, ready to use on your website. Please choose in the list below and simply copy  &  paste mentioned HTML code into your page source code. Thank you for all links! ><strong>IMPORTANT NOTE:< strong> The map search box code must be pasted directly into web pages without modification. You are not allowed to alter any portion of the link code or change the layout or targeting for any reason. Maplandia.com is not sponsored by or affiliated with Google. 