Books / Digital Text | Mises Institute JOIN OR RENEW TODAY JOIN OR RENEW TODAY In the sequence of Mises's books concerning policy, this book followed  Socialism , and was the first to present a new theory of interventionism. In Mises's view, interventionism is an inherently unstable policy because it creates new dislocations that would seem to cry out for further interventions, which, in turn, do not solve the problem. The end of interventionism is socialism, a fate which can be logically avoided only by a sharp turn towards free markets. Along with  Socialism  and the  Liberalism , this book stands as a masterpiece of policy logic. Kritik des Interventionismus: Untersuchungen zur Wirtschaftspolitik und Wirtschaftsideologie der Gegenwart. [Critique of Interventionism: Inquiries into Present Day Economic Policy and Ideology]. Jena: Gustav Fischer, 1929. English translation of the 1976 German new edition. Translated by Hans F. Sennholz. Revised English translation of the 1976 German new edition. Translated by Hans F. Sennholz. Irvington-on-Hudson, N.Y.: Foundation for Economic Education, 1996. Return to Menu Ludwig von Mises   In the sequence of Mises's books concerning policy, this book followed Socialism, and was the first to present a new theory of interventionism.In Mises's view,... Other Formats  |  Book Information Select from the table of contents below to read this book. Mises Institute PHONE  334.321.2100   |  FAX 334.321.2119 Email Us Tu ne cede malis, sed contra audentior ito  GET NEWS AND ARTICLES IN YOUR INBOX Website powered by Mises Institute donors Mises Institute is a tax-exempt 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization. Contributions are tax-deductible to the full extent the law allows. Tax ID# 52-1263436 By clicking  " I AGREE "  or continuing to use our site, you acknowledge that you accept our  Privacy Statement . We also use cookies to provide you with the best possible experience on our website. You can find out more about the cookies we use and learn how to manage them here. Feel free to check out our policies anytime for more information. Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email Print AddThis 