Stupid behavior on display at youth hockey games - masslive.com I’ve heard horror stories about youth hockey over the years. I usually hear either “youth hockey is nuts” or “hockey parents are nuts.”  I’ve wondered whether these second-hand comments were gross exaggerations or factual. Two weekends ago, I decided to get a first-hand look.  And did I get a look.  Now, before I go any further it’s important to know something: I am not anti-hockey. I played hockey growing up. My favorite sport as a youngster and in high school was hockey, even though I wasn’t that good. As a parent, I built a rink in my back yard for four winters for my kids. And believe it or not, I even have a distant relative playing on the USA Olympic hockey team.  So, I am not anti-hockey.  But I am anti-stupid, and in the three youth hockey games I recently attended, I repeatedly saw stupid behavior. Worse, this behavior came from the people who were supposed to be setting the example: adults.  As is the case with most youth sports, in the games I watched, most of the parents were fine. On occasion, they were even supportive of the opposing team, especially toward the goalies.  However, as is also the case with most youth sports, a few people couldn’t contain their emotions. I do wonder if these people are acting so poorly in public, what are they doing at times in their own home?  The first game I attended was at Smead Arena in Springfield two Sundays ago. The players were 9-10 years old. It was a great game. The effort and skill of the little guys (and girl) had me hypnotized. Everything was super until late in the game.  One of the referees missed a call, and that call probably had a hand in the outcome of the game. One of the teams scored with literally seconds left for the winning goal. After the game, the losing coach was livid. I understood his frustration. His team worked so hard and played so well. I’m sure he felt cheated.  As the teams lined up to shake hands, the coach of the losing team told the ref he was “terrible” and that he shouldn’t be officiating games. The coach was loud, as I clearly heard him while he was on the ice and I was not. His horizontal index finger was firmly pointing at the ref, who gave the coach a misconduct penalty for his post-game actions.  All the while, the players shook hands at center ice.  A fan, through an opening in the glass, said something along the lines of “fill out a complaint” to the losing coach. I couldn’t tell if the fan was being supportive or sarcastic. If he was being helpful, so be it. If not, what possesses an adult to say something sarcastic to the coach of an opposing team?  I zipped over to the Olympia Ice Center in West Springfield for another game, this one pitting a pair of 13-14 teams against each other. It took 43 seconds for the nonsense to begin.  A player was sent to the penalty box for a high hit on an opponent. As the player entered the penalty box, a mom from the opposing team said, “Sit down and shut up.”  The player didn’t hear the comment, and neither did the player’s fans. But I heard it. What if I was that player’s dad? What could have followed?  Not up for hypothetical? OK, let’s get back to reality. Where this mom was sitting, there were some little kids. What did mom’s “sit down and shut up” comment do to those younger siblings? Maybe it did nothing, or maybe it planted a seed that it’s OK to shout negative comments toward the opposing team. Think of it from a kid’s point of view: “If mom can holler at the other team, so can I.”  A week ago I went to a game at Enfield Twin Rinks to watch a high-level 13-14 game. The conclusion of this contest spewed stupidity, and flirted with criminal.  By the third period, the game had become very chippy. And by the third period, the fans had gotten very much into the game. On one penalty, a dad hollered, “He’s out of here,” while another yelled, “He’s gone.”  What’s the goal of the fans when they shout things like this? On some level, the fan is frustrated. But why does the fan feel compelled to share that frustration with everyone else? I didn’t know a fan’s frustration was supposed to be a part of a youth sporting event.  With a few minutes to play, one kid absolutely leveled another kid with a check. No penalty was called. The one player was down on the ice for a few minutes. The intensity in the entire building grew. The refs pulled the plug with two seconds remaining, and the teams didn’t shake hands. A game being stopped early and no post-game handshake? What did the players take out of this game?  And then there was a shouting match between the fans. Although I didn’t see it, a man said two moms shoved each other.  Not surprisingly, more shouting followed. Of course, the place was filled with little kids.  Pathetically, there’s more, but I think I’ve made my point.  Actually, I’m not trying to make a point – I’m just writing what happened. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement  and  Privacy Policy © 2019 MassLive.com. All rights reserved ( About Us ). > The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of MassLive.com.< p> Community Rules   apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Ad Choices 