Which vitamin is not present in milk? - Quora a KZFLc d C hyMy b WkRHk y H iFLb G dtd e pQADN n axVqB o j P Fz a AEISN l UenoH a pKEN t CP e r Vit C 3,826 Views 16,180 Views 8,587 Views 2,414 Views 3,135 Views First, cow milk has no fiber at all (which 97% of US residents don’t get enough of; its iron is .07mg/cup, vanishingly small. As to vitamins, D is added to milk, and it has zero vitamin C, alpha-carotene, beta-cryptoxanthin, lycopene, lutein, and zeaxanthin. Folate is negligible at 12mcg/c. It has .17mg/c alpha-tocopherol, vitamin E, and zero beta-, gamma-, or delta-. Its vitamin K is .7mcg/c. All in all, it doesn’t do a body much good. It does have calcium, though population studies show a negative correlation between dairy consumption and bone health. And a cup has half the saturated fat so... First, cow milk has no fiber at all (which 97% of US residents don’t get enough of; its iron is .07mg/cup, vanishingly small. As to vitamins, D is added to milk, and it has zero vitamin C, alpha-carotene, beta-cryptoxanthin, lycopene, lutein, and zeaxanthin. Folate is negligible at 12mcg/c. It has .17mg/c alpha-tocopherol, vitamin E, and zero beta-, gamma-, or delta-. Its vitamin K is .7mcg/c. All in all, it doesn’t do a body much good. It does have calcium, though population studies show a negative correlation between dairy consumption and bone health. And a cup has half the saturated fat some people think should be a daily limit. But it’s quite good for calves, if not for primates. p Pw r fBkFT o rh m ys o UT t CLT e V d fOKz cI b j y jnGvc BRTXv D lgV u Lp c tm k MDU D Ch u CCq c AhS k bx G A o g The original question did not imply a human standard for deficiency, which is one why these answers are so varied, and possibly why one answer is so lacking in courtesy and grace. So first, let’s consider the question from the perspective of milk being consumed by the young of the same species: By general meaning of deficient, none. Mammal milk is quite sufficient nutritionally to grow a neonatal mammal into a young mammal capable of a reproductive future. If you want to be commercially specific, cows milk will sustain a calf to a “sufficient” degree (i.e., no gross vitamin deficiencies). But ... The original question did not imply a human standard for deficiency, which is one why these answers are so varied, and possibly why one answer is so lacking in courtesy and grace. So first, let’s consider the question from the perspective of milk being consumed by the young of the same species: By general meaning of deficient, none. Mammal milk is quite sufficient nutritionally to grow a neonatal mammal into a young mammal capable of a reproductive future. If you want to be commercially specific, cows milk will sustain a calf to a “sufficient” degree (i.e., no gross vitamin deficiencies). But if we consider human consumption of milk, the answer changes. Humans, for example, do not synthesize their own vitamin C. So vitamin C is “missing” from a human nutritional perspective and “not missing” from a calf’s or kid’s perspective. Similar issues apply to trace mineral nutritional differences, although that aspect of milk nutrition was not part of either merged question. Whole milk contains some vitamin A, however levels in semi skimmed and skimmed milks are much lower. This is because vitamin A is dissolved within the milk fat fraction which is removed to varying levels when producing lower fat milk products. Vitamin A is required for good vision, immune health and for normal growth and development of body tissues. Whole milk contains approximately 62µg of vitamin A per glass (200ml) which provides about 9% of an adult’s daily vitamin A requirement. 3,135 Views 973 Views 4,841 Views 1,533 Views 938 Views s OI p LiT o CZ n QLR s gH o xab r SrX e jgS d Vk zwWF b USV y DYAJ BK S jnnm c PdMYH r YAf i Cn b CJjWw o cmbP l eVXm S P Hzw u Mz b naT l fhjwn i orNF s ker h qKNQ i oFt n D g oCN Milk is a good source of thiamin,riboflavin and vitamin B12 . Milk contains small amounts of niacin, pantothenic acid, vitamin B6, vitamin C, and folate and is not considered a major source of these vitamins in the diet. Milk contains the fat soluble vitamins A, D, E, and K. This should be deleted or merged with the older: Which vitamin is not present in milk? 3,863 Views 3,826 Views 1,236 Views 8,587 Views 2,286 Views 3,135 Views 1,533 Views 4,841 Views 6,812 Views 938 Views 1,986 Views 338 Views 944 Views 3,622 Views 16,180 Views 