What mistakes do American tourists (specifically) make when visiting Paris? - Quora a g d Zsier MA b Uc y ShSix bR D Ew u FFA c wzqAU k B D z u tujY c Xtcm k q G ACwP o vbaS Here are a few examples of mistakes that I’ve made or observed in Americans visiting Paris for the first time: Here are a few examples of mistakes that I’ve made or observed in Americans visiting Paris for the first time: 71,717 Views 10,582 Views 66,481 Views 759,771 Views 73,874 Views This advice works for every tourist everywhere : it is never a good idea to expect in a foreign country your usual standards. This advice works for every tourist everywhere : it is never a good idea to expect in a foreign country your usual standards. s XLv p ELyy o i n xQ s SSq o dMroZ r Gw e oqo d eYcbZ rPA b Cv y PtXn ewGfV C v o MxLj m iL p cWy a qUm r nkp e x C Vpsn a LytIl r xu d qWc s VLEX I used to live close to the Porte de Versailles metro station. Every day I ' d see a few confused Americans trying to figure out why there weren ' t any signposts for the palace. The town of Versailles (where the Palais de Versailles is) is 20km outside Paris. On the subject of metro stations named for gates; don ' t pronounce Porte d ' Orleans the same way that you ' d pronounce New Orleans. Just don ' t…. America is a very car-centric nation (especially away from the coasts) and American cities are designed around car access. Paris really isn ' t. Don ' t assume you ' ll need a car and don ' t limit your trans... I used to live close to the Porte de Versailles metro station. Every day I ' d see a few confused Americans trying to figure out why there weren ' t any signposts for the palace. The town of Versailles (where the Palais de Versailles is) is 20km outside Paris. On the subject of metro stations named for gates; don ' t pronounce Porte d ' Orleans the same way that you ' d pronounce New Orleans. Just don ' t…. America is a very car-centric nation (especially away from the coasts) and American cities are designed around car access. Paris really isn ' t. Don ' t assume you ' ll need a car and don ' t limit your transport options to taxis/Uber/etc. The RATP network covers pretty much everywhere in Paris at most of the times you ' ll need it and your tourist ticket or carnet is valid on buses, trams and the RER as well as on the metro. Additionally, Paris is a relatively small city (geographically speaking) walking is often an option - many times it is the best option. s rBPvp p AwYiE o mFN n BZ s tonjF o E r U e pnJ d eOf SW b Lu y yvHwE YlAQm T fgy r vINMC u FT t wvAB h sP F xOB i gCDZ n W d wp e JeYHx r UhEGL 73,874 Views 6,599 Views 15,092 Views 1,789,051 Views 2,529 Views This happened in a small, fairly touristy  café  near Montmartre a couple years before I actually lived in Paris (I was on vacation with my parents). While I’m trying to sip at my piping hot  soupe à l’oignon , I hear two American women — in their late twenties, one of them is of Asian origin, fairly well dressed; I peg them as big-city, Whole Foods types. They sit down, and order a glass of white wine each.  Typical. As well as, they order — to share — a  fondue bourguignonne , known to them as “fun-do”. Interesting, I ponder. They didn’t look like big meat eaters. See,  fondue bourguignonne  is this... This happened in a small, fairly touristy  café  near Montmartre a couple years before I actually lived in Paris (I was on vacation with my parents). While I’m trying to sip at my piping hot  soupe à l’oignon , I hear two American women — in their late twenties, one of them is of Asian origin, fairly well dressed; I peg them as big-city, Whole Foods types. They sit down, and order a glass of white wine each.  Typical. As well as, they order — to share — a  fondue bourguignonne , known to them as “fun-do”. Interesting, I ponder. They didn’t look like big meat eaters. See,  fondue bourguignonne  is this: Small chunks of beef you fry to your desired doneness in a fondue pot full of oil. Surely they were expecting the world-famous  fondue suisse , the one with the bread and cheese: They were. A few minutes later, a bowl of chunks of cold, raw beef is brought to their table. Screams. The waiter tries to explain the situation, in his best grammatically-perfect-but-heavily-accented English. They’re having none of it; the menu should have said it was meat. No, they don’t want to order something else. They leave. Food is serious business there, folks. And don’t expect a mainstream tourist place to cater to more exotic tastes. If you want good vegetarian food, go to an Indian restaurant. I recommend  Royal Rajahstan  in the 15ème near Bir-Hakeim. Wrong footwear. Seriously, you will have to walk further than you are used to. If you ' re sightseeing, don ' t wear heels, flip flops, sandals or trainers. Paris is hard on the feet and worse on the feet when it rains. Well broken in shoes and a spare pair of socks are the key. 759,771 Views 71,717 Views 3,838 Views 66,481 Views 1,066 Views 73,874 Views 133,150 Views 15,092 Views 15,321 Views 2,529 Views 10,582 Views 18,521 Views 2,705 Views 1,165 Views 41,491 Views 