Changing jobs more than 5 times in 10 years is bad for employability | UK | News | Express.co.uk Don ' t have an account?  Register Register with email Already have an account?  Sign in By registering I understand and agree to the  Terms of use & Privacy policy By registering I understand and agree to the  Terms of use & Privacy policy Please provide your site password to link to your existing account or  click here  to create a new account Please enter your email address to reset your password Sign in with a different account The email should arrive straight away, it may be in your spam. The link will expire after 24 hours.  We value your privacy   We and our partners use technologies, such as cookies, and process personal data, such as IP addresses and cookie identifiers, to personalise ads and content based on your interests, measure the performance of ads and content, and derive insights about the audiences who saw ads and content. Click below to consent to the use of this technology and the processing of your personal data for these purposes. You can change your mind and change your consent choices at any time by returning to this site.   Powered by  Nearly 90 per cent of employers said they'd drop an applicant who'd moved too much [CULTURA/GETTY] While climbing the promotion ladder is a vital part of work, a new study  found that people who have five or more jobs over 10 years put off bosses. Almost 90 per cent of employers said they were likely to drop an applicant from consideration for a position if they thought the person had moved around too much during their working life. People who change employers too often are likely to be labelled "job hoppers" and seen by bosses as someone who will not stick around. Recruitment firm Robert Half interviewed 200 bosses from UK companies about how many positions they considered acceptable before they began to suspect a potential recruit might lack staying power. More than one in three (36 per cent) of the executives interviewed said they were "very likely" to look badly on an applicant they considered a job hopper, and 53pc were "somewhat likely", with the remainder not concerned by the amount of jobs a person had had. "The job market has rebounded in recent years, and employers understand that job candidates may have had short stints in some positions," said Phil Sheridan, senior managing director at Robert Half UK.  While there is no optimal time to stay in a job, the secret is to show progression Phil Sheridan, managing director at Robert Half UK "However, businesses look for people who will be committed to the organisation, can contribute to the company, and help it reach its short and long-term goals. "Too much voluntary job hopping can be a red flag." Previous research by the company identified the ideal stay in a job as six years, but this was from a worker's point of view, not a potential employer. Mr Sheridan added: "While there is no optimal time to stay in a job, the secret is to show progression. You need to demonstrate on your CV that you have mastered the role, providing value to your employer and earning recognition for your efforts. This can come in the form of promotion and or additional work responsibility and often takes four or more years to attain, on average." Jonathan Mills, managing director at Personal Career Management, agreed that five jobs in 10 years is the limit before potential employers begin to ask questions, though added that the sector you work in and what stage of your career you are at has a big effect on the number. "A new job every two years is a number I would not massively disagree with," he said. "But in depends where you are working. If you work in marketing that's acceptable - a lot of people in marketing would say that if you don't move after that long you're a bit staid. "Also people early in their careers would be expected to move around more often." Tuesday, 10th December 2019  See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper,order back issues and use the historic Daily Expressnewspaper archive. 