Roxana Martinescu - Catering Accounts Sales Executive - Zoes Kitchen | LinkedIn Top Strengths: Strategic  Achiever  Competition  Learner  Woo (Winning over others) By  Roxana Martinescu January 6, 2016 Liked by  Roxana Martinescu Liked by  Roxana Martinescu Liked by  Roxana Martinescu 6 years 5 months Apr 2018   –  Present 1 year 9 months Charlotte, NC  &  Greenville, SC Territory Work in Partnership with Market Operator helping to define market strategy and develop tactical plans to achieve quarterly sales targets Drive Catering Sales business performance Motivate, teach, and coach AGM and Catering Coordinator to support sales strategies and effectively execute tactics that grow ZK catering Coach and support Market Operators and GMs to ensure flawless execution of all catering  Conduct regular analysis of business performance, assess the effectiveness and impact of sales and marketing programs. Also, adjust plans and tactics accordingly Provide regular sales updates to the Operations team  Partner with Marketing Team to fully leverage marketing programs and drive catering sales within the market Attend trade shows, industry, and networking opportunities Work in Partnership with Market Operator helping to define market strategy and develop tactical plans to achieve quarterly sales targets Drive Catering Sales business performance Motivate, teach, and coach AGM and Catering Coordinator to support sales strategies and effectively execute tactics that grow ZK catering Coach and support Market Operators and GMs to ensure flawless execution of all catering  Conduct regular analysis of business performance, assess the effectiveness and... Work in Partnership with Market Operator helping to define market strategy and develop tactical plans to achieve quarterly sales targets Drive Catering Sales business performance Motivate, teach, and coach AGM and Catering Coordinator to support sales strategies and effectively execute tactics that grow ZK catering Coach and support Market Operators and GMs to ensure flawless execution of all catering  Conduct regular analysis of business performance, assess the effectiveness and impact of sales and marketing programs. Also, adjust plans and tactics accordingly Provide regular sales updates to the Operations team  Partner with Marketing Team to fully leverage marketing programs and drive catering sales within the market Attend trade shows, industry, and networking opportunities Aug 2015   –  Present 4 years 5 months North Charlotte, NC Area Grow both in-store and catering sales within a four store territory by actively prospecting and maintaining client relationships; primarily in the corporate/medical/social fields. Pro-active account management of existing and new catering clients through daily interaction, quality product/perfect execution of orders and relationship building. Actively pursue and secure partnerships with outside catering venues, event professionals, wedding planners, etc. to establish repeat and referral business. Build trusting and lasting relationships with GMs and in-store teams to execute sales, identify new business opportunities and drive sales company sales growth. Create and execute quarterly / annual action plans to ensure established goals are met or exceeded. Set and conduct tasting appointments with businesses to introduce the brand and its products. Manage client catering rewards accounts to ensure accurate reporting. Forecast and track sales progress to anticipate and address revenue challenges. Identify new marketing opportunities and contribute ideas and suggestions to marketing plans and strategies. Analyze marketing program effectiveness and make recommendations for improvement. Collaborate with GMs / Regional Operators to execute in-store marketing campaigns. Seek opportunities to attend networking and community / business events as brand ambassador. Provide direction on charity donation requests and community / fundraising events. Grow both in-store and catering sales within a four store territory by actively prospecting and maintaining client relationships; primarily in the corporate/medical/social fields. Pro-active account management of existing and new catering clients through daily interaction, quality product/perfect execution of orders and relationship building. Actively pursue and secure partnerships with outside catering venues, event professionals, wedding planners, etc. to establish repeat and referral... Grow both in-store and catering sales within a four store territory by actively prospecting and maintaining client relationships; primarily in the corporate/medical/social fields. Pro-active account management of existing and new catering clients through daily interaction, quality product/perfect execution of orders and relationship building. Actively pursue and secure partnerships with outside catering venues, event professionals, wedding planners, etc. to establish repeat and referral business. Build trusting and lasting relationships with GMs and in-store teams to execute sales, identify new business opportunities and drive sales company sales growth. Create and execute quarterly / annual action plans to ensure established goals are met or exceeded. Set and conduct tasting appointments with businesses to introduce the brand and its products. Manage client catering rewards accounts to ensure accurate reporting. Forecast and track sales progress to anticipate and address revenue challenges. Identify new marketing opportunities and contribute ideas and suggestions to marketing plans and strategies. Analyze marketing program effectiveness and make recommendations for improvement. Collaborate with GMs / Regional Operators to execute in-store marketing campaigns. Seek opportunities to attend networking and community / business events as brand ambassador. Provide direction on charity donation requests and community / fundraising events. May 2015   –   Aug 2015 4 months Huntersville, NC Aug 2013   –   Aug 2015 2 years 1 month Huntersville, NC Mar 2006   –   Nov 2013 7 years 9 months Fuquay-Varina, NC Supervised and directed the staff Assisted in advertising promotions Coordinated between the catering director and the client Consulted with client in person/via e-mail/ over the phone Beverage/Alcohol control Set up/Take down for events (linens, centerpieces, buffets etc.…) Crisis management Organized special events Answer phone calls/e-mails and follow up phone calls E-mail prospective clients packages/information about the facility Schedule dates for showings Show house and grounds Marketing online/magazines/ printed materials Helped increase profitability Supervised and directed the staff Assisted in advertising promotions Coordinated between the catering director and the client Consulted with client in person/via e-mail/ over the phone Beverage/Alcohol control Set up/Take down for events (linens, centerpieces, buffets etc.…) Crisis management Organized special events Answer phone calls/e-mails and follow up phone calls E-mail prospective clients packages/information about the facility Schedule dates for... Supervised and directed the staff Assisted in advertising promotions Coordinated between the catering director and the client Consulted with client in person/via e-mail/ over the phone Beverage/Alcohol control Set up/Take down for events (linens, centerpieces, buffets etc.…) Crisis management Organized special events Answer phone calls/e-mails and follow up phone calls E-mail prospective clients packages/information about the facility Schedule dates for showings Show house and grounds Marketing online/magazines/ printed materials Helped increase profitability Aug 2011   –   Aug 2012 1 year 1 month Assisted in advertising promotions I coordinated between the kitchen and the client Consulted with client in person/via e-mail/ over the phone Crisis management Organized special events Answer phone calls/e-mails E-mail prospective clients packages/information about the facility Follow up phone calls Schedule dates for showings Assisted in advertising promotions I coordinated between the kitchen and the client Consulted with client in person/via e-mail/ over the phone Crisis management Organized special events Answer phone calls/e-mails E-mail prospective clients packages/information about the facility Follow up phone calls Schedule dates for showings Apr 2004   –   Oct 2010 6 years 7 months Fuquay-Varina, NC I supervised and directed the staff Assisted in advertising promotions I coordinated between the catering director and the client Consulted with client in person/via e-mail/ over the phone Beverage/Alcohol control Set up/Take down for events (linens, centerpieces, buffets etc.…) Crisis management Organized special events Answer phone calls/e-mails and follow up phone calls E-mail prospective clients packages/information about the facility Schedule dates for showings Show house and grounds Marketing online/magazines/ printed materials Helped in substantiating the business from its beginning  I supervised and directed the staff Assisted in advertising promotions I coordinated between the catering director and the client Consulted with client in person/via e-mail/ over the phone Beverage/Alcohol control Set up/Take down for events (linens, centerpieces, buffets etc.…) Crisis management Organized special events Answer phone calls/e-mails and follow up phone calls E-mail prospective clients packages/information about the facility Schedule dates for... I supervised and directed the staff Assisted in advertising promotions I coordinated between the catering director and the client Consulted with client in person/via e-mail/ over the phone Beverage/Alcohol control Set up/Take down for events (linens, centerpieces, buffets etc.…) Crisis management Organized special events Answer phone calls/e-mails and follow up phone calls E-mail prospective clients packages/information about the facility Schedule dates for showings Show house and grounds Marketing online/magazines/ printed materials Helped in substantiating the business from its beginning  Apr 2002   –   Jun 2004 2 years 3 months Fuquay-Varina, NC I worked 40 hours a week making pastries, sandwiches, salads, and I helped build clientele. I also was a barista. I worked 40 hours a week making pastries, sandwiches, salads, and I helped build clientele. I also was a barista. Jun 2008 Children Coordinated fundraiser banquet for Hand of Hope, which helped young pregnant women get established in society on their own. It was very successful, and became an annual event. Coordinated fundraiser banquet for Hand of Hope, which helped young pregnant women get established in society on their own. It was very successful, and became an annual event. Aug 2006 Children I volunteered for 2 weeks in Guayaquil, Ecuador to help minister to young children and bring them hope for a good future. The country is very poor, and very rich at the same time. We were able to substantiate ministry tools for the Pastor's and help build up churches.  I volunteered for 2 weeks in Guayaquil, Ecuador to help minister to young children and bring them hope for a good future. The country is very poor, and very rich at the same time. We were able to substantiate ministry tools for the Pastor's and help build up churches.  Aug 2015   –  Present 4 years 5 months Join to view Roxana’s full profile Romania 1 other named Roxana Martinescu is on LinkedIn Sales Director jobs 3,152 open jobs Store Manager jobs in Monroe, NC 92,343 open jobs Salesperson jobs 77,633 open jobs Distribution jobs in Lincolnton, NC 87,171 open jobs Store Manager jobs in Albemarle, NC 92,343 open jobs Panera Bread jobs 10,185 open jobs Distribution jobs in Gastonia, NC 87,171 open jobs Distribution jobs in Dallas, NC 87,171 open jobs Account Executive jobs 7,127 open jobs Carrols Corporation jobs 6,264 open jobs Taco Bell jobs 37,447 open jobs Olive Garden jobs 6,996 open jobs General Manager jobs 20,087 open jobs Account Manager jobs 6,963 open jobs McDonald & #39;s jobs 56,434 open jobs 