Potential of mungbean, Vigna radiatus as a trap crop for managing Apolygus lucorum (Hemiptera: Miridae) on Bt cotton - ScienceDirect ScienceDirect In recent years, the mirid  Apolygus lucorum  has become the key insect pest of Bt cotton in China. Currently, insecticide use is the sole pest management option available for most Chinese cotton farmers. As irrational pesticide use may have several undesirable effects, environmentally sound and sustainable management alternatives are urgently needed. In this paper, we evaluate the potential of mungbean,  Vigna radiatus  as a trap crop for  A. lucorum  in Bt cotton. Plant suitability trials showed that  A. lucorum  population densities on mungbean were significantly higher than those on cotton. Large-scale field experiments were conducted during 2006 and 2007 to determine the effectiveness of mungbean strips for managing  A. lucorum  in Bt cotton fields. In this experiment, 0.1 ha Bt cotton fields were established, and mungbean strips covered approximately 10% of the total area. With periodical insecticide applications in mungbean strips, average mirid population densities in cotton fields were 18.1 ± 2.1 individuals per 100 plants, versus 36.0 ± 3.4 in the fields without mungbean strips in 2006. However,  A. lucorum  population still surpassed economic threshold (i.e., 5, 10, and 20 individuals per 100 cotton plants at the seeding stage, the squaring and flowering stages, and the belling stage, respectively). In 2007, aside from the insecticide sprays within the mungbean strips, 2–3 insecticide applications were done in the cotton field. As a result,  A. lucorum  populations were kept below economic threshold, and the total amount of insecticides reduced about 70% of those used in the common chemical-controlled fields. Our work shows that mungbean has considerable potential as a trap crop in Bt cotton fields, and its adoption by Chinese farmers very likely will reduce current levels of pesticide use in this crop. Plant bugs (Heteroptera: Miridae) are important pests of cotton worldwide ( Wheeler, 2001 ). In the major Chinese cotton-growing regions,  Apolygus lucorum  Meyer-Dür and various  Adelphocoris  species have historically been considered important herbivores ( Cao and Wan, 1983 ,  Lu et al., 2008 ). Adults and nymphs feed on both vegetative and reproductive cotton plant tissues and attain high population densities during critical cotton squaring, flowering, and belling stages ( Lu et al., 2008 ). Since the massive adoption of Bt cotton in China during the late 1990s, mirids have steadily become the principal insects pests of this crop ( Wu et al., 2002 ,  Wu, 2007 ,  Lu et al., 2008 ), and are currently inflicting cotton yield losses up to 20–30% ( Lu et al., 2007a ). One of the dominant mirid species is  A. lucorum  in Bt cotton fields in Chinese Changjiang River and Yellow River cotton-planting regions ( Lu et al., 2008 ). At present, Chinese farmers almost exclusively rely on chemical control, which may create problems of resistance development, pest resurgence and environmental pollution ( Lu et al., 2007a ). Given the many drawbacks of a sole reliance on chemical pesticides, environmentally friendly pest management options urgently need to be defined. A promising, environmentally sound approach to manage insect pests in agricultural and forest systems is trap cropping ( Hokkanen, 1991 ,  Foster and Harris, 1997 ,  Shelton and Badenes-Perez, 2006 ,  Cook et al., 2007 ). The practice of trap cropping is based upon the exploitation of insect preferences for certain host plants, based upon visual, tactile or olfactory cues ( Yan, 2003 ,  Schoonhoven et al., 2005 ,  Hokkanen, 1991 ,  Shelton and Badenes-Perez, 2006 ). By inter-planting highly attractive plant species with susceptible crops, pest insects can be attracted and diverted from the target crop. Additionally, the effectiveness of trap crops can be increased by targeted use of other control methods, such as insecticide sprays ( Hokkanen, 1991 ,  Shelton and Badenes-Perez, 2006 ). For example,  Castle (2006)  applied insecticides to control  Bemisia tabaci  on a cantaloupe trap crop, thereby preventing adult dispersal into a main cotton crop. The combination of insecticide sprays and trap crop was also used to manage  Zonosemata electa  in bell peppers ( Boucher et al., 2003 ). Rational use of insecticides within the trap crop can lower overall pesticide use and associated environmental impacts ( Hokkanen, 1991 ,  Shelton and Badenes-Perez, 2006 ). Trap cropping has been successfully used for management of mirid pests worldwide. In USA, alfalfa strips are inter-planted with cotton and managed distinctively to control  Lygus hesperus  ( Stern et al., 1964 ,  Stern et al., 1969 ,  Godfrey and Leigh, 1994 ). Presently, cotton–alfalfa inter-planting is used at a commercial level in California ( Shelton and Badenes-Perez, 2006 ). In Australia, alfalfa strips are established within commercial cotton fields to lower  Creontiades dilutus  infestation levels ( Mensah and Khan, 1997 ). Recently, two other studies showed that  Matricaria recutita  could serve as a potential trap crop of  Lygus rugulipennis  on strawberry ( Easterbrook and Tooley, 1999 ), and multiple plant species (e.g.,  Trifolium pretense ,  Artemisia vulgaris ) could be used for trapping  Lygus  spp. in lettuce fields ( Rämert et al., 2001 ). However, trap cropping waits to be explored as a management option for mirids, such as  A. lucorum , in Bt cotton in China. In this paper, we examine the potential of mungbean,  Vigna radiatus  L. as a trap crop for  A. lucorum  in Bt cotton in China. Two-year plant suitability trials were conducted to compare  A. lucorum  population levels in separate cotton and mungbean plots. Then, the effects of mungbean strips on  A. lucorum  infestation levels in cotton were determined in large-scale field experiments. Plant suitability trials were conducted at the Langfang Experimental Station of Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences (Hebei Province, China) during 2006 and 2007. We established multiple 4 m × 4 m plots in a 15m-wide parcel positioned within a Bt cotton field. Within these plots, we planted 43 different plant species of 13 families in 2006, and 130 species of 21 families in 2007 (Lu, Y.H., unpublished data). Each plot contained only one plant species and each plant species was grown in a total of three plots as separate replicates. Individual plots were spaced at 1 m intervals. Among the different plant species was a transgenic cotton variety (SGK321) and a mungbean variety (JILVDOU2). SGK321 expresses the Cry1Ac and CpTI toxic proteins, and was provided by the Biotechnology Research Institute (Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, CAAS). JILVDOU2 was supplied by the Baoding Institute of Agricultural Sciences, Hebei Province, China. In early May, all different plant species were sown and plots were subsequently managed using identical agronomic practices and without insecticide use. In each plot, we surveyed  A. lucorum  population numbers from mid-June to mid-September during both years. This sampling period coincides with the time during which  A. lucorum  is present in cotton fields in China ( Lu et al., 2008 ). Sampling consisted of a visual inspection of plants for presence of  A. lucorum  adults, followed by knock-down techniques to determine abundance of nymphs and adults ( Rämert et al., 2001 ). Visual inspections mainly surveyed the upper part of plants. Knock-down techniques basically consisted of pulling parts of the plants over a rectangular 40 cm × 26 cm × 11 cm white-colored pan, after which plant material was struck four times and the number of dislodged individuals was counted. During each sampling event, total number of adults and nymphs were recorded for both the visual inspection and knock-down method. Plots were sampled every 5 days, and sampling was conducted in four 1 m 2  subplots within each plot. In 2006, we established a total of six 700 m 2  (35 m long, 20 m wide) cotton fields at the Langfang Experimental Station. In 2007, research was conducted in six 800 m 2  (40 m long, 20 m wide) cotton fields in both Langfang and Xiajin (Shandong Province). During both years, cotton (var. SGK321) was planted between May 1 and 5 and subsequently managed using standard agronomic practices. In 2006, we planted one (20 m long, 1.5 m wide) strip of mungbean in the middle of three cotton fields, and left the same-sized strip bare in the remaining three fields. Mungbean was planted on June 27, when cotton was at the squaring stage. Subsequent cotton fields were separated by  > 10 m intervals, which were kept free of vegetation. In 2007, we planted a (20 m long, 1 m wide) strip of mungbean on May 3–5, at both the northern and southern border of three cotton fields in each site. In the same fields, we planted a second mungbean strip (40 m long, 1 m wide) from south to north in the center of each field on July 5. During both years, fields with and without mungbean strips were managed in the same fashion and mungbean strips received identical fertilizer and irrigation treatment as cotton fields. During both years, we monitored  A. lucorum  population density in mungbean every 5 days using the knock-down technique. At each sampling event, we monitored  A. lucorum  population levels in 10 different locations per mungbean strip. Mirid population densities in cotton were determined by visually inspecting a total of 20 plants at five random sites within each field, at 5–7 day intervals ( Wu et al., 2002 ,  Lu et al., 2008 ). In 2006, mirid population surveys were done from July 25 to September 8 at Langfang, while in 2007 surveys were conducted from June 21 to September 9 at Langfang, and from June 20 to September 3 at Xiajin. For both mungbean strips and cotton fields, we recorded the numbers of  A. lucorum  adults and nymphs at each sampling event. From the first appearance of  A. lucorum  on mungbean, endosulfan (0.210 kg A.I. ha −1 ) was applied at 10-day intervals in the mungbean strips. In 2006, no measures were taken to control  A. lucorum  in cotton fields. In 2007, we also applied insecticides in cotton, depending on  A. lucorum  densities within each field. When  A. lucorum  population density within a given field exceeded economic threshold (i.e., five  A. lucorum  per 100 cotton plants at the seeding stage, 10 individuals per 100 plants at the squaring and flowering stages, and 20 individuals per 100 plants at the belling stage) ( Zhang et al., 1986 ), acetamiprid (0.018 kg A.I. ha −1 ) was applied uniformly within the respective field. Statistical differences in  A. lucorum  population density in mungbean strips vs. cotton fields, and in cotton fields with vs. without mungbean were determined using paired  t -tests ( SAS Institute, 1988 ). Prior to analysis, data were log-transformed (lg  n +1) to meet assumptions of normality and homogeneity of variance. In 2006, the number of  A. lucorum  nymphs and total individuals on mungbean were significantly greater than those on cotton from June 14 to August 28 (paired  t -tests,  P   <  0.05) ( Fig. 1 a and c). However, adult densities on mungbean were only significantly greater than those on cotton from June 14 to July 29, and from August 13 to 28 (paired  t -tests,  P   <  0.05) ( Fig. 1 b). In 2007, adult and total  A. lucorum  densities were significantly greater in mungbean than in cotton from June 16 to August 10 (paired  t -tests,  P   <  0.05), while nymph density in mungbean was significantly greater than in cotton from June 26 to August 5 (paired  t -tests,  P   <  0.05) ( Fig 2 ). Fig. 1 . Population densities of  A. lucorum  in mungbean and cotton plots in 2006. a, Total individuals; b, adult; c, nymph. An asterisk (*) indicates a significant difference in  A. lucorum  density at a given sampling event between mungbean and cotton plots (paired  t -tests,  P   <  0.05). Mirid population densities are indicated as # individuals per square meter. Fig. 2 . Population densities of  A. lucorum  in mungbean and cotton plots in 2007. a, Total individuals; b, adult; c, nymph. An asterisk (*) indicates a significant difference in  A. lucorum  density at a given sampling event between mungbean and cotton plots (paired  t -tests,  P   <  0.05). Mirid population densities are indicated as # individuals per square meter. In 2006,  A. lucorum  densities on cotton with mungbean strips were significantly lower than in cotton without mungbean throughout the sampling period (paired  t -tests,  P   <  0.05). However,  A. lucorum  densities in cotton fields with mungbean exceeded economic threshold levels during four successive sampling dates (August 9–24) ( Fig 3 ). Fig. 3 . Population densities of  A. lucorum  in cotton fields with and without mungbean strips at Langfang in 2006. Mungbean strips were chemically treated every ten days from July 25 to September 3. No chemical spray was used in cotton fields with mungbean strips. An asterisk (*) indicates a significant difference in  A. lucorum  density at a given sampling event between cotton with and without mungbean strips (paired  t -tests,  P   <  0.05). Mirid population densities are indicated as # individuals per 100 plants. In 2007,  A. lucorum  densities in both Langfang and Xiajin were significantly lower in cotton with mungbean strips than in those without mungbean throughout the sampling period (paired  t -tests,  P   <  0.05). However, two and three insecticide applications were still needed to control  A. lucorum  populations at Langfang and Xiajin, respectively ( Fig. 4 ). Fig. 4 . Population densities of  A. lucorum  in cotton fields with and without mungbean strips at Langfang (a) and Xiajin (b) in 2007. At Langfang, insecticide applications were made every ten days in early-planted mungbean strips from June 21 to August 10, and in late-planted strips from July 21 to August 30. Chemical sprays were used in cotton fields with mungbean strips on July 16 and August 5. At Xiajin, early-planted mungbean strips were chemically treated every ten days from June 20 to August 9, and late-planted strips were treated similarly from July 20 to August 29. Chemical sprays were used in cotton fields with mungbean strips on July 10, and 25, and August 9. An asterisk (*) indicates a significant difference in  A. lucorum  density at a given sampling event between cotton with and without mungbean strips (paired  t -tests,  P   <  0.05). Mirid population densities are indicated as # individuals per 100 plants. Many phytophagous insects exhibit clear preferences for certain plant species ( Qin, 1987 ,  Yan, 2003 ,  Schoonhoven et al., 2005 ). The study of such host plant preferences is the basis for the development of pest management strategies, such as ethological control (e.g., the use of chemical attractants for monitoring or mass trapping) and trap crops ( Foster and Harris, 1997 ,  Schoonhoven et al., 2005 ). This study shows that a key pest of Bt cotton in China,  A. lucorum,  exhibits a preference for mungbean over cotton, and that the establishment of mungbean strips within cotton fields greatly reduced  A. lucorum  population levels in the latter. Population densities of both adult and nymph  A. lucorum  in mungbean were significantly greater than those in cotton during most of the cotton-growing season. Our field experiments confirm results from olfactometer trials comparing attractiveness of cotton vs. mungbean (Lu, Y.H., unpublished data). In these trials, a greater proportion ( > 70%) of  A. lucorum  adults were attracted to mungbean odours than to cotton volatiles. Both laboratory trials and field experiments indicate that  A. lucorum  prefers mungbean over cotton, and that this host plant preference may be mediated by volatile cues. Other plant species, such as  Ricinus communis ,  Impatiens balsamina , also proved highly attractive to  A. lucorum  (Lu, Y.H., unpublished data). In plant suitability trials,  A. lucorum  densities on  R. communis  and  I. balsamina  at the flowering stage were similar to those on mungbean. However, mungbean was included in further field trials as general management requirements of this crop, such as irrigation, fertilization, and weed management, are greatly similar with cotton ( Li et al., 2006 ). Additionally, mungbean is an important crop in China, and its pods and seeds are used as food, traditional medicine, and forage for cattle ( Cheng and Cao, 1996 ). Mungbean is mainly found in the Yellow River and Changjiang River regions, where about 0.8 million ha per year are planted with this crop. Also, as a means of diversifying income sources, Chinese farmers frequently inter-plant mungbean in cotton fields in these regions ( Li et al., 2006 ). Although mungbean strips effectively attracted adult  A. lucorum ,  A. lucorum  densities on cotton still exceeded economic threshold when no insecticide applications were made in this crop. Similar findings were made with cantaloupe as a trap crop for  B. tabaci  in cotton ( Castle, 2006 ). Adoption of corrective insecticide applications (through pest monitoring) in combination with trap cropping effectively suppressed  A. lucorum  densities. The use of (two or three) insecticide applications in cotton fields with mungbean strips compares to current farmer practices, which include up to 20 insecticide applications during one single cropping cycle. As such, the amount of insecticides used in cotton fields with mungbean strips was approximately 30% of those currently used in Bt cotton production in China. In addition to a direct reduction in product costs, adoption of a mungbean trap crop may also lower associated labor costs and reduce the environmental impact of cotton production. Mungbean strips attracted a great number of  A. lucorum , thereby directly reducing its population levels in surrounding cotton fields and effectively acting as a “sink” habitat. However, as reproduction of  A. lucorum  in mungbean plots was comparatively high (Lu, Y.H., unpublished data) and  A. lucorum  has great flight capability ( Lu et al., 2007b ), mungbean plots can also easily serve as “source” habitats from which mirids may re-infest cotton fields. Hence, an effective  A. lucorum  management strategy should be devised to prevent such re-infestation. Although calendar-based insecticide sprays were used in the experiment,  A. lucorum  management of mirids based on frequent monitoring is recommendable. Population densities of  A. lucorum  in mungbean (as in cotton) should be monitored routinely, especially after heavy rainfalls ( Ting, 1963 ,  Ting, 1964 ). Aside from recurrent insecticide applications within the trap crop, a variety of other measures can be used for management of the targeted pest insect ( Hokkanen, 1991 ). For example, specific management (i.e., mowing regimes) of alfalfa strips is effective in controlling both  Lygus  spp. ( Stern et al., 1964 ,  Stern et al., 1969 ,  Godfrey and Leigh, 1994 ) and  C. dilutus  ( Mensah and Khan, 1997 ). Also,  Swezey et al. (2007)  found that vacuuming alfalfa strips with a tractor-mounted device greatly reduced adult and nymph  L. hesperus . Semiochemical and pheromone baits can also be deployed within trap crops ( Hokkanen, 1991 ,  Vernon et al., 2000 ). Repellent non-host crops, synthetic repellents, anti-feedants and alarm pheromones can also increase effectiveness of a trap crop ( Cook et al., 2007 ). One example of such combined approach is the highly successful ‘push–pull strategy’ for control of stem borers,  Chilo partellus ,  Eldana saccharina ,  Busseola fusca , and  Sesamia calamistis , in maize and sorghum in Africa ( Khan and Pickett, 2004 ,  Cook et al., 2007 ). Also, the use of various plant species simultaneously as trap crops can greatly enhance control of a key pest ( Seal et al., 1992 ,  Muthiah, 2003 ). Hence, a multitude of different strategies could be considered to improve the effectiveness of mungbean strips to manage  A. lucorum  in cotton fields in China. Trap crops may also provide suitable resources or (shelter) conditions for insect natural enemies, which may further contribute to suppress pest populations in the trap crop strips or broader cropping field ( Mensah and Sequeira, 2004 ).  Tillman and Mullinix (2004)  reported that a sorghum trap crop used to manage  Helicoverpa armigera  also increases rates of parasitism by  Trichogramma chilonis .  Mensah (1999)  found that the population density of predators recorded in alfalfa strips was higher than in the cotton crop. In our study, we found high abundance of several predators, such as ladybird beetles, lacewings, and spiders, in mungbean strips (Lu, Y.H., unpublished data). However, the effectiveness of these predators to control  A. lucorum  has not been assessed. The size of an effective trap crop may vary greatly, but in general about 10% of the crop area is used ( Hokkanen, 1991 ). To reduce  Plutella xylostella  population levels in cabbage, between 5 and 13% of cropping area is used as trap crop ( Srinivasan and Moorthy, 1991 ,  Badenes-Perez et al., 2005 ). Only 1% of the total cropping area is dedicated to trap crops to manage  Helicoverpa  spp. in cotton fields ( Sequeira, 2001 ). Also, distances between subsequent trap crop strips may vary greatly ( Sevacherian and Stern, 1974 ,  Mensah and Khan, 1997 ,  Michaud et al., 2007 ). In the present study, we found that 10% trap crop and 20 m distance between subsequent strips effectively controls  A. lucorum . However, additional research should be conducted to determine whether a smaller area of trap crop or larger distances between subsequent strips could be equally effective in controlling  A. lucorum . As mungbean strips occupy about 10% of total cropping area, it is expected that Chinese cotton farmer may suffer direct economic losses. However, the forecasted reduction in  A. lucorum  infestation levels and associated drop in insecticides sprays (see above), in combination with the commercial value of mungbean (5–7 RMB/kg in Chinese market), could offset such losses. Mungbean proved attractive to adult  A. lucorum  at the seedling and flowering stages, however it becomes less attractive after flowering. Hence, the mungbean strips were planted twice throughout the 2007 growing season as to ensure a constant attractiveness to  A. lucorum . Early-planted mungbean strips (i.e., established in May) reduced the number of  A. lucorum  from early June to early August. In the meantime, late-planted mungbean strips (i.e., established in July) successfully managed  A. lucorum  in surrounding from late July to mid-September. Mungbean is usually sown during the period from April to August in China ( Cheng and Cao, 1996 ). In conclusion, the establishment of small mungbean strips, combined with frequent pest monitoring and corrective insecticide use (i.e., in mungbean strips as cotton fields), has considerable potential to be adopted by Chinese cotton farmers as an environmentally sound, low-cost IPM strategy against  A. lucorum  in Bt cotton. We thank Xiaofei Zhou for field assistance. This research was supported by Chinese Ministry of Science and Technology (973 Projects Grant, 2006CB102004; National Key Project of Scientific and Technical Supporting Programs, 2006BAD08A07). Elsevier We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content and ads. By continuing you agree to the  use of cookies . Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. or its licensors or contributors. ScienceDirect ® is a registered trademark of Elsevier B.V. 