Beerenberg Foundation | Beerenberg Thank you. You will hear from us shortly. all updates OR all updates To conserve and celebrate Hahndorf s cultural, built and natural heritage. We wished to establish a clear focus for Beerenberg s philanthropic activities while ensuring an effective and accountable means of giving. Launched in April 2010, the Beerenberg Foundation is a private trust, established solely for charitable purposes by Beerenberg Pty Ltd. The Foundation is bound by a legal trust deed to continue carrying out the mission of the foundation in perpetuity, making decisions solely for the public benefit and without regard to the commercial interests of Beerenberg Pty Ltd. The Foundation has an Advisory Committee, consisting of: This Advisory Committee meets quarterly to make decisions via consensus on projects to be funded. Beerenberg provided support to Saint Paul ' s Lutheran Church of Hahndorf  for the performance of the cantata  " St Nicholas "  by British composer, Benjamin Britten. The cantata is a work for professional vocalists, a community choir and professional instrumentalists.The canata text reflect the legendary life of St Nicholas. The performance is held on the eve of Hahandorf ' s annual St Nicholas comes to Hahandorf event 7th December 2018. The Beerenberg Foundation has been a supporter of the Heysen Sculpture Biennial Exhibition (HSB) for many years and will continue to support this event in 2019. The HSB is an outdoor exhibition of contemporary sculpture set in the ground of The Cedars, former home and studio of Sir Hans Heysen. Approximately 30 sculptures will be selected for exhibition, from end February to end of April 2019. Some exhibits remain on site for 18 months bringing a contemporary sculpture experience that complements the works of Hans and Nora Heysen. The signs, co-funded by the Beerenberg Foundation, provide a cultural appreciation and historical perspective about the life of the early pioneers who settled the township of Hahndorf. Placed along the Heritage Walkway adjoining the St Paul s Lutheran Homes, the signs give an understanding of how Hahndorf was settled, the hardships the early pioneers had to face and how they blended with the indigenous Peramangk people. We funded the  ' Windows and Doors '  project at the Hahndorf Academy.  This beautiful 153 year old heritage building has had multiple incarnations throughout its history, including a school, hospital, dentist and a betting shop, among many others. The Foundation is funding a series of vintage-inspired signs created for each room, accessible to the Academy ' s 80,000 visitors each year.  Each sign will detail the room ' s uses over the building ' s lifetime, including fascinating anecdotes that bring its history to life for the visitor. The Hahndorf Community Association and the District Council of Mount Barker have designed a monument to honour the endurance and pioneering spirit of the women and girls of Hahndorf ' s early Germanic settlers. Erected in Hahndorf ' s Pioneer Memorial Gardens, the Beerenberg Foundation is proud to have part-funded this important project. The Beerenberg Foundation has provided funding to assist the local Landcare group, Trees Please! Inc. to collect seed from local native trees and shrubs, raise seedlings and plant them in the Hahndorf area.  The group do most of their work at  ' The Cedars ' , the former Hahndorf home of celebrated artist Hans Heysen, still owned by the Heysen family. The Beerenberg Foundation provided funding to the Hahndorf Community Assocation Inc. to create and install ten heritage signs on State Heritage buildings along Hahndorf Main Street. Each sign conveys the history of each building and raises visitor s awareness of the cultural and social background of the town s original 1839 settlers. Held in April 2012, this inaugural symposium saw eight internationally acclaimed sculptors work over 20 days at The Cedars in Hahndorf to create eight totally unique stone sculptures.  They are to be permanently placed in hills locations, including this stunning piece below by Australian sculptor Craig Medson, which will be placed on the lawns of the Hahndorf Academy. The Beerenberg Foundation made a donation towards the cost of creating this sculpture. We know many local people are looking forward to driving and walking past it for years to come, remembering how they saw it being created from a what was just a huge chunk of stone. Ink Pot Arts, with the support of the District Council of Mount Barker and various sponsors, presented From Footprint to Footplate, an in-school performance acknowledging and celebrating the history, influential persons, founding families and culture of the Adelaide Hills region. The Beerenberg Foundation contributed to two touring seasons of From Footprint to Footplate. The Hahndorf Community Association initiated a project with the Mount Barker District to preserve and restore the historic Nixon ' s Mill to its former glory. Frederick R Nixon ' s wind-powered mill was completed in 1842 overlooking the road between Hahndorf and Mount Barker. This mill opened up an important agricultural area of South Australia and it was able to grind over half a million bushels of wheat in one season. Milling ceased at Nixon ' s site in 1864 as it was no longer able to compete with the steam-powered mills. The Beerenberg Foundation contributed to the preservation and restoration project; with works including, site rehabilitation, safe public access and installing information boards and signage to reflect the significance of the Mill in Hahndorf ' s early history. 