Optimize your SEA landing page | CyberPublicity E-COMMERCE FACEBOOK GOOGLE WEB MARKETING PROMOTIONS  INTERNET ADVERTISING Search Engine Advertising or SEA is an internet marketing term referring to an advertising method used with search engines such as Google. This type of marketing generates advertising links on search engines. SEA referencing is temporary, therefore, when ad campaigns are terminated, they no longer attract attention on search engines. Optimizing your natural referencing through Search Engine Optimization ( SEO ) is necessary if you want to maintain a constant web presence. Web advertising platforms like  Google Adwords  require users to add specific keywords to synchronize results with your company ' s website. Some ads must be written according to the keywords you choose, these will appear when a user searches for one of your keywords. Paid referencing works with a bidding system; you can set the cost-per-click for each of your keywords and only pay when a user clicks on one of your ads. Many companies use standard pages of their site as pages of correspondence with regards to their advertisements on the internet. However, this technique is less effective. Users can get disoriented on your site, find themselves unable to access the right information on the landing page - causing them to leave without information or without having been converted. The more efficient strategy is to create a dedicated, optimized landing page for your SEA and e-mailing campaigns. This allows the possibility of directing users to the transformation phase (converting them into a client) and can be used for your SEO if you integrate it to your website. Note: Landing pages for the SEA are primarily designed to elevate user experience. The uniqueness of the SEA landing page allows it to offer a distinct advantage: you can perform tests to understand the behaviour of your internet users according to the landing pages that you present them. The results generated are beneficial in the development of website SEO using these landing pages. With a thorough analysis, you can identify what works best with your target audience and tailor your SEO and pages to your website. A landing page is never definitive, it must be tested regularly according to the results you have gathered, behaviour of internet users and of your site. To do this, you must complete the following steps: create two pages, copy the same design and change one or two elements (for example, one with fill out form and one without). You can then uncover the results of these two pages and choose the most effective one. This technique permits you to pinpoint the types of pages best suited for your audience and gives you ideas for future landing pages. This criteria can help you build and optimize your landing page. Remember, your landing page should always be tailored to your activity and target. The main purpose of a landing page is to increase the conversion rate of your site. In order for this to take place, you need to identify the action you want users to perform on your landing page. To test the effectiveness of your landing pages, you can use tracking solutions to understand the route taken by your visitors. Several solutions exist: Many tools offer this solution like Crazyegg  and  BeamPulse Heatmaps Example: - Scroll and click Heatmaps: You can now identify how low the users scroll on your page and where they click. - Mouse movements: These applications allow you to track the movements of the mouse. Throughout the user ' s navigation, you will be able to follow his/her activity and their positioning on the page. Companies offering a solution to track mouse movements:  Clicktale  and  Mouseflow Find our full series of articles on the landing pages: 1. Create the perfect landing page 2. How to develop your SEO through landing pages ? 3. Optimize Your SEA Landing Page Don ' t hesitate to contact us with any questions regarding the landing pages SEO. We will be happy to answer you with our expertise. Founded in 2011, CyberPublicity is a Montreal webmarketing agency that has distinguished itself with the development of innovative marketing solutions. Montreal :  1-800-928-0869 New York :  1-800-870-7016 Toronto  &  Vancouver :  1-800-928-0869  2019 CyberPublicity - All Rights Reserved. 