Vitra S20 5501L003-0001 washbasin 50 cm It's important for us to protect your privacy and openly inform you about how we use your data. If you use our website, then you automatically agree to use our necessary cookies. If you refuse any of the cookie actions we can not guarantee the quality of our website's performance. Necessary cookies help make a website usable by enabling basic functions like page navigation and access to secure areas of the website. The website cannot function properly without these cookies.  No products  Prices are tax included  Check out Uponor UFH heated floors Multilayer press system Uponor Multilayer press system Uponor RS Piping system Uponor PEX Sewerage shafts Factory insulated pipes Uponor Flow-through water heaters Water boilers Water heaters stationary Water heaters combined Heating elements Gas water heaters Firewood water heaters Solar, Heat pump water heaters Accumulation tanks WC ' s on sale Water mixers on sale Bathtubs on sale Shower cabins on sale Heating products on sale  Display all pictures  Reference:  5501L003-0001 Condition:  New Delivery time: 1-4 weeks Warning: Last items in stock! Availability date: 59,00 €  tax incl. Quantity  The minimum purchase order quantity for the product is  1  Add to cart Vitra S20 5501L003-0001 washbasin 50 cm  Recipient :  Name of your friend  *  :   E-mail address of your friend  *  :  *  Required fields Send  or  Cancel  For non-EU countries, prices will be converted VAT excl. in the checkout process. How to find out product availability? Payment: We do not request any payments at the time of placing the order. You just need to add all products of interest in your shopping cart and specify the desired payment and delivery methods in the check-out process. Delivery: All delivery costs can be acquired in the checkout process depending on the total weight of your shopping cart. If you can not find your country in the list in the checkout process, please send a quotation request to info@sanel.lv with needed articles, quantities, delivery address, and your contact information. In case of any other questions feel free to contact us via e-mail: info@sanel.lv or call +371 25417622. info@sanel.lv Zemitāna street 9 K-3, Riga, LV-1012 We accept payments with: Copyright © SANEL.LV, 2011-2018. All rights reserved. It ' s important for us to protect your privacy and openly inform you about how we use your data. If you use our website, then you automatically agree to use our necessary cookies. If you refuse any of the cookie actions we can not guarantee the quality of our website ' s performance. Necessary cookies help make a website usable by enabling basic functions like page navigation and access to secure areas of the website. The website cannot function properly without these cookies. 