Boko Haram Ramadan massacre in Nigeria | The Star Subscribe Now Subscribe Now Only $2/week Sign In The Star Edition Change Location Subscribe Now Subscribe Now Only $2/week Subscribe Now Subscribe Now Only $2/week Sign In The Star Edition Change Location This copy is for your personal non-commercial use only. To order presentation-ready copies of Toronto Star content for distribution to colleagues, clients or customers, or inquire about permissions/licensing, please go to: www.TorontoStarReprints.com MAIDUGURI, Nigeria &# x2014;Boko Haram  extremists gunned  down nearly 100 Muslims praying in mosques in a northeast Nigerian town, Nigerian government sources said Thursday. The attack Wednesday night on the town of Kukawa came the day after the Islamic extremist group attacked a village 35 kilometres away and killed another 48 men and boys, according to witnesses who counted the dead. The people of Kukawa were in several mosques, praying ahead of breaking their daylong fast for the holy month of Ramadan, when the extremists attacked.  They killed 97 people, mainly men, said self-defence spokesman Abbas Gava and a senior government official who spoke on condition of anonymity because he is not authorized to give information to reporters. Gava said his group's fighters in Kukawa told him militants also broke into people's homes, killing women and children as they prepared the evening meal. Kukawa is 180 kilometres northeast of Maiduguri, the biggest city in northeast Nigeria and the birthplace of Boko Haram. Nigeria's homegrown extremist group often defiles mosques where it believes clerics espouse too moderate a form of Islam.  Wednesday's attack follows a directive from the Islamic State group for fighters to increase attacks during Ramadan.  Boko Haram this year became the  Islamic State  group's West African franchise. On Tuesday night, the extremists invaded the village of Mussaram, ordered men and women to separate and then opened fire on the men and boys, witnesses said. " A total of 48 males died on the spot while 17 others escaped with serious injuries, "  said Maidugu Bida, a self-defence spokesperson in nearby Monguno, who helped bury the dead. On Monday, two suicide bombers blew themselves up prematurely in a village outside Maiduguri just an hour before the arrival of Nigeria's vice-president, Yemi Osinbanjo.  Osinbanjo visited some of the hundreds of thousands of people displaced by the five-year-old Islamic uprising that has killed more than 13,000 people and driven 1.5 million from their homes. Some of those killed in attacks in the past month had just returned to rebuild towns and villages recaptured this year from Boko Haram by a multinational army. Copyright owned or licensed by Toronto Star Newspapers Limited. All rights reserved. Republication or distribution of this content is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Toronto Star Newspapers Limited and/or its licensors. To order copies of Toronto Star articles, please go to: www.TorontoStarReprints.com 