A Column on Facts | All About Amazing and Weird Facts Search by Tags The coyote is a clever animal that has adapted well to growing human populations and habitat loss.The name "coyote" is borrowed from Me... Filed under:  Animals ,  Facts The swan has a large and strong beak, a long neck, and are noted for their graceful movements when swimming. The swans' close relat... Filed under:  Animals ,  Facts The DNA of gorillas is very similar to humans – about 98-99% the same. This is more than any other animal in the world.Gorillas oft... Filed under:  Animals ,  Facts 90% of this information will be acquired through reading.Reading creates vocabulary and an increased ability to communicate.70% ... Filed under:  Facts Zoos cannot provide the amount of space animals have in the wild.A government-funded study of elephants in UK zoos found that 54% of ... Filed under:  Animals ,  Facts In German, Wednesday (Mittwoch) is the only day of the week not ending in ‘tag’ (day).According to research by a tanning company,... Filed under:  Facts The name hippopotamus means ‘river horse’ and is often shortened to hippo.Hippos bask on the shoreline and secrete an oily red su... Filed under:  Animals ,  Facts Bicycles are used for transport, recreation, competitive racing, courier delivery and a range of other tasks.The more people cycle, t... Filed under:  Facts The adult human brain weighs about 3 pounds.Lack of oxygen in the brain for 5 to 10 minutes results in permanent brain damage.Th... Filed under:  Facts ,  Humans The Niagara Falls are located on the border of Ontario, Canada and New York, USA.On October 24, 1901, a 63-year-old schoolteacher nam... Filed under:  Facts The name of the painting, Mona Lisa was the result of a spelling error! The original name of the painting was Monna Lisa. Monna in Italian is ... Filed under:  Facts Magnets come in four flavors. Ferromagnets — which include substances like iron and nickel — are composed of atoms with unpaired electrons... Filed under:  Facts Sloths are tropical mammals that live in Central and South America.Toes look more like big hooked claws in appearance.They use... Filed under:  Animals ,  Facts The llama is a South American relative of the camel, though the llama does not have a hump. These sturdy creatures are domestic animals used b... Filed under:  Animals ,  Facts The date palm is a very salt tolerant tree and will grow well in alkaline soils where other plants will not. They are sometimes irrigated with... Filed under:  Facts ,  Food  &  Drinks Palms are known as the "Tree of the Bible".The leaves of the Palm are very large and are known as fronds. They are divided into two maj... Filed under:  Facts Bats are the only mammals able to fly.A single brown bat can catch around 1,200 mosquito-size insects in one hour.70% of bats ... Filed under:  Animals ,  Facts Parrots have curved bills (beaks), strong legs and clawed feet.Parrots can range in size from about 3.5 to 40 inches (8.7 to 100 cent... Filed under:  Animals ,  Facts Research published in the journal Sleep has found that fear is not the prominent emotion in nightmares. Rather, researchers found that it's mo... Filed under:  Facts Forty per cent of the world’s eggs are consumed in China.The Guinness World Record for omelette making is held by Howard Helmer, who ... Filed under:  Facts There are 90 elements on the periodic table that occur in nature. All of the other elements are strictly man-made.Technetium was the fi... Filed under:  Facts Filed under: Animals ,  Facts Filed under: Animals ,  Facts Filed under: Animals ,  Facts Filed under: Facts Filed under: Animals ,  Facts Get in Touch with us! Copyright   2019  A Column on Facts . All rights reserved. 