Carry On (Crosby, Stills, Nash  &  Young album) - Wikipedia Carry On  is the twelfth album by  Crosby, Stills  &  Nash , issued on  Atlantic Records  in 1991, generally for the  European  and  Australian  markets. It is a  two-disc  sampler of their four-disc  box set ,  CSN , released two months previously in the  United States  and the  United Kingdom . It features material spanning 1968 through 1990 from their catalogue of recordings as a group in addition to selections from  Crosby  &  Nash ,  Manassas , and their individual solo albums. It was reissued on 30 June 1998 on the  WEA International  record label. This compilation should not be confused with the  Stephen Stills box set of the same name  released in 2013.  Where the box set is a more comprehensive overview, this one focuses on previously unreleased tracks, hits, and favorites. Of its 36 tracks, 13 had been unreleased previously, and nine contain all of the group's  Top 40  hits from the  Billboard  Hot 100 . The group's some-time partner  Neil Young  appears on eight tracks, including his own songs " Helpless " and " Ohio ".  The previously-unreleased material includes studio recordings by the full quartet of "Helplessly Hoping" (originally released by the trio), "Taken at All" (originally by Crosby  &  Nash), and "The Lee Shore" (previously available only live). [ 2 ]   The set also includes both the demo of "You Don't Have to Cry", the first recording they made as Crosby, Stills  &  Nash, and the three tracks from  their most recent studio album  as of 1991 that are also on the box set. The original recordings were produced  David Crosby ,  Stephen Stills ,  Graham Nash , and Neil Young, with assistance from Howard Albert, Ron Albert, Stanley Johnston, and  Paul Rothchild .  Audio engineers  on the original recordings include  Stephen Barncard , Larry Cox, Russ Gary, Don Gooch, Steve Gursky, Bill Halverson,  David Hassinger ,  Andy Johns , and Jim Mitchell. The original  masters  were recorded at the following studios: Devonshire Sound Studio, Wally Heider Studios, The Record Plant, Rudy Recorders, the Sound Lab,  Sunset Sound , Sunwest Studio, and  Village Recorders  in  Los Angeles ;  United Studio  in  Hollywood ;  The Record Plant  in  New York City ;  Wally Heider Studios , His Master's Wheels, and Rudy Recorders in  San Francisco ;  Criteria Sound Studios  in  Miami ;  Island Studios  in  London ; and Stephen Stills' late 1960s home in  Laurel Canyon . The selections were compiled for this set by Crosby, Stills, Nash, Gerry Tolman, and Yves Beauvais, with additional research by Joel Bernstein. An asterisk (*) indicates a live recording, two asterisks (**) a previously unreleased mix, (†) a previously unreleased version, and (‡) a previously unreleased song. 