Floodstop Limited | LinkedIn Flood defence barriers  &  flood prevention specialists nationwide UK. Watertight demountable flood barriers  &  flood defence products to prevent flood damage to homes and businesses.Floodstop Limited is one of the leading flood defence specialists in the UK. •We have 17 years combined experience.•Our highly trained and experienced mitigation engineers complete every installation to the highest standard.•We have excellent reviews and case studies and our clients are happy to provide references.•All of our flood protection and prevention products are manufactured in the UK and to the highest standards.•With our knowledge and experience, we can advise you on which products are best suited for your requirements.•Most importantly, all of our products have been proven to work in real flood situations.Demountable Aluminium Flood Defence BarriersSeal any size doorways or entrances with our watertight demountable flood prevention barriers. Accordingly, our flood barrier systems are made from high strength aluminium, yet lightweight, therefore easy to handle. After the initial installation, assembling our flood barriers is a quick and simple process. Our clients can protect their properties against flooding within minutes.Afterwards, the flood boards are stored away ready for the next flood event.As with all of our products; they are manufactured in the UK and carry the PAS 1188-1 and PAS 1188-4 accreditation. This is the standard recognised by the Environment Agency and British Standards Institute.We also supply and install glass flood walls, steel flood gates, hardwood flood gates, airbrick protection, non-return valves, backwater valves, flood pumps, flood alarms, application of wall sealant and many other flood prevention products. 1st Floor 119 High Street Selsey, West Sussex PO20 0QB, GB Watch this 30 seconds video to see how our clients protect their properties in minutes from #flooding.Re-usable and reliable #floodprotection #floodbarriers FREE advice - How to protect your property from #flooding TODAY, 9/11/19.To those who don’t have our #floodbarriers, we would like to offer some FREE advice on how you can try to protect your property TODAY… Using traditional #sandbags: Must use plastic sheeting behind the sandbags, this video link will help:  https://lnkd.in/dgA7EYs  For an effective #sandbag: Buy some #HydroSnakes from Amazon, B & Q, Screwfix, Wickes etc.  Stay safe everyone. And please don’t hesitate to contact us for advice or information on protecting your property from #flooding. We ' ve been revamping each product #video to be around just a minute long! Please visit our #YouTube channel by clicking on the link below 