Hi, Any tips for wickerbottom? : dontstarve I have a problem with wickerbottom, Her sanity is dropping real fast in the winter and I can &# x27;t seem to raise it up Trying to get a tam o shanter always helps. Mc tusks drop them. I have a problem with wickerbottom, Her sanity is dropping real fast in the winter and I can &# x27;t seem to raise it up On my 17 day, Waiting to kill that dang walrus Do you have drying racks? Eating jerky is a key part of keeping sanity during the winter. I didn &# x27;t have those, Does jerky give sanity? Tam o Shanter is the key part of keeping sanity in winter. Just eating jerky and not crockpotting it can be a little wasteful food wise. Get yourself a Top Hat and/or a Dapper Vest and you should be in the positive. I would advise to always have some kind of Sanity wearable, the Tam o Shanter is always the go too but there are a bunch of new items in RoG like the Hibearnation Vest which is also very good. Cactus are a really good and easy way to get sanity back, only the blue and green mushrooms tho! I actually have made them a must to have in my fridge and its always my priority during full moons after i got glommer. I always get hurt when picking them up, Any advice to not get hurt The problem is that there is so much evening and night time in the winter compared to daylight.  Another strategy I haven &# x27;t seen mentioned yet is picking flowers as you forage for other stuff.  It &# x27;s a quick and painless way to boost Wickerbottom &# x27;s sanity. I actually got the bug guy, Glommer. So when ever I &# x27;m low on sanity I cuddle him up and get sanity up. Only problem now is that i need to lower my sanity to get beard for my Effigy xD I call him Bob :D Locate a desert biome and harvest cactus. If memory serves right a cooked cactus will give 15 sanity per. Also like another guy said visit the wiki, it has a ton of information on anything in the game I &# x27;m on it like 50 times a day. 53.9k Members 104 Online Sep 14, 2012 Cake Day 