Top 10 Yoga Classes in San Jose / Silicon Valley | ClassPass Share this list at  CorePower Yoga Turn stress into sweat. This signature class strengthens, balances and detoxifies your entire body and mind as you move through more challenging postures and connected breath. Set to an energizing playlist, you’ll power up… read more Love this location in particular. Got a better workout compared to other Core Power Yoga location Ive visited. Love the heat and the variety of poses. Instructor was great. Never… read more at  YogaSource Los Gatos YogaSource introduces STRONG, which takes yoga with weights to the next level with the caliber of flow sequencing you’ve come to expect from YogaSource - the ultimate experience in beats, strength, and sweat! This class is… read more Class was good. First time taking this class and it was challenging and had good variety to the movements. Sam does an excellent job at cueing the next move to prepare you which… read more at  Breathe Together Practical yet insightful philosophy, precise alignment and a strong focus on community combine to make this class a full-spectrum invitation to expand your practice and deepen your understanding of yoga as a holistic lifestyle… read more Loved the emphasis on form. What I considered easy poses became much more challenging. The studio is extremely ambient and I loved the waterfall sounds coming from the back of… read more at  CorePower Yoga When muscle meets yoga, Yoga Sculpt is born. Boost metabolism and build lean muscle mass as you move to upbeat tracks. You’ll combine free weights with CorePower Yoga 2 sequencing and cardio to intensify each yoga pose while… read more Jackie is a fantastic teacher. Her classes start calm and end calm, inbetween you work hard but focused and with the right posture. at  Be The Change Yoga A mixed level flow. Our Vinyasa classes emphasize dynamic movement as you synchronize the body with the rhythm of breath. Vinyasa style classes will offer students a physically engaging practice in its continuously moving… read more A lovely space, a mindful and challenging practice, and a talented instructor! Simas adjustments are gentle and meaningful. So glad to have found this studio! at  CorePower Yoga Unroll your yoga mat for an invigorating full-body flow where you’ll explore the yoga postures and fundamental principles of Vinyasa yoga. Our C1 class is set to inspiring tunes, and is a foundation-building yoga class that… read more Great class, perfect for beginners. Really sweet instructor.  at  Downtown Yoga Shala A flowing sequence of postures combining breath and movement. Build heat from the inside and out, core strength, stamina and flexibility in this class. This is an all-levels class, with modifications provided for all levels… read more Beautiful interior. Very ambient and calming space. The instructor and workout were wonderful. Poses moved at a decent pace that wasnt too fast or too slow. Overall, great full… read more at  Flex Fusion Studios This vinyasa class will challenge your mind and your muscles as you flow through poses designed to fire up your core and build strength. Focus only on your breath and your body as you dedicate an entire hour to transforming… read more Jenn is awesome!! Shes kind, funny and great at explaining the moves. The class is tough and relaxing.  at  Live Lotus A candle-lit room to awaken the mind and body connection. Let everything else go as you cultivate a practice of mindful breathing, slow vinyasa and gentle stretching. Then join us in an extended guided meditation aimed to… read more This class is perfectly titled- it really is chill yoga with meditation. The instructor was perfect for this class, her voice was so soothing. It was the perfect ending to my crazy… read more at  Esha Yoga Power Vinyasa Yoga is sweat and serenity in one fine form. It combines movements that move seamlessly from pose to another. Actions are swift but sure, and the experience is sublime. And the health benefits are one too many… read more Great class. The instructor was very energetic, welcoming, and focused a lot on proper posture and a bit of the science behind it. It was definitely challenging! This list is based on ClassPass reviews and popularity. Top classes and studios are updated frequently. Did we mention... Join our list and we’ll send you a guide to the best fitness studios nearby. 