ADD and ADHD - Craig Lounsbrough Craig Lounsbrough M.Div. Licensed Professional Counselor Certified Professional Life Coach Please click a link below to view a resource. This particular site developed by the National Institute for Mental Health provides a strong and comprehensive overview of ADHD, its symptoms, effective management and treatment. www.nimh.nih.gov/health/topics/attention-deficit-hyperactivity-disorder-adhd/index.shtml The National Resource Center on AD/HD is a program of CHADD which was established with funding from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) as a national clearinghouse of information and resources for attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder. The website provides answers to frequently asked questions about this condition. Information is also available in Spanish. www.help4adhd.org Serves people with ADD as well as their families, teachers, and those who care for persons who care for them. The organization focuses especially on ADD adults and young adults. www.add.org Both ADD and various learning disabilities can cause significant academic frustrations for children and adolescents.  While these frustrations can result in various degrees of disappointment and depression, there are some fundamental strategies that can ease frustration and improve academic performance.  This site provides some key steps that will assist both parents and students in maximizing the academic experience. https://childdevelopmentinfo.com/learning/learning_disabilities/teacher/ Finding accurate information about whether or not individuals with ADHD can serve in the military is a challenge. Many parents or teenagers want to know whether a diagnosis of ADHD or taking medication to treat ADHD disqualifies someone from entering the military service. This challenge is compounded by the fact that military recruiters who have monthly recruitment quotas they must meet, often give incomplete, contradictory, or inaccurate information.  This article provides information to assist the individual in finding solid answers to these important questions. http://www.chadd.org/Understanding-ADHD/For-Adults/Workplace-Issues/ADHD-and-the-Military.aspx How we handle what’s ahead of us will be determined by what we learned from everything that’s behind us.  For if we learned nothing, what’s behind us will be the exact same thing that’s in front of us. When is Counseling Needed? Life comes with unanticipated twists and turns that can leave us confused, hurt, and frequently disoriented. Professional counseling can help with finding ways to deal with these issues. If you or someone you know are experiencing depression, apathy, anger, conflicts, stress or other issues, a counselor may be able to help. Read more › Craig Lounsbrough M. Div., LPC Publishing Contacts "The Eighth Page - A Christmas Journey" Beacon Publishing Group info@beaconpublishinggroup.com "An Intimate Collision - Encounters with Life and Jesus" and "An Autumn's Journey - Deep Growth in the Grief and Loss of LIfe's Seasons" Wipf and Stock Publisher info@wipfandstock.com Craig Lounsbrough strives to bring an effective blend of experience, expertise, clarity, concern and action to the counseling process in order to maximize outcomes and provide genuine healing and wholeness to individuals, marriages and families. Craig earned an Associate of Science Degree from Hocking Technical College, a Bachelor of Arts degree in Religion with an emphasis in Christian Education from Azusa Pacific University, and a Master of Divinity degree in Family Pastoral Care and Counseling from Fuller Theological Seminary. He has completed his coursework for his Doctor of Ministry degree in Marriage and Family Counseling from Denver Seminary. Craig is a Licensed Professional Counselor in the State of Colorado and is ordained by the Evangelical Church Alliance. He is a certified Professional Life Coach. Copyright   2019   Craig D. Lounsbrough, Licensed Professional Counselor  Privacy Policy 