Malmö navy, unisex wellington boots by Crosslander In our shop we use cookies. Some are necessary while others help us to improve the shop and visitor experiences. Please choose below which cookies may be set and confirm this by "confirm selection" or accept all cookies by "select all": By clicking on the social media button you can activate the feature for sharing content. Only after the activation data are sent to the operators of the social networks. For more information on this subject can be found on our Privacy Page. Measurement details from the manufacturer of this Wellington boot/shoe are not available! As a general rule : Shoe size= Wellington boot size In some cases Wellington boots can turn out very large and could vary, depending on manufacturer,   by as much as one size. Please pay attention to suggestions in the specification and in the reviews of other customers. The same principle applies to our trekking and work shoes… do not order a bigger size than your normal shoe size.Please remember when choosing the size, that your feet might swell due to the higher strain on long walks, so it might be better to order slightly larger rather than smaller, especially if your shoe size is between two sizes.   As a general rule : Shoe size = Trekking and work shoe size   Any more questions...? Please just send us a  mail  and we will try to help you !! Useful information in terms of availability… scroll down to our stock symbol… you will then see stock availability for the sizes !! To determine the exact length of your foot we provide you with a measurement template for printing. Please note that you have to print it exactly at A4 scale because otherwise it alters the measurements and the template is no longer useful.  Should you wear your Wellington boots with thick socks, then it makes sense to already wear them during measurement.  It is likewise important that you bear your weight on your foot and take readings from the longest point. Please remember that these are only guidelines and sizing from manufacturer to manufacturer can vary by up to one size! View matching items: 