Stephen Parisi (M), 72 - Coventry, RI Has Court or Arrest Records at MyLife.com™ Stephen DOES  have Arrest or Criminal Records.  Check Full Background Report  to see possible  arrest or conviction records  we have found on Stephen. This may include any  DUIs, traffic tickets  and  outstanding warrants . When applicable, we may show  where the crime occurred  and provide  details about the offense . Stephen may have Lawsuits, Liens or Bankruptcies.  Check Full Background Report  to see local, state and federal court documents,  sensitive legal information  and any  litigation  that Stephen may have been involved in. We'll reveal arrest details like  case numbers ,  offense descriptions , and  booking dates , where available. Stephen may have Sexual Offenses.  Check Full Background Report  to see a complete list of any and all  sex offenses  Stephen may have been convicted of and his  current sex offender status  if applicable. Stephen may have records indicating that he has been evicted from his home.  Check Full Background Report  to see a complete list of any and all  eviction records  Stephen may have. Check Full Background Report  to see possible who they are and full classlists found from school records and public sources. We are thrilled to introduce your personal review section. We assume the best of everyone we first meet, and agree with Hemingway when he said "The best way to find out if you can trust somebody is to trust them." PLEASE ASK OTHERS TO REVIEW YOU - it is important. We expect your reviews to be a positive reflection of who you are, helping you to build a great reputation that friends, employers, clients, dates, and everyone will see. It is how people assess you, just like a business on Yelp, so it is important that you look good to the world. Check Full Background Report  to see complete work history. This may contain information such as company name, job title, address, and time period of service. Check Full Background Report  to see a complete list of known corporate affiliations. This may contain information such as company name, job title, address, and time period of service. Check Full Background Report  to see possible education history including where and when they attending high school and college, and a complete list of his high school class list. Check Full Background Report  to see weapons permits, Federal Aviation Administration pilot licenses and Drug Enforcement Administration licenses for prescribing controlled pharmaceuticals. You have removed this profile from public view. Background Report may include: Additional details may include contact info, photos and more Also get alerts when there are replies to your review. Additional report details may include contact info, photos and more. Additional report details may include contact info, photos and more. Plus get alerts when there are changes to this page. View  Stephen's Criminal Records, Lawsuits, Liens  &  Contact Info & Reputation Score Learn the truth about Stephen  and get alerts whenever new info is discovered. MyLife is the only company that provides a Reputation Score. These scores are engineered specifically to enhance trust by providing transparency around a user's background and are constantly updated. By clicking on the button above, you agree to our  User Agreement  and our   Privacy Policy . Background Report may include: Additional details may include contact info, photos and more Also get alerts when there are replies to your review. Additional report details may include contact info, photos and more. Additional report details may include contact info, photos and more. Plus get alerts when there are changes to this page. You are responsible for your submissions, which must be true, lawful and not violate any person's rights.  You agree to our  User Agreement. Find Anyone: MyLife aggregates publicly available information from government, social, and other sources, plus personal reviews written by others. This third-party data is then indexed through methods similar to those used by Google or Bing to create a listing. Because MyLife only collects this data and does not create it, we cannot fully guarantee its accuracy. U.S. Patent No. 6,701,348 and 6,694,353 * The other websites referenced on this site are owned and operated by their respective companies, and the associated trademarks and logos are the property of those companies. Links are provided for reference only and MyLife.com ®  does not imply any connection or relationship between MyLife.com ®  and these companies. 