Fred Constantino - Project Engineering Advisor - ASME (The American Society of Mechanical Engineers) | LinkedIn Liked by  Fred Constantino Liked by  Fred Constantino Liked by  Fred Constantino 14 years 3 months Sep 2014   –  Present 5 years 4 months Greater New York City Area Lead staff for all Y14 Engineering Product Definition and Related Documentation Practices committees, along with the Water Efficiency Guidelines (WEG) Committees. Managing development of new Advanced Manufacturing and Model Based Enterprise (MBE) committees. Lead staff for all Y14 Engineering Product Definition and Related Documentation Practices committees, along with the Water Efficiency Guidelines (WEG) Committees. Managing development of new Advanced Manufacturing and Model Based Enterprise (MBE) committees. Sep 2009   –   Sep 2014 5 years 1 month Currently manage the progression of several standards writing committees with a combined total of over fifty standards covering a broad range topics including GD , water efficiency within industrial facilities, and dimensional metrology. Tasks performed include maintaining the revision of standards, facilitating the development of new standards based on the industry need and ensuring the quality of standards being produced. Also work with government bodies and certification facilities to confirm proper standards are being referenced in regulatory codes. Will also interact with Marketing  &  Sales to produce materials for establishing better awareness of codes and standards. In addition, I support the planning and execution of meetings and events as well as participate on internal design teams to improve company processes and productivity. Currently manage the progression of several standards writing committees with a combined total of over fifty standards covering a broad range topics including GD , water efficiency within industrial facilities, and dimensional metrology. Tasks performed include maintaining the revision of standards, facilitating the development of new standards based on the industry need and ensuring the quality of standards being produced. Also work with government bodies and certification facilities to... Currently manage the progression of several standards writing committees with a combined total of over fifty standards covering a broad range topics including GD , water efficiency within industrial facilities, and dimensional metrology. Tasks performed include maintaining the revision of standards, facilitating the development of new standards based on the industry need and ensuring the quality of standards being produced. Also work with government bodies and certification facilities to confirm proper standards are being referenced in regulatory codes. Will also interact with Marketing  &  Sales to produce materials for establishing better awareness of codes and standards. In addition, I support the planning and execution of meetings and events as well as participate on internal design teams to improve company processes and productivity. Oct 2005   –   Sep 2009 4 years May 2003   –   Aug 2003 4 months Plainview, NY Did a summer internship at the contracting company James McCullagh Co, Inc. in Plainview, NY where I primarily assisted project managers in onsite supervision of subcontractors. Also, preformed AutoCAD based tasks for various construction projects, and even negotiated material costs for projects being bid on or worked on. Did a summer internship at the contracting company James McCullagh Co, Inc. in Plainview, NY where I primarily assisted project managers in onsite supervision of subcontractors. Also, preformed AutoCAD based tasks for various construction projects, and even negotiated material costs for projects being bid on or worked on. 2007   –   2009 2004   –   2005 Activities and Societies: Robotic Research My research was to establish the programming and hardware foundation for an autonomous or teleoperated, non intrusive robot capable of monitoring, interacting, and caring for the elderly in real world environments. My research was to establish the programming and hardware foundation for an autonomous or teleoperated, non intrusive robot capable of monitoring, interacting, and caring for the elderly in real world environments. 2000   –   2005 Activities and Societies: Robotics Club Mar 2012   –   Apr 2015 3 years 2 months Science and Technology Volunteered on a water harvesting and waste water removal project team with regards to developing a health clinic in Peru. Volunteered on a water harvesting and waste water removal project team with regards to developing a health clinic in Peru. Join to view Fred’s full profile Greater New York City Area Greater Seattle Area Rochester, New York Area Greater New York City Area 13 others named Fred Constantino are on LinkedIn 