Libra Today Horoscope Friday 19th May 2017 | Daily Horoscope Follow your intuitions, libra, do as your heart dictates, and in love matters do not let yourself be discouraged by any initial setback or a negative comment you hear. Life goes on and you should stick with it. Nothing will get you out of this box this weekend. The energy of the Moon in your air element renews your vital wave and makes you happy approaching the realization of your dreams. It enhances the class, elegance and distinction that are the qualities that stand out above the others. eval(ez_write_tag([[320,50],'techasli_com-box-3','ezslot_3',171,'0','0'])); The Moon continues in transit by the sign of Aquarius moving to the sign of Pisces. The planets Jupiter, Saturn and the planetoid Pluto remain retrograde. Do not fret yourself today, night of love, for that little sacrifice for a person you love. A temporary separation may sadden you, but after a while you will see that it was for the best, and the relationship will be strengthened from all this. As the day goes by you will feel much better about the chronic problems that affect you. If, on the other hand, you are in good health, use this energy to maintain it optimally with a healthy and adequate lifestyle. If you are offered a change of job or position, accept it without reservation. The stars are on your side. A challenge, a challenge to your intelligence and creativity will give you a great opportunity to demonstrate your talent and improve your current status. In this planetary conjuncture will present a good opportunity to make an economic investment, something that will give you the money necessary to normalize your financial life and increase your income. Do not turn your back on the opportunity. eval(ez_write_tag([[300,250],'techasli_com-box-4','ezslot_1',137,'0','0'])); Try to lead your life to happiness on all levels, today is a good day to rethink old and worn situations and try again solutions. Plan and organize. Do not ignore your heart and set out to pursue true goals and positive accomplishments. Do not ignore the call of your true destiny. Problems pending from the previous year resurface, must do something about it immediately, can not continue to postpone imperative decisions or hiding the head in a hole. Act and face your problems. Stay away from loans, money loans and money investments that exceed your savings. eval(ez_write_tag([[250,250],'techasli_com-banner-1','ezslot_4',188,'0','0'])); A friend is in need of you, has something of importance to tell you, is about your love life and you can give advice. A difficult day for Libra, it is very likely that you receive bad news at work, which will make you rethink things a bit in the workplace, a reduction of staff could come soon, which will have you in a nervous situation. If you do business, it is important that today you do not make important agreements, especially with people you do not know well, better wait to see the conditions of this possible agreement, you could take many bad times in the future if you act Hurriedly. Someone could criticize you today, if it is a person you do not know well, do not take it badly for this reason. eval(ez_write_tag([[300,250],'techasli_com-large-mobile-banner-1','ezslot_5',196,'0','0'])); Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. This site uses Akismet to reduce spam.  Learn how your comment data is processed . 