Careers | About Us | Baptist Health | Jacksonville, Florida Practices: Our Hospitals: Emergency Rooms (ER): Imaging: By Location By Service Urgent Care Locations: Outpatient Locations: Health  &  Wellness: Health News Overview: Baptist Health is the area's largest employer, with more than 9,000 employees committed to our patients' health. We never forget who makes our patient care exceptional — individuals like you. Because we value our employees, we offer more of what you want in your working life — scheduling and specialty options, on-site amenities and educational and career opportunities. New Graduate RN Residency Program Learn more about the new program and why Baptist Health is a great place to start your career. Nursing Careers Baptist Health is committed to its employees and their professional development. Learn more about opportunities to grow and continue your nursing career with Baptist Health. Registered Nurse Flex Team Learn more about the Registered Nurse Flex Team and why this can be a great option for experienced practitioners. Caring for our patients begins with caring for our people. We believe that providing better care begins with taking care of our people. So we provide an award-winning employee wellness program, a minimal lift program for employee safety, tuition reimbursement, comprehensive benefits, and more to support you in pursuing your personal and professional goals. Baptist Health regularly is recognized for the quality of care we provide patients and families, as well as our commitment to our employees' wellness. Our goal is to pursue quality in our care and working environment.  556 Jobs  in  14 Career Fields  across  254 Departments  Available! Let us help you make your next career move! View our open positions Living our values, every day. Baptist Health’s commitment to the community starts within the giving hearts and hands of our employees, and reaches far into the Northeast Florida communities we serve. We are the only nonprofit, mission-driven, community-focused healthcare system in our area. Our mission and core values call us to create a healthier community. We embrace our social responsibility by engaging our employees in community needs, providing leadership for community initiatives, and bringing partners together to tackle issues as a team. Non-Discrimination in Employment Baptist Health does not discriminate in employment against qualified persons on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, religion, age, disability, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity or veteran status. This program provides financial support to encourage entry into healthcare fields that are experiencing a shortage of applicants, and also promotes the attainment of educational degrees by caregiving employees. The deadlines to apply are January 15, May 30 and September 30 of each year. Download the application Applications are downloadable, and require the FREE  Adobe  Acrobat™ Reader . To register, select a location and date below There are no events scheduled at this time. Please check back soon.  Copyright 2019 | All Rights Reserved If you speak another language, assistance services free of charge, are available to you. 