' She ' s attractive ' : Julian Assange talks Pamela Anderson Julian Assange has responded to rumours of a burgeoning romance between himself and actress Pamela Anderson in a candid new interview with Kyle Sandilands and Jackie O. The Australian WikiLeaks founder appeared on Kiis FM s  Kyle and Jackie O Show  on Wednesday morning and was asked to discuss his relationship with the former  Baywatch  star. What I really want to know is what s going on with you and Pamela Anderson, some sort of romance there?  Sandilands asked. Anderson has been photographed visiting the Ecuadorian Embassy in London   where the exiled editor-in-chief resides   to deliver groceries and meals to him. Yeah, a lot of people want to know that,  Assange, 45, responded. Which I guess is helpful to draw attention to this situation, but Pamela Anderson is an impressive figure. While Assange refused to explicitly confirm he and Anderson were romantically involved, he was full of praise for the mother of two. She is an attractive person with an attractive personality and whip-smart,  he gushed. She s no idiot,  Sandilands agreed.  I ve met her. Exactly,  Assange continued. Assange is currently residing in the Ecuadorian Embassy in London, where he sought refuge in 2012 after the United States tried to extradite him to Sweden following Wikileaks  high-profile leaks about the Iraq and Afghanistan wars. Assange, who was born in Melbourne, cannot leave the embassy without being arrested. It should not take Pamela Anderson to do the Australian government s job, as capable as she is,  Assange concluded. Not content with Assange s response, Sandilands pushed further. But have you formed a love affair with her?  he asked. I mean, I like her, she s great, but I m not going into private details,  Assange shot back. She s great, we have other   basically you ve got people like Pamela Anderson who are independent because they manage their own career, she s a Canadian-American, she can t really be squeezed by a TV executive. Sandilands then joked about starting his own website,  Pammyleaks , to get more information about the pair I m asking people to share information because obviously you can t say, because you re a gentleman,  he said to Assange. Yeah, we protect our sources,  Assange responded. People like Pamela have basically gone  it s pretty disgusting what s gone on  where you have two UN rulings in the last 12 months saying I m being illegally detained without charge for six years now and you ve got the Australian government doing nothing at all and the situation goes on. Anderson, 49, also offered her own two cents  worth on the friendship during an interview on British panel show,  Loose Women. I m always doing something, trying to do something every day, befriending people that are important people in the world like Julian Assange,  Anderson said. I think he s a very important person and I think that history will look back on him and realise how important he is. ' Restore my liberty '  says Julian Assange  https://t.co/62p2uRGUxm  Pamela Anderson (@pamfoundation)  February 8, 2017 Speaking to Kyle and Jackie O, Assange also shot down recent conspiracy theories surrounding his own death and outlined some of the  weird  experiences he d had in exile. Someone tried to break in in early October last year, that kind of thing happens occasionally,  Assange explained. It was 3am on a Monday morning and they climbed up the wall, up the drainpipe and they were opening the window with one of their feet. There s cameras everywhere — it s pretty weird. Asked about US president Donald Trump, Assange said there had been some positive consequences following his election. I quite like the way that now suddenly it s permissible for most media to criticise the government,  he said, adding he hoped Mr Trump s behaviour would encourage Australia to develop  an independent foreign policy . The controversial journalist also promised WikiLeaks would drop more material soon. We re always preparing to publish something. We have some wonderful, amazing head-offs this year,  he said. Get The New Daily free every morning and evening. Follow The New Daily  Copyright   2019 The New Daily. All rights reserved. Get The New Daily free every morning and evening. There was an error submitting the form. Please try again. 