THE 10 BEST Saint Sauveur des Monts Vacation Rentals  &  Condos (with Prices) | TripAdvisor - Book Apartments in Saint Sauveur des Monts, Quebec Visitors flock to Saint Sauveur des Monts for its abundance of outdoor activities and beautiful landscapes. If you are planning a trip to Saint Sauveur des Monts, why not make it even more special by staying in a vacation rental instead of a hotel? From a cozy condo for two, to a spacious rental home for the entire family, there is sure to be the perfect Saint Sauveur des Monts vacation rental for your budget and needs. Enjoy all the benefits of your very own home away from home by taking advantage of one of our great deals on vacation rentals for your next trip to Saint Sauveur des Monts.  Saint Sauveur des Monts is known for its plentiful skiing and snowboarding along with other great outdoor activities and fantastic sights. Visit Mont Saint-Sauveur for the best skiing and dining in the area all packed into a beautiful resort community. The nearby Mont Saint-Sauveur Parc Aquatique is a fun-filled water park with attractions for the whole family. No matter how you decide to spend your days in Saint Sauveur des Monts, staying in your very own rental home is the perfect way to rest up for the next day's adventures. The comfort and space of a vacation home makes them great for anything from a romantic getaway to a family with kids, but did you know that choosing a vacation rental over a hotel can even save you money?  Hotels can be expensive, especially if you are traveling with a large group or plan on staying a while. With vacation rentals, there is no need to worry about paying for extra hotel rooms when you can rent a home to accommodate your entire group. Many of our Saint Sauveur des Monts vacation rentals also offer discounts on extended stays, so you can enjoy the beauty of the mountains longer while saving yourself some money. All the benefits of a Saint Sauveur des Monts rental home and their money saving potential makes staying in a vacation rental a win-win situation for your next vacation. 