What are the 5 Health Benefits of Cinnamon Tea That Make it So Special? | CashKaro Blog Table of Contents  [ show ] Beyond its extensive use in desserts like pudding etc., Cinnamon has been used since a long time by many cultures. Sweet, soothing, spicy and exotic, Cinnamon is a versatile herb and can be used in tea as well, apart from desserts etc. Moreover, it is widely known for its numerous health benefits. Cinnamon serves as an effective remedy for indigestion, bloating etc. as it is a rich source of magnesium, iron, calcium, fiber, Vitamin C and B1. Drinking Cinnamon tea helps boost your immune system and prevent any stomach-related problems, because of its active production of stomach acids. One cup of Cinnamon tea proves effective in stabilizing your blood sugar level. This is due to the fact that it contains Vitamin B1 which tends to stimulate insulin receptors and inhibit the enzyme that triggers them. This intensifies the body’s ability to process glucose. So, it is best to have Cinnamon tea after meals and while fasting. Cinnamon has a high concentration of antioxidants like Cinnamaldehyde, Catechins, Cyanide etc. These antioxidants help neutralize the free radicals, thus, eliminating oxidative stress throughout your body. As a consequence, this tea has preventative effect on chronic illnesses that become more common with age. Poor circulation of blood throughout your body can lead to many health issues like constipation, painful joints etc. This is the reason why you should have Cinnamon tea. It is naturally warming and helps to increase blood flow. It is a natural blood thinner as well. Drinking Cinnamon Tea without sugar keeps your mouth feeling fresh and germ free. It also prevents tooth decay and gum diseases as its powerful anti-bacterial qualities help keep your mouth healthy and encourages oral hygiene too. You can also drink Cardamom tea to get rid of bad breath. Know more about  Cardamom tea and its benefits  here. Cinnamon tea though if consumed in moderate quantities is considered to be highly beneficial, its excess intake can lead to diarrhea, upset stomach, nausea, liver problems and vomiting. Yes, consuming cinnamon tea makes you feel full thus preventing you from eating more. If consumed every day, it can lower your calorie intake drastically thus leading to weight loss. Consuming approx. 2 – 3 cups of cinnamon tea a day can work wonders on your health. That is the average number of cups that you should have in a day. To make cinnamon tea: Yes, drinking too much cinnamon tea can be bad for your health as it is a thermogenic ingredient and can increase the body heat leading to problems like nausea, upset stomach and diarrhea. The most common type of cinnamon found in households and used commonly, Cassia Cinnamon must be consumed in moderate quantities of 1 to 1½ teaspoons. It would be well enough for a day. Cinnamon being a thermogenic ingredient, when consumed, can instantly increase the body temperature leading to burning of body fat. A diabetic patient can take up to 1 teaspoon of cinnamon in a day. Here are some trusted retailers that sell Cinnamon tea. You can buy your tea from them at great discounts and affordable prices. Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Please enter an answer in digits: 