Billionaire Boy - David Walliams - Google Books No eBook available Rent and save from the world ' s largest eBookstore. Read, highlight, and take notes, across web, tablet, and phone. Go to Google Play Now  A hilarious, touching and extraordinary new fable from David Walliams, number one bestseller and one of the fastest growing children’s author across the globe. Joe has a lot of reasons to be happy. About a billion of them, in fact. You see, Joe's rich. Really, really rich. Joe's got his own bowling alley, his own cinema, even his own butler who is also an orangutan. He's the wealthiest twelve-year-old in the land. But Joe isn't happy. Why not? Because he's got a billion pounds... and not a single friend. But then someone comes along, someone who likes Joe for Joe, not for his money. The problem is, Joe's about to learn that when money is involved, nothing is what it seems. The best things in life are free, they say – and if Joe's not careful, he's going to lose them all... I read this book to my 9yo son (English is his second language), and we enjoyed it more than Mr Stink, which was a little too political. This story was about a boy whose father is a billionaire. and ... Read full review Once upon a time, a little boy called Joe had a father who worked in a shop where he made loo-rolls - wrapped them round the tubes, round, all day long. He soon made his own loo-roll - Bumfresh (I can ... Read full review David Walliams has revolutionised reading for children and become one of the most influential children’s writers today. Since the publication of his ground-breaking first novel,  The Boy in the Dress  (2008), Walliams has seen unprecedented growth with global sales exceeding 32 million copies, and his books translated into 53 languages. Born in London, Tony Ross went to art school in Liverpool. His cartoons have appeared in famous publications the world over. His first book,  Hugo and the Wicked Winter , was published in 1972. Tony has since written over 100 books and illustrated over 2000! His creations  Towser  and  The Little Princess  have been turned into TV series. David and Tony have worked on six bestselling picture books together, and nine of David’s phenomenally successful children’s novels. David and Tony also collaborated on the 2017 World Book Day title, BLOB, and on the blockbuster collections,  The World’s Worst Children  1, 2 and 3. 