Sebastian Ortiz Chamorro - CEO - Software Natura | LinkedIn Liked by  Sebastian Ortiz Chamorro Liked by  Sebastian Ortiz Chamorro Liked by  Sebastian Ortiz Chamorro Jan 2017   –  Present 3 years Valdosta, Georgia 16 years 7 months Nov 2013   –  Present 6 years 2 months Greater Minneapolis-St. Paul Area eLumen Collaborative provides student outcomes and assessment software to academic institutions. Through this versatile technology colleges and universities can measure actual student learning outcomes relative to expected outcomes. This software can also help the institution meet accreditation requirements. With experience inside colleges and universities, the eLumen leadership team has a keen interest in developing flexible, innovative solutions for institutions of higher education. We strive to empower your academic institution with the right tools to meet the ever-increasing demands of learning outcomes assessment. eLumen Collaborative provides student outcomes and assessment software to academic institutions. Through this versatile technology colleges and universities can measure actual student learning outcomes relative to expected outcomes. This software can also help the institution meet accreditation requirements. With experience inside colleges and universities, the eLumen leadership team has a keen interest in developing flexible, innovative solutions for institutions of higher education. We strive... eLumen Collaborative provides student outcomes and assessment software to academic institutions. Through this versatile technology colleges and universities can measure actual student learning outcomes relative to expected outcomes. This software can also help the institution meet accreditation requirements. With experience inside colleges and universities, the eLumen leadership team has a keen interest in developing flexible, innovative solutions for institutions of higher education. We strive to empower your academic institution with the right tools to meet the ever-increasing demands of learning outcomes assessment. Apr 2007   –   Nov 2013 6 years 8 months Greater Minneapolis-St. Paul Area Jun 2003   –   Apr 2007 3 years 11 months Greater Minneapolis-St. Paul Area Apr 2007   –   Dec 2012 5 years 9 months Greater Minneapolis-St. Paul Area Software development for the education industry Software development for the education industry Oct 2000   –   Mar 2007 6 years 6 months Greater Minneapolis-St. Paul Area Helped develop software using Web technologies for companies in the Minneapolis-St Paul area including Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Minnesota and eLumen Collaborative. Helped develop software using Web technologies for companies in the Minneapolis-St Paul area including Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Minnesota and eLumen Collaborative. 1998   –   1999 The Engineer's degree is a one-year research program equivalent to a U.S Masters degree or a European 2nd cycle-level program. Published research on Web Engineering methodologies. The Engineer's degree is a one-year research program equivalent to a U.S Masters degree or a European 2nd cycle-level program. Published research on Web Engineering methodologies. 1992   –   1998 Lic. (equivalent to U.S. B.S.) of Informatics Engineering is a software engineering and development program that, in addition to teaching software development techniques and tools has a strong theoretical computer science and mathematics basis Lic. (equivalent to U.S. B.S.) of Informatics Engineering is a software engineering and development program that, in addition to teaching software development techniques and tools has a strong theoretical computer science and mathematics basis A preview of what LinkedIn members have to say about Sebastian: What can I say about Sebastian, other than he truly is a delight to work with. He is very intelligent, communicates very well, is very flexible, and willing to do whatever he can to help others. It is obvious that he is passionate about what he does, and about improving higher education. He has created a one-of-a-kind software solution for institutions that is unparalleled by anything else in the market. By teaming up with like-minded academics he was able to produce something that was once thought to be impossible. Sebastian is extremely good at what he does, and also has the ability to explain the complexities of what he does with ease, and in way that people like me can understand. He really is someone who doesn’t just think outside the box, but knows there is no box. What can I say about Sebastian, other than he truly is a delight to work with. He is very intelligent, communicates very well, is very flexible, and willing to do whatever he can to help others. It is obvious that he is passionate about what he does, and about improving higher education. He has created a one-of-a-kind software solution for institutions that is unparalleled by anything else in the market. By teaming up with like-minded academics he was able to produce something that was once... What can I say about Sebastian, other than he truly is a delight to work with. He is very intelligent, communicates very well, is very flexible, and willing to do whatever he can to help others. It is obvious that he is passionate about what he does, and about improving higher education. He has created a one-of-a-kind software solution for institutions that is unparalleled by anything else in the market. By teaming up with like-minded academics he was able to produce something that was once thought to be impossible. Sebastian is extremely good at what he does, and also has the ability to explain the complexities of what he does with ease, and in way that people like me can understand. He really is someone who doesn’t just think outside the box, but knows there is no box. 1 person has recommended Sebastian Join now to view Join to view Sebastian’s full profile 