Top 100 Gyms in Fateh Nagar - Best Ladies Gyms - Justdial Get Best Deal on Gyms! Most of the people make a New Year’s resolution to hit the gym and sweat out their fat cells, but sadly as the resolution grows older, the enthusiasm begins to fizzle out. Only if you knew how incredibly beneficial gyming is to your body, your New Year’s resolution would stay strong until the end of the year. Joining any gym Fateh Nagar, Delhi has is very beneficial to your overall health. Mentioned below are some of the reasons why you should join the gym right away for your better health: 1. Innumerable health benefits Goes without saying, exercising has a lot of health benefits. When you exercise, you improve our cardiovascular fitness by strengthening both your heart as well as your lung muscles. Experts say that in order to keep your heart and lungs healthy, one must at least exercise moderately for 5 hours in a week. Ideally, these 5 hours should also include muscle training exercise in a week, which should at least be done twice in a week. 2. Proper equipment Many people think that substituting dumbells with water bottles can easily qualify for a good workout. Honestly, such exercises are not as effective as the ones trained using the gym equipment. Nowadays all the gyms Fateh Nagar, Delhi has are well stocked with the latest instruments that assist the best in class experiences when it comes to exercising and shedding some extra weight. 3.Healthy routine Many say that once you start hitting the gym, you will actually get a hang of it, so much so that after your membership gets over, you will literally miss working out. Also, another major reason why you would definitely go to the gym is to establish a healthy workout routine. Since you have actually paid your gym membership using your hard earned money, not going to the gym will in a way rub some salts on your wounds and push you to work out as often as you can. 4. Increases your strength and stamina  The best that you can get out of exercising, after losing that unwanted fat, is building up your endurance levels and stamina. Experts suggest that working out releases a happy hormone in your body called endorphins. Honestly, there’s no better way of exercising hard and leaving the gym, feeling all energised. Beginners, as well as those who are athletes, should gym on a regular basis to get the best results. Experts suggest that working out at a gym three to four times in a week is a great way to see the best possible results. It is important to keep in mind that you should religiously schedule a rest day between two working out days. This means, make sure that you take one day off after two consecutive days of strength training. In Fateh Nagar, Delhi gyms offer membership on a monthly, quarterly, half yearly as well as yearly basis. Nowadays, you can also pay for a trial visit at the gym before you decide to buy a full fledged membership. Gym membership rates vary on a lot many bases. You will be shelling out more money if you also take the services of a personal trainer while you take your membership. Mentioned below is a tabular version of the approximate prices charged by gyms as their membership fee. Please note:  The above mentioned prices differ from one gym to another and are highly indicative. They are not inclusive of any additional facilities, such as personal trainer, diet chart, etc. The best way to up your energy levels and stamina is to join a gym and workout. Justdial can help you find the best possible gym, completely at your convenience at just the tip of your finger.  Delhi gyms offer you monthly, quarterly, half-yearly, and annual membership options.    In addition to gym classes, you get Zumba, Pilates, kickboxing, yoga and other fitness classes. Please enquire on these facilities with the gym.   No, you don’t. All gyms offer you a private trainer facility for an additional fee.   Not all gyms offer you shower or sauna facilities. Please contact the gym and ask them about these before joining.  Approximate gym membership costs in Delhi go from Rs. 4,500 to Rs. 6,000 for a quarter, Rs. 8,000 to Rs. 12, 000 for six months, and Rs. 18,000 to Rs. 22, 000+ for a year.  