The Style Paper There ' s no need to get rid of that Monstera just yet. The Botanical trend is still going strong when it comes to your home. Even better: the more green the more fun! Don ' t be afraid to overdo it. But, please ditch the pineapples.  The most obvious way to add some greens to your interior is of course: plants! Try to look beyond the most trendy ones at the moment (cactus, palm or monstera) and combine different leaves and sizes. Put them in some nice (vintage) pots you buy at the flea market and group them together on a table. For some serious plant-envy check out the Instagram accounts of  Geo-Fleur  and  Wildernis , or visit their store if you're in the neighbourhood. Vintage items, just like plants, are also a keeper. Style your home with some flower pots you found at your grandma's, the flea market or at the side of the road. Combine these with an old rattan chair or coffee table for the ultimate retro feel. Can't be bothered to collect some pottery? They make new ones that look old as well, and handmade ceramics are a thing too!  Not afraid of colour and want to take things a little further? Paint one of your walls a dark moss green colour or choose a wallpaper with a green, botanical print. A bold piece of furniture in a striking colour makes a statement. Go for a velvet sofa and joint the latest interior trend.  A simpler option is to find some old fashioned botanical prints and put them up in different sized frames. This looks best against a green wall though. More inspiration? The Style Paper is also on Pinterest: check out my interior inspiration board 'Greens' . The contents of this website have been carefully curated by The Style Paper. However, The Style Paper does not accept any liability regarding possible inaccuracies of any content shown on this website. Unauthorised or improper use of the contents of this website or parts thereof, infringe upon the Intellectual Property Rights of The Style Paper. Permission to use or share the contents of this website or parts thereof, on publicly accessible locations may be requested in writing to The Style Paper. Linking to this website or sharing parts thereof on other websites and social media is only allowed when referring to The Style Paper. This website may contain links to websites or images of third parties. The Style Paper has no control over the contents or other characteristics of these sites/images and never accepts liability nor responsibility for this content. The Style Paper will mention the owner of the third party content wherever possible and when known. If you discover any material that infringes upon your property rights or is otherwise unlawful in your opinion, you may submit a request to have this content removed from our website. © The Style Paper 2019 | Chamber of Commerce The Netherlands 66725909 | THE STYLEPAPER®  Webdesign by  Remco van Dun 