12 I Miss You Every Single Day 12 and Now You ' re So Far Away RT So Far Away Martin Garrix  & Amp David Guetta httpstcohW72ZVvsdp | Martin Meme on ME.ME RT @LyricsSlap: So Far Away( Martin Garrix  &  David Guetta ) https://t.co/hW72ZVvsdp found   ON 2018-07-16 16:10:52 BY  ME.ME source: twitter In Martin Scorsese ' s 2019 The Irishman, it is hard to see the screen. This is due to the fact my cat was sitting on my lap The inclusion of Canada Dry throughout The Irishman (2019) is a reference to the fact that Martin Scorsese is an old man that enjoys ginger ... Resistance is futile, Malta ! They split A Storm of Swords, because so much happens they wouldnt be able to show it in just 10 episodes, but they merged two books into on... Thanks, I hate yearbook quotes czechoslovakia split 1. 1. 1993 Is this the Angelo Rock? No my dude, it’s not A Christmas Smolder Great questions from a fan on FB! Nothing to see here, just my first subreddit. What are you doing stepbro🥵🥵 I listen to “screamo” and lo-fi music, pumpkin is amazing, grilled chicken over fried, and I haven’t seen any of those movies. What about y’... Reformation memes for all! Great timing Netflix Stop with the damn plastic! *Wrapped in plastic* Reeves, Rock, Walken, Lee, Kattan, Martin, Tucker, Eccelson, Hardwick, Farley, Hemsworth, Evans, Pratt, Pine Found this on the newspaper paper today. This doesn’t need an explanation.......... saw this comment on the saw theme song me irl " The Irishman "  (2019) is based on the Marvel comic  " Irish-Man " . Martin Scorsesee was adamant about bringing a lesser-known comic-book charac... From intersectionality.com Says it all Went to a local museum and saw this template. It was too perfect not to capture and use! Who can blame him really Be proud felix *Jews have left the chat* This year, I am thankful for memes. Someone check the Bible for this (via /r/BlackPeopleTwitter) Oopsie It took me a while Martin Luther huh does this fit? Martin Luther puts up the 95 Theses (1517) Been waiting weeks to get to this part and post it hmmm (if you know, you know) Alex showing a bit to much...  PEWDIEPIE CAR!!!! ( Sorry cross posting is not allowed ) Someone check the Bible for this This Aston Martin Valkyrie has a pewdiepie skin! ...martin....really? Aston Martin PewDiePie edition Misappropriating a Martin Luther King quote for the benefit of imperialism I’m gonna tell my kid this was Martin Scorsese. 