Two Hearts Catholic Book Store in Frisco, TX with Reviews - YP.com What are you looking for? YP - The Real Yellow Pages SM  - helps you find the right local businesses to meet your specific needs. Search results are sorted by a combination of factors to give you a set of choices in response to your search criteria. These factors are similar to those you might use to determine which business to select from a local Yellow Pages directory, including proximity to where you are searching, expertise in the specific services or products you need, and comprehensive business information to help evaluate a business's suitability for you. “Preferred” listings, or those with featured website buttons, indicate YP advertisers who directly provide information about their businesses to help consumers make more informed buying decisions. YP advertisers receive higher placement in the default ordering of search results and may appear in sponsored listings on the top, side, or bottom of the search results page. This store is great.  They have discounts on certain days to make it eve greater.  For example, they have 30% off on one day for seniors.  It is… From Business: Welcome to Ruths RoomWe are a thrift store benefiting Habitat for Humanity of Denton County. We accept gently used housewares, clothing, small electronics,… From Business: BUY - SELL - TRADE - Books, Comics  &  Collectibles - Family Owned  &  Operated for over 45 years - We are committed to quality Open 7 days a week 10:00 a.m. - 7:00… From Business: Barnes  &  Noble is one of the largest bookselling companies in the United States. It offers a selection of books on trade, medicine and academic subjects. The… From Business: Doc's Comics  &  Games is DFW's premier comic book and game store! Your one stop shop for comic books, card games, board games, role playing games, and all things… I love half price books, you never know what you will find and they have a great selection of gifts also Serving the Frisco Area From Business: 31-day devotional books, wood products such as hope chests, piggy banks, food products such as cookie jar giftsets, jewelry, other assorted unique gifts This is a great bookstore, independent brick and mortar bookstores have virtually disappeared from Dallas. This place is a rare gem and sells a… If you buy books here, if you end up finding the one you want it's usually a few dollars cheaper than at the Campus's bookstore.However, on the… Great service, great prices! From Business: I will post the RELASE date and upcoming book signing on MY WEB SIT THOUGHTSAMERICA@GMAIL. COM if YOU have ANY question. Please E mail ME THOUGHTS500@GMAIL. COM. Serving the Frisco Area Didn't find what you were looking for?  Please help others by helping us do better. 101 W Camp Wisdom Rd Ste J, Duncanville, TX 75116 2601 Preston Rd Ste 1204, Frisco, TX 75034 2201 S Interstate 35 E Ste N01b, Denton, TX 76205  2019 Thryv, Inc. All rights reserved. YP, the YP logo and all other YP marks contained herein are trademarks of YP LLC and/or YP affiliated companies. All other marks contained herein are the property of their respective owners. 