No Appendix is Too Short-Simultaneous Mitrofanoff Catheterizable Vesicostomy and Malone Antegrade Continence Enema (MACE) for Children with Spina Bifida. Kudela G(1), Smyczek D(2), Springer A(3), Korecka K(2), Koszutski T(2). >< Author information:  >(1)Department of Paediatric Surgery and Urology, John Paul II Upper Silesian Child Health Centre, Medical University of Silesia in Katowice, Katowice, Poland. Electronic address: kudela@mp.pl.<br >(2)Department of Paediatric Surgery and Urology, John Paul II Upper Silesian Child Health Centre, Medical University of Silesia in Katowice, Katowice, Poland. >(3)Department of Pediatric Surgery, Medical University Vienna, Vienna, Austria.< p> >< OBJECTIVE: To present the results of simultaneous creation of both Mitrofanoffstoma and Malone antegrade continence stoma (MACE) using simple division of theappendix and a cecal extension method.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Between June 2011 and November 2016, simultaneousMitrofanoff and MACE was performed in 16 children (12 children-simple division ofthe appendix, 4 children-appendicovesicostomy and cecal extension of theappendix). Extension of the appendix was achieved by tubularization of theexcised cecal flap next to the short appendicular stump. The new extended channelwas then wrapped by cecal wall.RESULTS: Follow-up was 40 months (10-74 months). Currently, in all children, bothstomas are easily catheterizable. Obstruction of MACE occurred in 5 children (4with split appendix, 1 with extended appendix); Mitrofanoff stomal stenosisoccurred in 1 child. Endoscopic revision and prolonged catheterization ofstenotic stomas were effective in all cases. Wound infection and dehiscence wasnoted in 2 children (both with split appendix). Drainage and intravenousantibiotics were effective. All Mitrofanoffs are continent. In 4 children thereis incident minor leakage of the MACE (3 with split appendix and in 1 withextended appendix).CONCLUSION: The split appendix procedure is feasible. Cecal extension of theappendix seems to be a good option when the appendix is too short for a simplesplit procedure.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved. >< 