Curtis Stone | Bittersweet Chocolate-Mint Mousse 1/8 teaspoon mint extract 30g unsalted butter, thinly sliced 1/8 teaspoon peppermint extract The mousse can be refrigerated for up to 2 days. Set a large heatproof bowl over a saucepan of barely simmering water. Add the  chocolate and butter to the bowl and stir until melted and smooth. Remove the bowl from  the saucepan. Whisk in the milk. Let stand for about 15 minutes, stirring occasionally, or  until the mixture is cool. In a medium bowl, using an electric mixer, beat the egg yolks and 1/3 cup of the  confectioners’ sugar on medium-high speed, until light and airy. In another medium bowl,  using clean beaters, beat the egg whites with the remaining 1/3 cup confectioners'  sugar  on medium-high speed until soft peaks form. Using a large flexible spatula, fold the egg  yolk mixture into the cooled chocolate mixture. Gently fold in the egg white mixture. Add the cream and the mint extract to the bowl that held the egg whites. Beat with the  mixer (no need to clean the beaters) on high speed until thick, soft peaks form. Fold the  whipped cream into the chocolate mixture.   Divide the mousse among six to eight dessert cups or bowls. Cover each one with  plastic wrap. Refrigerate for at least 2 hours to chill and set the mousse. Set a large heatproof bowl over a saucepan of barely simmering water. Add the  chocolate and butter to the bowl and stir until melted and smooth. Remove the bowl from  the saucepan. Whisk in the milk. Let stand for about 15 minutes, stirring occasionally, or  until the mixture is cool. In a medium bowl, using an electric mixer, beat the egg yolks and 1/3 cup of the icing  sugar on medium-high speed, until light and airy. In another medium bowl, using clean  beaters, beat the egg whites with the remaining 1/3 cup icing sugar on medium-high  speed until soft peaks form. Using a large flexible spatula, fold the egg yolk mixture into  the cooled chocolate mixture. Gently fold in the egg white mixture. Add the cream and the peppermint extract to the bowl that held the egg whites. Beat  with the mixer (no need to clean the beaters) on high speed until thick, soft peaks form.  Fold the whipped cream into the chocolate mixture. Divide the mousse among six to eight dessert cups or bowls. Cover each one with  plastic wrap. Refrigerate for at least 2 hours to chill and set the mousse. CURTISSTONE.COM All Rights Reserved   2019  