Ranked! Liverpool’s 10 best foreign players of all time | FourFourTwo Matt Ladson 5. Bruce Grobbelaar A Zimbabwean born in South Africa, Liverpool’s eccentric goalkeeper of the 1980s won it all with the Reds. Grobbelaar spent 13 glorious years at Anfield having arrived to little fanfare in 1981, following a stint with the Vancouver Whitecaps and loan spell at Crewe. He played 628 times for the Reds thereafter, and wasn’t ousted until 1992/93 when David James came along. By the end he'd won six league titles, three FA Cups, three League Cups, and – most memorably – the 1984 European Cup thanks to his ‘spaghetti legs’ in the penalty shootout against Roma. 4. Jan Molby The Great Dane was the original pass-master, two decades before Alonso arrived on the scene. He once scored a hat-trick of penalties against Coventry, and netted 42 times from the spot overall. Some say he also scored the best goal ever seen at Anfield, against Manchester United in 1985 (below). That it was lost due to a TV rights dispute perhaps made the goal itself more impressive in the minds of those who were there. Not until a few years ago, when the strike was finally discovered on tape, was the myth somewhat debunked – but it's still some strike. Embedded video for Ranked! Liverpool’s 10 best foreign players of all time 3. Sami Hyypia Arguably the biggest bargain in Liverpool’s recent history; an under-the-radar signing who went on to become an undisputed legend at the club. After Gerard Houllier’s botched attempt at a defensive overhaul in summer 1998, when five stoppers were signed with mixed success, Hyypia was snapped up for just £2.6m from Dutch side Willem II a year later. A decade and 464 appearances on, the giant Finn had achieved heroic status. He was a first-team regular from the beginning, and later became a key figure in Liverpool’s Treble success of 2001 and Champions League victory in 2005. In the latter competition, his early volley in the Reds’ quarter-final first leg against Juventus set them on their way to a 2-1 aggregate win. 2. Mohamed Salah There’s no top spot for Mo just yet. We’re placing the Egyptian scoring sensation at second purely for the fact that he hasn’t yet completed a season at the club. A Champions League winners’ medal would doubtlessly change all of that, but in the meantime the 25-year-old must help Liverpool overcome his former club Roma in the semi-finals. Either way, his debut season in at Anfield has been nothing short of sensational. Salah has already equalled the 38-game record for Premier League goals, and set a new one for individual league matches scored in – 23 so far, adding two to the previous figure achieved by Cristiano Ronaldo (2007/08) and Robin van Persie (2012/13). 1. Luis Suarez For now, then, top spot goes to the man who eventually mended the hearts broken by Torres’s departure – before he too left, and Liverpool ended up with Mario Balotelli and Rickie Lambert in his place. The Kop, and red away ends up and down the country, just couldn’t get enough of Luis Suarez. His infectious winning mentality – and 31 goals – almost helped Liverpool to an unlikely league title in 2013/14, but ultimately the Uruguayan left with only a League Cup winners’ medal. Much like Torres, Suarez should have won more, but it didn’t work out that way. His performance against Norwich at Anfield in December 2013, when he scored four times and assisted another, left fans at Anfield simply laughing in disbelief at what they were witnessing. New features you’d love on FourFourTwo.com 