Love Casts Out Fear | Baker Publishing Group by:  Brother Nathan  ,  David Culross A true story of forgiveness and God's incredible provision >< b> >As a boy in Egypt, Brother Nathan witnessed an unthinkable attack on his father, a Christian pastor in a majority-Muslim country. After the attack Nathan sought revenge and vowed to avenge his father. As a man, by God's incredible provision, Nathan ministers in the village where his father was targeted, as well as in countless other cities and villages across Egypt and throughout the Middle East.<br > ><i>Love Casts Out Fear< i> tells a gripping true story of danger, overwhelming anger, and forgiveness that's beyond comprehension. Through Nathan's experiences in Egypt, his beloved homeland, you'll see firsthand the joys and difficulties Christians face in the persecuted church in the Middle East. And you'll marvel at God's ability to care for those who follow his call and to change hearts in one of the most dangerous places in the world to claim Christ as Lord. ><br > ><b>Brother Nathan< b> is a Christian leader currently working in Egypt, where Christians are a small minority and face difficult and challenging situations on a daily basis. He graduated from university as a veterinary surgeon, but followed the call of God he felt on his life by leaving his job in 1986 to study at New Life Bible School in New Zealand. Upon completion of his studies, he returned to Egypt to begin his ministry. He and his wife have three children. ><b><br >David Culross  has been involved in various ministries for over forty years, including church music ministry and sacred and symphonic music publication. His global mission work has taken him to more than sixty countries around the world. His up close and personal encounters with Christians all over the world give him unique insight into the persecuted church. He currently lives in Grand Rapids, Michigan, with his wife, Sharon. Brother Nathan  is a Christian leader currently working in Egypt, where Christians are a small minority and face difficult and challenging situations on a daily basis. He graduated from university as a veterinary surgeon, but followed the call of God he felt on... Continue reading about Brother Nathan  David Culross  has been involved in various ministries for over forty years, including church music ministry and sacred and symphonic music publication. His global mission work has taken him to more than sixty countries around the world. His up close and... Continue reading about David Culross 