BBC - Stoke  &  Staffordshire - Entertainment - Northern Soul Show Messages Archive 2009 You are in:  Stoke  &  Staffordshire > Entertainment > Music > Northern soul >  Northern Soul Show Messages Archive 2009 You made your feelings known about Mary Fox's soul show during the first half of  2009, and in such numbers that we have had to create extra archive pages!! We loved all the comments so much that we wrapped them up for posterity... This is an archive of course, but if you want to contribute to the current comments board, just click on the 'Northern Soul' link to the right on this page. *** April 2009 - October 2009 (but... it reads backwards - so, oldest comments at bottom of page) Mac McNulty from Chiang Mai Twiggy, You ask a question re: Kev Roberts being in a groups on Top of the Pops. There was one person who I believe played keyboards in a group on TOTP's, I think it was Chris King. Mary if you get a chance how about playing Not me baby by the Shilouettes, for all those people working in the far flung corner's of the world.Cheers Twiggy To Potteries Pecker, I agree with you totally, we do have a click locally who think this music is just for themselves, to be honest with you i didn't see most who now regularly go onto the messaggeboard at ANY SOUL NITES until Marys show was aired on local Radio Stoke some 6 years ago, they say they did that and this, what gets me they turn up with boxes of pressings and think they have got original records in their cases, i told one of um recently virtually every record in his collection was a pressing he laughed because he thought i was pulling his plonker.This weeks guest was very good with his selections proving you didn't have to go any BIG CLUB to know the stuff,One thing i must say is he stayed on for to long, he got an hour which i think was not fair because hes already getting alot of airtime doing other things,The Scene i knew was all about humble kids nobody from the media wanted to listen to Northern Soul way back in time now we have experts from here and far telling us about their experiences with this music.Soul-on-Trent they say, i dunna feel any soul when i go local nights so i pick the ones i go to but to be honest something always seems missing. Cravat Soul now is all i want to talk about where the bloody record dealers who Dj on our scene and hog it can play politics with themselves, i guess airplay of a true original 45 which is rare will push up its value, like the Guest on this weeks show said you buy an antique because you love it and want it and you most probably won't make a bean on it, i guess its a different story with record dealer Dj's who hog the scene, ya getting to be a sad lot between yourselves, ya ruined the scene once and alot of the donkey work was done by others. So Pecker a little togetherness you say, no chance they onna worth it. adrian mcintosh cant wait 4 you'r northen soul tunes tonight known as soul stomper ERIC what a star!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Mary just listened to the 23/10/09 show.Please get E.K.back asap we really enjoyed ALL of his selections.We watch the A.R. over here (via sat )every Sunday when ever poss or the repeats when there is nothing else on.Don't know which is repeated more A.R. or Top Gear????He is ANNA's favourite expert!!Think that GOLDIE would be perfect to present the show when there is an opening!!Have a great break (don't put too much of a shine on that toilet,while you are off!!)we have 'staff' for that task over here you know!!!looking forward to some of nick's interesting selections in the next few weeks.KTF JINKSY AND THE MURCIANS Richard Penniman (" La-La" Angeles). Hi B/Stoke/Soul!.As a "First-Time-Listener" I found ya "WAVE-BAND!"a "Get Down Get With It" show!!!...Any "Little Richard" track If Poss!!!!.cheer,s,"88's"Richard  &  "La-La"Lucille. Mr."SHAFT".(Manchester). "Good Show B/Stoke!".Any chance of ya playin,'Cafe-Regio's?'.Regard,s  &  "KFC" 2-ya -all!!!!!..(Finger Lickin Good!). Sylvia Dean What an excellent show this week and your fab guest Eric Knowles ! Just sublime choices.Thankyou Mary another excellent show.xx Johnny Mo 23-October-2009 : Listening to Eric Knowles on this evening's show - what memories he's evoked with such terrific track listings and choices : and memories of travelling the Torch ; Cats ; Mecca route - all pre Wigan ! Brilliant stuff !!! Can relate to everything he spoke about. THANK YOU ERIC.....THANK YOU Paddy Shevlin (Brighton) Yo to The Torchies tomorrow night ...and can you give a mecnch for Brighton All Nighter next week Sat 31st Oct @ Babylon Lounge - Thankswww.soul-survivors.co.uk Mick Oliver mary thanks for phil mitchell last week what about tightrope inez & charlie fox or a great sound from the black & white wand label thats enough roscoe robinson Ian Edwards Thanks to all who came to Bilston,for CIN on Thurdsay night,as ever great night,and my personal thanks firstly to Pete R and Goldie who stil came despite an horrendous time on the M6,gents that was fantastic of you,Big Andy no worries mate,love to Anne get the lovely lady better mate.Huge thanks to all the dj's,you were all brilliant,I enjoyed my "little spot",thanks to CHALKY,for his assistance,Mart and Jellybean,for all the equipment,photographs brilliant stuff.Vinny hope you enjoyed it mate,very kind gesture with the record mate,and it went for £60,will as I said pay you a visit,thank you mate,and thanks for making the journey from Boslem.Thanks to the BEEB for Pudsey(thanks Jen) and mystery man who made PUDSEY,the dancing bear,Mary hope all is ok now,you did miss a good night flower.To all who made their kind gestures in whatever way,thanks so much,and Steve and Dawn,thanks for my YAM YAM tay shirt BOSTIN wor it.To the juicy bit the total raised was £1709.30p.in the current climate amazing.Mary my wife was fantastic,working so hard love ya loads angel xxxx Sylvia Dean Hi Jinksy I am SYLVIA not SLYVIA haha.. glad you liked the tip !! There really are some fab old clips on You tube!! Any atrtist you care to mention.. and some crackers!!Twiggy you are right about having opinions and good debate is always healthy!! I will nag Joe for some CD`s he promised you YONKS ago!!Can I have a plug for Pete Lyster and Bridgewater Soul tomorrow nite.. Its not that far from the midlands down the motorway!!Its at The North Petherton Rugby Club, 7.30 til 1 £ 5 OTD Guest DJ Sean Chapman. Mary can you also play a tune for Anne Norburn from Crewe a lovely soulie who hasnt been too well !! I know she LOVES House For Sale Millie Jackson.. buit I think her smashing hubbie Andrew requested this previously !! If not a Supremes tune ( shades of Lanzarote ??) Anne will understand !! TAA Mary KTF xx Clarence Twiggy you are a cheeky boy, I can just see and imagine you on a Friday night ironing your nylons wearing just a cravat, listening to Marys wonderful music, now is that is what I think you would call sophisticated cravat soul ? Goldie TM DS AR TDJ PRES Yipclub Love trap Port vale excellent last week More Quality than Quantity!!!! still learning de decks look out Tony blackburn..After a five hour chat with Pete finally made it to de Kids in need do at Bilston Well done Ian  &  Mary little scotty Chalky etc.....Next up de Wheel friday I have alreaqdy got me boxes of talc Dance stewards tops Sp levels  &  groovin shoes already for what promises to be a SOUL Sizzler RICHARD SEARLING is de guest DJ its on Friday de 30th 9pm till 2-15 JUST GET DOWN GET WITH IT... GO DE WHEEL: IT `ll make ya happy if ya sad  &  happier if ya already happy todays trax Heart Of A Child Percy Sledge  &  GET READY Ella Fitzgerald yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee grrhhhh Goldie xxxxxxxxxx Andrew(SC) Hello Mary, looking forward to Fridays show can I have Brooker T  &  MG's Time is Tight. Ian Ed sorry we could not get there tonight many thinks came together to put a block on the evening. Ann is still not 100% and we are both up at 5am. The girls put on a good show last Saturday at the Crossville. so well done to them and I hope your C in N goes as well.KTF Cocka  &  Karen Due to unforseen family circumstances we have 4 tickets available to purchase at face value (£7 each) for the Torch Reunion at Ryan Hall, Tunstall this saturday 24/10/09. music starts at 2pm through to midnight. Lots meeting at original torch site at 1pm. This is a sold out ticket eventContact Karen or Cocka on 07976618723 northern dj thinking about a party in the run up to xmas/new year eve you provide the venue ile provide the full disco plus all the northern soul motown music plus more if you require it , 07803921039 POTTERIES PECK. A MESSAGE TO WHO THOSE WHO THINK THIS APPLIES TO THEMSELVES. As the YOUNGHEARTS sang - A LITTLE TOGETHERNESS BABY THATS ALL WE NEED, A LITTLE TOGEHERNESS I KNOW WE'LL SUCCEED. The Return Of Richard Searling @ the Wheel Friday 30th Oct sees the return of the Legendary Dj Richard Searling. 40 years in the business and he regards Dj'ing at the Twisted Wheel Club! has the highlight of his career. Richard will entertain you with a 90 mins Set of Wheel Classics!! in the Original Basement Club at 6 Whitworth Manchester City Centre. Also on the decks Residents Djs Pete Roberts and John Green playing the Best in 60's Soul and RnB Classics. A night not to be missed! So "Get Down Get With It" 9pm till 2.15am and Yipeeeeeee its oniy £5 on the Door.... Shotgun!! Andy Scoffin - Crewe once again many thanks to all who send their best wishes too numerous to mention but they are so much appreciated.Hope to see some of you soon.Andy Lightbowne Lil..(Manchester). Re: "Clarence", (Sockings  &  Suspenders).Clarence luv,I wear Stockings  &  Suspenders when I visit the "Twisted Wheel Club" in Manchester.Pete Roberts, the Promoter, said it,s OK, but will not allow me to wear a "CRAVAT!".luv from ,"Lightbowne Lil" & "Gertie the Garter",(with "GUSTO!"). Tony  &  Jill in Clayton Hello Mary, We have just loved the shows over the last few weeks,can your record fairy find us one , and could you play it for us ,the tune is called, all in the game originally done by the 4 tops but also covered by The King Arthur Epps its a lovely version by King Arthur not that the Four Tops version isn`t .Thankyou Tony  &  Jill slyvia d 'YOUR'E DAMM RIGHT'!! jinksy to slyvia.Just checked that video out on youtube.Never thought to look there!!Well worth a look for everyone.thanks for the tip.Back to 'shaft'.bought the double album when it first came out and loved it ever since.Bought it again on cd (what a mug,not as good as having the lp orginal!the sleeve etc ,etc)cheap french import though!!!Used to use the 'cafe regio's' track when the lights went on at the end of the night(perfect)when DJ ing all those years ago and it is still one of my favourite IH tracks all these years later(perhaps another one for MF to dust off and give a spin??)back to the Mucians and the sun!'COLD' today only 22 0c bbrrrr!!guardar los 'faith'!JINKSY AND THE MURCIANS Joan,Pat  &  Anne A huge,heartfelt and genuine "Thank You" to everyone who raised over £1,200 for The Alzheimer's Society at the Crosville Club on Saturday by supporting the event.The D.J's who cheerfully gave their time and expertise - Wilks,Geese,Pete Everett,  &  Nick Marshall.Warrior Clothing for their thoughfulness and generousity.The Crosville Club Staff for their hard work and friendliness.All those lovely people - too numerous to mention but you(and we)know who you are ! - who turned up on the night with raffle prizes and generous hearts.Special mention to Ian Johnson who was unsuccessful in his bid at the Silent Auction but still donated that money to the charity !AND OF COURSE  &  VERY IMPORTANTLY - all our true Soul Family  &  genuine friends who made the night so special.Love to you all XXX Ian Edwards To Vinny,A huge thanks to you for what you guys did at Port Vale,I will pay you a visit to say my personal thanks,Swoz and the lovely Deb told me,tremendous,I have spent many happy nights in your home city,in Boslem and Hanley,I hope you come Thursday and we can afford the same hospitality to you in my humble little home town,to all who made that wonderful gesture from me and my Mary,a huge huge thanks,wether a Valliant or Potter,Stokies you are as I know great people,will play a record and dedicate it to the KING OF HANLEY,the main man JOHN O'BRIEN.(lots of love to ya brother)See ya Thursday. Twiggy To Sylvia, Thats the beauty of having an opinion when you say you prefer a version of Long After Tonight Is All Over, many prefer Dusty Springfields version, i have to admitt this theres only one Jimmy Raddcliffe for me and his version will always be special, not saying the girls didn't do a bad version. To Clarence, ya either understand Cravat Soul or ya dunna, its Music for the more sophisticated and hey it wunna bother me if i saw you in a pair of Fishnet Stockings but if you are wanting me to put my hand down um you have got bob hope of that happening, ya little tease ya grrrrhhhhh ya sexy beast.To Ozz i'm looking forward to coming, i'll be in a flirty mood so lets hope for mysake The Flirtations flirt with me. I thought the last Kingshall Allnighter the base was just to much. Bernard Hi Mary,When Eric Knowles comes on your show ask him if he remembers Les at the Electron record shop in Nelson.(Eric's home town) Les was not really into soul but would always try to get you a record you had heard at the Wheel.Unfortunately the shop is long gone. ozz refreshed after my little break in the villa alcudia, just to remind everyone bout the kingshall sat 7th november, dj's keith minshull,steve whittle,johnny beggs,nick marshall ozz  &  ben astiles, with live performance by THE FLIRTATIONS !, plus 2nd room dj's wilf,jonny farra and doris. Tickets are available from me at OZZ SOUND  &  LIGHTING,LONSDALE STREET STOKE 01782 250003. G'TEED 10K Dragon Spirit pa system, with upmost clarity !! see u there twiggy !! lol - ozz SOULSHAKER hi all, a big thanks to all that attended the port vale soul night on fri and a bigger thanks to you for giving towards the (children in need night at bilston) this thursday night also thanks to nige brown and ben(great job)ps next soul night at port vale executive suite is SAT the 14TH NOV with BRIAN RAE wigan casino plus guest djs cheers a t b vinny Clarence To Twiggy Twiggy darling whats this Cravat Soul ? I thought it was going to be Stockings and Suspenders Soul after our conversations last year.It would go down well at our Pink Club.Also don`t forget to get your stockings ironed because The Rocky Horror Show is coming to town again xx Martin To Dave(KTF).Thanks for your reply re:Joi Cardwell, you hit the nail on the head. I managed to get both wrong artist AND title. Thanks for your help! Broadway-"Boogie-Woogie".(De Stijl). Hi Mary.B/Stoke/"SOUL".Some good Sound,s on ya show By-eck!!!.A good "Listen!".I was "Surfin" ya station  &  found a music "subculture" that has "ZEST!!!!!".Good stuff B/Stoke!.Regard,s,Piet"MONDRIAN".(aka."SQARE-DUTCH" with "Balsam!"). Rob(Cadiz) Late Friday Night: Two classics to start the show on a good foot. Ive been sliding around my various houses (depending on point in life your talking about) to Mitch Ryder  &  The Detoit Wheels since i was an 11 year old boy...god, it never gets old!!!!! In my ignorance, pre-internet i suppose, for years i thought Mitch Ryder was a black Soul singer...it just goes to show that "blue eyed Soul" if done well can be easily as good as the Soul i generally think of (black Detroit, Chicargo etc etc) and love, cherish and buy. Mary's style suits the show perfectly in my opinion, laid back sounding and importantly open to all and any requests. Ive listened to nearly all the Soul shows i can find on the Internet and some very good ones of course in amongst them and some play as good music but none of the shows has the same "feel" to it and thats largely down to the broadcasting style of Mary, (Goldie has said it many times on this board) the guests and the sheer variation of Soul styles played sticking to a roughly 70% out and out northern and mixing up the other 30%. It works!!....and of course the well informed MSGB folk. Ive met (talked to) so many BulShi***** s over the years that its a real pleasure to communicate with people who love Soul and generally care about other folk, at least to a point which is normal as the family outweighs everything else if your lucky. Time for a large "Tinto de Verano"...back in a few mins.....ahhhh! thats better...now where was i? Oh yeah, anyone going to the Dec 28th AllDayer at "The Riverside" (near Southport) featuring the one, the only...Wheel legend, Mr Pete Roberts....i cant believe this venue is happening less than a mile from the house of my folks..and im home at Xmas..what a result!!!!! The Isleys have got to be one of the best bands ive ever had the pleasure of listening to...no wonder your wriggling in your chair Mary!!! ....oh how i wish i'd seen them live....anyone got any Isleys live experiences to share? I think Ronald Isley is in jail to this day on tax evasion offences...lets hope he's still getting his royalities and his life is made better by his genius ...at least affording him a decent trickle of cash until he's a free man...another few uears if im not mistaken. I dont watch Coronation Street (great that Soul was featured on the show....is someone in the production team a Soul fan??)....but i admit i used to love it when ever ive lived in the UK...its more humorous than its rivals....we all grew up with it..... i've even got a really good Reggae track of the theme tune on tape somewhere in my parents loft....its a comforting song for me. Hows about playing "Johnny Howard - The Chase is on"...a funky stormer of a song that can not fail to get you movin'. You can get this track in Ian Edwards CIN CD...the best few quid you'll spend in a long time. Cheers. Rob David Case Please tell Phil Sawyer from Ormskirk, Dave Case's Email is jjbarnes@googlemail.com and I would love to hear from him. David. william bell Hi Mary great show as usual, you never let us down, just want to say hello to all the Twisted Wheel regulars what another fantastic Sunday afternoon session last week it keeps getting better and better opening the upstairs room was inspirational give my love to the girls Cath, Jen, Carol and all the rest from the Midlands and Joe and the scooter lads from Stoke,and of course Goldie,Pete R and wife Jackie and John G, keep playing the best sounds ever.Can you please play for me Thank You Baby For Loving Me, Soul Bros Six.Thanks. Brian  &  Karen Chidley Hi Mary best wishes to you and pass our best wishes to Nick Marshall  &  andy  &  Ziggy Myatt. Will be at The Torch Reunion next week can't wait. Could you please play Lena  &  The Deltanettes- Turn around babyBrian monte mountford [ tunstall ] hi mary,dont always get the time to listen in but when I do its top notch,any chance of hearing Jackie Wilsons ,you brought a change in me.thanks monte lee Arnold great show listen every week from northamptonshire, any chance of willie mitchell the champion. say hello to Kathryn alan and mark Andrew (SC) Hi MaryAnything fast please. HITSVILLE CHALKY Next soul night at South Staffs Society Kingfisher hotel Wall Heath is Friday 23TH October , Pure 100% Northern soul with DJs .... Blue max , Dancing Demon Steve , Hitsville Chalky , Mike " Mr Smooth " Hollis . £ 5 on the door or Members £4 ! starts at 8:30PM till 1AM Sylvia Dean To Jinksy .....Yes I love the Irma Thomas version of the Jimmy Ratcliffe classic.. in nfact I prefer her version ..super video on You tube. Equally you reminded me of Shaft and Issac Hayes. That is probably one of the best intros to a flm ever.. in my humble opinion.. and there are some fab videos on You tube, including the start to the 1971 movie which still sounds fab today.. and YES!! I did dance to this !! marie  &  BERNIE JUST OFF TO STOKE WITH THE FUNIEST SOULIEST SCOUSE TALC MONITOR YIPEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE mARIE  &  BERNIEXX rob littlewood hi mary ,some great tracks played last couple of weeks , if you get chance could you play ,i,m coming home in the morning ,by lou pride. love this track ,brings back great memories .thanks rob oops sorry long after TONIGHT is all over by irma KTF JINKSY AND THE MURCIANS Shez Hi MaryPlease could you play Looking for love by Kirk Franklin OR Smile by Neo;for my other half Phil please wish him a happy birthday for thursday, n tell him I love him loads.We always listen in whilst we get redy to go out.Thanx Mary KTF x Twiggy To The Soul Police, listen the days of old have gone except it, Theres no Torch nomore no Wigan Casino and no Mecca, Ya keeping the youngsters away from the Scene, yes some kids are picking up on bits and bobs on the music score but i just wonder is this because of the pushy parent thing, i know many who once had a name on the scene and they dunna want to loose that thing,It was a pair of old decks i brought off a local dealer and i was stitched up good time, anyway my ALBA SURROUND System knocked spots off the old disco decks, Cravat Soul is the way forward for me and i wunna let people like you grind me down, i would love to meet you but i guess you will be hiding behind somebody, its easy for people like you not to face the facts, The sound system in The Kingshall needs up dating most who went the last Kingshall Allnighter(We Attended) not working like some who keep making that excuse. The Old Kingshall Soul Nites(KINGSPIN) had at most a couple of hundred in them, the music played then way back was similar but not the same, there was alot of stuff spun that later was played at Wigan, to be honest even for the diehards some records have been overplayed.The Wheel is a place where you must go and listen to tunes that were made for that building, the arches and sound system work very well, Ya brought drugs into the argument let me tell you this my friend if you get hooked on the wrong stuff its a downhill path in life, The Bali Hi will always be my favourite Soul Nite or club call it what ever, alot of my friends who were into Soul Music had problems with the stuff some onna with us nomore but travelled everwhere when The Soul Scene had its finest hour, I'll leave it on this one, the main reason you dunna want people to hear other stuff is because it will mean you wunna have the say nomore, i wunna let somebody who hides behind a pack of hyenea's try to grind me down, you have got no chance of that but at least you say you are local and you finally have started to tell us who you really are and been up to over the years, I call you jealous but envyist is perhaps the word that fits better, I have a very good selection of tunes and will always move on a bit with the stuff until it starts to bore me, keep going to listen to the one trick ponies my moneys staying in my pocket.oh one last one i went Trentham and Pete Schofield got the place packed out until they messed it all up, like the know alls like you do. Dave (KTF) To Martin, track your after could be Joi Cardwell 'Let it go'i've only got it on a Soul in the Sun CD, contact eddy@soultime.org.uk he will help you out (3 weeks today just be arriving in Lanzarote for the 12th Soul holiday), now where shall we go this Sat ? Torch Reunion, George hotel, Crewe Crosville charity night or Nantwich Civic ! Rob(Cadiz) 15.10.09 - Any chance of updating the playlist? Rob Goldie Twisted Wheel Talc monitor To Rob(Cadiz) Hi Rob Wheel mdates Sat Night Boxin day 26th Dec ....then Sunday 10th Jan Goldie yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee Eve Ninnall I'D LIKE TO APOLOGISE ,UNRESERVEDLY FOR MY PREVIOUS COMMENTS,ABOUT TWIGGY,AND HOPE HE AND THE BB C ACCEPT MY APOLOGIES FOR MY ABUSE AND FLAMING PRSONAL ATTACK ON HIM..IM ASHAMED.. sue from stafford was interested to hear abouth the gladys knight gig really wanted to go and see her but coudnt get i agree with u i thought she would put a date in at the symphany hall in birmingham i thought a venue to suit her much better i saw smokey robinson there not long ago and it was a brilliant show i hope its not her farwell tour as i would really like to see gOlDIe tWISTED wHEEL BEST EVER ON sUNDAY SCORING 9999999999999999999999999999999MILLION ZILLION TRILLION BILLION OUT OF 10 what a day wHAT a PLACE WHAT FABULOUS PEOPLE AND NOW PLEASE TAKE NOTICE THAT ON FRIDAY WE HAVE A CRACKER IN your LOCAL AREA the love trap PORT VALE fc DE SUITE ITS LOVELY DONT MISS TGHIS ONE!!!!!! BRINGIN SOME LOVELY PEOPLE DOWN YIPEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE then RICHARD SEARLING IS ON DE PLACE WHERE IT ALL BEGAN DE TWISTED WHEEL FRIDAY DE 30TH PLEASE DONT MISS THAT ONE ....to days track still ELLA FITZGERALD  &  GET READY YIPEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE 4 REAL SOUL MUSIC LOVE IT JUST LOVE IT gOLDIEXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX GRRRHHHH Twiggy So The Soul Police are at work here goodnite all or is that evening all,I know about the difficulty bird brain with the music system, thats why i'm saying it, read in to what i'm saying, yes i do know about the drugs thing ya get that in every music scene, anna you been watching the tele recently, its in the eyes. yes sadly my dog and my missis makes me watch the x-facter,Digital technology is the way forward and ya wunna stop it. IF the people who run The Kingshall and i don't mean Mr Roberts ya pillack, i mean the lease holders, put a half decent system meaning surround system in, it would be magical, Now it wouldn't take me long to guess whos on the other end of this message but it sounds like a nice little earner to you, the disco system as gone, never had one problem what so ever filling a pub,but it inner about me its about the music my dear, some are stuck in time trying to bring something back what they will never be able to, Surely you must have heard some of the bad vinyl that some have duplicated and sent in to Mary, the sound quality is lost,Yes i'm afraid to say it i must have been issed when i went Wigan but travelling ain't my thing,The pub you mentioned in the 80's was as long as the Kingshall not quite as wide and queues formed outside for miles and got no desire to repeat, well a couple of hundred yards,No never been The Wheel or The Ritz,Wigan, Trentham or even The Mecca,sorry i did visit The Mecca twice infact,These times have gone except it, ya like a Randy old dog who thinks hes got one last jump in himself.My ears are still ringing because The sound system was to loud, now't wrong with the Djs, I asked Mr Roberts once was he The one playing a piano once on Top of the Pops,in a group called Shakatak or something like that he said it wanna him but someone else who knows him said it was, i would love to know whos telling me the truth because from that day to this i have always said the guy wanna playing the instrument, Best of luck to anybody whos trying to make a quid or two but £15.00 quid each to get in and listen to muffled music just inner going to happen again for me, I want Quality thanks by the way i have never touched a drug only the Amber Nectar, i guess its me outta touch with everything, ya gotta take this and that have ya, i don't think so.Not interested in going where the incrowd goes. One last thing about The Scene before any Clubs we all know Soul Music was emerging so what makes them the experts, i know people who have vasts amount of Soul records and never been a Soul Nite and that includes any of The Clubs but he would leave alot of the experts years behind with his knowledge he as got, Ya will always get The banter, i'm trying to improve The Scene perhaps get a few more ladys interested in turning up, I have spent thousands on finding other stuff to hear, i was never going to except that artists i loved growing up were one trick ponies so i found the stuff that suits me, I have got Cd's now 30 years old so work it out for yourself me or the great pretenders who anna got really any interest in Soul Music its just another way of promoting their egos and a way of earning a quick buck. Whats The Point in Releasing Soul Compilation CD's of other stuff the artists have recorded only to find out if it wanna on a 45 then ya conna play it, sounds two faced to me, We must be allowed to listen or have the chance to decide, now whats wrong with that.Evening All see ya at The Kingshall Ozzy sue from stafford hi ian good choices listened in the sun !!!!! dould you keep me a cd please i will get in touch on my return have a great night i will be thinking of u all x PeteSco www.the soulguy.com MICK OLIVER...I just played Supertime on my October show..go to www.the soulguy.com scroll down the page to the october shows,,you cant miss mine,,i'm the one sitting on the toilet with my laptop,,i kid you not..there are 60 odd shows in the archive PLUS loads of soulful info,,and pictures galore.PLUS join in the debate,,"is there another generation left in Northern Soul"..over 100 posts so far www.the soulguy.com..thankyou..PeteSco..K A T B now..x.. Eve Ninnall Twiggy - Bin an all-nighter at the kings recently? Bin anywhere RECENTLY?. The Kings is a big venue with difficult acoustics for recorded music - anybody who has been involved with promoting gigs at large venues, not specifically designed for it, knows that! but you with your expertise at playing music in sum back-street pub in Newcastle in '1980sumthin in ya brain' (Packin em in! Yeh Rite!LoL) wud know all about it! let's face it you never went the Wheel never went The Torch and according to you were so p***8d you couldn't remember going to Wigan but you appear on photographs outside?! you were there Ha! I know people who were 'chemically wasted' at Wigan but can, too this day, remember bein there! So its easy to put the countrys leading all-nighter on, at the Kings? - so easy to critise! Thats why hundreds of people travel to it from all over! Ask Kev Roberts about the risks and difficulties involved and don't knock him cus he IS a soul man (love him or hate him) You DON'T GO ANYWHERE! and blame it on a multitude of things Dj's, Venues, Music Blah Blah - I seem to remember a number of people offering you the chance to spin at gigs - on this very site! But we all still wait (Perhaps a problem with ya famous twin-deck tape player Huh!) Get off ya PC and get out more and stop relying on info you obviously get from some older family member - cuz brother you weren't there when you say you was! Look forward to seein' you at a Northern Soul gig soon! Saturday nights are out - cuz you watch X - Factor and then admit it on this site! I go to loads of events locally around Stoke and around the country and I know you, but I never see you! Cravat movement my a**e! Why all the interest in Stoke? Well if you dunna Know the answer to that - it confirms it! You wanna there! And guess what? Surprise Suprise! Ya Still ain't! And, people on the site reply to you as if you know stuff! The only problem the Northern Soul Scene has ever had is people like you and with modern technology you are now able to voice your 'ramblings' to a wider audience. Rob(Cadiz) Can anyone tell me if there is a Twisted Wheel Sunday session on Jan 3rd 2010? Or indeed any Wheel night within a few days of the above date. I have to be back in Spain on Jan 6th. Rob Mik Oliver Hi Mary went to see Dancing in the Street last week absolutely brilliant to all soulies who havent yet seen it you dont know what youre missing.Hey have you managed to locate Super Time yet well you cant blame a bloke for trying can you also thought of afew Jay Boy tracks havent heard for a while Phillip Mitchell,s Free For All and Don Mcevoy,s Its Better to Have and Dont Need.Show is spot on every week makes Friday kick the weekend off in great mood.The DJ does a pretty mgnificent job s well. KTF Tony Heinemann (Nantwich) Hi Mary,I have just had it confirmed that soul band SNAKE DAVIES AND THE SUSPICIONS are to kick off the 2010 Nantwich music festival over the easter weekend,the band put in a great performance last april with northern and motown covers.....more info when i get it.P.S. Could you please slip in "To the ends of the earth"by Tony Middleton...THANKS. Bernard Hi Mary,Many thanks for playing my request last Friday.My good freind Steve is off to start a new life in Canada on the 19th October.We attend the soul venues mainly together so I will miss his great dancing and company.One of his all time favourites is Time will pass you by -Dobbie Gray.If you could play this for him it would be a nice farewel present. Twiggy To Rufus, i think it would take a hundred life times to know all the stuff(Soul Recordings)at least identify yourself but hey met your kinds throughout my life, There are hundreds of sites where you can obtain Soul Records, my problem with some are this, they are to pricey or asking to much for a record that they may have purchased out of a Soul Pack for peanuts,What i canna get a mate would most probably have thats how mates work. Mary, Eloise Laws what can i say absolute killer tune more Cravat Soul and i'm a happy bunny. PORT VALE LOVE TRAP THIS FRI 8 till 2 djs NIDGE BROWN PHIL ANKERS BEN VINNY plus GOLDIES super six good times x Ian Edwards Mary thanks for Friday enjoyable as ever flower,Rob thanks mate spread the gospel,come on soulies snap up the rest of the tickets for the CIN night 22/10/09,on sale at Port Vale this Friday(thanks Vinny),and at Goodyears in Wolverhampton,Sat(thanks Scotty),some of you who came last year why dont you come again).The CIN cd is oue best yet get in touch if you want one,keep on dancing Rob(comments appreciated mate).See loads of ya Thursday week).OB hope you ok my mate we love ya and always thinking of ya Ian and Mary xxxx Paddy Shevlin (Brighton) Can't believe that next weekend I'll be readying myself for another night out at 'The Torch'! Bound to bring back so many memories when I was a Poly student in Hanley. Can it be possible I might run into some old Stokie friends? Froggy Ford, Alan Burston or maybe even my old flame Pauline Shenton? Hope I haven't just embarrassed her.A week later some Stokies are heading down my way for The Brighton Beach All Nighter @ The Babylon Lounge in Hove - Packed out at the last one in May and bound to be good again. Only £6 for two rooms and 15 DJs....with the beach just 20 yards from the dancefloor!!! Checkout www.soul-survivors.co.uk for info. Dave Can you tell me when Bob Relf had a minor hit in the UK with Blowing my mind to pieces Martin Just tuned in to Mary on 'listen again' and was wondering if anyone out there could help me. On my computer I have a track which I think is "Let him go, by Joy Cardinal". I'm not sure where I got it from but the quality of the track is pretty appalling and I've searching t'internet to see if I can get a better copy, but without any success. I've either got the song title or artist wrong. Anyone any ideas? MARY MANY THANKS FROM MURCIA Mary many thanks for playing TWO discs for us on last weeks show!Very muted reaction to the JOHN SHAFT disc from SD.Perhaps they are all still in 'SHOCK'.Bet they were all dancin' to the orginal in 1971!!!WeLL we like it anyway.carnt get my hands on that MAGICIANS 45 anywhere ,'deadends' everywhere!!!!Anybody out there help me out pretty please?????Another item i picked up on my recent visit to the UK.Been after it for a while.LONG AFTER THE NIGHT IS ALL OVER by IRMA THOMAS.Great version of the JR classic.When you get space please give it a spin.Good number to close the show one week!Well back to the MURCIANS (they smell a bit 'goaty' i will have to 'hose' them down)They are all busy getting the grapes in for next years VINO TINTO.KTF JINKSY AND THE MURCIANS rufus not leaking TO TWIGGYyou have now proved to me that you should have been a comedian instead because when it comes to northern soul or where to get records or cds even djin, just like the television advert we all know you KNOW JACK .... MR FOOL RYAN HALL TUNSTALL NEXT SAT TORCH REUNION 350 TICKETS ALL SOLD OUT ALL THE REGULARS FROM ALL OVER THE COUNTRY WHO WENT TO THE TORCH AND SUPPORTED THE DJS VENUE WILL MEET AGAIN, PITY THAT THE GEORGE HOTEL BURSLEM HAS TO BE PUT ON THE SAME NIGHT AND HIDE UNDER A CHARITY NIGHT YET AGAIN TALK ABOUT POLOTICS TALK ABOUT SOUR GRAPES Rob(Cadiz) Jinksy: John Shaft: great arrangement and wa wa guitar...but i prefer IH's vocals (funkier)even though the lyrics are far clearer in the SD version. Nice bit of variety for the show. Good choice mate. Rob Rob(Cadiz) The Four Pros - "Just another girl" is a storming track that has me dancing in the kitchen, bathroom, living room and just about anywhere you could swing a rat...a simply brilliant track....as with loads of the the other ones on the CIN CD. Ive had the CIN CD on my CD player all week and its superb!!..nice one Mr Edwards...good luck with the whole CIN thing! A great effort mate. A special thanks to all the DJs and Soul fans listed on the CD for their selections and the great gesture of giving up their time for free!! Time for a long long long G & T. Rob Sylvia Dean A great show this week.. and to Jinksy in Mercia.. a debate ensued in our household !! I hated the remix of the ISAAC HAYES track.... Joe liked the Sammy Davis remix! But personally I always believe.. that if a song is good first time around.... as is the passion which comes through on the original SHAFT tune....WHY remix?? .. why re-invent the WHEEL... as it were.!! but now there is a debate!! KTF xxx martin and jackie the sdj tune? brilliant piece of music, by isaac, but this version is wrong wrong wrong! But, good on ya for giving it a spin! don't know until we try it. great show, loved ruby andrews, can you play she'l come runnin back, mel britt for me, love you for ever if you do. Guy Hi Mary, love the show been listenin on the net for about 18 months now. Keep up the good work. dave and ruth in rugeley hi mary and to all our brothers and sisters out in the world of northern soul hi to roy sandra karl and tom looking forward to the 24th up the peartree club good company see you all soon and keep the faith Shaun Parker Hi Mary, could you please give a mention for our next Northern soul  &  Rare motown night at Wolverley memorial hall on Shatterford Rd Wolverley Nr Kidderminster on Saturday 7th November. Now in it`s second year, large wooden sprung dancefloor, great atmosphere, loads of free parking 8.30pm - 1.30am £4 otd. ta, Shaun adrian mcintosh love yur show.i live in bangor north wales and have loved n soul all my life.i am 46yrs young haha . please can u give me a mention. ps missed kings hall allnighter on sat had 2work xx Little Anthony (WSP) Message for Ian Edwards.The Soul Police are all primed and listening in mate...See you at CIN Ian Alford Anyone help please was there a instrumental track called the horse I've got a track king of the horse but I seem to remember the horse for some reason ....cheers k.t.f.. Twiggy To Rufus Leaking, Hey my mate, my ROOF INNER LEAKING. If The KINGSHALL ever mastered the sound system there would be no competion of anywhere holding a Soul Nite that could match it, fantastic dancefloor which is massive, unlike some places where you can get 6 on the dancefloor and say its packed theres a bit of tongue and cheek there somewhere but so what. hey 3 of my heros those comedians, dunna tell me theres anybody about now that could lace any of their boots up. The Cravat Soul Movement will be the future of Soul Music as far as i'm concerned, tunes will be played what the pecking order merchants dunna want you to play um, you know the score on that one, The youngsters love quality tunes and they soon pick up on um. What is The Cravat Soul Scene, its where theres no music politics within Soul Music where finer selections will filter in with The Northern Stuff perhaps a better dress code because i think some Soul Nites are losing The Dress Code Thing. One thing i dunna like when i go a Soul Nite is hearing what seems to be one long record that trys to go faster than the hundred mile an hour stuff, meaning one keeps putting the same kind of beaty tune after another, not giving the dancers anytime to relax and chill out a bit, some Soul Nites when you look at The Dancers they dance to every tune virtually, come on they all onna that good(The Tunes)let me say this alot who Dj on The Northern Scene wouldn't know The Northern scene locally in Stoke so why all the interest in Stoke, what i'm trying to say most of the tunes that get spun locally weren't the tunes i grew up listening too and most of the spinners were spinning the tunes in Stafford or Mecca and Wigan it slowly died a death the scene did big cheifs grew up and were getting married and virtually left the scene feeling empty, all that knowledge of the stuff didn't do um any good until the recent revival, what i'm trying to say they just picked up where they left the scene some 30 years previously because they smelt the coffee and some are just draining the scene dry, bleeding every penny they can get without letting the Scene breathe and progress a bit. For me this music deserves to be heard on better Sound Systems, i think the days of blasting the stuff out on 2 bloody big speakers and base bins have gone, a nice surround system should be fitted in most places after all they charge you a arm and a leg to hire a venue, if you play an old 45 to loundly on a disco system it sounds muffled and you can hardly make out what the record is, thats my gripe now, whats the point in ramming people in a place and ya conna hear the stuff because of the muffyiness, the sound quality is lost because of the volume of people in the venue. Who ever runs The Kingshall Venue in Stoke should take note put a better system in the house, its a great venue. Joan Alzheimer's Charity Night - Stop press 2 !Thanks to the support and generousity of Warrior Clothing there will be an opportunity to take home some classy and/or retro soulie/mod gear in return for a donation to the cause ! Don't worry neither this or the auction will be allowed to interrupt the dancing ! Joan Stop press 1 - more info re:Alzheimers' Charity Night Crewe Sat 17th !There will be a 'Silent Auction' which will include 3 fabulous paintings by an amateur artist (2 of Marvin Gaye and 1 of Michael Jackson)Anyone who can't attend on the night can email jayck2009@live.co.uk I'll forward an attachment of the paintings.If you would like to bid please send it to me and PROMISE to seal it in an envelpoe and keep it secret until the auction. Ian Gray ( Gosport) Hi Mary,I don't think I've ever heard Edwin Starr's B side to "Time" called "Running back and forth" played on the show, it's one of my all time fav raves and harps back to the golden age of Motown (before they went Psychedelic).Are you still doing Phone in Guest spots? I'd love to do a session with you. I could send the Tracks on CD if it helps.We've been together 4 yrs.now every Saturday Morning.Happy AnniversaryYour still my other women.Ian Goldie atmosphere regulator IF YA LOVE SOUL MUSIC  &  want to feel the New Atmosphere in de place where it all began DONT MISS SUNDAYS AFTERNOON SESSION AT DE WHEEL 3 till 8 just a bluey on de door £5-00 be great to see MIKE LINDA MARIE  &  BERNIE MAGGIE  &  KEV  &  ALL DE OTHER soulies in this HISTORIC BUILDING Yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee Goldie to days record ELLA FITZGERALD GET READY (again) yipeeeeeeeeeee!!!! grrrrhhhhh sue from stafford hi mary hope im not to late for this weeks show could you please play just loving you for steve as whilst he is listening to you i shall be somehere on route in an areoplane on my way on holiday tell him i love him loads and im missing him all ready thanks mary x sue from stafford IAN EDWARDS hi ian sorry to say i wonts be able to make your cin night as iv just picked up a good deal for a holiday !!!! steve is still hoping to be there im sorry to miss it as it is one the events i really look forward to each year i shall be thinking of you all there havin a great time hope to catch up with you and mary soon love sue x Rufus Leaking Twiggy YOU should be up there with all the greats (or is that grates?) - Tommy Cooper, Norman Wisdom, Benny Hill etc, etc Reply to Jinksy I have seen this fetch £100 plus, for the 45. Ian Edwards Hi ChalkyAppreciate the comments mate,hope its a sell out wont know till im um mate,at the mo in Crete a pleasent 80 at present,Friday am about -1 in Brum at fower when we land,see ya soon mate,huge thanks to all back um helping sell tickets for the CIN night,I had to goo away else id goo saft.KTF to all in THE BLACK COUNTRY....IAN(ON THE LASH)EDWARDS XX Twiggy To Jinsky, Pete Smith had a load of Kent stuff for sale not so long ago, can't remember if they were Lps or 45's, type in Planet Records this may lead you to Pete or maybe Raresoulman. To Randy your night should be a good un like the last one, we should make it hopefully it depends on commitments with kids, i know it costs a small fortune to run a BIG NIGHT at The Kingshall so you need all the help you can get. I'm starting a new Soul Movement and i'm burring all my hatchets, I'm calling it CRAVAT SOUL, i may need your help somewhere along the line when the young uns are asking me to do something for them to be involved with. Save us two tickets put um on the door and i'll see there i'm pretty sure we will make it. vinny soulshaker hi folks dont forgetFRI 16TH OCT 8 TIIL 2 PORT VALE FC EXECITIVE SUITENORTHEN SOUL AND MOTOWN ALL ACROSS THE BOARDWITH DJSNIGE BROWN (STAFFORD)PHIL ANKERS (S O T)VINNY SOULSHAKER (S O T)BEN (CREWE) PLUS GUEST TRAINEE DJ GOLDIE liverpool PLAYIN HIS SUPER SIXALSO DONT FORGET NEW YEARS EVE NORTHERN MOTOWN PHILADELPHIA CLUB CLASSICS SOUL PARTY TICKETS ALREADY SELLING FAST CONTACT PORT VALE F.C. your are all MAGICIANS! Many thanks everybody for the info.A couple of cd's for me to track down here!Does anybody happen to know where i can get my hands on a copy of the 45 that was released on kent asap?KTF JINKSY HITSVILLE CHALKY Not long to go to the Children in need 2009 northern soul Night at Bilston ... come and see Mr Ian Edwards making his DJ debut spot a night not to be missed ,also i have a few Motown Goodies to raffle offfor the Night Come on lets be having ya ! Goldie very grateful Atmosphere regulator Well Kings Hall was excellent Saturday I have rec loadsa e mails  &  texts from new mates but nothing compares to the small package I recieved from STOKE CITY COUNCIL one mesh cap filler  &  small dental brace which cost me a small fortune cheers  &  God bless you!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  &  NOW FOR DE WHEEL ON SUNDAY I simply cant wait yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee !!!!!!!!! Goldiexxxxxxxxxgrrrrhhhhh www.the soulguy.com the OCTOBER radio shows are now available,,featuring local spinners Ozz,TimAshibende and PeteSco,also RobJones rare relics show,and Wheel DJ BrianRae,,plus on the soulguy Facebook Discussion board,,join in the lively debate.."is there another generation left in Northern soul.?"..some really interesting opinions submitted there..to get to the facebook page,,just enter the soulguy.com in the top right hand SEARCH,,on your facebook page,,for the radio shows go to the main page www.the soulguy.com Over 1,000,000 listeners world-wide every month..THANKS and K.A.T.B..THE SOULGUY. Nick Marshall There will be a Northern night in memory of Chris Savory, at the George Hotel, Burslem, Stoke-on-Trent, on Friday 6th November. 8pm - 1am, DJs Keith Minshull, Dave Bell, Nick Marshall + guests. £5 on the door, all proceeds to Douglas Macmillan. It would be great to see as many of the old crowd from the Bear, Newcastle-under-Lyme, as can make it. Please tell all your friends. MrSoulSatisfaction,,to JINKSY,, the CD YOURE AFTER IS..:..Kent Records CDKEND 323..MrSoulSatisfaction.. Malc Falle, Brittany, 05/10/09 Hi Jinksy-The Magicians and Just a little Faith are on the Kent CD Northern Soul's Classiest Rareties 2 order number CDKEND 248. I have this CD lots of other good tracks on it to. The track is also on the newly released 100 club Anniversary Single 6TS CD (Also a Kent CD)`According to the Kent CD notes the Magicians track was found on a master tape at Villa Records in 2003 having never been released. It was released as a Kent single in 2004 Hope this helps. Regards. Malc vinny TO jinksy (murcians) the cd in question is called the 100 club anniversary singles 6ts 1979-2009 on kent a t b Goldie TALC MONITOR In TRANSIT Kings Hall Sat yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee so good scoring 77777 million out of 10....All those lovely girls great atmosphere DID`NT Understand the Music but who cares danced all night anyway Lindax(Mike) Dawnx(Steve) Carolx(Spider) Cathxx Dianexx Sharonxx Stephaniexx  &  the brunnette I danced with from 5am till 7am  &  forgot to ask her , her name  &  thats the way it should be yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeee NEXT UP DE WHEEL ON SUNDAY yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee Todays track ANY DAY NOW Chuck Jackson xxxxxxxx Goldie grrrrrhhhh JUST A LITTLE FAITH by the MAGICIANS I have been led to believe that the above track is available on a KENT cd.Does anybody out there know what the cd is called (twiggy perhaps?? ,he always comes up witht he answers,please help!)and what year it was released etc??Mary this track is a 'stonewall' def for one of your future shows!!Back to the MURCIANS!KTF JINKSYstill waiting for that SD track on next weeks show i hope!! Andrew (SC) MaryExcellent show Friday really enjoyed the mix, Nick M even played a couple of good uns. Thanks again for taking the time to be good to everyone you should be running the country and if you were we would dance a lot more. Keep on. Ian Edwards Hi Rob in CadizGlad ya think its BOSTIN mate,and glad you got the JOHN SAYLES,enjoy Rob.Mary current;y in Crete,and its bloody hot flower,our papares said 75 degrees yeah add another 15-20 degrees.Had a sureal moment here last night Friday,no Mary to listen to so went fot a chilled one as you do,and a lovely dear old greek lady,called us to her bar,not being rude me and Mary went in,the lady said in broken English,you dance,we smiled and said yes,to our utter amazement she put the music on,my jaw dropped,we sat for two hours listening to FOUR TOPS,TEMPA,THE RUFFIN BROTHERS AND TEDDY PRENDERGRASS,that dear old lady gets my custom again,she was a darling,and even attempted a bit of a jig,not quite you Foxy,but I aint complaining,see you next Friday.See lots of you soon in Bilston at CIN Impatie nt Dance Steward 7 dAYS COME ON gOLDIE U CAN DO IT MATE JUST 7 LITTLE DAYS  &  itS SUNDAY WHEEL TIME 11 TH OCT 3PM ---8PM A Lady Godiva on de door yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee Todays track "At The Twisted Wheel" by Chubby Goldstein xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx grrrhhh Twiggy This weeks guest showed um how its done for me, He even admitted these are not perhaps his favs but showed the class with his selections, he even told us about his love of his life, hey i know what he ment when he said she did me a favour, he showed passion. Nick as finally come out of the early 60's with a little progressiveness but soon tended to go back. I feel the sick bucket is being passed around to freely at Soul Nites when it comes to Dj's, for me you just conna turn up with a box of records like some are doing and call themselves Northern Soul Djs, especially when some dunna even except there was a Northern Soul Scene, sorry to say there was. So what is a Northern Soul Dj this i asked myself it left me thinking that he would or she would be no older than say 55ish even that just might be to old because the proper Northern Scene was kicking in around 1968 and only lasting till Wigan closed its doors, What is a Northern Tune, in my opinion its done by ANY singer or groups from any back ground and if it touches you then thats Soul enough and as very uptempo beat to it, the hundred mile an hour stuff. A Soul Dj is a completely different animal, for me he started years before in another Scene from The Northern Scene, maybe The Blues Scene, There was a Motown Scene and a Stax Scene or let me put it another way people who liked one or the other, infact many other labels you can say had their own identity, Atlantic, Philly stuck out a mile from other stuff in The Soul Movement. What gets me is this, What do they mean by the CLASSICS when they play say about a few hundred tunes between themselves when there are many many thousands of records to be played that could easily FILL ANY DANCEFLOOR, one that comes to mind is TEARS by Gloria Shannon to use as an example, there will be no tears from me when it all starts to go wrong, seen it all happen before the saturation point and the monopoly thing as to stop so other styles can come through, i'm not putting my name forward but some ought to take a long hard look in the mirror Do They Love Themselves indeed they do, let the world have a listen to the great underground tunes we know are there because i feel these little get togethers for only the few onna doing The Music any favours and we all are getting older, i dunna know anybody whos getting younger and if anybody does let me know. I hope a New Scene happens and i would call it The CRAVAT SOUL SCENE or PROGRESSIVE SOUL SCENE where you can play any record from any period from The Soul Movement Thing. I know i will get my ears bashed but hey i have had my THOUSAND LAUGHS. any chance Mary playing A THOUSAND LAUGHS by The Great ELOISE LAWS dave in rugeley hi mary how you doing we look forward to your show every week we would like to say hi to roy sandra karl and tom we all had a great night last saturday up the peartree club in the capable hands of vic sutton played some cracking records as usual anyone in the rugeley area wanting a good night out get get your gladrags and dancing shoes on and get yourselves up to the peartree club on the 24th of sept anmd just remember keep the faith stubbo wolves hi mary great show last week as always can you play a track 4 me as it is my bthdy on sunday. Thanks if you can play happy. velvet hammer 4me next week will be ok. ian bishop aka dr reggae hi mary, love your show.keep up the good work,can you play any song for me.ian from wales The Wheel Comes To Griff Hi MaryAs you know a soul event was put on at The Alex Club last Sunday. After 12 months off the scene I can not tell you how much the day meant to Carole (my lovely wife and nurse) and myself. It was great to get out and meet up with all the soulies once again, their support throughout my illness has been tremendous and I would like to feel Sunday was also a big thank you to them. In all it was a very emotional day.There are so many people to thank, all the DJ's who kept the dance floor going all day, the girls for putting on the refreshments (even had clotted cream from Devon!!) and all the people that brought items for the raffle and The Alex for the use of the club.Special thanks go to Andrew,Ann and Alan who along with a great army of helpers put on a day I will always remember.If possible could you play Because Of You - Jackie Wilson. Regards Griff ozz limited tickets for kings hall night are available from "OZZ Sound  &  Lighting, 29, lonsdale street stoke st4 4dt 01782 250003 " thanks  &  see you all on the night, this will be a big one - ozz Impatient Talc Monitor Oh My God To days track TEN DAYS IS Toooooo Long without you ( Sunday At De Wheel ) by Chuck Goldstein) yipeeeeeeeeeee Request 4 MARY`s Show " Get Ready" Ella Fitzgerald yipeeeeeeeee Goldie 10 more days yipeeeeeeeee grrhhxx Bernard Hi Mary,I listen to your show every week on my i player at work as I live in East Lancashire.It was interesting to hear you say that you were not a record colector but had this loving interst in soul music.It is so like so many soul devotes.I was brought uo in the 60,s era of the Twisted Wheel in Manchester but also the Rose Room in Burnley Mecca,before the famous Highland room in Blackpool.Got married in the 70s and like so many others drifted away from the scene but have been back for 2 years and loving evey minute,especially the nights at Blackpool and Blackburn.Would love to hear a significant record of my youth.60 minutes Homer Banksthe 60 minutes have now been over 40 years but the music is still fesh. Ray Hayward For those of the dancing persuasion Nantwich Night Train is back at Nantwich Civic Hall on Saturday 17th October. Special Guest is Eddy Edmondson of Soul in The Sun plus residents Dave Evison, Keith Minshull and Gary Taylor all in the main hall playing classic and northern soul vinyl. Upstairs will be open as well with Chris and Dave for their spin of Dab of Soul. Start 8:30 to finish 1:30. Still only £5 each for admission to both rooms. Many thanks to all for their support in August, fantastic attendance. Randy Conteh Charity Soul Night, with Legendary Soul Trio-"The Flirtations" (original 60's line-up.) Saturday, November 7th, 2009, Kings Hall, Stoke on Trent, 8 till late.Northern Soul DJ's in the main room include:- Keith Minshull, Steve Whittle, Johnny Beggs, Nick Marshall, OZZ, Doris and Ben Astles. Windsor Room:- Sweet Soul Sounds:- DJ Wilf and Johnny F. £8 advance tickets or £10 on the door. This event is for 2 charities:- "The Ben Howard Cancer Appeal" and the "Support our Soldiers" parcel appeal. Grand prize raffle/tombola-lots of exciting prizes. For more information ring Randy on:-07929223201 or email-randyconteh@btinternet.com Rob(Cadiz) I'll keep it short, dont want to talk about the shows contents too much in case its over indulgent of me. Request please: "John Sayles - I can't get enough". Rob Rob(Cadiz) Hey Ian Edwards (Mr Yam Yam)...got the CIN charity CD....excellent tracks on there mate....its a "Bostin" slab of Soul..cant wait to give it a good going over. All the best with the night. Cheers mate. Rob Rob(Cadiz) Hey Anne, Joan  &  Pat, thanks for replying to my email, got the adress...cheque in the post for your fantastic choice of charity. Hope uts a brill night for all involved. I'll be ther in spirit. Rob Andrew (SC) My I am on here more than Goldie and Twiggy this month. Mary big request for SWMBO! Ann has just had an operation today (Tuesday) on her eyes she is feeling very sore and in a lot of discomfort. will be housebound for a few days "I make a very good nurse and I'm cheaper than NHS" Can you do either House for Sale which I know will make her smile or Candi Stanton "Young Hearts Run Free" does that qualify for a friday?As always thank you in anticipation.Andrew KTF andy.turner@aaronandsilkman.com Hi Mary, I have Alexander O'Neal, Kenny Thomas and Andy Abraham playing Victoria Hall Stoke on November 5th. If you would interviews with any of the artists please contact me.RegardsAndy Collo To Roland Peters , Roland i can not help you with a copy of the BBC production with Issac Hayes from 1990 your looking for , but i would love a copy or copies of the motown dvds you are so kindly offering , Thankyou Collo my contact email is sjcollo@googlemail.com Tina Sway Love and thanks to Geese,Gill,Fran and the guest DJ's at Last Friday's Biddulph Arms Soul Nite, for a soul-full evening.The compact room was packed and it was lovely to see lots of old faces not seen in year.I look forward to the next one in November.Love.Tinaxx Goldie dance steward talc mon atmospheric regulato Alexandra DE Great .yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee a great Griff day at de Crew alldayer with de Wheel playing away All de djs did a fine job once again all de girls looked gorgeous Marie ( Bernie),Sue , Chris , Cynthia,Sylvia (Jo) Anne ( Andy) &  de dancing was Brill esp Chris , Cynthia , Susie my mate from Devon I think the organisers were pleased with the amount raised yipeeeeeeeeee NEXT UP KINGS HALL ...Then on de 11th Sunday at de TWISTED WHEEL I is already pacing de floor for that one ..On de 16th I will be with Colin  &  Martin at Port Vale for de LOVE TRAP evening of Soul with Vinnie Soulshaker..bit upset with de results I have just told Nicky to flog de lot of them surely he wont I is just a talc monitor?????....yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee Goldiexxxxxxxxx Grrhhhrrrhh Andrew (SC) Mary usual need to use the MB and say a few thank yous. The All Dayer at Crewe Alex on Sunday was brilliant (I assure you that had nothing to do with the organiser) the DJs Steve P, Alan H, Joe D, Ged, Dave N, Kev D, Vinny, Pete R (how do we get him a knighthood) Ben  &  Nigel A  &  Keith M were (even with a few technical blips which gave me more palpitations than any of the assembled mass)groundbreakingly fantastic, we also had the talc monitor and the most senior dance steward Goldie in attendance. Ann and all the girls Sharon, Georgina, Andrea, Sylvia, Lorraine and those other lasses who gave there time and efforts on behalf of all thankyou, we men are so unbelivably lucky to have you lot as friends every one of you is pricless. Those people who travelled from all over "Barnsley, Stockport, Liverpool, Manchester, Devon, Corby, North Wales, Wellingborough, Stoke, Southport (I do hope you enjoyed the day Jackie)" Thank you all. Alan, Amo and Ben thank you for the help with equipment. Then of course it would be remiss not to say a massive thank you to all the staff at Crewe Alex "magnificant", I think the best recommendation of a good event is when you get a message from the club asking when your next do is and can you consider using them again!! Carl S, Alan H, Ann, Joe and Sylvia thank you for your help and support. Lastly the main man and his family the fact that he got there given the tests he went through last week with Radium Scans etc was brilliant but we could not get him to go home I know the reception he got from all present was genuine and heartfelt. Dave and Carole and all your family Thank you for allowing us to have a fantastic day in your company. Dave  &  Carole I am confident that over a £990 will be winging its way to your chosen charities and if it is ok Mary can I use the MB to shout that event out. out of fingers now!! the next event worth a visit (after the Wheel on Sunday 11th) is the Alziemers do at the Crossville 17th Oct. Mary Thank you. Yippeeeee. VINNY SOULSHAKER Thank you to the people of crewe (alexandre suite) for a crackin nite and your hospitality best wishes to griff.. ps sorry about the technical probs but glad it got sorted hope to see you all again soon ... a t b Rob(Cadiz) Quote from top of MSGBD: "Mary's Northern Soul  &  Motown MessageboardBBC Radio's Mary Fox would really love to hear from you - message her about her Northern Soul  &  Motown programme, and tell her about your favourite tracks and your memories..." Crosville 17th October Thank you Mary for letting us on your show last Friday to promote our charity event at the Crosville on 17th October. The mobile number for tickets is 07972328511, you can also order them via e-mail on jayck2009@live.co.uk., and they will be available on the door, £6 each. Thanks to Wilkes for getting the venue for us. We hope to see lots of old and new faces there for another great night and don't forget the nodding OLGA!Anne, Pat and Joan xxx Goldie Dance Steward Tr Dj TalcMon  &  Atmosphere Re OH Come all ye faithful joyful  &  triumphant Oh come ye oh come ye to WHITWORTH STREET............Once again folks after Vocano trips Sub marine adventures  &  sweltering heat I shot off to de TWISTED WHEEL " ALLNIGHTER" it was my dear messageboard peruser DE BEST EVER scoring 999999999999999999999999999999999999 million zillion trillion billion mega million out of 10 WELL DONE PETE  &  JOHN Clarence Barry Brian  &  all de back room guys Jackie , Polly , Mark , Nick Boot for a special night at this HISTORIC LANDMARK in de KINGDOM OF SOUL ..The Dancing was FIRST CLASS to go with de sounds the Girls were so lovely Pat , Sue , Steph , Marie ( Bernie Maggie ( Kev) ..Cel ( Billy) Lis ( GOD BLESS OUR GRAHAM ) hey babe .. Brenda ( Les) the crowd in de corner  &  the Venessa Williams pair all so lovely to look at talk to  &  occassionally hold respectfully close Diane Clare . Gaynor all new contacts  &  so in love with the greatest soul spot in de Universe .great to see Jo , Bret SOASH yipeeee 4 him oh yeah all de regs next up 11th October Sunday u Know the drill by now £5-00 3pm till 8 2 rooms ..Look dont HAVE AN OPINION about de Wheel have an EXPERIENCE ..JUST GO WILL YA !!!! GRiff big day in Crewe tomorrow KINGS HALL IN STOKE looks de pick of de best next week  &  OCT 16th LOVE TRAP time for Gods sake dont miss that again ...yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee for de TWISTED WHEEL ..GOLDIExxxxxxxxxx Grrrhhhrrr JINKSY BACK IN MURCIA FOR A REST!! Hi mary and everybody,its been a while. Been over in the UK spending some time in ANGLESEY with the grandchildren on the beach in rock pools etc.Looking to buy a 'holiday home' there if possible.But no luck on this visit!!any of your listeners know any nice properties for sale out there etc.needs to have a bit of land around it.'small holding' would be perfect.But could not find anything nice this time.Anyway, back to 'northern' etc.A few weeks ago before you left for your hols.i asked if you would give a spin to the track JOHN SHAFT (can you dig it?!!)by sammy davies jr.Its makes a change from the IH classic.Don't think it really 'northern'perhaps its more disco!!but well worth a spin!I think it was released on a 45 but i cannot be sure.I have it on the SD album 'it's a musical world' mgm 2354 034 cira 1972 a side track 6(another freebie from that polydor record rep all those years ago,many thanks Gary H.).that should help the record fairy if he got his new glasses etc!Anyway time to round up the MURCIANS they are hiding in the cave houses with the goats!!!thought the UK listeners would be cheered up if they knew its not stopped raining since we got back to Murcia but it's still a hot 25 0c etc!!!Looking forward to hearing the SD track hopefully on next weeks show.Please tell me what you all think of the track etc.KTF JINKSY AND THE MURCIANS.ps how is OB getting on.We are all thinking of him over here.ANNA would like to get her 'healing hands' on him. Pete Dyson (Manchester).26/9/09. Hi B/Stoke,MaryFox & Nick the ('SHERIFF')Marshall.Marvin Gaye ('Ain't That Peculiar')if Poss!.A great "intro-hook" to this Song that is Pure 'Motown'(Hitsville),Foot-Tappin,Hand-Clappin,Finger Poppin  & "FUNK" Brothers Soul!!!.Cheer,s,Pete Dyson,from the 'Snakepit',By-Gum!!!!.G/Show. Malc Falle, Brittany, 25/09/09 Roger Wilson-Hi Roger, I think your Marvin Gaye number is "Flyin High in the friendly sky" from Marvin's "Whats going on album" Hope it helps, Regards.Malc. william bell mary a good mix of northern is not bad and that is what you play so what's the prob.6years a'nt bad. mel owen Hi Mary, managed to get on line to hear the last half hour of this weeks show but having problems getting the show on "listen again" which I usually do on Mondays, is it me? or has the beeb got problems?Great show as usual keep the faith, Mel dave in rugeley hi mary tuned in late tonight i bet ihave missed some cracking music looking forward to the soul night at the peartree club tomorrow night hi to roy sandra karl and tom see you all tomrrow keep the faith dave and ruth Roland Peters (Atlanta, Georgia, USA) Enjoy your show. Did a BBC Prod. with Issac Hayes back in the '90's called "Soul Survivors". Been trying to find a copy. Any help would be Appreciated. Also, do you have the movies "T.A.M.I"  &  "T.N.T." if not assk and I'll send copies. These are Motown/Rock performances from 1964. Lit.Richard,Stones,J.Brown, etc. Thel from Barnsley We have only just found this station great soul show with goldie so good could you please play the who who song jackie wilson great attic and mojo top faveorite Thelx Lucille Penniman.(Stockport). BBC/Stoke/Soul. Nice Music on the Show,a good listen!,but you don't seem to play much for us Lady,s!!!!.Could we request a track?,It,s by "LITTLE RICHARD", Its Called "Lucille".Could you play this for my brother "Bella" who listens to your Show!.Regards,from,Luciille. Tony , Jill from . Clayton Mary. Thankyou for playing our request again last friday . can we be cheeky and ask you for another one this week please, its by the supremes and its their cover version of its not unusual , as we know it was recorded by Tom Jones also Marvin Gaye and the Dells. Thanks Tony  &  Jill ps we just love the show Chris, Brooklyn New York Hi Mary, Yet another great show!Could you play TAKE YOUR LOVE AND RUN by BARBARA LYNN on Atlantic. I am a sucker for great girl backing vocals, and this song always makes me feel good.Thanks, X Chris- Brooklyn New York Sylvia Dean A huge thank you to Kev and Gloria Bourne who worked hard to make the Barnstaple weekender such a success!! I takethe credit for turning on the weather!!! ha ha ha... as SUNNY DEVON it certainly was this weekend.This all added to a fab soul weekender. Excellent music and fab company. What more do we want?? Colin Marshall Hi Mary, I was intrigued to hear " Old Devil called Love" by Billie Holiday.In the same vein but with a more " northern floater feel" how about playing "Broken Hearted Melody" by Sarah Vaughan.....that lady's voice is magic!![I'd love to hear/dance to this at a northern do - perhaps where they avoid the top 500!]Can you play it for the magic lady in my life "Kathryn" with all my love .....lucky lady!!Thankyou. 'MIX  &  MATCH', White-Moss,(St. IVES). Hi B/Stoke,(Mary Fox/Nick Marshall) Soul Show!.Like the Sound's  &  guest's on the show. The presentation of that lady, Mary Fox,is fantastic!!!,she is so eloquent.We luv her voice  &  knowledge,  &  wil keep our "WIRELESS" tuned "IN" when She is "TUNED-ON!".G/station B/Stoke.Cheer,s 'M & M'(a.k.a, "BELLA"). AMSTERDAM SOUL CLUB We have just returned from a fantastic weekend in Amsterdam. We had a great time in Jos's Soul Club, The Bath Tub (De Badcuyp). If anyone is considering going then you must. The music is great and the people very friendly and welcoming. Mary could we say hello to the DJs Pete 45 and Craig (Imod) they were a scream.The biggest Thank You must go to Jos and Rigo. They made us so welcome and their hospitality was fantastic. They are wonderful hosts. Rigo let us stay in her appartment and cooked us a lovely Surinam meal ( Jos's recipe!) Jos was an extremely brave man and allowed us to play a few records!!!. Thank you for giving us 3 Scouse ladies a wonderful time in your fantastic city. It has restored our faith in Soulies. There are some fantastic people out there in our Soul scene and Jos and Rigo are amongst the best. Thank You so much. Pat, Anne, Joan xx sue from stafford mary would you give a mention to all who were at saints soul club at burntwood rugby club last week what a fab night i danced my socks off !!! would you please play beauty is only skin deep the temptations for us all and my steve thanks mary x p.s. i loved the billie holiday track x Roger Wilson Hallo Mary,I hope maybe you or one of your many contributors can help. A while back some six to nine months ago, you had a guest on your programm and one of his choices was a Marvin Gaye song. I think it was called "I'll go crazy" unfortunately I can't find it anywhere. Mary, can you play it again? or maybe someone could point me in the right direction where I might be able to find it! Thx. Ian Edwards A big thank you to all the very kind friends who have been selling tickets for CIN and also CD'S(Rob,yours is on the way soon).Thanks to PAT CARTER,SWOZ and DEB,PAUL MEAD,KIM GRIFFITHS,MAX MILLWARD,GAZ LEES,WULFIE,LYN and SCOTTY,and STEVE and DAWN SCOTT(your help has been awesome)cant thank you enough for all the fantastic help and contributions you wonderful people have made,and also to all the amazing soulies who have got tickets to attend the CIN night in Bilston.Tickets are still available,for the night at £5 each,and can be purchased from the above mentioned people,I am away in Crete from the 1st October,so please contact one of these good people who will be happy to sell you a ticket,they are going very well now so please hurry to avoid dissapointment.I would like to express my gratitude to the good people who ran the Barnstaple Weekender for allowing the cd's to be sold there,Kev it was much appreciated thank you.I was not going to do this due to feeling very akward about friends and family losing jobs,but dj's and friends said it is a big part of the calendar now,and the lovely Sylv and Joe Dean,made me realise all over again just how much it means to see through an event like this,and as Sylv pointed out "all the lovely soul family come what may, will always dig deep to help others",god bless you all.xxx Tony Heinemann (Nantwich) Hi Mary Enjoyed the show last week the R & B tracks included plus that supremes track,could you please play a memory from wigan casino "Love  &  Desire" by Patrice Holloway.....Cheers TONY. Rob(Cadiz) Happy Birthday for last week. El Twigg hombre!! Rob Rob (Cadiz) Enjoyed the Ian Levine produced track (Waterfall)and if nobody would have told me it was a IL creation i would have been singing its praises as the Soul-o-meter had my foot tappin a good pace. So, fair play to Mr Levine on this ocasion. It sounded like it had a far less tinny (computerised)sound to it. It seemed to have that all important, more authentic (musician generated)beat to it. I might be wide of the mark but thats what it sounded like to my ears. Homer Banks - 60 minutes is an all time classic - love it!! Interesting stat that 50% of the playlist if "listener generated", thats what keeps the show so fresh, its that variety of tastes from popular to rare that gives the show its edge and it really works. Enjoyed Jeff´s(guests) first track...definitely had a catchy, very danceable RnB/Ska beat to it. Love that RnB stuff, the guest really did treat us to something a bit different and highly enjoyable it was. He talked a lot of sense too about breaking new sounds. Could you please play "Fred Hughes-Dont let me down", a crackin piece of Soul from the Arkansas born but Vee-Jay and Brunswick artist. Rob keith haylett I have been in Australia since 1992 and used to go to al the alnighters in the seventies and thought northern soul had died how wrong could i be love the sounds last week I have a request could you play you ready now by frankie vallie or fever by the prophets much appreciated and will keep listening. francis t Thanks Mary for playing Hit and Run for me last week.My mate David Yeats seems to have a way with words!I am surprised he did not ask for Run for Cover by the Dells.Heard you did a tribute to my long standing friend Chris Savory a very sad loss.francis t Brian Smith from South Manchester. To Geoff/Jeff Studio guest on Friday 18 September. Barry Tasker was NOT an Original Dj at the Twisted Wheel Club in the 1960's but he was a well known face there, he Dj's at the Wheel now because he is a good personal friend of Pete Roberts. Barry Tasker is a good Soul Dj and without doubt got an excellent pedigree and went on to Dj at the Pendulum Soul Club in Manchester when the Wheel closed its doors in 71. In fact Barry Tasker is one of the Guest Dj's on at the Wheel Allnighter this Friday Night. Mary could i take the oppertunity to thank and take my hat off to Pete Roberts for reopening the Wheel and making the 1000's of people who have passed through the Wheel over the last 9 years, so very happy. Regards Brian. Poison-'IVY'(Manchester). Hi Mary.Please don,t change the 'intro'track of your Show,'All For You'(Earl-Van-Dyke),it,s a track that (in my opinion), is an "ANTHEM-for-SOUL!".Mary,could I request a track on the show please, for 'BELLADONNA',at the 'Twisted Wheel Club',It,s called 'Love Potion Number No 9'(Coasters/Clovers, version)or 'Poison Ivy'(Coasters).Hi to Pete Roberts (The 'Ringmaster')T.W.C., &  all the Dj,s  & staff.cheer,s  &  "B/APPY!",Luv,from ,Ivy. Twiggy To Andy(SC) great selection and been trying to get that heard for years and years on the scene.The Sugar Pie De Santo also was a nice suprise, pretty sure if Sugar was singing today see would do some damage to The X-Factor. To The YOUNG UNS who work at ALTON TOWERS who appeared on The X-Facter. work on what you have got and who knows you just might suprise one or two who you work with and dunna let those judges get to you because break them down what talent have any of those 4 got, NONE. Keith Haylett with the power of the internet I can now listen to your show,I live in Austrlia now but was involved in the scene in the seventies and eighties would love to hear you ready now by frankie vallie or fever by the prophets.A big hello to all those that went to cleethorpes and st ives and notts palais way back then. I look forward to hearing your show. Dr Dave Houlston Mary,Just read your 'Northern Soul' biography and it reminded me of the 'Top of the World' in Stafford in the early 70's when it was a regular Saturday night venue for lads from Hednesford  &  Cannock. Then on Sunday night it was off to Hatherton House in Penkridge - happy days. Keep the faith.Dave Houlston JOHN PENNO LIVERPOOL MARY ONLY FOUND YOUR SHOW A FEW WEEKS AGO LOOK FORWARD TO IT NOW THE 1969 FEATURE WAS GREAT MY FAV YEAR EVER MET MY FUTURE WIFE NOW OF 37 YEARS GOT MY 1ST SCOOTER. COULD YOU BE SO KIND TO PLAY NO TIME FOR TEARS BY THE MARVELETTES AND KEEP UP THE GREAT WORK YOU AND ALL NORTHERN SOUL FANS DO KEEP THE FAITH JOHN PENN0 andrea love the show,mary i dont know weather you will remember me from greg and frankys wedding, at alton castle almost ayear ago im andrea franks sister so ahappy first wedding aniverssary going out to them both, (1st nov) and much love and excitment for the arrival of there fist child , averry excited aunty and cousins andrea grace and tom, many thanks and good wishes to you. what judy street is one of my favorites. mck oliver Hi Mary just thought of another gem havent heard for a while 60 minutes by Homer Banks great track depicts northern at its finest time and brings memories of happy happy times good soul will never die KTF 'HATTIE' Jack  & 'PANAMA'-Pete. Hi Mary,I have heard that one of "Micheal Jackson,s" hats from 1991,is now worth,25,000 Grand!!!!.Well Mary,I have to let you know that I have one of his 'Noses'("circa" 1987).It is One from Set of "FIVE",is it worth anything Mary?,who 'NOSE?'.I have it stuck on my "WALL" with Blue-Tack,but It keeps falling "OFF-The-WALL!".G/show,B/Stoke 'SOUL!'."HATS-OFF" to ya Show,from, Hattie & Panama. sue from stafford does any one know if the david gest show "my life "with loads of soul artists on the bill is going to be any where else as i shall be away on holiday for the stoke and wigan dates. thanks x Sylvia Dean Another good show last week Mary. and Goldie in top form and well controlled by you Mary!Can you play Aint Nothing but a House Party By Showstoppers for all the souplies travelling to SUNNY Barnstaple for our 1st weekender.. Its a good old favourite! Andrew (SC) To Confused.Com, one of the great things about being head and shoulders above most is that I can live in my own sad world and admit in all honesty that "No one told me they had dropped the name" But now you have told me and I thank you the word/name will never be used again and like you I will address the ladies by there given titles. KTF CEL HULL WELL DONE GOLDIE FABULOUS SDPOT ON THE SHOW FRIDAY WHAT THE HELL WAS THE MUSIC THAT FOLLOWED YOU WE REMEMBER IN 66 AND MAC FROM DONCVASTER RAVING ON SEEING YOU IN THE TWISTED WHEEL SUBDAY KEEP IT UP YOU ARE A REAL SOULMAN CEL HULL Ian Edwards Went to see OB on Tuesday,and despite the fact the main man was tired,he was a joy to behold,me and my Mary in company with Manchester's finest Pete Roberts and first time we had met Vinny Soulshaker(sound bloke),had a good few hours with Hanleys finest citizen,he was in good form,chatting about his family who he adores,and the soul family,great to see he is still battling and still determined and defying doctors(good for you OB,what a man of immense courage),he is stocked up with tunes and comforts,and he said he is constantly visited by loads of friends,which he fully appreciates,nice also to see OB's son Dan(great lad).The afternoon was humerous and OB was downing a bowl of ice cream,peaches,bran flakes and cream,quite a combination,but he enjoyed it and fair play to him.Pete had us all entertained,not only has he got the top soul club,he is a top funny bloke.OB made a donation to CHILDREN IN NEED,I said,I could not take it off him,but he insisted,I was not about to offend him,he said,he still wanted to help others(I was so humbled and deeply touched by this),just shows what a wonderful human being OB is,and as I have said before I am proud to be a friend mate,and hope the cd is enjoyable for ya mate.Finally to Andy Scoffin,I have met this man a few times,and mate I want to echo the thoughts of Big Andy,Mr Scoffin you are a true gent,a true soulie and a very very nice bloke,from all of us in the BLACK COUNTRY,thinking of you and with you all the way mate,very much hope to see you soon Mr Scoffin,best wishes Mr Edwards rob littlewood hi mary ,the music seems to get better and better.please keep it up ,if you get chance could you play "you dont know where your interest lies" by dana valery ,takes me back in time .cheers rob Dave The Chantelles track 'Sugar Dumplin'can be found on a CD called 'Black Magic Treats' which came out about 1999, its a great version.The CD also has a version of Eddie Parkers 'Love you Baby' sung by Lorraine Chandler which she Wrote for Eddie. tony /jill clayton Many Many Thanks Mary. Mary Thanks for playing our request last friday which was The Magnificents You Turn Me On. Just wondering if your record fairy could get this one aswell for you to play for us , its from 1976 and its by Gary Jackson  &  The Chantelles ( a cover of Sam Cookes ) Sugar Dumplin its being 3 weeks now with the internet and its just getting better for us we just love your message board for keeping in touch with you and all the radio stoke soulies and its also great for putting forward our requests Thankyou Mary Tony / Jill Clayton 'Big-D', (Littleborough) 'LANKY"shire. Hi,B/Stoke!,(Mary Fox 'Soul'),Luvin the "Sounds" on ya Show,('Bama-lama-bama- loo!!!').Could you play "Tutti Frutti"(Little Richard)on ya Show?,It would be Music to my 'Lolly Stick'. Regards( &  I Thank Thee"KINDLY!"),Cheer,s.BD,Lancs. CONFUSED TO ANDREW (SC) WHO ARE THE WHEELETTES ????? ARE THEY THE 3 WOMAN FROM LIVERPOOL WHO ARE CALLED PAT-JOAN-AND ANN AND DROPED THAT FOOLISH NAME A YEAR AGO. GOOD LUCK WITH THE CHARITY NIGHT. MIKEY. Paddy Shevlin Hi Mary,We reckon you're worthy of a special link on our Soul Survivors Family site - so you're up and on it. Perhaps you might wander onto it and leave a message for the good folk there. Find us at www.soul-survivors.co.uk and click on The Family.If you get a chance, can you mention the Brighton Beach Halloween All Nighter @ The Babylon Lounge, Hove on October 31st. Dancefloor just 20 yards from the beach - honest!!Thanks for doing what you do. Andy Scoffin - Crewe big thanks to all who have passed on advice and kind words to myself - what a wonderful group of people you all are.special mention to OB, Amo, Anne A, Pat, Anne N and Shaz to mention just a few. Andrew (SC) Hi Mary, usual thanks for the airtime you give us lot of moaners. The "Wheel was what the Wheel should be" enough said AAA1. Couple of plugs please Mary Sunday 27/09/2009 the Alex club Aptly named "For one day only the Wheel comes to Griff" What can I say the DJs are the best in the business "Pete Roberts", "Keith Minshull", "Vinny", "Young Ben and Getting On Nigel" "Kev Dempsey  &  Alan H and a few more" some of the sounds going to be wicked. £5 to enter this cauldron of power we kick off at 12.00 lunch time going through till 22.00. It will be great to have Dave Griff and Carole out at a gig. Anyone who does not know where Gresty Road, Crewe is should be ashamed of themselves only kidding just give us a shout.Next shout is for the wheelettes Alzheimers night at the Crosville Crewe Saturday 17/10/2009. Last year was A1 so lets get out in force for those fab Wheelettes. Final request Mary big thank you in anticipation, one of our very special mates is having a bit of a rough time at moment with his health and on behalf of his hundreds of mates in the Crewe and South Cheshire Area can you play a record for the main man Andrew Scoffin any tune Mary as long as it's happy with bounce. Andrew we are all with you and we all know you will beat the ******d. Goldie dance steward , trainee Dj  &  Talc Monitor Hi Twigg yes sir  &  you gave me Robert John  &  you is well in to Donn ie Elbert  &  spotted Ella Fitzgerald GET READY a while ago WELL DONE TWIGG Love To Cx......Any way never mind SOUL IN DE SUN .............HOW ABOUT TALC MONITOR in de SUN yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeegrrrrrrrrrrhhhhhh To-days track ...."Aint Nothin No Sweeter Than Love" Little Carl Carltonxxxxxxxxxxx Chris Williams Pete Roberts and everyone there who made 'the Wheel AWESOME! again. To Steve from Chesterfield always a pleasure to meet up wiv ya. Nick Marshall's spot brilliant, not heard some of them for years! Amo and the girls on the train back - Virgin trains 8-20 out of Manchester on board entertainment, once a month brilliant! All round tremendous day. Chris  &  Steph Goldie Dance Steward.. T rainee Dj  &  Talc  &  At NOBODY WANTED TO GO HOME!!!! Everybody was in unison THIS WAS DE BEST YET..Sunday at de Twisted Wheel Manchester This was de best ever , never ever ever ever ever to be beaten Scoring 9999999999999999999999999999999999Miliion zillio0n trillion Billion zillion out of 10..Mike  &  Linda lo ved it so did Bernie  &  Marie ..MAC who I aint seen here for 42 years could`nt believe his eyes or ears..Cath  &  Jenny relished de Strong Soul atmosphere Dawn ,Steve , Andy...New Guys Stell  &  Ken from Barnsley hailed it as de best ever KYLE  &  BOB did`nt want it to end  &  you could see the look of dread on some folks faces as Pete played de last one &  all de regs really enjoyed it ta boot WHAT A DAY..Well done Pete , Jock , John  &  Nick for a great show..thank you so much!!!!!!!!!NEXT UP AT DE TEMPLE OF SOUL.DE ALLNIGHTER 25th September A tenner on de door 10-7 yipeeeeeeeeeee before that THE WHEEL GOES TO DE PORT VALE " LOVE TRAP this FRiday de 18th £5--00 some tickets left or pay at de turnstiles DONT MISS THIS FOLKS PETE ROBBO JOHN GREEN  &  VINNIE DE SOULSHAKER Plus Colin Polluzzi does is SUPER SIX yipeeeeeeee After DE Wheel All nighter on the 27th SUNDAY..at CREW ALEX Social Club At de stadium Gresty Road THE WHEEL TRAVELS away again in a bid to aid the wonderful Grif  &  His chosen Charity £5-00 on de door this one is an ALLDAYER!!! !"noon till 10pm PLEASE GO TO THIS ONE YOU WILL HAVE A boss time  &  support Grif  &  His Charity as well yipeeeeeeeeee..to days track "things get better" EDDIE FLOYD.Goldie yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeee grrrhhhrrrhhxx Twiggy To Goldie, great spot you did, Sugar Pie De Santo what can i say only alot as been missed by this great singer. One you did say you missed was The Superlatives I STILL LOVE YOU, hey Goldie you ought to have been in a local youth club some 30 odd years ago when i first spun that Monster, hey Goldie its a funny thing only the young uns picked up on the beat, alot just didn't get it with that record, i think Pete ought to change his mind and get it onto an up dated Wheel Sound, i think its a crying sahme that it won't get played there because it wasn't on the original playlist from The Wheel, others i played at The Youth Club were Bob Relf's BLOWING MY MIND TO PIECES, RAT RACE, LANDSLIDE,CRACKING UP OVER YOU, NITE OWL by Bobby Paris, STONED OUT OF MY MIND, i didn't play ELA FITZGERALDS GET READY, because it was on my mums LP, Cigarette Ashes, Whats It Goina Be by Dusty Springfield, Theres That Mountain by The Tripps, throw in all the Motown, Atlantic stuff, didn't play to much stax but had a bit of it,records like Love You Baby by Eddie Parker which you dunna hear much of today, it was easy pleasing the youth club attenders, little did i know some snake had got their eyes on my record collection, i did both my elbows spinning to Bob Relfs Blowing My Mind To Pieces, some Tw.t had put talc on the floor, still suffer with floating bones in my elbow, Hey Goldie what would they know if they weren't here, we must protect our scene and keep the door shut from imposters who use the scene for the wrong reasons. Before i go Goldie have a listen to PETER WHITES MIDNITE IN MANHATTON, got loads of stuff for your ears, Eloise Laws A THOUSAND LAUGHS is just one i wanted to let you have but i conna find it, talking about laughs give the bloody jokes thing up your jokes are as old as Mother Reileys Knickers, another Miracles tune for you to hear sometime in the future, I think its to late in the year now to do a KINGSHALL SOUL NITE but i will say this to you, i will do one and hopefully show um how its done along with the help of some friends.Why Peter White isn't an house hold name i dunna know absolute class. sue from stafford hi mary how about a face book for the show (Some of the other soul shows have one )could be good for photos and info , just a thought. x Kev and Maggie Happy birthday Goldie - has the telegram from the Queen arrived ? PeteSco..fri 11/9/09.. happy birthday to young Goldie,,hope you have a good'un mate..SCO..x.. Malcolm Litten (Bury) Nr Manchester. Goldie, Have a good one tonight pal and where's Pete Roberts??? Is it true he's in the shovel again!See you Sunday at the wheel. Malc the talc. ktf and right on! Soul brother. sue from stafford hi mary i hope you pick this up in time for fridays show I think you have goldie with you i'd like to send him a big hello from steve and i and send our good wishes hope to catch up with him soon and if possible could you play us chris clarke somethings wrong for us down in sunny barmouth !!!!! we will be listenting live on tinternet thanks mary Endless Music Message to Mick Oliver. We have a copy of this album (Italian Rainbow Motown Label) in near mint condition. Please telephone 0161 772 0312 for details Kev Bourne Barnstaple Weekender18th - 21st September 2009Double Room for SaleRoom has become vacant at the Weekender and they are selling a double room at £249.00.£124.50 per person, £41.50 pp each night cheap as chips3 nights B & B  &  Evening Meals, your passes and all the facilites in the complex.If interested ring 01933 441281 Goldie Dance Talc Monitor Trainee Dj  &  OOOD Yep gonnsa be A Sizzler On Sunday ..got 3 Brill trax for Marys show lookin foreward to seein Ob .been with out of Tommy Checker today in de Wirral He had a group long before de Beatles  &  was one of de older guys I looked up to in de Wheel Happy 70th Birthday (yes 70)CANT WAIT FOR DE WHEEL SUNDAY as Cath would saty yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee  &  one for Michaels pardon!!! yipeeeeeeeeeeeee  &  here is a spare one for luck yipeeeeeeeeeeeee Gxxxx Ian Edwards CHILDREN IN NEED TICKETS on sale roll up roll up,if you dont want a ticket you can buy a cd at £5,their are 28 excellent tracks,oldies modern,for all tastes,Steve what an excelent job you have done with them mate. Tickets will be available at the weekend,at THE WHEEL from Steve and Dawn the cd sellers,and the lovely Pat Carter at Lea Hall(many thanks to Neil at Lea Hall).So come on folks buy them and help to make a childs life a lot happier,Rob in Cadiz,send me your e-mail have not got your address mate misplaced sorry!!!.OB up to see ya Tue lots of love to ya top bloke.Amo aiming to make a day of it,Monkey World(promised Mrs Edwards),visit OB,and a little soiree tp the Foxley. Rob(Cadiz) Just returned from holiday in Italy  &  France and yet to listen to last weeks show but just read about Chris Savory. Stunned to hear such tragic news. I'd never met Chris but we emailed each other two or three times to discuss Soul music, Stax and even African influences on the scene...and swapped some CDs last summer. We planned to do the same this summer. His contributions to the show were part of the overall respect i have for it as the best out there...his knowledge and stories, told with such humor and detail and of course love of the music were deeply respected in my house. My deepest sympathies go to his wife and family...im totally shocked by this sad news. Can anyone tell me what happened to this great man of Soul? I know he loved "Blues Power" by Albert King, could you play it in memory of Chris. Very sad news indeed. Im going to listen to the show now. Rob Miles Platt (Newton Heath)Modchester. Hi B/Stoke.'Soul'.As a first time listener I would like to request a track,but I 'DONNA'know what to choose!!!.But if you could play"MICKEY'S-MONKEY", It would be a "MIRACLE!".Regard,s,Miles Platt.(UCP,FBI,ICI & LIL!).By-Gum!. Cath Stafford) I just want to say Well done Goldie on your 'promotion' at the Wheel! You deserve it after all the hard work you put in to the place and looking after us while we there!!!! Will be listening in to the show on Friday as I know you on with Mary this week. Went to see OB on Tuesday with Carol  &  Pete Roberts was there too. It was nice to hear the stories from OB about his 'younger soul day's' and he was still laughing at the memories. Looking forward to the Wheel on Sunday as always. As Goldie would say 'yipeeeeeeeeeeeeee' KTF. Goldie dance steward , trainee Dj  &  Talc Monitor & Its the Twisted Wheel this Sunday 13th September.cant wait to see all my new mates there from Keighley  &  before.. &  all me ol mates of course 3pm --8pm loads goin up be nice to see Marie  &  Bernie..Mike  &  Linda back from Hols ..Stell  &  Bob  &  all de regs gonna be a real soul sizzler JUST GO it`ll do ya good!!!!Off to see Mary  &  Ob On Friday in Stoke the home of de Torch yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee Goldiexxxxxxxxxxxxx mick oliver HiMary just wondering if you know where i could get a copy of Temps Masterpiece album heard you play Hey girl last week have album on vinyl but HMV say it is now deleted but sure our hardened soulies know where to get it.Oh remember Soper Time Golden World Strings pleeeaaassseee KTF Lightbowne -Lil ( Ard-"WICK") Manchester Hi,B/Stoke,Soul!.Luv the way the Show Keeps the, "CANDLE"burning 4 ya listeners. CASTAWAYS(Liar Liar), would be Music 2 Me GARTERS.It reminds me of when I was in "London" &  "Soma" Mates,(By-Eck!!!).Luv  &  Beast "DISHES",LiL. Donna Rooney FBI (LIGHT LIL ) Have a great night Sunday; many thanks for asking about my dad, at present hes lookin after me (i know you understand) and we will be listening Sunday Donna Steve Bambury Hi Mary, I am not sure if anyone who listens also attended the Mecca Revival at the Metropole in Blackpool last Saturday 5th September night but the gig was excellent. Its Tuesday evening the 8th Sept and I am listening to you on Iplayer in the Marriott hotel in Cheshunt herts,. good show as always.Any chance you could play Moonlight Music and You. Thanks again. Sorry to hear about Chris especially when he is the same age as myself. Condolences to his wife and family. Ecky Chris Savory - RIP. I didn't know him except through this mesbo, as others have said a very knowledgable guy. Earlier this year we passed messages on the Stax / Atlantic stuff. Mary it would be a good tribute to have half hour or so dedicated to Stax Atlantic for Chris - my nomination is "Soul Man" Sam and Dave.Soulong for now Ecky Mike Adams Chris Savory and I shared a programme with for over 21 years at Radios Shropshire and Stoke (The Record Collectors Show). He was without doubt unique and his knowledge and love of Soul music unsurpassed.I and many others will miss him so very much. Mike Adams Date: vinny chris savory...dealt with chris a few times at record fayres his knowledge of music and records etc was first rate but more importantly he was a very humble nice and fair man who always had time for you... our condolences and best wishes to the family r.i.p chris Goldie dance steward , trainee Dj  &  Talc Monitor & Victory in West Yorkshire ..Keighley at de OKEH Coral...simply sublime scoring 888888888 million out of 10...Pete  &  John PROVED TO ME ..they are de best djs!!!!!Pleasant was de main adjective carrying this special soul event thru this Soulsome weekend ..NEVER HAVE I BEEN TREATED SO WELL...Maggie  &  Kev , Pete , Jackie Steve Scott , Dawn , Lynne , Greenie, Keith , Stella, Suzie It was a pleasure being with you all  &  Bernard  &  Marie what can I say THE NATIVITY comes to Keighley..No ROOM AT de INN thank you so much for finding me a comfy room in hotel California ..The Music at the Okeh club was superb we had the regular djs doin their stuff  &  then their Wheel duo putting on a 150 minutes sizzler with Wheel sounds at its best ...with not a frown to be seen THIS WAS A REAL SOUL CRACKER..Thanks to Gary for puttin on the event ..I will be back here defo cant wait .. &  to all de new people I met see ya at de TWISTED WHEEL SUNDAY yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeee to-days track ROGER COLIINS "She`s Lookin Good" ...........yipeeeeeeeeeeeeee its Monday cant wait to see Mary on Friday Goldiexxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx "Pea,s  & Gravy".("STOCK"port). Hi,B/Stoke.Like the Music on ya "SOUL" show.As a "listener",could you play,"Sookie Sookie"(Don Covay).Cheer,s, & ,"PEAS" 2-U- "ALL!",("Eee,By-Gum!!!!"). Ray and Lydia Hi Mary could you play a record for our Thirty Third wedding anniversary on 18th September (Crumbs!!!). Know it's early but we are going on holiday on Monday 7th for a couple of weeks. Hoping to catch it on Listen again along with the rest of the show. Could you play "Until you love someone" by the Four Tops please. Ow spookey is that our wedding anniversary and favourite Soul show on the same day!! All the best Ray and Lydiaxx mick dale just got back from the 100 club 30th anniversary do - what a night the dance floor was packed all night till six - happy days Ozz Chris Savory, I Am Shocked to hear of the sad passing of this gent, i true lover of vinyl, great broadcaster alongside mike adams, I Remember opening my record shop years ago  &  Chris made sure he was my first customer, we also had a few good record finds together at various fate/jumble sales ! I'll Miss you chris R.i.p - Ozz Johnny Mo : 5-Sept-2009 40 years exactly this weekend since my first visit to the Wheel. Can't beleive it. So many great friends made, so many memories recalled : TW ; Cats ; Torch ; Mecca and Casino. Still got my UK vinyls; still in touch with so many friends and still married ! Life is so good. Thank you all. KTF dave in rugeley hi mary friday again listening too great music on your show yet again we all had a great night on bank holiday sunday up the peartree club with gaz lees on the turn tables great company and lots of ale looking forward to the next one which is on sat 26th of sept with the legend that is vic sutton hi too roy sandra karl and tom see you all soon Chris Williams Not been on Mesbo for a while, so I'm saddened to hear of the loss of Chris Savory. Pete Scho said it right. Chris was always a pleasure to meet and chat too....sincere condolances to his wife and family xx Goldie Dance Steward  &  Trainee Dj talc moniyor SOUL SIZZLER ALERT THE OKEH CLUB KEIGHLEY WEST YORKS .. &  I is goin Yipeeeeeeeeeeeee Just hours to go to Marys Show Hello to Mike de guest (I`ll be there next week cant wait).....Happy Birthday Mr.Marshall ...Goldie xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx PeteSco..thurs 3/9/09.. R.I.P..Chris Savory..I have many fond memories of Chris,,an extremely knowledgeable and nice man..best wishes to his wife and family..SCO..x.. tony/ jill .from clayton Hi mary love the show weve being listening for years finally got on the net , and your message board could you ask your record fairy if he as the the magnificents you turn me on .thanks tony and jill Tony Heinemann (Nantwich) Stunned by the passing of CHRIS SAVORY!!!Original d.j. at the BEAR soul nights in newcastle,knowledge of soul music second to NONE.WOW! What a loss (R.I.P.) Tony Foster I was really saddened to learn that Chris Savory has passed away. My sincere condolences got out to all concerned. A very sad loss indeed. Okeh Soul Club " KEIGHLEY " THIS SATURDAY 5 SEPTEMBER, THE WHEEL COMES TO THE OKEH SOUL CLUB KEIGHLEY, WITH A TWISTED WHEEL SPECIAL WITH WHEEL Dj's PETE ROBERTS AND JOHN GREEN AND RESIDENT Dj's GRAHAM SLATER, ALEX SIMMS AND ROMAN AT THE VICTORIA HALL KEIGHLEY NEXT TO THE LEISURE CENTRE ON THE A650. BD21-3JN. NOW A TWO ROOM VENUE. 8PM TILL 2AM. LATE BAR 1AM. 6 POUNDS ON THE DOOR. info 07973 689576. HOPE TO SEE YOU THERE MARY. Radley -xxx- Goldie Dance Steward  &  Trainee Dj talc moniyor Last Sunday at the TWISTED WHEEL Manchester was de best soul experience I have ever felt it was superb !!!!! This is de answer if you is genuinely into Soul .Its simple GO TO DE WHEEL ..you will be so glad you did!!!!!.thanx to Peter Roberts , John green , Maggie  &  Kev, Sue  &  Margie, Suzie , Trish  &  Steve  &  all de gang for making it de best ever at de Home Of Soul scoring 999999999999999999999 million zillion trillion billion out of 10 never to be equalled ..WHAT A PLACE!!!! yours soulfully The Quiet Man aka Goldie yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeexxx Sylvia Dean A very Happy Birthday for the 2nd SEPT.. for Nick Marshall !! can you please play a suitable Impressions tune for the birthday boy please Mary from Sylvia and Joe xxx "Kaleidoscope Kate" & "Juxtaposed John". Hi,B/Stoke!,like the way Mary.F,  &  Nick.M, move the "Soul - Around"on the Show!.Nice!!!!!.Keep the "WHEELS"turning,B/Stoke!,"Kal K"  &  "Jux J". www.thesoulguy.com..weds 2/9/09.. new shows for sept up on site,,including local spinner PeteSco,,plus Ozz and Tim Ashibende with Wigan series part 8...well worth a listen..go to www.thesoulguy.com,,thanks. Wiganbhoy Mary first may I plead for you to get a podcast of your show!Been a fan for years and annoyed my kids with my Northern until they too love the scene. My lad is 18 this weekend and any chance of playing his fav Red light spells danger by Billy Ocean (must get loving my older stuff!!) Its for Paddy Hume.Love you to bits MaryKTF alwaysTom Ecky Mary / Nick - 31 Aug. Really enjoyed the last show featuring the Dells. Also Nicks show of the 14 Aug was great with over a dozen records / artist combinations I hadn't heard before. Mrs Ecky wants to here the Tams - Be Old, Be Grumpy, Be Miserable for me, but that's not one I know. Soulong for now Ecky "Able Mable",(Ancoats). Hi,B/Stoke,Mary,Nick.I have to use my "Stax"nowadays to "Volt"on the dancefloor,but ya show & music, make,s me wanna "Dance!".Regards & "Goodlistening",Mable John,(when I,m "ABLE"). All Week Dancer WOW!!! The CODs - SHES FIRE. Absolutely amazing tune had me totally spell bound!. Why have I never hear this played out before? Anyone know who has it and where can I hear it played at a gig?Thanks for some great shows Mary. Goldie dance steward talc monitor trainee Dj The wheel on friday was de best ever scoring 9999999999999 milliopn billion zillion trillion out of 10 this will never be beaten I HAD A STINKER but my wife  &  her pal had a ball to see them laughling  &  buzzing in the back seat as we headed back to de Pool at 4-am  &  to hear their praises of the freindly people they had met ... Marie  &  Bernie , Sue  &  Margie , Kev  &  Maggie etc filling the rear of de car with joyish acclaim of there first night at de home of soul THANK YOU PETER ROBERTS For your kindness  &  time spent with this new pair of Wheelies Who want de tee shirts ASAP  &  henceforth would like to be known as trainee Dance stewardesses...yipeeeeeeee for new blood on de soul scene ..Their Fave tracks ... Aint To Proud to Beg  &  Walkin up a one way street ..yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee Goldiexxx Viv (From sunny Exeter) Last week you mentioned the 'Summer 69'. We travelled to Birritz in Ford Anglia to Surf. All we had for soul sounds was a clunk click portable cassette player. Great days!Viv Ian Edwards Hi Amo,I did ask you earlier mate,but I want to send a donation to your heroes charity you did last week,it would be an honour mate. Ian Alford Mary could you please play for everyone out there the furys I'm a little mixed up or the temptations forever in my heart many thanks ktf Goldie dance steward , trainee Dj  &  Talc Monitor The Wheel this Friday 28th 9--2-15 (£5) ....Gonna be a Biggie phew ..the wifes had her hair done  &  shes bringin her Bessie mate the wonderful Elainexxx right from de heart of Liverpool, to help me spread de talc ( so excited)  &  with Sunday (30th 3-8) (£5)at de Wheel looking de pick of de best of de weekends excellent selection of Soul Events simply cant wait!!!!...Charlie I will be there 11am Sunday with Sarahs  &  Gemma  &  Mark..Marys Show as always will start de ball rollin 7pm Friday 28th BBC Radio Stoke..(see ya on de 11th Mary yipeeeeeeee).......Well done Stoke last night!!! I wonder did my mate put his shirt on Kitson....To days Tracks "Bread  &  Butter" by..Sugar Pie de Santo  &  "I Dont Know How To say (I Love You )((or just walk away) By .. The SLs...yipeeeeeeeeeeeeee its nearly Bank Holiday weekend I is workin Sat  &  Monday but the two trips to de Wheel should break the mundane mode..Goldie blushing profoundly  &  so proud to be de TALC MONITOR at de TWISTED WHEEL MANCHESTER!!!!!! grrrrrhhhh yipeeee xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx ..PeteSco..thurs 27/8/09.. ..R.I.P Mark Rubenzer.. Kev Bourne Hi Mary,Would you say a massive thank you to all those from the North who came down to Wellingborough All-Dayer 2009 last Saturday, it was a fantastic day with over 600 in attendance, and then tragically at 1130pm Mark Rubenzer collapsed and died instantly of a massive heart attack, after attempts by soulies and the paramedics to revive Mark it was to late.Mark a Kettering lad aged 44 loved his soul music and our thoughts are with Julie and family.If you could play Mark's favourite track Ed Bruce - I'm Gonna Have A Party that would be apprecated.R.I.P. MarkKev Jos - Amsterdam Soul Club Pete Roberts did a great job last Saturday. And he was virtually playing for a home-crowd. The place was full with people from Manchester. So we had both good music and good dancing.The Wheelcrew enjoyed all the goodies from Amsterdam and even bought me a record. Thanks and have fun this weekend. Abraham,Martin ,John,Bob & Ted(HULME) Hi,B/Stoke!,"Mercy,Mercy Me"gud Sounds on ya "Soul-Show!. Ian Edwards Only 8 weeks to go to C-I-N,night in Bilston,come on people any one up for a good night of quality soul and supporting this great cause,£5 a ticket,tickets available from me on 079676194092,I am only sending tickets out by S.A.E,send me a cheque and the tickets will be posted back to you,or you can get them from me at Goodyears,Tettenhall,or from the Bank Holiday do at THE GREAT WESTERN W'TON,on bank holiday Monday,or see Max Millward at Brookfields,or Max or Wulfie at Wednesfield Football Club 28/08/09,or Pat Carter at Lea Hall or Great Wyrley FC,28/08/09.Hopefully Gaz Lees may do some at his new Soldiers Club night Hednesford or Hednesford Football Club,come on lets sell it out as usual,cant make THE WHEEL Sept or Oct out of country,really gutted Pete quality days.. AMSTERDAM "The Bathtub" August 22 Firstly to thank Jos  &  the lovely Rigo (Sue) for their hospitality and being such fantastic hosts!! A great Night at Jos 60's Soul Club! Nice to see so many of you from the Twisted Wheel Club who made me feel at home (The Wheel) Along with Jos, Imod and Pete45 who also did great Dj spots and gave the crowd a night to remember!! Amsterdam is famous for tulips, canals and bikes!! Well here's another to add to the list, JOS' 60's MOD/SOUL CLUB!! "THE BATHTUB" Believe me, I'll be back soon!! Pete Roberts xxx PS Jos and Sue - Jock  &  Marie send their Love  &  Best Wishes. Goldie Dance Steward  &  Trainee Dj Yipeeeeeeeeeeeee Just been promoted!!!! As well as being dance steward  &  trainee Dj I have now after 12 months service been awarded the extra title of TALC MONITOR I is so happy yipeeeee Well done de boys at de LOVE TRAP =PORT VALE 2 WISE for de OWLS!!!!!..Vinnie , Colin  &  de scooter dudes on their way to de Isle Of White vrum vrum vrum yipeeeeee I is gettin ready for a DUO of SOUL SIZZLERS at de Wheel 28th  &  30th I is so excited lookin foreward as always to de Mary Fox show Gonna be some weekend wow!!!!!To days track "Hip Hug Her " Booker T yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee Goldie DSTW ..TR/Dj  &  T.Mxxxxx sue from stafford hi mary just heard the show on listern again oh what memories of 1969 i allways call it my coming out year (like the bryan adams song the summer of 69 "those were the best days of my life") it was the the big 6 week school holiday long hot sunny days starting going to small local discos mini skirts maxi coats fluffy belly jumpers that showed your midriff fred perry t shirts levie jeans shrinking in the bath white plastic boots that you pulled up like socks and yes i had a pvc coat mine was green got into my first "Gang" and we would be together all of us every day and night through the holidays boys (Yes real boys) as well as girls the lads had chopper style bikes which we would beg a a ride on(before they progressed onto scooters) and they all wore parkas that we would beg for them to let us wear but it was all about the music these older lads got me into soul music and motown that has stayed with me for ever all the songs you played in your feature bought smiles to my face we would each carry round with us our own 45's in a plastic bag like a trophy and hang out at various freinds houses and unbeknown to our parents who were out at work we would play our very scratched 45's i had a danset record player oohh so very cool, didnt have much money for buying records so would beg or borrow a lot of them i always remember my best freind buying my cheri amour stevie wonder i was so jelous as it was my favorite and still is we would hang out in the sun down at the local "Cut" (canal) and the lads would go swimming and we would watch (It dont bear thinking about now does it !!!! if ever me mother had known !!!) and we go to chasewater fair in brownhills west midlands on the waltzers and get the lads to whiz us round whilst the sounds of motown was bellowing out the music from that time was the best ever and it still is . i made a lot of friends at that time many are still best freinds today if you can mary would you play my cherei amour stevie wonder or soul sister brown sugar sam and dave which was one i did manage to buy for all of my friends from that time. Sylvia Dean I should also have said that Ben Astle also played an excellent couple of sessions at Wellingborough. KTF xx Sylvia Dean Just back from the Wellingborough alldayer. An excellent day which ended in sadness with the loss of a soulie.But the day was great for the music.Some really good sessions and none more so than Kieth Minshull. Keith played nothing different. But he played classic Wheel, Torch, Wigan sounds....BUT the art.. and the art of a good DJ like Keith.. is ..to get the combinations right... and Keith did this so very well.The floor was filled and people danced and danced.. others sat around and listened.. the atmosphere was tangible . This to me is what a good soul session is all about.. Thanks Keith and thanks Kev Bourne for a really good alldayer.KTF mike Derek WhalleyWherever i lay my hat was written by Marvin Gaye,Barrett Strong And Norman Whitefield And first recorded by Marvin Gaye in 1962, then released in 1963 on the album, Stubborn Kinda Fellow.In 1966 it was recorded by the Temptations but not released, later to be done in 1969 then by Paul Young in 1983.As far as i'm aware Marv Johnson did'nt record it, but with our music you never know.Hope that helps Goldie talkin DOUBLE DUTCH Pete`s back from Holland yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeee straight in to Wheel mode ..SUNDAYS SESSION will be 2 Rooms at de home of Soul THe TWISTED WHEEL MANCHESTER Oh MY GOD2 of de best FRIDAY .... &  SUNDAY cant wait Goldie in DOUBLE HEAVEN todays tracks LAUGHING BOY Mary Wells  &  HOLD ON I`m COMIN Sam  &  DaVE YIPEEEEEEEEEE GRRHHRRHHXXXXXXXXX Andy Scoffin - Crewe Summer of 69 what a landmark for me bought my first Motown LP The Four Tops Greatest Hits (they are dancing at a garden party on the cover).I was 10 at the time and it was a few months on before I saved up for another soul album.All my school mates liked Rock and I was the only soul fan so struggled to get my records heard at parties etc. Still have that album as it holds such great memories. Steve Amison A big thank you from the Outer Circle Scooter Club  &  the Foxley Soul Club to everyone who attended the charity do last Friday at Milton Bowling Club. On the night we raised £328.50p for the "Heroes Ex-Servicemans Charity". Thanks to everyone who supported the event  &  to all the DJ's who all gave the time for free  &  to Don  &  his staff at the Bowling Club for the use of their facilities. We've got another event planned for December this year at this cracking venue with the details to follow later. KTF Amo Rob(Cadiz) Hey Mary, great to have you back. As i stated in my last mail, Thanks for playing "Keep on keeping on" (any request is a good request) and i love NF Porter's song of the same name that you played but the track i wanted was a different one by The Vibrations. Sorry for the confusion. Rob(Cadiz) Welcome back Mary, thanks for playing my request. Great job Nick, as usual. Loved that full-length red mack your wearing on the web site. Enjoyed the show but im afraid i have to say that "Super Girl - Graham Bonney" was quite possibly the worst record ive ever heard on the show. Im all for a bit of variety and i know that Soul takes many forms but i couldnt see past a rating of "B" league pop song. Im sure some people will disagree but my Soul-o-meter tells me "complete duffer". Nevertheless, some of the other music was superb including "Nevertheless". Always loved the Erma  &  The Fascinations track and Sharon Jones  &  The Dapkings are pure class. I hope i get to see them live one day. Interesting to hear Russ Winstanley. I had the pleasure of going to Wigan Casino  &  Wigan Pier a few years later when the scene had moved on...along with lots of other local venues. Got to get to one of the Wigan Anniversary nights. The Isleys track never fails to make the hair on the back of my neck stand up....all on its own! Fantastically good, classic stuff that will never fade in my opinion. Is there any chance of playing "The Originals - Tear it on down", a truly wonderful piece of music to my ears and gives me some many cool memories of friends and times gone by. Cant wait for some cooler weather here...even the wind is hot at the moment...its like a hairdryer...I can hardly keep the ice-cubes frozen at the moment. Time for another Tinto de Verano. Rob Benny Sherman (Burnage). Mary,"WHERES -ME -SHIRT?". Derek Whalley Thanks all for trying like Twiggy say's time and other things clowd the mind and i think i have forgotten more than i can remember clearly now.I think i got the year right though.Hate this ageing thing.Still hoping i clear this one up because after playing the Marvin version again it is not the same as i can recall in my mind.Dekka. vinny to derek whalley without doing any homework marvin gaye and then paul young recorded wherever i lay my hat hope this helps atb Tony Heinemann (Nantwich) Hi Mary,Request for the Twisted Wheel Gang,Sam Cooke"Got the whole world shaking"Cheers Tony. Tony Foster If anyone wants to add a flyer to my website www.northernsoul45.co.uk please email me. Email address as on the website. Twiggy To Ian Alford, there are a couple of Cds out there by Marv Johnson with alot of his stuff on, not to sure about if he did Where Ever I lay My Hat but as i say i do remeber another version, i know The Temptations did Where Ever I Lay My Hat, it might have been their version i heard all those years ago, time can play tricks on your mind. To OB I remember you saying you were at The Battle of Cobridge Lights, my brother lived just down the road from the lights and i just can't remember the lights being there at that time, thou it was about the same time i was fighting for my life in hospital with burst appendix, it was maybe the medication i was on that as muffled this period of my life, i always thought the lights at Cobridge came much later than 1969ish i do remember people hurrying around to get a part of mods and rockers fighting in the movie Tommy and one of my close mates to this day gets stand in parts on Tv shows, its those bloody lights how did i miss um, i know for a fact i didn't have a scooter yet, i still wish i had my pride and joy along with all the other bikes i had, they are going for stupid money now i have to admitt this my Francis Barnet was my favourite and i just couldn't understand why Mods and Rockers wanted to knock seven bells of shit out of each other, as a young emerging skinhead who had respect for others like a lot of my skinhead friends did it was The Northern Soul Tunes that my friends all were after,ok a bit of Ska and Raggee but a new beat was emerging the HUNDRED MILE AN HOUR BEAT, i was lucky to get 60 outta my scooter but my sooped up NSU was like a bloody rocket, looking back in time it was SUSUKI and Yammaha bikes like that, that ruined our motorbike industry, i guess progress is a good thing but it can cause saddness, looking back are we moving at far to fast a pace of life, is this the reason why some of the youngsters look lost with todays pace to get there well before they have learned to walk, too many pressures are put on young kids and lets face it if good enough what chance have they got of being a success, when there are no oppertunities for them, you only have to look at football, our kids are priced out of a chance because of these stupid football managers who think buying success is the way forward, I have to say this as a young skinhead money was never my god and all us young skinheads shared alot of things together, The Music was the thing that always kept us buzzing, what i do feel is we live in a society where silverspooned people are getting in all the right placements weither its football or media or what ever, you only have to listen to some of the arrogance of some on tele who for me want bringing down a peg or two, with all these quango knutters ruining our society, my mate as just lost his job and he went for a job PUSHING a BLOODY TROLLEY at the hospital, the first thing he was asked wheres you NVQ because without it you wunna get a job, my god whats up with this country, you need a ucking degree to push a trolley now, sorry about the language OB but its the pits ain't it. Eddie Murphy & Beverly Hills,L.A.. Fine Show,Stoke,MF/Soul!Like ya music!Dont,t wanna "STIR"the playlist on ya "Mesbo-Show,"but if you could play "STIR-IT-UP"(Patti LaBelle)on the Show, It would B great!(No More "DING-DONGS"on ya mesbo please),regards,E "MURPHYS" Stout, Un "STIRRED!!!. Twiggy To Derek Whalley, i have heard another version from this period it may have been Marv Johnson, if memory is correct it was a slower version but done in a simular way, I'll pick a Rose for my Rose was my second record i brought, for me Marvin Gaye wasn't doing it for me with his earlier stuff but wow didn't Marvin improve. Ray and lydia Whoops! sorry Ian just realised it was Derek Whalley who was asking about Marv Johnson.Must av been all that fire water tha Amo kept feeding us at Milton Bowling Club lol,All the best,Ray and lydiaxxx Ray and lydia Hi Ian Alford remember the B side of I'll Pick a Rose for my Rose being played a lot at the Stafford Soul do's before the majority of sounds played speeded up more as we moved into the 70's. The B side was "You got The love I Love" TMG 680.Don't remember a Marv Johnson version of "Wherever I Lay my Hat" but Marvin Gaye's version was on the B side of "Too Busy Thinkin about my baby" TMG 705 released in 1969. Sorry to sound like a couple of Tamla anoraks but we love it!! All the best ray and Lydiaxx Goldie still yappin Mary Fox show brilliant last night with ELLA FITZ "GET READY" de pick of de bunch (Good Choice TWIGG!!)  &  e REAL WHEEL CLASSIC!!!! still played These days!!! 1969 ok but I think 2009 even better!!! Think TWO!!! It takes TWO...TWO LOVERS .. What TWO can easily do ..Tea for TWO ..Make mine a DOUBLE ..Agent DOUBLE O Soul ..Yes folks a Double helping of Soul sizzlers next weekend at the Home of Soul The same building where it all started 44years ago (after its birthplace in Brasenose street some years earlier..FRIDAY 28th with Guest Barry tasker its De Wheel on Friday 9pm till 2-15 a fiver on de door (ONE ROOM)  &  25hrs later its De WHEEL ON SUNDAY ..(one room).bank holiday Monday de day after..On Sunday usual time 3-pm till 8pm usual price a fiver ..JUST GO WILL YA !!!! yipeeeeeeeeeeeeee I am cos I know whats good for me sinply cant wait !! grrrhhhrrrhhh Goldie proud Dance Steward  &  traineeeee D.J.xxxxxxxxxxx HerMan(Allan from Sheffield.) Hi Mary ,Thanks very much for the record ,I owe you one!but I must draw your attention to the fact that when relating my recollections of 1969,you stated that I had joined the R.A.F,but either you didn't get the full "E"mail because it would have read that unfortunately I wanted to be an elecrician,but they found I was colourblind so I instead joined the N.C.B. as one of their first," Mining Craft Apprentices," I don't want people to think that.that I was at anytime a member of the armed forces,and from either a mistake in an "E" mail that anyone will get the wrong idea or assume that I intentionally or unintentionally have been anything other than truthful in my submissions to the website.I hope this clears up any misunderstanding created by the matter.Yours As Always K.T.F.HerMan(Allan from Sheffield.) dave in rugeley hi mary glad your back love the show as usual like too say hi too roy and sandra and tom and karlsee you all at the peartree club on bank holiday weekend with gaz lees spinning the discs please play gone with the wind by rita and the tiaras bye for now Norman Re Marv Johnson, Tmg 1052 has Marv Johnson..I'LL Pick a Rose For My Rose on one side and Jimmy Ruffin...What Becomes of the Broken Hearted on the other.Could this be the one your thinking of? PeteSco..fri.21/08/09.."I NEED A LITTLE BIT OF SOU ..people have asked me about my song.."I NEED A LITTLE BIT OF SOUL,BABY".i'm producing,,all proceeds of which go to little Madison and her family..I have done the backing track,,BUT i arent a very good singer so i am looking for a singer(in Aflat/A major) to complete the project..WHEN it's complete i will be throwing a party and playing it LIVE..youre ALL invited..x..(bring your wallets).!!..IT WILL BE AVAILABLE AS A DOWNLOAD FROM WWW.THE SOULGUY.COM,,THANKS TO Rob Jones for all your help,,and the great advice from Sherlie Matthews,,Ivan Stax,,Jules from Auss..xx..SCO. Ian Alford Re: marv johnson, on the soulful kinda music site there is a marv johnson discography it's saying Gordy 7077 - I'll Pick A Rose For My Rose / You Got The Love I Love – 1968 don't know if that's any help mate.. good site very informative...ktf to everyone who knows me and who don't know me HerMan(Allan from Sheffield.) To Derek Whalley,The "B"side of," I'll Pick A Rose For My Rose," was not,"Where ever I lay my hat," but the following,Gordy 7077 - I'll Pick A Rose For My Rose / You Got The Love I Love – 1968.I hope this helps you out.Yours AS Always HerMan(Allan from Sheffield.) Derek Whalley Hi, Can anybody answer me this question did Marv Johnson record ''Where ever I lay my hat''on the B side of I'll Pick A Rose For My Rose.It has come up in a conversation and I'M adamant he did around about68 OR 69.I can recall it was considered at the time a double A sider.Get your thinking caps on please and put me put of my quandry.Dek, Crewe. Sylvia Dean It was lovely to meet more Mary Fox/Radio Stoke listeners in Sussex last weekend. Marys show has such a wonderful countrywide audience. STOKE you should be proud!!! Mary... can you say a big thankyou to Tony Cassini from beautiful Arundel.. and the staff of The EAGLE where the soul afternoon organised by Tony was held. Paddy Shevlin made the trip from Brighton . and I think everyone will agree..what a fab SOUL Sunday afternoon was had by all. Lots of SOUL IN THE SUNNERS too!!Well its off to the WELLINGBOROUGH ALLDAYER on SAT ..for us this weekend.Mary.. can you please play Going to a go go Smokey Robinson and the Miracles.. a great Tamla sound. Sums up another great weekend coming up!!I do hope to see lots of message boarders at Wellingborough !! KTFxxx CIA, FBI  &  UCP.(Missing Persons Divi!) Mary,we are trying to Trace a "Rooney-tic"(a.k.a."Mickey the Webb").He was last seen selling Contraband "Cliff Richard"records in a down town Manchester Music Store.He is known to wear a variety of Caps/ hats,to help with his disguise!!!.Any sightings of this character please get intouch with,Detective,"JAMO THOMAS"FBI,(UCP Division)PIGSTROTTER Lane,Lightbowne,Lancs. PeteSco David Van De Pitte..arranger for some mighty GOLD and SILVER albums for Motown and many soul arists died recentley aged 67..RIP David..SCO HerMan(Allan from Sheffield.) Hi Mary,Could you please,please please please,(I Know I'm late with this request,)include a record request for my beautiful Grand-Daughter Ellie May Pettinger who will be one year old on Saturday 22/8/2009,If possible could you please,please please play the following for the, "Apple of my Eye," "All The Way From Heaven(For Me.)"The Chancellors on Cap City Records(Cap City 107,)found on the Album,"Solid Soul Sensations," Track 24.Hope you can do this for me at such short notice.Yours As Always K.T.F.HerMan(Allan from Sheffield.)p.s.Am on Facebook if anyone wants to find me key in Allan S. Pettinger and you'll find me. MINNY("COCKTAIL-SHAKER"). Hi "Ya,All",Mary,Can thee play,Shake "ME" Tail Feather(James & Bobby Purify)I think it would "MIX"well on the Show!.Cheer,s,Minny,("Shaken & Stirred"). "POLLY & ESTER"(Broadway)Manc. Hi B/Stoke,Mary,We luv ya Soul Music on the show.In the Summer of"69"I melted down all of my "VINYL"records &  made a "COAT!",my auntie "LIL"saw "RED"(I will put that on "RECORD") &  she confiscated my "DISCATRON"(I think she hid it in a"BUSH!).cheers,Polly & Ester, "45"ish!!!. Rob(Cadiz) Get well soon Chris Savory. Look forward to hearing you on the show soon. Rob VINNY (SOULSHAKER) hi all just to let you know this sat 22nd aug the bulls head bryant st hanley soul n motown 8 till late free admission all welcome,ps OBI if you open yer window will turn it up and play you a request and send you a pint up as well hee hee lol goldie still talkin Oh My god Darlin dearest i had to write  &  say that I wont be home ANYMORE..cos something happened to me while I was drivung home  &  I aint the same as BEFORE ..Oh I was only 24 Hrs from TUNSTALL....anyway enough of that I said to my beloved wife I am not quite sure where to go this weekend ??? = Milton?? Wellingborough or Ormskirk?? she said "Think 4 x G`s"...Grandaughter ..Garden...Goldie..Grounded !!! help!!!! Arh never mind der is always de Mary Fox show!!!! yipeeeeeeee Goldiexxx Amo The Outer Circle Scooter Club  &  Foxley Soul Club next Charity Do is Friday 21st August at Milton Bowling Club. Post code for satnav is ST2 7BN. All procceds going to "Help For Heroes" Ex-Serviceman Charity. All starts at 8pm till late with admission by £2.50 donation on the door. Regular Foxley DJ's with guests. Please try  &  support this very worthy cause. Further details please see our website at www.outercirclsc.co.ukCheers  &  KTF Amo Goldie still talkin Thank you so much for de Tee Shirt FLASH God bless ya ..Ta for de tuition Vinnie !!!!!.. &  finally Pete Roberts never goes Dutch ( he always foots de bill ) ..But he is goin Ditch this weekend taking his Wheel Dj skills over to Yosh * Rega in de town of Amsterdam have a safe trip  &  sock it to em yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee or yageeeeeeeeee (Dutch for yipeeeeee) Goldie Goldie still talkin BEAUTIFUL BEAUTIFUL BEAUTIFUl BURSLEM..Just one cornetto from de heart of ITALY .We had so much fun with ,Colin, Joe  &  the industrious VINNIE..The Port Vale welcome mat was marshalled by COLLETTE ..These wonderful Vale soulies are amongst de best I`ve MET..There is Kyle , Chis  &  Bob , Cynthia ,Margaret , Angie  &  FLASH..187 happy soulies at this Gorgeous BASH..Anne , Joan , Pete,Tony  &  DO ..All so happy/ this is de place to GO..On Thursday I showed Pete Roberts De Pool took him to some interesting PLACES ..On Saturday he showed me Manchester we met some very very interesting FACES..Seen OB  &  Ellen at Johns FLAT..Then went back to Vinnies To feed de CAT..Nick Marshall  &  Alan Twyford did a fab job on DECKS but I was de smartest in my well pressed KECKS..You dont need Money , Rare records or a big NAME.. On this soul scene we is all de SAME..So lets stop janging  &  chinese whispers no MORE!! just listen to de soul music out on de FLOOR yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee Goldie talkin  &  dancin Malc Falle, Brittany, 17/09/09 Host-Following last weeks failure to update this mesbo you stated you were now on the case and the mesbo would be updated every day. I don't like to tell you this but we have again had no updates for three days. What's the excuse this time??? ian paterson well hello, i'm ian i'm a member of the mossend desert rats scooter club, scotland,we run a monthly mod night in motherwell,all vinyl mostly northern soul,hammond,r & b,ska,so we are keeping the faith up north,would love to come to one of the northern's weekends down your way some time,till then i bid you adue, vinny soulshaker on behalf of port vale and myself, thanks to all the soul gang who travelled to the vale soul do from glouster manchester liverpool sheffield derby wolverhampton stafford crewe and stoke, the djs pete r nick m alan t bazzer r and not forgetting goldie for playing his super six never under pressure always totally in control ,the torch scooter club etc joan n anne plus nick marshall bbc radio stoke, russ winstanley,bbc radio lancashire and johnny evans signal 2 for there very oompetent professional vigorous mentions, roll on the next one sept 18th when the twisted wheel rolls back into the mother town burslem home of northern soul, soul on trent with pete roberts and john green atb beertowel jimmy can i request Nick Marshall to play Lee Andrews and the Hearts "Nevertheless" ...Thanks Rob(Cadiz) Please update the playlist. We are still looking at the playlist for July 31st and its now Aug 15th. A lot of people love to devour the playlist in great detail as do i...so please update it. Rob Rob(Cadiz) Hey Nick/Mary,Still enjoy the show as its an integral part of my weekend and has been for a few years now. A great way to unwind after a busy weeks work. Could you play "The Vibrations" - "Keep on Keeping on", a superb uptempo dancer. The Vibrations really do deserve more respect and attention in my mind. They were on a par if not better than many vocal groups who had bigger billing and more recognition. Cheers. Rob julie (jools) from wolverhampton Hi Mary! Just like to say the show is fantastic! I look forward to hearing it on a Saturday morning usually, highlight of the week! Hard to choose a song but if you could play me one that would be really appreciated. No requests, just a selfish moment! If i had to choose though it would be one from my youth which got me into this crazy world which 30 odd years later i still love! So going back into my teens i loved Tell Me its just a Rumour Baby, by the Isley Brothers. Brings back happy memories! Cheers Mary keep up the good work! Rob(Cadiz) Hey Ian Edwards. Cheers mate, great choice of song to request. I hadnt actually heard it until you requested it on this show a good while ago...so i can thank you for that one. Rob www.thesoulguy.com ..FRI 14/8/09.. august radio shows up with OZZ joined in the studio by local spinner Pete Schofield reminiscing about his early days and the local soul scene,,PLUS find out about his new record which he's producing,well worth a listen.. go to www.thesoulguy.com scroll down the page,,you cant miss him,he's the one in the bath..!! "DOLLY-BLUES"(Langley-"MIGGIE"). "Hi-ya",B/Stoke,As a first time Listener 2 ya Show, I gotta Say, "SOUNDS-OK"2-Me!.A Shout on the Show for Rob & Jack "HALLEY"who lived on"Peter Street!"near 2 My Auntie "DAISEY"(Who Luved "SOUL", &  a bit of "NOOK"ie). Any "45" On the "DISCATRON!"will B appreciated.The music is "WORTH"it,s Weight in Gold,  &  never "FAILS"2 Please!."OB-OK!",D,Blue.(B-Gum!). LES mary great show as uusual..just like to mention a motown/northern soul night starting in liverpool it will be held at the RNA club just at the end of the M62 9AM TILL 2AM21/09/09 for details please phone les,,07596731032.mob Andrew (SC) Dave (Salop)I will keep a few back for the door but we have to be conscious of rule and regs etc. if you do now for def you are coming just drop us a note. Saw Griff in week he is slowly but surely coming on. Every one now looking forward to a bit of a bop and if nowt else a laugh a minute. Twiggy Hi Bret, I look forward to hearing O C Smiths track, yes i have to agree with you about Reach Out For Me, Roy's version will always be my favourite, Dionne made other stuff nobody else could touch regarding the way a Song Is Sung, i don't know Roys Heartache Hurry On By but if its anything like Let The Music Play, i know i will like it, Barbara Lewis i do have a Cd by her from years gone by and my sources have let me have this and that by Barbara, what can i say Bret absolute classic singers who would turn anybodys ears, You know what Bret my mother is 84 bloody years old and shes just got into the last 50 of Stoke-on-Trents got talent, i told my mum why do it mum, why do you have to prove you can sing at your age, my mums reply don't take my dream away this is for the old uns, i said mum you haven't got the looks and the false things between your chest and mum you anna got any botox in your lips how can ya win it, my mum shut me up by saying its not about the winning and yes i know it most probably will be a fix but thats why you conna take my dream away, to be honest my mum sings alot like Vera Lynne which is not my cup of tea but to be honest Bret it would be nice if somebody won it because they can sing because of something that comes from the vocal cords and not something that comes from a glossy mag, My mums idol was Ela Fitzgerald and it was my mother all those years ago who put me onto Ela Fitzgeralds GET READY long before any DJ from any Radio Station or from any pub or club playlists, can she win it no chance.We have very simular tastes Bret. Brett TWIGGY – No need to request Mary / Nick to play those tracks I mentioned (O.C. Smith’s ‘I’m Glad I Feel In Love With You’ and Robert John’s ‘Since I Felt This Way’) because you’ve already done it! Hopefully they’ll pick it up AND PLAY THEM from the MESBO. If we can only have 1 played then it's a no contest - O.C. Smith everytime! Brett TWIGGY – I’m a big fan of Roy Hamilton and his version of ‘Reach Out For Me’ is, in my opinion, even better than Dionne Warwick’s, also ‘Heartache Hurry On By’ and ‘Let The Music Play’ are worth a listen. As for Barbara Lewis, of the tracks that I have, the ones I rate from her include; ‘How Can I Tell You’, ‘I Remember The Feeling’, ‘Love Makes The World Go Round’, ‘Don’t Forget About Me’, ‘Sho Nuff’, ‘You Made Me A Woman’ and last but by no means least, ‘Someday We’re Gonna Love Again’ Goldie like an inferno yipeeeee its nearly Mary Fox time  &  then Love Trap @ de footie club PORT VALE .. 2 sizzling soul incidentals Do Not miss this double helping of SOUL FOOD yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee todays track " Its GOT The Whole World Shakin" SAM COOKE grrrhhhhrrrrhhh Dave (Shrewsbury To Andy(SC), Re Alldayer at Crewe Sept 27th,is it Ticket Only or can you pay on the door ? Also Twiggy mentions the Great Roy Hamilton  &  yes he was a favourite of Elvis, could Mary or Nick play 'Let the Music play' by Roy, a great Ballad, Thanks Dave Ian Edwards Pete had agreat time at THE WHEEL,packed as ever,good tunes as ever,and nice to see so many good friends,Brett,Big Andy and lovely Mrs Andy(Ann),Goldie was in form as ever,and Amo,(mate)call me on 07967194092,due to work cant make Milton,but would be honoured to send a donation for such a very honourable night your putting on and respect to ya mate.The YAM YAM contingent was out in force,and in fine form BOSTIN WOR YA !!!!!.Important info regarding C I N Night,people are trying the former outlets for tickets,Oldies and Max's shop,sadly cant use them now,so please if you want to come the tickets can be obtained from the follolwing only.1.Any Max Millward venue 2.Goodyears 3.Swoz's website 4.Myself on 07967194092, call me send a cheque and a s.a.e,and I will return them by post,or see me at Goodyears,Lea Hall,I will be at (Pommas)memorial do at Darlaston on Sat night,but I wont take any there,this is a night of respect,for a great lad,and one of the BLACK COUNTRY'S FINEST...Hope Darlo is packed for ya Rob.Nick the John Sayles(I CANT GET ENOUGH) we spoke about im requesting it for Rob in Cadiz as I know the man loves the tune.. Andrew (SC) Mary, as always thank you to you and Nick for the time you both put to the scene. The Wheel on Sunday was out of this world, and I have bucket loads of thank yous which I know you will try and read out, I decided to just dedicate them to the ladies who as always supassed themselves in there generosity very nice no truely wonderful people going out and making/buying/designing birthday cards, Here we go Ann (Wife of course) Janet's *2 Sharon, Georgina, Andrea, Tina, Lorraine * 2 (how can there be 2, Carol/Cath  &  Jen 3 of the midlands finest, Joan/Anne Pat the Wheelets of course, Suzi, Linda * 2 (Crewe  &  Stoke) last but not least Wolveramptons best kept secret Dawn.Thank you all for a great day. Mary please play for all those ladies "Oh I've Been Blessed" Bobby Taylor from a very humble Andrew SC Goldie still on Fire HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO de WHEEL MOBILE its 10 today  &  just flew thru a rigourous MOT no faults detected yipeeeeeeeeeeee I Love this car !!! For its birthday I bought it 20 x Wheel Stickers  &  a couple of new chair covers.Shells getting it a Gold valet.Can you play a request for de Wheel mobile "PUSH OR PULL IT" by the "forgotten!!" DONNIE ELBERT....For its night out I am taking it to see all de beautiful people At THE VALE OF SOUL PORT VALE FOOTIE CLUB EXEC SUITE this Friday..the team did well last night blunting de blades but it sure is gonna be a sharp night this Friday yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee Goldiexxxxxxxxxxxxx Twiggy Bret, I forgot to ask you about other stuff done by Barbara Lewis, some that come to mind are STARS, THINK A LITTLE SUGAR,JUST THE WAY YOU ARE TODAY do you know um Bret, Going back in time if memory is correct Mr Golden Voice himself Roy Hamilton did a version of You Will Never Walk Alone, Roy will never be forgotten in my household why people haven't latched onto Roys PANIC IS ON, REACH OUT FOR ME and his Monster CRACKING UP OVER YOU pure desert island stuff, these kind of tunes sound as if they were made today, gone through some of Roys stuff and it would be nice to know that Roy did some other un-earthed stuff, they say Elvis Presley modelled himself around Roys style of singing, i know Elvis covered some stuff that our Soul Artistes covered and to be honest he did a good job, will we ever see another Roy Hamilton i doubt it Baby You Shook Me Up, give the litte Dj a tap on the chin from me(only kidding Pete) Rob(Cadiz) Again, i agree with Malc Falle concerning the lack of updating the message board. How many times do people have to complain before it becomes someones daily task at BBC Stoke to press a button and update the board. Also the playlist has been showing July 31st for over 2 weeks, get you act together. ive virtually given up posting messages cos of these things. Its the BBC isnt it? The "standard setter" for everyone else. Lets get a bit more professional about things eh!!!! If we are being unresonable please let us know. HOST replies Deep apologies. We defer to Mary on this board, so when she is away, as she is now, things do go a bit awry. The board should be updated once a day every day under normal circumstances. Malc Falle, Brittany, 12/08/09 Host-Re failure to update MESBO-Thank you for the courtesy of a prompt response and explanation. We look forward to a regular service whilst Mary is away. crazybabe for John O'b Hi Mary can you please play Ordinary Man by Sam Moore for our dear friend OB know its one of his favourites.....keep on trucking my friend love you always Ted "HANKY" Arp-ur"HEY". Hi-De-"HIGH", B/Stoke,luv ya work!,the music is a Massage for the EARS!.A Request for "9ct"Goldie, if poss!Marv JOHNSON(I,ll Pick My Nose For My Crows)"sic",or, "SOULFUL DRESS"(Sugar-"PIE"-DeSanto).Regards,T.Hanky.(Not to be "SNEEZED"at!). Ray and Lydia Hi Twiggy Thanx for your message. Know what you mean about about soulin in the late 60's and through the 70's we look back with affection but careful not to live totally in the past.Feel Soul and scooterin has contributed significantly to who we are today. Still get the same soul rush today at some venues but we have both slowed down over the years as you do. I carn't do the back drops any more either, not as flexible and learned me lesson when I broke both me thumbs lol,lol. Are you goin to The Torch Reunion in October at the Ryan Hall in "Tunstall".There are some younger soulies although they never went to the Torch who really take the/our way of life from 1971 (They have really fixed on this year)takin the music,clothes and scooters very seriously and recreating that feelin (Makes us feel honoured but know it is not everyone's cup of tea). To get to the point they can still backdrop etc like crazy (respect and admiration).So if you want to see some dancin get in there (Hope they make it) Think you will like "Live Wire" Martha really belts it out. All the best Ray and lydiax Twiggy Hi Bret, Not sure if i have heard the OC Smiths record you are on about, i know for definitely i haven't heard the Robert John track, send um in to Mary so we can have a listen to um, i'm up to my neck at the moment doing my sons house up as soon as i have finished i'll get on the first train up to you and the gang, will the Mexican Bandito be there(only kidding Goldie)it sounds like you all at the Wheel have many many rabbits to pull outta the hat, imput imput i can never get enough of finding a tune i anna heard by artists i loved, as Goldie slipped you that Monster by Smokey Robinson yet, ya are in for a treat if you anna heard it, I thought Sugar pie De Santo's track on this week would have done some damage back in the early days, alot going on in that record and what a voice. Goldie On Fire Strap is now off me foot might be able to move me feet now yipeeeeeeeee ..Caps back on me gum so I think I will be smilin again  &  this Friday I have something to smile about A MAGNIFECENT GATHERING OF SOULIES AT PORT VALES DELIGHTFUL SOCCER arena....THIS FRIDAY 14th August ..just go will ya!!!vINNIE sOUL sHAKERS EVENING OF aristocratic SOUL- NICK MARSHALL will be spinning some tunes  &  Baz also ..  &  I will be dipping my toe in.. gotta start now times running out...lookin foreward to seeing KYLE..Chris  &  Bob , Flash , Tim.SADIE, The Julietts , the Valettes , Sexy Sue,Colin,JOE  &  all de lovely staff at de Kismet..I simply CANT WAIT yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee FOR DE LOVE TRAP!!!!Before Pete  &  I GOIN DE BINGO ..we are not in love but we will be sharing Shells dabber ...to days track "Hallo San Francisco" Sugar Pie De Santo yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee..House...Goldie liverpools best known Bingo callerxxxx sue Hi Mary love your show, can you place a request for Kevin who is 60 this week from Sue and Bri from the wheel, Mrs Goggins and Jess the cat lesley.randall HiI can no longer get you on the internet - it's sooooo frustrating. Sometimes I get ten minutes or so and then lose the link.About time the BBC woke up and smelt the roses!Any help would be much appreciated in getting back the best programme on the BBC!! Vinnie "VARLEY"  &  "COLLY"Annie. Hi,B/Stoke/"SOUL"/"R & B"/Mary Lass,  &  Nick(The "Sheriff").We think ya Show is"OXYDOL"tastic!!!.A good "Persil"ised Soul Selection of Music that makes us feel like Powdering our Nose,es ,By-Gum!!!,Regard,s,"V & A".("SOUL-RESPECT").x. Steve Amison Outer Circle Scooter Club  &  Foxley Soul Club next Charity Do is Friday 21st August at Milton Bowling Club. Post code for satnav is ST2 7BN. All procceds going to "Help For Heroes" Ex-Serviceman Charity. All starts at 8pm till late with admission by £2.50 donation on the door. Regular Foxley DJ's with guests. Please try  &  support this very worthy cause. Further details please see our website at www.outercirclsc.co.ukCheers  &  KTF Amo Malc Falle, Brittany, 08/08/09 What is the point of having a Northern Soul Message Board when you continually fail to update it. Yet another four days with no update. This is not good enough. HOST REPLIES Hi, sorry. Mary is away, and the task fell between two stools. But we are on the case now! Derek Smith Hi Mary, well!! Rita de Costa and John Miles, had not heard both for years, Great!! Some belters the last few weeks, keep it going!! Can I request an instrumental? Bob Wilson and the San Remo Quartet- All turned on? Heard this after 20 years plus, sounded fab,also a request to all message boarders, 4 of us are going to Spain end September, Torrevieja, have heard Northern on Radio, but have been going for years and never seen any advertised? Perhaps Murcians can advise?? E Mail is Derek493540@aol.com if anyone can help, Cheers KTF Derek Goldie confused but very happy Wonderful Wonderful Wonderful Whitworth Street in Sunny Manchester was de location for de Pinnacle of soul events!!!! I feel quite sad writing this cos I KNOW Sundays Wheel was the Everest The Tops The Mona Lisa The New Dimension !!!!! It was Soooooo dramaticly Hectic  &  yet so Beautiful ( Where else would you see a sound system fail AND IT DID`nt EFFECT DE MOOD one IOTA cos people here are committed to de cause  &  in love with "THE WAY OF LIFE " that is de TWISTED WHEEL..I had a stunningly remarkable day out !!!!I scored it 9999999999zillion million billion zillion maga million out of 10 ..This will never ever ever ever ever ever ever be equalled or surpassed!!!!!Charlie Waring loved it Mike  &  Linda ditto!!!Kev  &  Maggie where there celebrating Kevs birthday Andy  &  Anne enjoying the big guys Birthday ..Carol  &  Spider looked stunning My pals from Rossendale Margarate  &  Sue spent the day there as did RAY  &  LYDIA  &  were buzzing .. Good to see The 2 x Bobs .. Ray  &  Lydia , &  The Doncaster crew!!Colin Vinnie Baz Merv Tim all had a ball.Gerry Phil ,new girl Jane new guy Sam likewise We all had a ball adinfinitum with Chris , Bob , Bret , Kylie , Diane , looking particulary pleased with themselves Cath , Jenny , Pat , Anne , Joan , Sue now regulars  &  getting used to their twice monthly trips to heaven... Brian Jock , Peter , John dealt with the hiccups  &  delivered de GOODS .....KEITH MINSULL ( well Keith is not famous for his comical happy go lucky demeanor )..He looked in yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee mood for de first time I can reclollect AND IT SUITS HIM!!! WELL DONE KEITH FOR A STOIC  &  CLASSY JOB yipeeeeeeeeeee..NEXT up LOVE TRAP with Vinnie Soulshaker , Baz , Nick Marshall,  &  ME wooooo PORT VALE FOOTBALL CLUB this Friday look folks if you missed Sundays Soul Sizzler dont miss Fridays its gonna be a classic AT DE VALE yipeeeeeeeeeeee Goldiexxxx ALZHEIMER'S CHARITY NIGHT Tickets for the Charity Night at the Crosville Club , Crewe on Saturday 17th October are now available. It will be a great opportunity to relive last year's fantastic night and raise lots of money for Charity. We know there is a credit crunch on but that never seems to affect the generosity of Soulies who always dig deep. we will be selling them at various venues but they can be purchased from Joan on jayck2009@live.co.uk. Tickets £6.00. We look forward to seeing so many of you there. Thanks. Joan, Anne, Pat xx The Dutchess Hi Mary,Can you play a record please for Kevin from Sale who is 60 this week from Sue, Bri, Mrs Goggins and Jess Tony Heinemann (Nantwich) Hi nickEnjoyed the show last week,could you please slip in Marvin Gayes brilliant version of "Lonely Lover"Cheers TONY Ian Horsfall Hi Mary last night on your show I think I heard you mention that Jimmy Ruffin was to appear in Keighley soon! do you have more details Please Pete Dyson.(Manchester). Hi Nick,a Good "Soul-Show"(7/8/09).A good variety of Sound,s on the Show(eg;"Taj Mahal",Howard Tate,etc),made the Show an interesting Music Journey!."Night Train"(James Brown)if poss Nick!.cheer,s,Pete Dyson("I THINK!!!!"). Ian Gray ( Gosport ) TO ANY ONE INTERSETED!!Have just found a site (search "Funk and Soul" top of list) there selling DVDs"Legends of rare Soul Vols 1,2 & 3" for $19 each inc p & p. 30 acts on each looks ab fab can't wait for arrival.Good luckKeep on keepin on!! Ian Ian Gray ( Gosport ) TO ANY ONE INTERSETED!!Have just found a site (search "Funk and Soul" top of list) there selling DVDs"Legends of rare Soul Vols 1,2 & 3" for $19 each inc p & p. 30 acts on each looks ab fab can't wait for arrival.Good luckKeep on keepin on!! Ian Brett Brilliant to hear Nick play the Miracles 'Gotta To Dance To Keep From Crying'. I rarely hear it played publicly since the Wheel all-nighters in the 60s. I bought it in 1968 on an EP (remember them!). If possible, could you please play another Miracles track of that era that stirs my memories of the Mojo club in Sheffield. We would all join in the chorus and sing 'Going to the Mojo' so it's not too difficult to work out that the track I am referring to is 'Going To A Go Go'. CHRISTMAS'S AND BIRTHDAYS JUST GOT MORE EXPENSIVE At last 3.35am 8/08/09 ZARA (7lbs 5oz)A healthy baby girl has made her way into the world.Mum is well and everything went OK.Nick/Mary please can you play I MISS YOU BABY (how i miss you) by MARV JOHNSON TMG 713 for the newest familey member (and to introduce her to northern/tamla etc asap)Got to start as you mean to go on!Well done VICTORIA,GEORGE,FINLAY AND THE 'ROSE' and i will see you all as soon as can sort out flights etc at this end!lots of love and very well doneJINKSY AND THE MURCIANS(some 43 etc is due to disppear tonight!)looking forward to pickin' up some cd's etc on my visit to the UK!has it stopped raining yet? dave hi mary love the show would love to here rita and the tiaras gone with the wind possibly the best northern soul record too dance to and thats fore all you soulies out there keep the faith Brett Twiggy old friend, hope you and your good lady are well. I just thought I’d say that I thought your choices (Robert John and O.C. Smith) demonstrate a discerning taste in soul music. I think the both have in common, a very cool singing style as demonstrated by a couple of tracks I particularly like by them: O.C. Smith’s ‘I’m Glad I Feel In Love With You’ and Robert John’s ‘Since I Felt This Way’. Hope to see you at the Wheel again before too long. Sylvia Dean Hello from a sunny DEVON ( as I type!. A super weekend was had by all at the Wheel last Friday ( thankyou Pete Roberts) and Crewe was also fab on Saturday. Bioth great soul music and good company!! Soulies on tour had a whale of a time .. as ever A BIG thanks to Kev Bourne ( as always) for organising!!! Mary can I have a plug for the Barnstaple weekender ( 18th Sept).. and only about 5 weeks to go !!! Its ALWAYS sunny in DEVON in Sept!!.also.. and very soon... FOR THE WELLINGBOROUGH alldayer ON THE 22ND August.. THIS IS THE 2ND YEAR AND IT WAS VERY GOOD LAST YEAR.. TOP SOUNDS ALL DAY AND NIGHT!!Can you please play Maurice McAlister and the Radiants.. Baby You`ve gotit!! a great sound.! KTF xxx Chris and Rob Hi to Pete,Goldie and everyone at the Wheel. Looking forward to this Sunday. Great music, great people. What more could you ask for? Malc Falle, Brittany, 06/08/09 John Dolby-Ray Pollard and the Wanderers are available on a 32 track CD issued by Cat King Cole #1008 is the order number. The CD was issued in 2001. I recently got mine through a Company called Finbarr International. Phone them on 01303 274666 to check availability and hopefully to order your copy. Let the phone ring for a while it sometimes takes them a while to answer. I have always found their service to be excellent. I hope they still have a copy in stock. Good luck and KTF. Malc. VINNY (SOULSHAKER) HI ALL ON FRI 14TH AUG PORT VALE EXECUTIVE SUITE OUR MONTHLYNORTHERN SOUL N MOTOWN ALL ACROSS THE BOARD NIGHT THIS MONTHS DJS, NICK MARSHALL, ALAN TWYFORD, BAZZA RATCLIFF,VINNY SOULSHAKER, AND A DJ MAKING HIS DJ,ING CAREER RETURN ....LVERPOOLS GOLDIE, 8 TILL 2 £5 TICKETS OR PAY ON DOOR PS ITS NOT THE GOLDIE WITH THE GOLD TEETH OR CHAIN BLING ETC SO DONT ASK FOR YER MONEY BACK, HEE HEE YIIIPPPPPPPEEEEEE LOL John O'Donnell Hiya Mary it would be great if you could play a David Ruffin track. I listen to your show every week and it would be fantastic as I am on holiday in the south of france with my Family!! Twiggy Hi Ray and Lydia, i don't think i have ever heard Live Wire but i know there are a few that dunna get much airplay by Martha and The Vandellas, did you know they did a version of SAY A LITTLE PRAYER and another Show Me The Way is uptempo enough to get Ray on the dancefloor, yes Ray i have seen you at the Kingshall dancing watching the back droppers, i feel the same as you if only i would dare to do a back drop, many years of Bass and Marstons finest best bitters have put a stop to the back dropping but it is nice to see people enjoying this music(younger ones) the same way we did once and there are some awesome young Soul Dancers far much better than i ever was, love to see this Northern Soul Film, I know the young dancers wunna let us down, they say they managed to get some old footage of the girls(Wheelettes) from when they were 16 ish, it would be nice to see the girls spinning and doing the Motown Steps, my god the early 70's were hard but this music lifted a lot of youngsters spirits, i think we had about 10 harsh winters one after another while Soul Music was emerging during our coming of age of realising boy meets girl thing and what a lovely era we had listening to artists THAT COULD SING. Goldie over de moon Pete s House sorted  &  de car ( but now dey are off to (LYTHAM BY DE SEA )..Nick Marshal on de radio to morrow cant wait then its just 72 little hrs till Wheeltime yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee to days track "I Pick A Rose for my Rose" by one of de best live artists I ever seen in de Wheel Marv Johnson grrrhhhhrrrhhh Goldiex Ray and Lydia Hi Mary would love it if you could play "If my heart could tell a story" by Edwin Starr for all the true blooded soulies who had to raise families and focus on caring responibilities in the mid 70's and keep soul in their heart and not be seen in the places to be seen. Heaven forbid!! Alternatively could you play "wild One" by Martha and the vandella or "Motoring" by yes you've guessed it Martha and the Vandellas. Keep on Keepin on Ray and Lydxx Ray and lydia Hi Mary hope you are OK and keeping well would love it if you could play * Live Wire* by Martha and The Vandella's for Twiggy please. We love you dude!! Top banana! Ray and lydiaxx John Dolby Hi MaryIm currently living in South Shields, love the show and tend to listen on a saturday. Could you help? do you know if a best of compilation by Ray Pollard was issued after his death?? Twiggy To Mike Crowe, I dunna know if you have seen the Funk Brothers film but when our old superstars started to strum and play their instruments, they knew Joan had nailed What Becomes Of The Broken Hearted, i have to say this but why Jimmy Ruffins version wasn't excepted by a lot in days gone by i dunna know, another great cover is by Gerald Levert saidly Gerald passed away at such a young age and Gerald Levert did some awesome stuff. Talking of White singers doing the Soul Stuff, to be honest i didn't or won't except that Soul Music is done by any colour better, Souls in the person thats why we have a Saul and call it Soul Music, the music reaches us all differently, Don't know if you have heard Robert Johns (When The Party Is Over) it puts shivers down my spine and some of the lyrics were wrote by someone who must have been hurting inside(I Don't Want You Having A Good Time Without Me)and Robert bends those notes like nobody else. Waiting For Mary to play Colour im Father by O C Smith now theres another Monster waiting for people who like to listen and not back drop so much now. GoldieIn love a lot Good comments Twiggy !!!!there are many bandwagons out there  &  loads a folk wanting to jump on board .. thats life WE GOT 2 Baseball dudes running de local footie team at the mo ..Oh my God ..To days track...Quick Change Artist de soul twins someone just ferried that on to my pc ....yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeee for open mindedness !!!NOW NOWT will ever beat de 62--69 soul explosion for me !!!but ya gotta respect others tastes  &  try newer or lesser known stuff Hope to see ya soon Twigg love to Cxxxx rob littlewood hi nick ,thanks for playing charlie gracies track last time you was on ,if you have any space ,would love to hear ,wilson picketts "let me be your boy " for my soul partner jayne and son ,louie .cheers rob. Goldie still in love Poor Pete after visiting our mate in Hospital he gets back to discover the porch next door has collapsed on his car Shattering his Porch  &  destroying their new carpet Oh My God the drama continues BOWDEN on hold  &  by the way yes youve guessed it half de slates came off de roof .....Marys show Friday Cant wait De Wheel sunday CANT WAIT ..Vinnie Soulshakers Soul Bash PORT VALE FRIDAY 14th CANT WAIT to see KYLIE, Sadie , The Juliettes  &  those famous Valettes yipeeeeeeeeeee ps KEITH MINSULL DE guest on Sunday s Wheel cant wait to see Pat  &  Sue in de Corner suzie  &  MICK  &  LINDA  &  KEV  &  MAGGIE...Happy Birthdays to ANDY (sc) Brav  &  KEV yipeeeeeeeeeee This friday just after midday is de first 123456789 run for over a 1000 years so 34mins  &  56 secs after 12 noon it will be: 12.34.56 07/08/09 yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee mGoldie SILxxxxxxxxxxxx Mick Crowe Re: White people singing 'Soul', Im normally a bit snobby about white people singing soul but Joan Osborn really nails Whats become.... a fantastic version, I love the way she hangs on to the note.On the topic in general, I think white people can sing the uptempo 'Motown' type numbers up to a point as these tracks are almost about the instrumantal as much as the vocal. After all, Chris Clarke gives Frank Wilson a run for his money on 'Do I Love You'. Im not so sure about singing Southern Soul though, I couldnt see Tom Jones even in his prime replacing Otis Redding O.V.Wright or a James Carr.You only have to listen to hear the Moody Blues murder Bessie Banks' 'Go Now'. to prove the point.Any chance possibly of hearing O.V. Wright and 'Ill Take Care Of You'. Many Thanks Mick Crowe (Sussex Soulie) Andrew (SC) Hello Folks, can I plug a gig that is coming soon to the Crewe Alex Gresty Road Club. On SUNDAY September 27th 2009 we are having an all Dayer 12:00 noon till 10:00 pm. Why?? Well a good friend to many of us on the local scene and known to many Twisted Wheel goer's and Soul in the Sun triper's Dave Griffths (Griff) was struck down last year by an awful debilitating illness, at one point many of us thought we may lose him, but slowly over the last 12 months Griff (with the 24/7 love and care of his brilliant lady Carole and a few incredible doctors and nurses) has made a remarkable recovery, he is still a long way off but every time any of us see or speak with him he always goes on about how he as missed the wheel or bridlington or S in the S. So we have decided to throw a party for him we are calling the day "For one day only the wheel comes to Griff" I will be putting a few flyers round at the wheel and other gigs we are asking for £5 fiver for a ticket the DJ list is looking fairly healthy with some class people coming forward. I am taking E mail requests so if you are interested then a.norburn@btinternet.com or text me on 07725 674056.Griff promises to come along for a couple of hours (or more) and will bring his camera. Thanks to Mary/Nick for allowing this plug. KTF you all. PS Griff does have a favorite charity where ALL proceeds will go. Twiggy Hi Mary, Top draw Joan Osbornes version of What Becomes Of The Broken Hearted, Blast out Gerald Leverts version of Reach Out For Me just to wake the anoraks up. I didn't see or get the point of this weeks guest, entitled to his guest spot but i just wonder how would he have know The Emerging NORTHERN SOUL SCENE when in America hob knobbing, then to top it off comes back to all places Stoke and gets a fully aquipped Radio Station to boot, The Northern Scene was about humble kids who had now't but the tunes who worshipped artistes who nobody else seemed to want to know, aren't some just in the right place at the right time All The Bloody Time, I have to say what i feel and i think far to many now are taking the iss outta us true fans of Soul Music for instance why do we need to go on holiday to listen to Soul Music when its taken us 30 or so years to get it back on some of our radio stations in this country, i know i will be be blasted for being out spoken but far to many who didn't do alot or involved with the Scene by that i mean attending Soul Nites, are getting recognition they dunna deserve,this Scene didn't die in the 70's alot in the back ground worked hard trying to preach the un-preachable to the mainstream who have been bombarded with very average pop music for decades, Not blowing Mr Minshulls trumpet here but along with others he NEVER QUIT the SCENE or picked up from when the heyday finished for alot Soul Fans, Keep The Faith they say, hey ya can lead a horse to water but ya conna make him drink it. Gripe over. Goldie madly in love Football season starts soon.but who cares ITS DE WHEEL FIXTURES I -IS INTERESTED IN A HAT TRICK OF SOUL SIZZLERS AT DE HOME OF SOUL!!!! : SUNDAY 9th AUGUST with Special guest KEITH MINSUL 3-9 a fiver on de door..FRIDAY 28th with Guest Barry Tasker 9pm till 2-15am a Fiver on de door ..EXTRA EXTRA SUNDAY 30th Bank Holiday Sunday 3pm till ( a bluey on de door for a Sunday bank holiday sunday special Guest tba ..in de middle of these Soul crackers we Have an EVENING OF SOUL BLISS @ PORT VALE F > C. VINNIE SOUL SHAKER , NICK MARSHALL  &  ME...a fiver @ de turnstile cant wait yipeeeeeeeeee ..THOU ART PETER  &  UPON THIS ROCK I BUILD MY CHURCH AMEN....THOU ART PETER ROBERTS  &  UPON THIS OLD PLUMBING  &  HEATING WAREHOUSE I BUILD OUR SOUL SCENE yipeeeeeeeee Goldie MIL xxxxxxxxxx Grrrhhhrrrhhh Mike  &  Linda : Re GOLDIE Yes mate what a night again at THE BEST SOUL CLUB IN THE COUNTRY!!! Everyone had such a good time how do Pete  &  John keep the standards of that place so high it's just AWSOME. A lot of truth was spoken in your post as allways, THE WHEEL and it's patrons along with ALL SOULIES do so much for charities and good causes they should all be proud!!!. In my opinion Soul should be a religion purely because of the pleasure it brings and the good it's people do, for others. Every week some event is raising money for some worthy charity Fantastic!!!. Anyway see you all at the TWISTED WHEEL on Sunday for another BRILLIANT afternoon. JOHN SHAFT by SAMMY DAVIS JR(can you DIG it)? hello there NICK looking forward to your time of sitting in for Mary while she is away.By the sounds of some of her tracks played last week .We think she needs a break to regenerate.I feel 'naughty' now for saying this.Mary will probally 'sort' me on her return etc!!But overall the show was OK!No, THERE WAS A TIME by JAMES BROWN AGAIN THOUGH??????it's got to be a better track than Barry white etc(although i like alot of the early BBBW STUFF though)!!!Any chance you could play the above on next weeks show?.Its a great version of the sadly departed I H classic.Bit dissapointed nobody else has come up with anymore beatles covers by our well known 'soul gods' etc.There IS some great 'stuff' out there you know!Perhaps they are all away on there hols at the moment?Another one that comes to mind is a FRANKIE V version of that SW track WE CAN WORK IT OUT that mary played the other week.Think it was on WB circa 1976!I first heard the SD jr track at disco in Palma while on hol with the 'ROSE' whilst we were still young and free and could stay awake after 11.00pm!!in the 1970's and spent many,many years trying to get hold of a copy.Because i did not know at the time that the track was S D jr.It's probally 'disco' but we like it anyway.I have even another version of SHAFT it's on the ISLAND label(but i cannot remember the name) i think they were a group not an artist and i think it was an pure instro of the track.Anybody out there get me out of my 'senior moment' please??I Alford thanks for your help .I will check those items out.That label is a good un'I think i have some northern tracks on this label .But i will have to check it out.back in the UK i do have some of trojan chartbusters LP's that were around at the same time as the motown chartbuster LP's in the 1970's but it's not BB.That was much,much early!When my daughter finally 'produces' and if and when i can get back to the UK .I am sure i have a list somewhere in my very young handwriting of some of the BB 45's i had before i gave them away (what a fool i was!)KTF JINKSY AND THE MURCIANS currently painting my new 'walls' with a nice creamy colour!!the paint dries too quick on the brush in 40oc so we have to wait until the evening to get on with it. DJ Fresh hi everyone, been listening intently to the show for the last few weeks and I am really impressed with some of the tunes played..The Charnells - 'As long as Ive got you' was an inspired choice.. One or two of you may kow me from hip hop in the area and lots of these trracks have been sampled or manipulated in the past by varios artists/ Just shows the quality of the tracks..Her are some of my favourites The dramatics - thank you for your loveThe Emotions - I like It24 Carat Black - Povertys ParadiseAnyone know these tracks?Fresh GOLDIE SUMMER 69 AFTER 29 allnighters at de Wheel joined Big BRETT , Chris FROM DERBY , HIlary from Donnie , Alice from Blackburn , Danny  &  Craig from Nottingham In NEWQUAY . Bristol Hotel ..DE EGG BAR DISCO .. TOLCARENE BEACH...records played that summer "I`ll never Forget You" ..CHRIS JaCKSON...."The Who Who song" "I dig your act ".." All de Notts Girls just could`nt stop playin "Wear it on ya face" .. &  The Leicester In Crowd down there for a summer break faves: "Jumpin Jack Flash" 7 "What Can A Man do""...It only seems like yesterday I was strollimg along de beach heading for DE HAIR OF DE DOG ... &  bumped into Bret going de other way in a wet suit carrying a...surf board yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee for SUMMER 69 goldie in love xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx ian paterson first seen people dancing to northen soul when i was on holiday in blackpool in tyffni's disco and it looked so cool,it had a profound affect on me ,this was ,1978 ,so it was hard to buy northen records in scotland then,but now aclick of a button and heaven ,we even have a nothern soul night in motherwell once a month, so enuff waffle, love the music steve handsley Hi Mary, thanks for the mention on Friday as we made our way to the Twisted Wheel. Just like to mention the following: SAT 8TH AUG @ THE POLISH CLUB, DERBY WITH THE INNER CITY SOUL CREW, STEVE, FRAN  &  GRAHAM. ACROSS THE BOARD MUSIC POLICY. THIS MONTH'S GUEST "MITCH". LARGE WOODEN DANCEFLOOR. SUPERB VENUE. 7.30 TIL 12.30. £3.50 ADMISSION ON DOOR for info contact STEVE ON 07788454711 0R FRAN 07769793001. LOOK FORWARD TO SEEING YOU ALL jamie does anyone know if the north ward in crewe is on tonight?...and where is it not been before? GOLDIE IN LOVE WOKE UP THIS MORNING FEELING FINE...THERES SOMETHING SPECIAL ON MY MIND..LAST NIGHT I WENT TO DE WHEEL LIKE YOU KNOW WE ALL SHOULD ..SOMETHING TELLS ME I`M AT DE PLACE THAT MAKES US ALL FEEL GOOD... LAST NIGHT OH MY GOD IT WAS DE BEST EVER SCORING 567849 billion million zillion trillion out of 10..THIS SOUL HAPPENING ..WILL NEVER EVER EVER EVER EVER EVER EVER BE BETTERED IT WAS BEAUTIFUL....367 souls on cloud nine at de HOME OF SOUL ....WHERE IT ALL BEGAN!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!.I managed to catch bits  &  pieces of Mary`s show  &  as if `I`m not mistaken Mary`s Fine articulate guest is very much involved in Christianity  &  sounded devoted to its Dogma .. &  thats excellent that he has spiritual tools to help him in this mortal life of ours !!!! I too have a spiritual side to my life it may take a different form but the effect is ditto  &  I am defo a BORN AGAIN 100%...My Church is the TWISTED WHEEL MANCHESTER.The Congregation are de members Our music touches my soul just as a cantors would embrace the souls of Synagogue goers  &  The Choir /organ etc touches the inner spirits of churchgoers The Music played at the WHEEL touches my inner self  &  always sorts my spiritual malady out ...TOUCH OF VELVET TOUCHES THE CORE OF MY VERY BEING as I`m sure Ave Maria . &  TANTUM ERGO SACREMENTO reaches the Christian soul..THE TWISTED WHEEL IS MY CHURCH .."Get Down get with it" "I`m gonna miss you " "Follow Me" "SOUL TIME" are the in house Hyms  &  soul ,food I store to get me thru the next week with all its niceties of incidentals... the members  &  fellow desciples have a strong sensitive nature as well  &  in de WHEEL : WE ARE FAMILY!!!..My bible is the lyrics of some of these marvelous peices of heaven sent music.." Our day will Come"..." Cry No More".."Im the one to do it".." Happy"... " Let Love come between us" " Heaven must a sent you  &  so on..The djs are like de Pastors or priests or vicars ..instead of a pulpit they convey their musical manner from a couple of decks ...there are no confessional boxes in de Wheel but we do have seated alcoves where you can sit  &  open your heart to fellow SOULie...I was there in de 60s  &  reborn 5 years into de new Millenium ....last night was really good!!! The excitement , pace , atmosphere ..THE MUSIC FANTASTIC ..THE GIRLS were all stunning  &  in fine feminine mood en masse TERESAxxANGIE ,PAT x Sue , Suzie , Margaret , Celia , Barbara , Cath , Jenny , Dawn, Linda, Shirley etc .. The guys all looked like George Clooney (without de attitude) Bret , Pete , John , Jock , Barry, billy , Greeny, Paul, Bazz, Chris etc etc . &  de couples looked like pairs of heavenly bodies complete with glowing auras MAGGIE  &  KEV, Brian  &  Sue , Kev  &  Gloria , Joe  &  SYL happy birthday Jock  &  Marie etc etc .MIKE  &  LINDAXXXXXXXX.What a night  &  in 8 days DE WHEEL Is OPEN again Pastor Pete Roberts Rev John Green  &  special guest KEITH MINSHULL supported by Friar Marshall cant wait yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee Goldie grrhhhrrrhhxxxxxx "FIERY-JACK" Jacobs(Crumpsall). Hi,B/Stoke,MF,"SOUL".A "CRACKER"of a Show! ,Work,s Wonders for My "LUMBAGO!".Could you play "Look At Granny Run Run"(Howard Tate)on ya show please,coz it gives me,"VERVE".G/show,regard,s,Jack Jacobs("Cream Crackered").Crumpsall. Ian Gray ( Gosport ) Hi Mary , Hoping you'll be able to find Terry Johnson (Motown) "What you gonna do?" Little known but an absolutely brilliant mid tempo ballad in need of some air play. With love and pride for my lovely wife Val on achieving her BA Hons.Your still No.2 though.Love Ian Ian Alford To jinksy...don't know if this will be any help sanctuary label are releasing reggae chartbusters volumes 1-6 on august 10th not blue beat but some good stuff on there mate ..ktf HerMan(Allan from Sheffield.) Hi Everybody,Firstly,I would like too wish everyone on the board a most sincere apology for the lack of postings on my part to the board with my next series of articles ie.the one's highlighting cheap but great records for investment purposes(or buying for pleasure and profit.)Unfortunately due to a number of increased family committments I just haven't had the time and am not likely to have any time available for this endevoir in the medium to long term.Isn't life a ,"bitch," and throws everything at you especially when you yourself could do with a rest.I was only joking with the wife just over a month ago,if they ever wanted to make a new reallity tv. show about a family who attract bad luck they need look no further than us.Most people would probably have a run of bad luck followed by a run of good luck,not me and mine,at timesit makes you feel like rolling over and saying that's enough I can't take anymore,but I in my way turn for solace in my soul music and manage to carry on,I wish I had problems like Keith Foskett from Oswestry I would be skipping and dancing and jumping for joy (no offence Keith,)What has happened to not only those I love in the last month but to those of my extended family that have had what they have had to cope with if related would probably not be believed or fully taken in by any one hearing it?!I will not detail all the gory details,suffice to say I don't want or need any more months like this,for those who are interested I will try to continue with the articles at a later date,and if I cannot get to any of the planned visits to venues for later in the year again except my humble apologies,to Russ(Winstanley,) thanks mate for your "E"mail it lifted me out of a deep black hole,the world needs more great humans like this guy.I will get back to you shortly when I can find a odd ten minutes to thank you.Hoping to catch up again soon .Yours As Always HerMan(Allan from Sheffield.) JINKSY TO ARTHUR Once again thanks for your help.I do have one or two Trojan cd's.One is a four cd collection.They are all reggae motown covers.Interesting ,some are good some are not!!!!You must be staying somewhere near san javier (near the other airport on the coast)is that correct?There's not much soul going on there to my knowledge ,it's full of tourists !!!!!While you are there check out the inner and outer MAR its amazing and there is alot of good 'sailing' there if you are interested in that sort of thing!There is a so called 'soul' and 'scooter' club in an inland city place called ORIHUELA but they are all 'kids' .they think they know alot but they do not!!!!The best place i know is up in BENIDORM .But it's like BLACKPOOL on sunny day .So i don't go there very often.I stay on 'top of my hill ' like the 'frenchman' in SOUTH PACIFIC here in Murcia and listen to MF etc.My daughter got taken into Tameside general today (30/07/09) with high blood pressure but it was a false alarm and she is back at home now with the ROSE 'waiting' for junior.anything can happen in the next 10 days (remember the old thunderbirds saying).there are plenty of seats on EJ and Monarch etc.Everybody is staying in the UK this year to enjoy your 'BBQ summer'!!!!!It's been 36 oc today and 23oc at night so don't forget to bring your sun cream etc!!Best part of the day is 5.00am when it is just right for a stroll etc.Hope you have a great time over here.I will see if a can remember a few of those BB 45's i once had,but it's along time ago.KTF JINKSY AND THOSE MURCIANSLooking forward to fridays show (31/07/09) and hope MF plays that JB track before she leaves for her well earned hols! P.Hoover,(Shuters Brook,)Manchester. Hi B/Stoke. Mary,Nick!,Good Show!!!!!,"Its Got The Whole World "SHAKING!",(Sam Cooke),by-gum!,cheers,P.Hoover. HOLDITCH CLUB london rd chesterton NEXT SOUL  &  MOTOWN IS FRI 14TH AUG.£1.00 ON THE DOOR.7.30-12.00 Ray and Lydia Hi Sue from Stafford. Didn't get to The Three Crowns in Aldridge but a fair few from Ray's office used to go. Talkin about the George Hotel in Walsall remember the food buffett that used to be put out lol. Most of the food had seen better days and was left overs from the hotel foodhall lunchtime.(Soul Food at it's worst!) Catch up with you in the future. In the meantime would be grateful if Mary could play "Looking for the Right Guy" for all the Walsall Wood and Stafford Soulies.KtfRay and Lydiaxx Ian Edwards Hi Big Andy,Tickets sorted,is Brav coming mate!,hope you well Mr Bratherton.will be up the Whayle on the 9th August,the day before im in your home county,going to rugby legue challenge cup semi final,(im a Wigan fan),its at Widnes against Warrington,any help with places to park?where can Mary shop while I go to the game?,hope you well ya big beast,and hows the lovely Ann well I hope,so see ya at THE WHAYLE week on Sunday,with more eloquently spoken YAM YAMS XX Kaye Fullylove Hello Mary,I love your show and I love Northern Soul music. I was in England in 2005 with Bobby Patterson for 3 weeks and we closed out his tour in Blackpool. We had a ball.I was wondering if you could give me any info you may have on Artie Fullilove? I am also a Genealogist and he may be related to me, so I was trying to find out more about him. I hope to hear from you soon.Thanks, Kaye Fullylovekayefullylove@yahoo.com Goldie aka Sensible sam Goldstein Oh no after all dat Petes movin to Bowden ...marys show soon !!!!! Then de Wheel OH MY GOD yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee xxxxxxxxx Goldiegrrhhrrhhxxxxxx Keith Foskett from Oswestry Help Mary or any of your listeners. Is there a chance anyone has tapes of your soul shows for May 2007 accidently taped over a special 50th birthday message for my wife Julie Viv (From Sunny Exeter)- It was once! Dear Mary, Hope you are well?Mary when I first started out doing mobile disco's I teamed up will two other record collectors Geoff Kitson and Nick Pritchard. They ran 'The 45 Soul Show' I did my first disco with them in 1972. Sadly a year later Geoff died and in 1974 Nick moved to London. I took over the disco. I changed the name slightly, to 'The 45 Roadshow'(This is Devon), a name I still use. Our theme tune was and still is 'The Sharpees - Do The 45'.There is a version of 'Do the 45 by Ryan Shaw' that has been around for a while and played on radio 2. But to quote Dobie Gray " A lot of guys try to imitate us but the original is still the greatest".The Sharpees - Do The 45 Though the Sharpees hailed from St. Louis, where this song was recorded, it was released on Chicago's One-Derful label. The group consisted of Herbert Reeves, Vernon Guy and Stacy Johnson and they were originally backing singers for Benny Sharp - hence their name. "Do The 45" was based on Junior Walker's "Shotgun" and features rousing sax from Oliver Sain. On one of your shows please could you play it?Thanks, and keep playing THE only music. Pete  &  Suzie Everett Just a brief note to say thanks to all those that came to our recent 'Birthday Bash' at Lowton and made it a night to remember.Also, very many thanks to those who contributed to the Alzhiemers collection. Due to your generosity we have sent cheques to the value of £1035 to the Society, which they have gratefully received.Thanks again.P + S Goldie aka Sensible sam Goldstein Hya de MASON...No John I is so smart  &  sensible now!!!!My nickname on de soul scene is de QUIET MAN yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee to days track...SAM  &  DAVE " Said I was`nt Gonna tell Nobody" yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee just 50 little  &  I is back in de Wheel oh my Godxxxxxxxxxxgrrhhhrrrhhhx arthur endon hey up jinksie i,ve been that record shop .trojan have a collection of cds various topics but one that might suit you is called the mod reggae collection aalso there is a c.d collection out on properbrok records whichlso they have rerealeased the tighten up serie,swhich was based on the motown chartbusters .i,e all the reggae hits of that year properbrok is an english company and have released a .c d called 80 deep ska classicson proper brok 4 hope this is helpfull im staying in los alcazares wheni get to murcia let me know if theres any nights on locally and depending on your impending family birth if your available all the best arthur john Mason See you in the wheel friday goldie are you still mad john Goldie aka Honest John Just left Petes  &  the house wasfinished !!! but a leak in a neighbours meant they had to rip de floorboards up  &  now will have to re-lay de carpet  &  THEN they will be finished !!!phew!!..Great weekend coming up ..DE Maty Fox show 7--9  &  then de Wheel 9 till 2-15 I simply cant wait yipeeeeeeeeeeee to days track BETTY EVERETT " I CANT HEAR YA NO MORE"..a real Wheel anthem Goldie MAABOF xxxxxxxxxxxxGrrhhhrrrhhxxxxxxxxx Andrew (SC) Mary, many thanks for the request had young William bouncing round like a good un.Can you play a tune for Andrea and Mick please Marvin Gaye's Lucky lucky me. what a fabulous get together/garden party that was and for one day/night only the warm winds blew in from the Cheshire plains mind you we paid for in Sunday. Great time had by all cannot think of a better table to sit round the company was AA1 amazing amount of history from some of the most knowledgable people on the scene. Howard they werenot magic mushrooms!!! K Minshulls B/day bash brilliant nice to see so many of the crowd who had traveled some distances on a wet Sunday. Ian Ed when you out at the wheel again?? anyway put us two CIN to one side please.KTF all. Twiggy Hi Jinsky, Sometimes you have to be quick because alot of Cd's get deleted very quickly, i go on E-bay or Amazon or CD CONNECTION, theres also record shops like Soul Brother Records who aren't bad, Planet records, i'm sure thats the one Pete Smith deals with maybe wrong, theres loads of um one leads you to another. Hope that helps i do know about the Cd but aren't to sure if i did buy it, is it the one with Jeane Carne and Dexter Wanzel on it theres just so much stuff its hard keeping up with it.One will pop up from time to time. JINKSY TO ARTHUR ENDON Many thnaks for your offer.What i am really trying to find out is there a cd set of all the old BLUE BEAT stuff from the 1960's.Carn't find one anywhere!!!Who is MARY's 'record fairy'on this subject??Is the one with bad eyesight etc?If i can find a cd number etc.then its no problem i have plenty of contacts who can get the stuff to me over here PDQ.Where abouts in Murcia are you staying?My daughter is due to give birth around the end of the month so the ROSE is due to jet off on Wednesday back to the UK to supply her mum support duties.If i can get a flight i am due to follow when junior enters the world.So i might not be here when you visit!It's up to junior and easy jet what happens in the next few days!Thanks for your offer though its most appreciated.KTF JINKSY SOON TO BE LEFT AT THE MERCY OF THOSE MURCIANS ON HIS OWN!!PS Please Mary don't forget that JB track this week ,it brings back so many great memories of the old orginal TW and its stone wet dance floor etc!!! Rudi Bryars form Doncaster Hi Mary.You asked about a soul show at the City Hall in Sheffield on oct 4th? its being organised by David Gest. Artists include:Denis edwards of the temptations, Jimmy Ruffin, Percy Sledge, Freda Payne,Billy Paul,Dorothy Moore, Deniece williams Peabo bryson.. great guest list.. but sold out and has been for ages. You can find out more by going on the City hall website and clicking events in oct. Hope this was useful.. kind regardsRudi Bryars from Doncaster Goldie AKA Honest John Well enjoyed Keiths Birthday @ Mess"n"Yard it was great...Pete in good form I was on de H20..All the girls were gorgeous  &  danced so well!!!! Carol, Sadiex, the Valetttes , The Juliettesxxx , Kylie, Chris , Linda, juliex3xxx..Anne...The Guys all looked cool ...Pete , Vinnie , Colin , Joe , Nick , Steve , Mozza, Ben, Spider,Andy, Little Scotty , Glynn, A REALLY GOOD HONEST TO GOD NO NONSENSE GOOD SOUL EVENING ...Thank you all so much for avin me there yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee!!!!!!!!xxxxxxxxxx...SOUL SIZZLER ALERT 1. TWISTED WHEEL THIS FRIDAY 31st ..Just A BLUEY ON DE DOOR 9pm...2-15..PHIL STONES GUEST DJ u just gotta go .........gotta to go!!!!!Go!!!!!!!!!!!!!you`ll be so glad u did.. SOUL SIZZLER 2...9th of August its de Sunday Wheel Cracker 3--8pm..Birthdays x 3 that day... Full house get der early once again 500 new pence on de door.. yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee Soul Sizzler 3.. at the LOVE TRAP ( PORT VALE ) for a RAVE LARK ( VALE PARK) where there is many an APT LOVER!!!... the records will be spun by Vinnie Nick  &  of course de real stars is on de dance floor!!!! ALL THOSE BEAUTIFUL LOCAL GIRLS  &  HANSOME LOCAL LADS thats on Friday de 14th 9--2am dont miss this beaut its a ..FIVER only OH MY GOD yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee to days track.....".CAN YOU HEAR ME LEE DORSEY "..God Bless de Soulscenexxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx grrhhrrhh vinny soulshaker nice to see all sun night and having a good time at sneyd arms well done minshy birthday boy we all had a good night atb Phil Can anyone tell me when the next Northern night is at North Petherton Rugby club near Bridgwater.TaPhil Ian Edwards Hi Sco,Much appreciated mate the comments,would be good to see you and Steve down here.If anyone wants tickets from further afield call me on 07967194092,and we can arrange for s.a.e,to post them out to you,thanks to Max,Little Scotty and Swoz for the help as always with the CIN event.Next event I will attend to is Lea Hall,if you would like some tickets. JINKSY TO TWIGGY have you got hold of a copy the new cd PHILLY SOUL CLASSICS VOL 1 yet?There is some really good early stuff on this item.Am trying to find somewhere to sell it to me for a reasonable price etc!Any ideas?KTF JINKSY AND THE MURCIANS Ian Doncaster 26/7/09 Hi Mary Great show as ever.With reference to the up and coming show in Sheffield evidently it looks like it is happening.I dont know all the details but I believe it is in October .Steve White on BBC South Yorks interviewed Freda Paine on his show this week she will be on appearing on the show, any one who is interested can catch it on listen again on his show untill Wednesday.It tells you who is involved and who is appearing etc .Ive seen most of the artists who are on there apart from one who I never got round to seeing and that is Percy Sledge.Id say it would be worth a trip just to see him .I believe it is beng organised by David (get me out of the jungle) Guest All the best Mac "Hank Levine" & "Alan Haven". Hi,B/stoke,Ya play some nice Sounds! "SOUL/R & B &  Crossover!A GooD "IMAGE"4-the "LISTENER".cheers,"H & H".(Moston). IS JAMES BROWN BANNED FROM THE SHOW? Mary many thanks for playing the SW track on 24/07/09 show it sounded really great over here.With a cold beer in one hand and my feet in the pool.On my own tonight.The MURCIANS have gone off to the outdoor BANOS in Fortuna for a well deserved evening out.But what happened to THERE WAS A TIME by the late great godfather of soul JAMES BROWN.Please ,please, please (is that another pun on another JB track?)can you play it on next weeks show,or else i will have to send the MURCIANS round!!(not a pretty sight when ones sober!)You sounded upset about the weather in the UK has it been that bad in flaming July this year again??KTF JINKSY AND THE MURCIANSPS no PS today!!! Sarah Gray so lovely to hear your guest tonight - a fellow Cantabrigian no less. I moved up here 10 years ago and love Stoke, I go to the Foxley and love the vibe there. But it's lovely hearing Nigel's accent 'cos it's "home" for me! sue from stafford HI RAY  &  LYDIA well aint it just a small world i remember the royal hotel and the george hotel in walsall i actually fell flat on my face in the femina sat morning disco trying out my northern soul moves to "2 can have a party " i still get traumatised when i here that song (ha ha ) god i was so embarrised of all the discos i went to in those days why couldnt it have happented to me in our little youthie disco !!!! i also went to the spiders web but not very often as it was really a bit grown up for me as i shouldnt have really been in there(if you get my drift ) the same with the grasshopper at the top of the world i did love it there, did you ever go to the 3 crowns at aldridge ? this was about the same time , i went as well to the barrons court every sunday this was in walking distance for me i had some great times there. Sorry wont ne able to make the twisted wheel on the 9th as im on holliday but do hope to get up to a sunday session soon, i think i do remember you from the film set but i was on my own !!!! honest i wasnt with a man !!!! so maybe it wasnt me !!!! i shall make a posting when we do go again would love to chat with you both sue x Sylvia Dean Looking forward to next weekend !!!! and looking forward to a trip to the WHEEL on Friday with the SOULIES TOUR crowd...and then Saturday night in CREWE.Its also a big birthday weekend..I cannot believe its a year since the FAB weekend we had in DEVON., to celebrate Joes 60th..So anotyher year has gone by and its Joes` and Sheilas` birthday on the 1st August .. and then Kev Bournes` birthday on the 2nd.. So plenty for us all to celebrate.. and meet up! Mary can you play a suitable tune for the birthday people!!!What about Going to a Happening ... Tommy Neal?? AND a fab wheel tune KTF xx KTF Ian Alford Good one mate...but I think he would require a Nurse after throwing some shapes like that..as the young ones say today ... Micky Reynolds (Fuengirola, Spain) Listened to the 17/7 show - I went to school with your guest Rob and was instrumental in getting him into the scene. Was there on the famous Cats "head banging" nite. If you read this Haggie all the best m8 arthur endon jinsky there is a shop in hanley called head which has a reggae section including ska and blue beat c ds. im coming over to murcia on aug 4thif you need any thing in particular lets have a list and i,ll do my best to sort you out . failing that try mary,s record fairy he really is the biz Goldie daft as a brush Just been up to Petes ...The house was finished ..However i parked de Wheel mobile on de other side of de road as Pete walked me back to the car ..he looked up at de house  &  yelled "Oh no I dont like de colour of those slates"..last seen clambering up de drainpipe with a slaters hammers in his mits God bless ya Pete ....Stevie G. just got cleared of an affray charge however He still must do 20hrs of community work ..Helping underpriviliged footballers out on Merseyside....He starts at Goodison Park on Monday yipeeeeeeeeeeeeee To-days track .. "Iwanna Know" Sugar Pie De Santo ....Goldie MAABOF grrrhhhhrrrhhhh xxGxxxxxxx Paul (Longton) Hi Mary, could you play because of you by Jackie Wilson for my wife Roz. This track says it all. We always look forward to your show. Every Friday we settle down in the conservatory just in time for the start of your show, with a couple of friends Blossom and Hill. If we miss any show's we always catch up on "listen again" during the week. What could be better soul music, wine and my soulmate. (Bliss) Cath (Stafford) Hi Ian, got the date on my calender. Will get a ticket next time I see you, remind me! Good night at G'Yrs again last week. Pete R, looking forward to the Wheel next Fri will be a great night, can't wait to see everyone and the 'soulies on tour'. Happy birthday to 'Wheellet Anne, Joe  &  Kev. See you all next Fri. Cath, Carol  &  Jen. xx Pete Dyson.24/7/09. B/Stoke,Mary Fox "SOUL".Hi Mary,Could you play,"She,s About A Mover"(Sir Douglas Quintet),a great T.W.C,(Classic)of the 60,s that,s Drivin Me "MOD".regards,pd. Hylda Baker & Cynthia.(Failsworth). Mary,Good"SOUL-SHOW"lass!.Could you ask Yer"LISTENERS" 2-B"SOOOON,B,SOOOON I SAY!",when travelling to "SOUL/R & B"gigs in "MANCHESTER".yours,Hylda &  Cynthia("SOUL"Luvvers with "GUSTO", BY-ECK!). Leo(The,FISH) Smithfield,Manchester. Hi to, "6 WHITWORTH Street",from "QUALITY"Street!.Cheers,Leo,"CORPORATION"Street & "ENA Paul(Nantwich) Sorry Mary meant RONNIE WALKER Paul(Nantwich) Hi Mary,just to say thanks for making Friday nights worth looking forward too,could i also ask for a request for my beloved Rubi, if possible would you play Ronnie Woods,YOUR THE ONE(i'm such an old romantic) many thanks. vinny soulshaker hi all FRI 14TH AUG @ PORT VALE FC EXECUTIVE SUITE NORTHERN SOUL AND MOTOWN, ALL ACROSS THE BOARD THIS MONTHS DJS, NICK MARSHALL BAZZA RATCLIFFE, VINNY SOULSHAKER AND GUEST GOLDIE WOODEN DANCEFLOOR 2 BARS GOOD BEER SAFE PARKING 8 TILL 2 ALL WELCOME £5 ADMISSION ON DOOR for info  &  reserve tickets contact PORT VALE FC, ST6 1AW tel 01782 655809 / 07772521803 / 07814962114 thanks hope to see you all there atb rob littlewood hi mary ,great show as always.the message board is really busy ,very interesting reading. enjoyed reading about the soul venues top of the world/the royal etc,would like to request freddie north "the hurt" or cecil washington " i dont like to lose " many thanks rob. d(-_-)b couldnt agree more with IanAlford,,about the photo's that is..!!..you couldnt get it more wrong if you tried..lol..good luck to IanEdwards with your C-I-N do..SCO xx d(-_-)b couldnt agree more IAN.sco x to ian alford whats wrong with picture above mesbo board ian? its some soulie (twiggy i think) showing off his moves to 2 young breakdancers and frank pops hipteens 12 inch version is on the decks lol Goldie mad as a kettle of starfish Our House in de middle of de street ..everytime I phone Pete hes got a trowel in one hand , a paint brush in tother  &  drill bits in his mouth BOB DE BUILDER good on ya PETE WEL..I DID PUT A BULB IN DE BATHROOM DE OTHER DAY SO THERE!!!! lOOKIN FOREWARD TO MARY`S SHOW , KEITHS BIRTHDAY BASH this Sunday &  THEN THE TWISTED wHEEL friday 31ST 9pm till 2 Big crowd goin to that one GET THERE EARLY!!!! simply cant wait to-days track "MAGGIES FARM" by SOLOMON BURKE yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee Goldie MAABOFxxxxxxxGxxxxxxxxxx Grrhhhrrrhhhx "BAGGIE-PANTS"Bill,(Blackpool). Mary,G/show!Could you please invite Ian "LAV"ine back on your show ?.His memories of being a"PAPERBOY" to Buy Records, has to be one of the best "STORIES"Ive heard since I was a Young "COCKROACH"eating"MACONIES" (Porkie-Pies)at Wigan/Mecca/Casino!cheer,s  &  "KFC, Tight Bums &  Beer Towels",to ya All!.Regard,with "SOUL",BILL "Baggie".with "GUSTO". Ian Edwards Hi Jen,Carol,KathHope you all coming to Bilston for the CHILDREN IN NEED Night,forgot to ask you at Goodyears,£5 a ticket ladies.I will see the two bobs and ask em as I doh need an interpreter with em,we three spayke yam yam,must say I liked the hats you all wore Saturday.Brav and Big Andy hope to see ya soon gents and hope the ladies are well gents.Sue in Stafford,thanks and tickets on route and hope you enjoy it like last year.Tickets as ever available on 07967194092,or from Goodyears,or any Max Millward venue in and around Wolverhampton,date is 22/10/09 in Bilston as ever,same time,same venue,Springvale Sports and Social,Millfields Rd,Bilston.Lets sell it out again,and make a childs life better.Rob in Cadiz,will be a pleasure to get a CD sorted mate,doing this event is hard work and at times it puts a strain on me,but to see the help and comfort it brings is reward enough. ian alford could you please change the picture at top of messageboard page it dont look right cheers.....ktf johnpaul hi iam wondering if anyone can help me iam tring to locate clarkie who somtimes go's to the twisted wheel if anyone can help please contact me poulsonjp@hotmail.co.uk Pete Blackley . Hi Mary,B/Stoke,"SOUL".Thers So many sounds on your Show that drift me back into Soul/R & B/nostalgia!I would like to request a record if I may,Its called "BIG TIME OPERATOR"by "Zoot MONEY" & the "BIG ROLL BAND".This record takes me back to the "Twisted Wheel Club"in Manchester when I was a young teenager back in the 60,s, when I was "Lootin me Suit".Thanks,Pete Blackley,(Ancoats).22/7/09. Ray and Lydia Greetings Sue from Stafford thanks for your reply. It just goes to show what a small world it is, will explain later. We must have been around at Top of the World in Stafford at the same time remember the Wimpey's well and if you were short of cash the small stand outside selling the cheap boiled burgers (Alright if you had had a few I suppose lol,lol).Also the Grasshopper suite for the over 21's and the fun and games getting in for some. Now for the small World Bit. As Lydia mentioned earlier I am originally from Stafford. I met Lydia at the Rugby Club in Stafford (Barry Morgan's does). In 1973 I was working in Lower Hall Lane Walsall so I got to know a lot about the Walsall/Walsall Wood, Aldridge, Brownhills, Willenhall, Darlaston area etc and we sampled the Soul scene as well, fitting it in between the Catacoombs in Wolves and what is regarded by many as the "Heart of Soul" Soul on Trent (Torch and Top Rank to name but a few. When the all nighters started at the Torch and then Top Rank when the Torch closed monopolised our social life).We went to places like The Royal, The George Hotel (Known as the Femina for a while), Ther Spiders Web in Station Street and there were even some do's at Baron's Court in Walsall Wood!! Misspent youth eh? Be great to have a chat, will look out for you at The Wheel on August 9th if you plan to go. Did catch sight of you at the Souled out film shoot last September when you came over to speak to Anne and Joan but there was loads going on so did not get chance to catch you. Think can remember what you and your hubby look like but just in case could wear a red carnation lol All the best,Ray and Lydiaxx l Goldie mad as a bath of newts Hi Twigg well as you the Mexican/ El Paso incident made me a cult figure in de backstreets of Liverpool some guys come back from de Americas with Containers full of records I came back with just one RECORD wearing a poncho  &  a pair of flip flops but Twigg it makes interesting reading when de book "D`Bus 2 Manchester" comes out ( i`ll have to make sure I`m back in Mexico when it does) ..but back to music its trial  &  error I HAVE ENJOYED most of the new stuff you have sent me  &  a lot of Collos cos after 3  &  A half years back on de scene my mind is more open I CAN REMEMBER THE VERY FIRST TRACK YOU HAD PLAYED ON DE MARY FOX SHOW (that I heard)it was wait for it ....ROBERT JOHN "Raindrops LOve  &  Sunshine" maybe I got de title slightly wrong but you know de one Twigg  & ...I LIKES IT ..By the way Twigg ta for info on SUGAR PIE DE SANTO cd cheers mate!! which bring me to todays track..A REAL WHEEL MONSTER ...." I Donna Wanna Fuss" by the tiny lady Sugar Pie yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee for polite conversation on de M/B GoldiexxxxxxGxxxxx Andrew (SC) Twisted Wheel Sunday 09/08 Birthday boy,s Brav and little Andy along with Alan H 08/08/09, even Sids making a guest appearance some stomping due I reckon, garden party this week end in the potteries BBQ'd Oatcakes you Stokies know how to look after a man. Yum Yum, LO J'OB hope you still telling it where to get off mate. Love reading all the mess board shouts to you. M  &  L spot on comments you like many others me included really enjoyed the atmosphere and sounds at Brid and Whitby and like a lot of others i will enjoy both venues next year so on and so forth. KTF.Oh MF can Grandson William have one to listen to please this is also for Griff and Carol The MVP's turning my heartbeat up.Thank you kindly Twiggy Hey Lol, you stick with just your oldies, this scene is also a progressive scene, i wold love to play or hear some of the more recent stuff so we can get this pop crap outta the mainstream and the way to do it in my opinion is to mix abit of the newer stuff with the older stuff, thats heaven to me, some Soul Nites are struggling some say its because theres to much competion, my personal veiws competion is great and if nights are failing then they must have the wrong Djs spinning the stuff thats how i see it and hey Lol i have been collecting this stuff for 45 years OLD and NEW.The Wheel is good for many reasons one i must say is because THE PEOPLE there are so welcoming unlike some places you attend.To Mike and Linda i know you weren't on about Nick i have said The Wheel is one of the best Soul Nites going, its up to the lads to keep it that way and i know what Goldie as got when it comes to records and i dunna mean the Mexican incident Goldie. To Jinsky Pete Smith as far as i know isn't on the messageboard type in raresoulman and that may lead you to Pete, he deals in all types of Soul, Raggee and Ska so he could be the man to help you get those tracks you are after.Hope that helps. Goldie Mad AS A Bowl Of tadpoles Hi Kev  &  the Lovely Gloria  &  Teresa xx etcCANT WAIT yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee xxxGxxxxxx Kev Bourne Hi, to Goldie, Pete, John, Ty  &  all the crowd up North, our soulies on tour group 24 of us will be up for the Wheel on the 31st July 2009 and Crewe soul club on the 1st August 2009.Look forward to seeing all our friends and new ones, going to be a great party as we have 3 birthdays amongst the crowd that weekend.Joe Dean, Shelia Jones  &  Myself, could you play any Impressions track.See you all on the 31st  &  1stKTF Sylvia Dean Hi Sue..Harlem shuffle is the message alert on my phone.. but if I am out of the office it keeps playing!!. and will play the whole tune.. There are NOW lots of soul fans in our office it opened up a great soul debate .. a fab tune!!! KTF Paul Davies in Margarita Venezuela. Hi Mary thank you so much for playing the artistics track and the mention of my beloved wifes passing ,sorry it's raining in stoke but we have had some rain here .It's 9 in the morning here and im listening to fridays show thank god for the internet as the music here is DIRE .Any way I'm back in England on the 18th of August via miami for a week tying up loose ends .Thanks again Paul, Formerly of Alsager. Goldie Mad As A Box Of Frogs First of all last nights Birthday celebration for de Delicious Pete  &  Suzie Everett was excellent!!!!It took place in Lowton where Pete Roberts did a top spot .. Well done Pete  &  tother Djs were quite good too GREAT NIGHT!!!! Further Birthday recognitions ..Happy Birthday to Anne on de 25th  &  best of luck on de 23rd... Keith Minsull next weekend  &  I got a ticket for his birthday bash yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee Steve Cohen is 66 well done Cossy!!!!! Soul Sizzler Alert 1 KETH MONSULLS BIRTHDAY SNEYD ARMS next to Wtights Pies next Sunday : A must attend spot ..... Twisted Wheel Friday 31st July YOU MUST GO simple as that NO EXCUSES!!!!! Port Vale Friday 14th Vinnie Soulshakers Soul Cracker at de Vale Football club Vinnie , Nick Marshall  &  de Scouise Git you should go to that one  &  just before that TWISTED WHELL Sunday session at de Wheel 9tyhu August for God sake dont miss that one  &  its Big Andy`s South Cheshire BIRTHDAY phew.....PLEASE PLAY A TRACK MARY its gotta be "HAPPY" William Bell..yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee heres a little poem .. There is a scouse on de soul scene he`s Grey Tall  &  SLIM .. Now peoplec all around love to hurl tomatoes at HIM.. Now Tomatoes should be soft  &  hartmless to his lovely tanned SKIN..But these Beggars are`nt : They are still in the TIN..yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee its Sunday love Sundays !!!! Goldie MAABOFxxxxxxxxxxxxx the crown red street chesterton come and enjoy all the latest northern soul plus all the classics and motown sat 25th june 9 till late all welcome you can bring your own track [if you want ] steve bambury stoke on trent Hi Mary,All things go round in circles. I was great to go back to the wheel the other Sunday after 41 years absence. I remember the Torch when they were playing Small Faces stuff. I also remember the Mecca at Blackpool when I lived there in 66-67. Great show. Can you play Shotgun Wedding reminds me so much of that era. Converted back to the Faith. Leo & Annie "COATS"(Manchester). Hi Mary,We would like to,X- press how much Passion & "DETERMINATION"that your "Listeners"have for this "SOUL"music!.Could you play,"GREEN DOOR"(Wynder-K-Frog)for a guy called "Little HANK"on ya Show please,he might be being "BOOKED"soon for his "DETERMINATION". G/show &  regards,Ella-C(manc). sue from stafford sorry mary i forgot to say any chanc you could play it for steve and i thanks x sue from stafford A BIG THANKS to every on who posted replys to my quest for "monkey shine" but it wasnt harlem shuffel (good tune though mary ) yes it was major lance and monkey time ( i really must get a battery for this hearing aid ha ha ) the last time i heard this song was last year whilst sitting in a bar on an american cruise ship it was being played on a background music tape !!!! i couldnt believe it !!! ive been trying to place it ever since thanks thanks thanks x sue from stafford Hi Ray and Lydia i have to say im not a true staffordian i emigrated from the west midlands !!!! a small place called walsall wood was where i spent my youth but when i passed my driving test i was off in the big wide world and used to go to the top of the world (it felt like i was travelling to the other side of the world back then !) i think it was tuesdsays and thursdays i used to go it would have been about about 1973 saw the driffters live there also i remember i used to park on where the council offices are now and would allways have a wimpy from the stand on there that would still be open when we all turned out still used to go when it changed names to cindarella rockafellas oh happy days !!! sue x bill & jane (from meir) had a great sunday afternoon at the twisted wheel Mike  &  Linda Ref Twiggy, Hi you seem to have miss understood my message, my reference was not to Nick, as I think Nick is a great DJ and from what little i know of him a gentleman. My comments were with regard to another DJ who was a guest on Mary's show and he DJ'd at Whitby which we attended and thoroughly enjoyed the main room. The point i was trying to make was, i know of a lot of people who went to Brid and had a cracking time. Soulies should be allowed to form their own opinion without DJ's pulling other events down trying to influence opinion, we just don't need the politics. There is plenty of room on this scene for all types of Soul music to be enjoyed by all at different venues. Oh just for the record Twiggy i'm a massive lover of oldies and my favourite place is the WHEEL where i love to hear the classic's and Soul from the 60's. I just think it's wrong to hear DJ's rubishing other events publically. Regards Mike  &  Linda. JINKSY TO TWIGGY Does Pete Smith use this MB?Thanks everybody for your help.Looks like there is a 'gap' in the market for the old blue beat stuff!i can just remember some of it being played at the orginal 'wheel' but not many tracks.anybody else out there remember any BB tracks at the old TW??Mary one for next week's show.A orginal 'wheel' classic.THERE WAS A TIME by the one and only godfather of soul the late great JB.I saw this guy live in the late 60's and the 'drop' beat was born etc !!!!what a mover on stage .There will never be another one like him!!!i have this track on 45 on polydor (also on king)and think if i am not mistaken it was a 'b' side!!!!!Had to go out with a 'feather cut' girl (that i did not really like in the end) to get my hands on this one!!!Still she looked the part on the back of my old SX 200!!!!!!THERE WAS A TIME when i could actually ride a scooter.Got on one of these new jap scooters that are all over Spain (kids can have them at 14 here???!!!)and nearly killed myself.I looked and moved like JB when it threw me off!!!!keeping on with my search for BB stuff.Where's NICK M is he on hols not seen anything from him for ages!!KEEP ON KEEPING ON and KTFJINKSY AND THOSE MURCIANS.PS NICK when MF is away and you are sitting in.If you remember ages ago you discussed some beatles covers by soul artists etc.Any chance of a feature of this on your shows.If so can you start with WE CAN WORK IT OUT by SW?One for OB too from ANNA with the big boobies (but not a fallen madonna,looks a bit like madonna on a bad day!! )HANG ON IN THERE by J. BRISTOL or should that be bristol's!!!!!! mr knowitall see u talkin crap again twiggy lol Mick Oliver Hi Mary how are you?.Just re-itterating my request from the other week havent heard for ages Somebody,s been sleeping in my bed think it was by 100% proof(aged in soul)still havent forgot my Super Time request though haveyouxxxxxx Ray and lydia Hi Sue from Stafford. Think It's Bob and Earl's Harlem Shuffle" ( Do the Monkey Shine is in the chorous line). By the way Sue how long have you lived in Stafford? Ray comes from Stafford originally. Lived in Burton Manor and went to Rising Brook Secondary School. Are you from the Rugby Club, White Lion, Staffordshire Yeoman, Top of the World, Sheppards Bushes, Riverside club era??? Love to know. All the best Ray and lydia Goldie captain dstw/pslc Happy Birthday to Jock (belated)  &  SUE  &  Pete Everett ..request "First I look at the Purse " Contours ...Jocks all time fave  &  A WHEEL CLASSIC yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee Goldiexxxxxxxxxxxxx Ian Edwards Hi Rob(Cadiz)Yes mate I believe we have cd for CIN,and I do know the track,concerned and will put it on for you mate. Ecky To Sue From Stafford, This might be the record “yea, yea, yea do the Harlem Shuffle, ohhhhaa do the monkey shine” Bob and Earl Harlem Shuffle – I used to have the record on the Sue label. unless of course you mean Monkey Time by Major Lance. Soulong for now Ecky Twiggy To Mike and Linda, i have been on the recieving end of many jealous tongue but its all about opinions, believe you me the Dj who you are talking about knows his stuff old and new, it gets a bit sad though someone plays a record because of its rareity and value but not its quality,I think Nick does this now and again, loads of Djs do it on the Scene, its a pecking order thing, mine is bigger or better than yours kind of thing, what some have to do is realise what they once had they anna got now, they once were hip in their younger days but to be honest most of um would send me to sleep with some of their selections, alot of soul Djs go for the same chessy records and it amases me why do they torture progressive Soul Lovers with their egos again,If they want to play or spin the Classics thats alright with me, whats not alright with me for example is when some blantantly go out to stop progressive up and coming Soul Djs and thats happening alot around Stoke, if they dunna know it or anna got it because of say the click they work within then it conna be any good, if you catch my drift, those dunna last to long in any local, Give me a nice Jackie Wilson tune then say drop in a nice Howard Hewett number, hes disco some would say Howard Hewett is, my reply do you know his stuff, Howards been about for a long time. I wait now to see what big fish takes the bait.Mary FISH AIN'T BIT'IN by lamont Dozier great tune for PROPER LOVERS of Soul Music. To JINSKY Pete Smith would be your man to get the stuff your are after. Keith Beardmore Hello Sue from StaffordMonkey Shine was an instrumental by Bill Blacks Combo, perhaps you mean Monkey Time by Major Lance, an all time classic ? Cath (Stafford) Hi Mary, Can I just say what another great Sunday afternoon at the Wheel. They just get better by the month. Would like to say hi to OB, went to see him and the crew on HMS Shameless with Carol, Mr Plaza (Bob Lees)  &  Mr M (Bobby Morgan). It was a great day and great to see OB, he loved every minute of it seeing all his friends. Pete  &  Goldie, you look better without the caterpillars on your top lips, although they did look good!! Keep up the great work with the Sunday sessions, Jen, Carol, 2 Bobs, myself and everyone we know look forward to them. A great place to meet new friends. Can you play a record for us Mary? KTF - Cath, Jen, Carol 2Bobs  &  everyone else. xx Rob(Cadiz) Ive been re-familiarising myself with a lot of Philly stuff lately and am blown away by the quality and depth of variety even second time around. Could you please play "THE TYMES - What would i do". Anyone else got a few choice Philly numbers we love or might not have even heard of up to now. Lets hear 'em. Looks like i might have finally re-ignighted my brothers love of Soul with the last Wigan Casino reunion, Blackburn, St Georges and Blackpool weekender all attended and loved. Got to keep sending him the CDs for his very early (dark) morning drives to market with his cattle...one of the few times he gets any time to listen to his boyhood passion, Northern Soul!!!...and therefore fuel his new-found interest and give ourselves endless areas for discussion and hanging out time and of course dancing to the finest Soul sounds around!!! Cheers. Rob Malc Falle, Brittany, 15/07/09 Jinksy-As far as I know none of the 1950/1960 Bluebeat record series has ever been re-issued on CD with the exception of Prince Busters greatest hits, Al Capone, 10 commandments etc, which were released on the FAB label in 1998, this CD still shows as being available on the Internet. The good news is most of the other good 1960's reggae, Bluebeat, Ska, call it what you will, we used to dance to back in the day has been released in a series of Trojan Label box sets,most of which are still available on the internet and are not expensive. I recomend the Trojan TJETD 010 box set with 3 cd's released in 2003, this contains the Skatalites, guns of navarone, Max Romeo, Jimmy Cliff, Desmond Decker, various artists all good 1960's stuff which you will know. But have a browse on the internet at all the Trojan box sets, they do root sets through to the Mod and Skinhead era's and they will give you a complete tracklisting for each box set. I have even got their X rated box set, so if anyone wants all the verses to Lloyd Charmers "Bang, Bang Lulu" get in touch!!!! Hope this helps with the search. If you have any problems Jinksy, come back to me. KTF. Fizza  &  Bev / For All The Soul In The Sunners Hi Everyone , As most of you may have heard on Marys Show last Friday , Myself  &  Bev reported in from Tenerife with The News that the Jungle Bar was up for sale and The Fort was under some sought of construction, Just to prove my findings go to the www.outercirlesc.co.uk / home page/ news board. to view some of the photos we took, we hope these photos will clear things up for you all .Fizza  &  Bev HerMan(Allan from Sheffield.) To,JINKSY AND THE MURCIANS.Well I wish I could tell you that the items you require are easy to aquire on CD. but unforunately not a lot of the 400+ reputed 45 singles that came from the,Blue Beat Record label have found their way onto that format and as such the surviving 45's that do come available,(unless I am less informed than others,)can be had on E BAY for upwards from between £600 to £800 each.There are some CD's which feature Prince Buster but most of these cover other tracks from later on in his career.Does it have to be work from this particular label(By the way a full list of the 45rpm titles from this label appear on the website, www.georgwa.demon.co.uk/bluebeat.htm)if not and you require just ska/reggae or work from a particular artist,associated with blue beat then go to one of the file share websites such as the pirate bay(although I shouldn't really suggest this as it is not encouraged and can be deemed slightly illegal,) key in the particular artist or genre and you may find a match or go to amazon or even goldsoul if you wish to buy legit copies and conduct the same search there,incidentally if you use the given listing web-page for the LABEL GIVEN ABOVE,and key in the a particular artist off the list you may find what you are looking for.Sorry I couldn't be of more help,but this is not really my type of musicso any expertise on the subject is very limited as a result,Yours As Always K.T.F.HerMan(Allan from Sheffield.) Mike  &  Linda. Well Pete gotta say there is no need to thank all us punters because the way yourself, John, Jock and Nick entertained us was just amazing, the place rocked all afternoon!!...it's us who owe you guys the thanks. I've said it many times but how you take such fantastic tracks and raise them to another level is awsome but that's THE WHEEL for ya eh. Gotta correct you on a point though Pete "probably the best soul club" NO! it's definitely "THE BEST SOUL CLUB" in the UK. Would like to say to anyone who is yet to try this amazing place youv'e JUST GOTTA DO IT, but you won't be going just once take it from me! I would also like to add to the point made by Andrew(SC)we were also at Whitby and had a great time but was also dissapointed by a certain DJ who guested on the show the other week pulling Bridlington and there DJ's down during his set we really don't want or need this, he would do well to take a leaf out of PETE ROBERTS book and in Pete's words "you decide" i.e the punters. Mary would there be any chance of playing for Linda and me "Lonliness Made Me Realise" The Temptations please, looking forward to the show on Friday Mike  &  Linda. Twiggy To Jinsky, pretty sure i saw some Blue Beat stuff on Soul Brothers list from a few years ago,It isn't really stuff i know to much about, Nick or Herman maybe your best hope on this one. Chris Savory BLUE BEATHave a look on MUSICSTACK. They often have a good selection of CDs there. You could try TROJAN RECORDS but their shop is being revamped at the moment. Chris, Steph  &  Andy Pete, you can 'blow ya own trumpet' it was again AWESOME! Guest jocks great! We was all a knackered from a late one in Blackpool at The Tower Ballroom on Sat Night but those old legs hardly stopped on Sat and again at The Wheel on Sunday (No back-drops anymore!)Ha! Chris W Rob(Cadiz) Hey Ian Edwards: Will the CIN night be issuing another Charity CD? If so, put me down for a copy and is there any chance of the track you requested on this show a long time back and then bought at a 'do' not long after. I commented on it asking if it could be included on the last CIN CD but i was too late, the track list had been finalised...and you answered my messageI cant remember the name...maybe John something. It would be great if you could remember the name for me and even better if its on the CD. Cheers mate, nice to see you back on the board. Rob sue from stafford Hi Mary thanks to all for the quick responce on my quest for a title (and you for playing it) now i have another dont know if i shall be as lucky on this one as its an old one from my youth !!!! and i think they sing monkey shine ???? sorry but thats all ive got ! does any one know what it is ????? Shameless Diectors cut 3 Directors Cut 3: Are Animals religious?......I have been around de block a few times but never met a Kosher DOG.. it had a nose bigger than Goldies  &  eyes like Kermit de FROG..Pete Robbo fell in love with it  &  chased it EVERYWHERE.. Wearing only Y Fronts giving de Foxley cleaners A SCARE..///////////////Directors cut4......Lock Key fight at the OK Black lion...We headed for the water point as the Shameless tank ran DRY..But there was a barge in the way so we could`nt get our SUPPLY ..The owner with his pony tail looked like de lead of Status QUO.. I yelled and screamed abuse at him he told where to GO..I said lets go round de back and sort this out you long haired GET..then I quickly did a U turn ..standing close to him he was bigger than big BRETT.. I apologised for losing my rag as I cowardly backed OFF.. He smiled sorted our water out  &  invited me on his barge for a glass of fine SMIRNOFF..to be continued yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeee gxxxxxxxxx captains log hms shameless Directors Cut Directors Cut Number 1 .;The Bridge Over The River Cry"...(backing Music for this one THE HOUSE OF DE RISING SUN..by de animals)..........There is a bridge on de Cauldon ,They call the Ivy  &  it weighs ten TON.. Now its been the ruin of many a poor scouse , my god I know I`m ONE..The key to work the control box , I tried but I could`nt FIND..Then I found it at last, then I could`nt find de box , It was driving me out of my MIND..At last I got it sorted then I had to lower the big Stop BAR..This guy was getting very irate as he sat waiting in his CAR..I started to higher the lift bridge and let the Shameless cruise THROUGH..The guy in the car said are you a scouse , I replied whats it to YOU..As I lowered de bridge he shook his fists and shouted you`ve ruined my DAY..I told him dont start on me pal , I`m a black belt  &  then we got on our WAY..So children let me tell you not to do what I have DONE.. Always avoid de Ivy Bridge in a place called the canal de CAULDON.. to be continued yipeeeeeeeeeeee Captain CrackersxxxGxxxxx BLUE BEAT RECORDS can anybody help me out? Twiggy,Herman,Nick,Mary or anybody.Does anybody know if there are any cd sets out there that cover the early years of the above record label?I had alot of this stuff many years ago but gave them all away(more the fool me!) when i got into northern soul!I need this stuff for an up and coming wedding 'do'.So i am desparate for some info on this matter.KTFJINKSY AND THOSE MURCIANS Andrew (SC) Hello Mary, been a month or so and I thought better get some music played for No1 wife (House for Sale please), enjoyed catching up with the comments and reading Goldies log. Also nice to read the stuff on J OB great bloke loads of respect mate. Got to say the wheel on Sunday was the best I can remember the crowd are what makes it. Good to see Nick brought his Impressions collection. For the travellers amongts us the Bridlington and Whitby weekenders were brilliant (leaving aside the djs who have to always have a dig at others I am going to start a ban politics from the scene group) Charity night at Kendal was a fair night down on numbers which is a shame but and we are going to have to wake up to this there is too much on. anyhow back to normal now (very brief grumpy moment there) can you share a record between what is becoming a monster Sunday crowd from Crewe and Stoke friendships formed for life all because of music from 30 to 40 years ago! Bobby Taylor I've been blessedTTFN, KTF Ian Edwards God bless ya OB,we will certainly be wanting a copy of the single being colloborated by OB and Dean Parrish,we miss ya and love ya,Wheelettes cant make your night,first day back after two week holiday,but we will happily donate to the charity.Tickets for the CIN Night already selling be nice to see loads of you there,apologies for not attending certain venues of late,but as some will know shift work is a nightmare,hope to be out more soon to visit some venues I love to go to.I know Thursday is a pain,but as ever I rely on the fantastic dj's who come along and provide their time,all to help the charity,and as they have their own nights,i wont ever go against them,so dont forget 22nd October at Bilston,5 years and going strong Mary see ya there.Any chance of Dottie Cambridge,"Cry your eyes out"please Mary xx SUNDAY SOUL SESSION @ THE WHEEL Well what can I say about the Wheel yesterday, without blowing my own trumpet? Well for a start I'm sending over 400 Thank you's out!! For making the Wheel Basement Bounce!! And I would like to thank John Green and the two Guest Dj's Jock Heron and Nick Marshall for there Brilliant Wheel Spots. Nice to have meet the lads who had came up to the Wheel from Stoke on their Scooters, and Hi to Rob  &  Chris who had come for the first time, who I met at Vinnys Do at Port Vale (A GREAT NIGHT) Mike  &  Linda danced a hole in the floor! and I hope to see you all @ the Wheel on Friday 31st July remember its the last Friday of the Month and its a 5 week Month!! The "Twisted Wheel Club" is NOT a Venue and its NOT a Northern Soul DO!! It is what it is, and that is Probably the BEST SOUL CLUB IN THE UK!! But thats for you to decide?? HMS SHAMELESS is in drydock as we speak, under a major refit! Having its hull knocked back into shape and welded and the tiller fixed and the bend taken out of it!! And 10 Gallons of Paint has been ordered to paint the Boat!! And a team of Joiners are working around the clock!! I wish I had taken some photos of the Boat in the mornings when I got up, It looked like the Rolling Stones had been onboard with us!! There was more Alcohol Drunk than there was water in the Canal!! Remember OB's Crew was hand picked by OB himself and hopefully we all fitted the role ihat he wanted from his Crew!! Look out for Goldies "Uncut version of Shameless, the Captain Log" I cant wait for OB's record to come out soon!! I know some of you have down loaded it from radio shows and I know some Attachments of the record have been sent out, (And not by me) But remember that the Dean Parrish record is still only a "Rough Demo" at the moment!! And will be Fantastic when its finished and I will be Breaking my own Wheel Policy and will be playing the record at the Wheel!! And hopefully we will have Dean Parrish singing the record "live on stage" at the Wheel soon!! So PLEASE when the record comes out please buy it!! for OB and the "Dougie Mac" the Douglas Macmillan Hospice in Stoke. And think of this, if the Frank Wilson "Do I Love You" record is worth £25,500? Whats the Dean Parrish and OB' O Brien one worth? Well I will tell you, It's PRICELESS to his Family and 100's of Friends!! Pete xx Rob(Cadiz) Hey Chris Savory. I just heard Mary say that you have been under the weather. Get well soon mate, we need your expert insight and choices. Be in touch soon for a music swap when your feeling better. Cheers. Rob sue from stafford Thanks to all who came to my plight over the song i was after thanks to you all yes that was the one and thanks to mary for playing it x (i hope to have it on my ipod soon thanks) Captain s Log HMS SHAMELESS:DE DIRECTORS CUT Ok well ref texts  &  e.mails last week sing along to de 1st one with the theme "House Of De Rising Sun" De Animals ..Directors cut ONE,, THE BRIDGE OVER DE RIVER WHY... : There is a bridge on de Cauldon called de Ivy  &  it weighs ten TON.. Now its been de ruin of many a poor scouse my God I know I`m ONE..The key to get the controls going was hard enough to FIND.. Then finding de control box drove Goldie out of his tiny little MIND.. The passengers grew irate in the cars on Ivy Bridge WAY.. One actually shouted to Goldie " Hey Scouse are you gonna be all DAY..With blood pressure rising eyes a bulging  &  tempers really FLAYING.."Shut Up" shouted Goldie " Or I`ll do you in .." .."  &  Pal I aint PLAYING.. Eventually we lifted de bridge  &  shameless went cruising THRU.." Have you been drinkin " shouted a guy in de queue ..I yelled back "Whats it to YOU.. I bashed my head twice as I opened the barrier  &  then shut it TIGHT.. The congrete block on de end meant I pushed with all my MIGHT..Now listen all you children dont be the same as ME.. Avoid de Ivy Lift Bridge  &  you live forever HAPPILLY.. .......... to be continued yipeeeeegxx Eddy Edmondson Hi Mary, Can I clarify the news about our April trip to Tenerife for Soul in the Sun as reported on your show on July 10th.The Jungle Bar (that we use for our soul nights) is indeed up for sale. It has been for the past 6 years. It has not closed down, Willie the owner is on holiday and has shut it for 3 weeks. There is very little (or no chance) of it being sold as Tenerife is suffering it's worst period for many years. Manhattans and other "soul" bars in the area have indeed closed down. As for The Fort they are at the moment refurbishing it and doing some structual work. Because of the new night club that has opened above The Fort, the floors need to be strengthened, and that is what is happening at the moment. As always people love to knock Soul in the Sun because of it's success, and for some reason love to start stupid rumours. If anyone has any doubts or questions they can get information at the website www.soulinthesun.com both about our Winter trip to Lanzarote in November and our Spring trip to Tenerife in April 2010.Can I also thank everyone who supported our recent Charity Soul Night at Nantwich Civic Hall in aid of Cancer Research. As always your listeners supported it well, and it was a fantastic night. So far our fund raising activities for 2009 have just passed the £10,000 mark and we are well on target to beat last years total of £22,000Yours Eddy Edmondson BLUE BEAT RECORDS------please help! Twiggy,Herman,Nick,Mary etcDoes anybody out there know if there are any cd's out there that cover the early years of the above?i had alot of this stuff (45's)many years ago but i gave them all away(what a fool i was!!!!)when i got into northern soul!!!I would like to find a few tracks for an up and coming wedding 'do' next year.livin' in hope.Please don't let me down,it's important this one.KTF JINKSY AND THE MURCIANS geoff swallow hi Mary please can you give our night a shout A Motown 50th Birthday Partyat Hartleys Bar Mount StreetPreston PR1 8BS Friday 31st July 8 till late free entry all night dj Lee Speed and Geoff Swallow Geoff will be playing a very rare unissueSupremes track the only one in the world rare then frank wilson do i love you and just as good if not better come and here for yourself nick avins love the show. Please could you play "If you ask me" by Jerry williams. I last heard this at the Winsford all nighter some years ago Twiggy To Goldie, i know you are a big fan of Sugar De Santo, theres a CD of her stuff out there on Kent i think. thought i would let you know. "Chaffin" Carol. 12/7/09. Hi,Mary,really enjoy your Show!.Mary, I had a great Day at the T.W.Club,Sun/12/7/09,met Nick("The SHERIFF")Marshall doing his D.J.Spot,(Nice JAYBIRDS("Somebody Help Me" )record Nick, &  I asked him to send you my regard,s.Mary,Pete Robert,s announced("On Stage")to his,"FAN CLUB" &  Mary Fox Show listeners, that the next time he book,s Nick to do a DJ spot that he was hoping you would come  &  pay a visit to the Club  &  that you Would not have to "PAY ON THE DOOR!",(Pete had tears on his cheeks when he said this,but when asked later he said it was Sweat!).Goldie did a fine job as "Dance Steward" only blowing his "Silver "PEE" Whistle" once for an attempted "FOUL"on the Dance Floor,Goldie "CAUTIONED"the person responsible, &  a yellow card was given,he then sent them "OFF"to the Lav for 10 mins to "DEFLECT"what they had done,causing them to miss 3 Wheel records!!!.Hi to Al"JOCK"Heron who does not look any older than his last ("4Oth").Hi to John Green who was telling me about his mate who has been "STANDING-ON-ONE-LEG"for ages, whilst holding a "HANGING-BASKET",you know what I,m on about John!!!. Mary,my good friend,"Lightbowne Lily",would like to say hi,but I have to report that she snapped her "GARTERS"(Again!) while Dancin to Nick,s records, &  to "CAP"it all she left her teeth in the "GENTS!".Mary,could you play "Come on Do The Jerk"(The MIRACLES) on your Show?.Cheers,from "Chaffin"Carol(nee)"JERKER",Manchester. Twiggy Hey up Pete, talking to Big Soul Chief the other day, he said how come young un ya know so much, after all you are only nearly burning 60 Candles old and me nearly burning 70 Candles old, i said to Big Chief, does it matter, the kind of Soul Music you like and the kind i like are miles apart, its all about if you enjoy it then thats good enough for me. Big Chief said lets have some firewater and a listen to some of your Soul Selections, i said to Big Chief hey if you are thinking of scalping me after that bloody firewater kicks in forget it, first fire water drink went down alright then another and another, far from being aggressive Big Chief got a bit amourous towards me saying hey little brave your music tastes are making me feel frisky, i said get off ya daft thing its that bloody firewater working on ya head, Anyway Pete i told him about that good photo of you hiding behind those bubbles in the bath, let me have a look at Petes photo, he instantly said you must introduce little bum to me, Big Chief called you little bum because you always say keep a tight bum. Anyway Pete he as told me to tell you hes got an offer for you to think over, Big Chief said 10 of his sqaws and 20 of his best ponies and 2 of his fattest pigs to meet up with you in a romantic venue. Whats your reply Pete, he said he will even think of letting you have some of his Northern Records out of his collection but ya conna have the Tom Jones big un they have been playing on the scene for years. I couldn't get rid of him Pete but the thing that did it was i told him you do a good Soul Nite up Burslem, Big Chief replied i'll take BIG TOMAHAWK with me, just in case he puts up a struggle. I hope i haven't dropped you in it Pete, Big Chief said 70 Candles old soon and he wants me to DJ on his big night, i'll have my war paint on the next time i see big chief because he said i could introduce afew tunes in on his big party and his new boyfriend will hopefully be there, i guess by that he means you Pete, i hope i haven't dropped you in it again Pete, watch out for Big Soul Chief you won't miss him because he will have his big tomahawk with him along with 2 fat pigs, 10 of his sqaws and 20 of his fastest ponies and maybe some of his Northern stuff, i told him you like golf so he said hes looking forward to a hole in one with you on the golf course, he also said he would bring a big bottle of Glenfiddich with him to have a goodtime with, i dunna know what Glenfiddich is Pete but i do get worried if its anything to do with FIREWATER, give him a big kiss from me Pete.Only Kidding Pete frank (le plank)gierak After returning to blighty aboard the HMS Shameless and the voyage of chaos, I have had time to collect my thaughts. Firstly It was an absolute pleasure to be on board, on Saturday OB was buzzing, he was so happy, He loves his soul friends you really dont know how much they mean to him, and I can see why, you should give yourselves a real big pat on the back, The Stoke Soulies are second to none better than anything we have in Derby,you rally around and help each other, you have the best soul programme in the UK and Mary Fox an exelent presenter who works tirelessly to champion Northern Soul music and its followers. I met some great people along the way and without them this voyage for OB would not have been so successful, The Scofield Brothers (thanks for the treat), Charlie, Roy (magic music),Joe  &  Sylvia, Tony  &  Do, Dave and Sal, Linda  &  John,Carol  &  Cath,Chris  &  Rob,Vinny who lent us a much needed chip pan and fed us with Wrights Pies and did loads for us at Westport Lake, Aimo (thanks for the disc), Evo OB's school chum who raced from Halifax friday night,and the dj's at the foxley (great sounds)and all those I havent mentioned a real big thanks for comeing and all along the way a big soul family, It was great to have Dan (OB's son ) on board, Frank (the mod) Barker who came some of the way with us, he even opened the locks for us and I can tell you its hard work and he is still recovering from a liver transplant Well done! Frank, Jim Lad our on board doctor who addministered all of OB's medication, Ellen who watched over us in the wings, Pete (Blind Pugh) Roberts, who when we got stuck jumped into the water and tried to dig the boat out of the bank,He was the underpin of the voyage who kept everything together a really nice guy, I am sorry if I forgot anyone but I hope to come over to a soul night and see you all again TOP SOUL FAMILY. Keep The Faith Frank Goldie captain dstw/pslc sue from stfford to goldie and all the crew of h.m.s. shamless we have followed your daily captains log and had a good laugh over them as im sure you have all been having a good laugh youselves its a wonderfull thing youve all done for o.b. you really are the best mates any one could wish a real "soul family" as i v said before we have never met o.b. but he sounds a real nice guy , a gentleman. mary please play a song for all the crew who all got back in one piece and by the sounds of it only just !!!! love sue and steve x Mike for Sue Stafford Hi Sue, i think the record which you were asking about is Sock It To 'Em JB by Rex Garvin and the Mighty Cravers Sounds Good at the Wheel Doesn't it? They also did part 2 which has a lot less singing in it but is also very good, there both on You Tube ,but i'm sure kind Mary will play it for you. See you all at the Wheel on Sunday. "OO7",Manchester. Re;SUE from Stafford. "SOCK IT TO EM J.B.",(Rex Garvin & The Mighty Craver,s).Cheer,s,from "007",("SHAKEN"but not "STIRRED!").P.1. Ecky To Sue from Stafford. I think the James Bond record you asked about is "Sock it to 'em JB" by Rex Garvin and the Mighty Cravers Soulong for now Ecky Twiggy Hey Pete Scho,Any chance of me having a couple of those snaps im a frame for a keep sake for myself, because if i was going to go on anybody elses boat, it would have to be with you, i think i might be on the change, I'll settle for a couple of your nice Soul 45's framed of cause like the photos, you look hot you little tiger grrrrhhhhhh, i know Pete there inna much you wouldn't do for your good deeds to help people. theres a nice little Antony and the Imperials 45 going around i forget the title but its a belter, i just can't remember the track.see ya soon. HerMan(Allan from Sheffield.) Part 2 of my posts starts here:-Track 2 ,I have chosen comes from the legendary, ,Barbara Acklin,” Love Makes A Woman /Come and See Me Baby,” which was released on BRUNSWICK 55379 IN 1968(The Brunswick label originally was a New York-based label, but under the wings of producer and legendary A & R man Carl Davis in Chicago, the company produced a large body of Chicago style soul, in 1966, when the late great R & B singer Jackie Wilson started recording in Chicago with this label. Wilson’s biggest hit with Davis was “Your Love Keeps Lifting Me (Higher and Higher)”. Other Brunswick artists included The Chi-lites (“Oh Girl”), the Artistics (“I’m Gonna Miss (You) Her”), Barbara Acklin (“Love Makes A Woman”), Tyrone Davis (“Turn Back the Hands of Time”), and Gene Chandler (“The Girl Don’t Care”). Brunswick was eventually acquired by Carl Davis, and the offices of the company moved to the famous Record Row, South Michigan Avenue,) and is worth £20 of anybody’s money , both sides have provided hours of dancing pleasure over the years. Other labels carry both tracks and among these who also released in 1968 include MCA 1102 at £10 and the one for the collectors out there again from 1968, on the CORAL label released in Italy for £30.Rating 4/5 I hope you out there enjoyed this post.AS Always K.T.F.HerMan(Allan from Sheffield.) HerMan(Allan from Sheffield.) Hi Mary,Well here are the first two of my choices as investment records for the future,please give me feedback on your thoughts about what I have written about the records chosen by myself as if no one posts anything this could possibly be the last post ,I will post on the subject.The post is approx. 660 words long and as a result I will post in two parts with the first record I have chosen followed by the second.Part 1 follows shotrly:- Here begins the first of a series of posts that will try to extract the maximum of, ”Northern Soul,” for the minimum cash layout, hence the posts titles, ”HerMan’s Guide to Budget Northern Soul,” each list will I hope be informative and will only continue as long as you out there give me feedback, no feedback ,no more lists. The choice is yours? Each list will I hope help everyone in the long run, make some money for the minimum outlay and highlight items of interest ,which although are cheap are nevertheless great ,”Northern Soul,” tunes. So here goes nothing .The first track for your consideration, comes from none other than Gene Chandler, originally released in Britain in 1965 on ,”STATESIDE :425 ,”Nothing Can Stop Me,”/The Big Lie,” a copy of this track on this label for those of you with the money to pay for it will cost you £75,but two other copies can be had of the song ,both are available at dealers of Quality Soul Records, and this quintessential slab of raw gritty bass driven Chicago soul, add to that the truly magnificent voice of Mr. Chandler, this is one which will I feel will appreciate with time although some of those found on the import, ”Constellation,” label, suffer from diminished sound quality ! So buyers beware. Constellation Records of Chicago was formed in or around, August 1963 by Ewart Abner, Bill "Bunky" Sheppard, and Art Sheridan, Abner had lost his job at,” Vee-Jay Records,”, and with him from Vee-Jay went producer ,”Bill "Bunky" Sheppard,” plus , two Vee-Jay recording artistes that were personally under contract to Abner, these were Mr. Gene Chandler and Dee Clark. Mr. Chandler did well out of his move to Constellation, cutting huge national hits for the next three years, notably "Just Be True" and "Nothing Can Stop Me," while Dee Clark got only local hits, notably "Warm Summer Breezes" and "Heartbreak." Another Constellation artist was Holly Maxwell whose records for the label included the awesome £150 beat ballad, ”Only When Your Lonely,”( Constellation: 162,) also from 1965.A copy on rare,” White Demo,” “Nothing Can Stop Me / The Big Lie,” Constellation: 149 DJ can be had for £ 30,whereas a stock copy ,will cost you a mere £20.The third copy of this track will also cost you £20 and is the copy which is becoming more collectable because of the label and its connection to the legendary, Dave Godin, who released it on his, SOUL CITY label(SOUL CITY102,)in 1969,A must for UK label collectors, this on its original outing on Stateside was a firm favourite at both the original,” Twisted Wheel,” and Sheffield’s ,Peter Stringfellows, ”Mojo,” club was also a firm favourite on the East coast at Cleethorpes.Rating 5/5.Part 2 follows shortly. Keith Beardmore Hello Sue from StaffordMost likely to be Sock it to em JB by Rex Garvin and the Mighty Cravers on Atlantic Records GOLDIE WHEEL DANCE STEWARD Malc Falle, Brittany, France Sue from Stafford.Sue, your record is "Sock it to em JB" by Rex Garvin and the Mighty Cravers.ktf. Captain Foghorn There were 208 visitors who came to see OB( & de crew)..some I did `nt mention in my log postings:PETE  &  Steve ScHofield,Rosemaryxx Kevin, Roy , Phil , Collo , amo,Dave,StuartSheilagh,Kylie,Kim,Gillianxx Chris,Brian, SuexxMike, Keith and many more ta for makin de effort..Goldie yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeGxxxxx Captains log HMS SHAMELESS 3rd & 4th July day 7/8 Our Day Will Come if we just wait a WHILE..We headed down de Haircastle Tunnel in single FILE..Not once but twice we went up  &  DOWN..Goldie bumped his head again blood tricklin down his face he looks like a CLOWN..Jim lad got B  &  B`d for acting de GOAT..As Oby presented Radio Stoke with a ransom NOTE..The last night was gorgeous as we listened to de Mary Fox SHOW..The guests were so captivated by de atmosphere they did`nt want to GO..I would like to thank the crew for really TRYIN..To make de voyage worthwhile for Sir John O`BRIEN..Saturday morning we returned the boat INTACT..Not bearing a mark or a scratch  &  that`s a FACT..//....What a week on board HMS SHAMELESS on de voyage of C(crazy) H.(happy). A(altruistic).O(o.t.t.).S(superb)..!!..It was de best canal trip I ever ever ever ever ever experienced scoring 40billion out of 10...Sir Oby Dick scored 15 billion out of 10 ..Frank de Plank scored 14 billion out of 10 Peter Gunner roberts scored 13 Billion out of 10 ..Arr Jim lad scored 12 Billion out of 10  &  Captain Foghorn scored ??? well he turned up did`nt he!!!!!!!..God Bless JOHN OBRIEN ..God bless de Crew of de good ship HMS SHAMELESS ..God bless de Wheel ..God bless De Mary Fox Show..God bless de Soul Scene ..God bless us All/yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee Goldiexxxxxxxxx sue from stafford hi mary can you help ??? last time i went to the twisted wheel i heard a song and i think the lyrics were james bond film titles well i think that was what everyone was singing !!!! its been bugging me ever since what is this record ? Captains log HMS SHAMELESS 2nd July day 6 Got up do do do do do got outta BED.. do do do do do do put the comb across my HEAD..Then somebody shouted here comes a BRIDGE.. As Frank searched furiously for milk in de FRIDGE..Colin turned up with a case of ice CREAM.. The rudder got fixed  &  we went into a DREAM..We all wondered what? was in Sir Ob`ys CAKE..We had a lovely evening down at West Port LAKE..Yes day 6 was what canal barging is really all ABOUT..At close of day we chatted  &  giggled until Lights OUT..to be continued yipeeeeeeegx Captains log HMS SHAMELESS 1st July day 5 Hickory dickory smockory DOCK.. The crew went shopping at Flintmill LOCK..Ob starting to enjoy it now as his son joins de CREW.. Danny gets fired up  &  does de locks two by TWO..Frank in de kitchen serving up de FAYRE..We headed back to de Foxley to pick up de Govs Elecky CHAIR..The visitors kept a comin with Graham, Cris  &  ROB.. Shirley Mike  &  christopher came to meet OB  &  his crazy MOB..We left the Foxley after a meal in which we devoured OB`s CAKE.. We headed for a beauty spot just by de West Port LAKE.. We were joined by two of de finest who came to meet OB  &  have a little BEV.. Of course I am talking about Our Maggie  &  Hubbie KEV..The day came to a close with a game of cards  &  a CHAT.. Marley became the 200 visitor followed by Dave and PAT. to be continued..yipeeeeee gx Pat MacNEE & HonorBLACKMAN. Hi,B/Stoke,M.FOX/"SOUL"show.Mary,could you play our record, "KINKY BOOTS",or Wilson PICKETT,S("DON,T FIGHT IT")...,cheer,s,"P & H". GOLDIE CAPTAIN HMS SHAMELESS captains log day 4 . So the journey was progressing now we were off to de BOAT.. I was quite releived we were still AFLOAT.. Trouble ahead as we struggled to turn her ROUND .. If it was`nt for Gunner Roberts we would have run a GROUND.. "We will never get out of here "the crew was heard to SHOUT.. Give me a shovel roared Pete I`ll shovel us OUT.. We were gettin ragged and it was no SURPRISE.. Then a silver lining on de Horizon !..here comes Vinnie with de Wrights PIES.. An inquest then took place like de Watergate TAPES.. It was soon very clear Goldie: had eaten all de GRAPES..more visitors came  &  went before we settled down to SLEEP..Ob was glowing  &  talking so DEEP..to be continued yipeeeeeeeeeeee gx PeteSco..mon.6/7/09.. hahaha..oy!!Twiggy ,,you make me smile my friend,,when are you gonna up-load a photo on f/book mate,,there must be a load of spare ones at the local cop-shop..lol..I did the bath scene for a bet,,i'm doing a bit for little Madison who would like to go to disney land,, and me mate Smithy said I wouldnt do it..£50 in the kitty thankyou Mr Smithson..hehe..to read about poor little Madi's plight go to evening sentinel site and put Madison in the search engine..More details to follow.I have a concert coming up shortly to help this beautiful little girl,,lets get her off to disneyland,,if anyone can help mail me p.sco@hotmail.co.uk..SCO xx(p.s.Twiggy,,the pictures of me in the bath Caroline ordered will be sent shortly,,i know it must be frustrating waiting,,but demand is SOOOOO high..lol..x..) Dave Good luck with the Alzheimers charity night in Crewe, shame you have booked the same night as the Nantwich Night Train event. ian edwards Hi Mary,The C-I-N night is Thursday 22nd October 2009,not November as previously stated my mistake sorry. Captains log HMS SHAMELESS 29th JuneOBs Birthday Hickory smickory dickory DOCK.. Mary turned up to do the interview at ten O`CLOCK..We played OB`s song,you know the Dean Parriss TRACK.."A crisis at work" Mary cried  &  she had to dash BACK..We started out for de Hollybush which was several miles  &  locks  &  bridges AWAY..On jumped Carol  &  Cath . Joe  &  Syl  &  de 2 Bobs , we wished they could STAY..More visitors arrived and Frank cooked more FOOD..For instance there was Loraine  &  her cool looking DUDE..A hectic day was endured by all of de CREW.. It took de lads ages getting OB on de LOO..However we really did know how to close this hectic DAY..With Tony  &  Do on board we squatted around de Gov singin a rendition of Happy BIRTHDAY.. to be continued yipeeeeeeeeeeee Gx vinny hi ob im sure you had a great time keep it up mate,to pete frank goldie jim and the rest of the h m s shameless crew well done for lookin after OB first class etc, also for the hospitality to me and all that came on board see you soon a t b vinny Tony Heinemann (Nantwich) Hi Mary,Enjoyed the features and interviews on the show over the last few weeks.Could you please give me a nostalga trip and play me one of my fav beat ballads"Its not the same"by Little Anthony and the Imperials.Many Thanks Tony. ALZHEIMERS CHARITY NIGHT The next Alzheimers Charity Night is on SATURDAY 17TH OCTOBER at the CROSSVILLE CLUB IN CREWE. Tickets will be £6 the same as last year, We are awaiting confirmation of some DJs but Radio Stokes very own Nick Marshall and Peter Everett will be among a top line up of DJs. Last years event was amazing with people travelling the length and breadth of the country to attend and raise lots for the Alzheimers Society. It would be fantastic to see some of our international soulies there. Details of how to get tickets will be posted soon, Please put the date in your diaries and make it another huge fund raising ocassion as well as a fantastic Soul Night. Many thanks Anne Pat and Joan. PS It was lovely to see OB at the Foxley at his Sunday Birthday Bash and we want to say well done to the crew for being true friends and giving OB what we are sure was a fantastic holiday, Can't wait to heard how it all went. xx Captains Log HMS SHAMELESS voyage of chaos day two Hichory chickory smick smack SMOCK.. The crew awoke at six O`CLOCK.. The day started with words over who was making de TEA.. The camode in de water for all to SEE.. At noon the guests started to arrive like Noahs ARK.. On they came 2 by 2 to get involved with this canal side LARK..The Foxley provided the music they should be PROUD.. All soul classics  &  not too LOUD..Dan Joanne Mary Fox Anne Pat  &  Joan all came on BOARD.. To wish OB "Happy Birthday" he greeted them like a LORD..Nick, Mike  &  Linda arrived with Brav  &  BERNIE Plus de Wheel four ta for making de JOURNEY .. Frank Barker was Hi jacked to help with de LOCKS..Jimmy flew down de towpath again on de elecky chair in those famous white SOCKS.. So Charlie was the last to leave the ship that NIGHT .. Waking Pete up for a pen , There was something he must WRITE..I would like to thank all de visitors 131 of de soul scenes BEST.. " Can we visit again they all pleaded"" .. I simply replied Be My GUEST......to be continued yipeeeeeeGx Chris and Rob Well Sco we couldn't agree with you more about your opinion of OB. What a lovely man with a crackin sense of humour. We met him for the first time on H.M.S. Shameless on Sunday and feel it a privilege to have met him. Also would like to say what a wonderful crew they were. Totally and utterly brilliant blokes.Love to you OB and all the crew.xxx Captains Log DAY ONE 27th June HMS SHAMELESS voyag Hickory dickory smickery SMOCK..OB`s crazy gang left de Plack Prince DOCK..On a mission they dare not FAIL..Full of hope  &  anticipation  &  Morrisons ALE.. Goldie at de rudders full of "beans "  &  happy at last to be AFLOAT.. Crash bang wallop** there was no need for that!!! a ruddy big grey camouflaged BOAT.. Frank sent Goldie to do de staircase LOCKS.. Oh my God here comes Jimmy on de towpath on OB`s chair can in hand wearing bright white SOCKS .. Pete saved our lives as we approached a bridge too LOW.. " Hey he screamed at de top of his voice 10 foot into Four just wont GO.. On jumped Helen after a visit to OBs MOTHER.. The rows on board now resembled Big BROTHER.. As the fist day grew to a close The Foxley became our first moor SITE.. We all hugged  &  kissed each other GOODNIGHT.. to be continued yipeeeeeeeeeeeee Captain Foghornxx Chris Savory Hello Mary - a request for this week please - Booker T. Slim Jenkins Place'. To Alan (Sheffield) there is a great French site www.staxrecords.free.frIt is the most comprehensive and I look at it a lot. Beware when you go on it as there are things that will make you cry. Also you'll need a flask and sandwiches. DON'T FORGET everyone that this year is the 50th Anniversary of Stax. Have a good week. Kev Woolley (Skipton ex Rugeley) MaryGreat show as always, could we have Ray Pollard, The Drifter please....... Rob(Cadiz but Grazalema at the mo) Well, i cant believe my luck....managed to get connected up here high in the Andalucian Sierras.....spectacular views sitting here in the beautiful area of Grazalema....and the Mary Fox show all in one day... what more could you ask for!! Day off, brekkie in the Plaza, dip in the pool and now afternoon of Soul before back to work. Sounds like the Shameless crew are having a ball...hope the weather is good for the boys. I´d like a sound for my boy, Lewis who im missing a lot...he puts up with his old man drenching him in Soul with great patience...and im gonna spoil him rotten upon my return to the coast in a couple of weeks...could you please play "Eddie Spencer - If this is love" a crackin´version of a Soul classic....i´d be interested to know what the MSGB folk think of it.... i love it. Great guest from The Professionals(Steve Calloway).....must be a great feeling to find out that people love your music on the other side of the world especially when you had no idea that certain songs were not obsolete but in fact hugely popular...great story!! Good on Chalkie for making these sort of things happen....what a great Soul man and very interesting Detroit info from both people. What a great and varied show yet again....Nick Marshall always seems to hit the spot with his choices. Cheers for now from this rugged and spectacular mountain area of Spain. Cheers. Rob PeteSco..fri 3/7/09 Fay Pinkney,,original singer with the three degress has passed away..RIP.. AGED 61,, billy (harrogate) dose any one know when the film souled out is releaased. can you please play dj gensis,a tribute to betty wright agreat track Colin, Provence does anyone recall the email address to Marys show for Expat selections? Pat Boulton Hi Mary. Please could you play Bobby Bland Call on Me for my brother and sister in law, Janice and Paul who are big northern fans and have just discovered your programme. Twiggy Well What A Week,I gets this invite to join Face Book, i anna a clue what it is all about, what with me being so thick,Then i spotted an OLD SOULIE, infact a very Old Soulie on this Face Book site, guess what hes in this bath listening to some Tom Jones stuff, i know its Tome Jones stuff hes listening to because his Big Brother as told me so, on closer inspection to just how nude Pete was on this photo, i realised he was not naked at all, if you look through the bubbles closely you will see he is waring another pair of those bloody thongs, give us a moonie Pete instead of hiding behind those bloody BIG BUBBLES,(only kidding Pete) thanks for your help, i have got into a bath with some strange things but please dunna remind me of those thongs, I sailed THE WAMMY RAPIDS once in my old Bath tub with my dog , who was giving me some moral support, we survived the Wammy Rapids but had to move quick to get away from all the girls who wanted my thongs, yes Pete i have to admit i was the only one in Knutton at the tender age of 6 who wore a thong but i did have my tape deck with me on the mighty challenge and i played some nice stuff to my little Cha WOW WERHHH, spelling all wrong but hey i'm a pretty thick bloke. see ya Pete and hey nice bum. Mick Oliver Ay up Mary me agen so many songs to consider from MJ but for me 2 stand out Got to be there and She,s out of my Life as I said earlier the Wembley concert was awesome and when he sang the latter of the aforementioned he literally broke down crying ian edwards Tickets for this years C-I-N,night in Bilston on Thursday 22nd November 7.30 until midnight,are on sale as of Tuesday 7th July,£5 each this is back down as we want all those who have attended previously to fill it up again,and say thank you all for your amazing attendance over the past five years...We have got some great totals,and took over £10,000 in the process,but with respect,the charity will be the winner whatever the total,to us the night is nothing without the amazing dj's and brilliant crowd,who make it magical,so please let us fill it up again,tickets available from Goodyears or Max Millward,or direct on 07967194092,glad that OB is having a great time,would be great to see him again,if thats ok OB please let me know love respect and best wishes to ya man in a million form Ian and Mary Edwards. Denis (West Sussex) Hi Mary,Could you please add the following to your whats on section.Sunday 12th. July, Summer Soulstice at The Woodman Arms, Hammerpot (on A27 between Worthing  &  Arundel).16.30 til 22.00, chilled summer sounds, Northern, Motown  &  Crossover, great company  &  great beer.Thanks Denis Sylvia Dean It was really good to catch up with OB and the crew of HMS SHAMELESS on Monday. What a fabulous crew and doing a stirling job looking after OB.Nice to see Frank Barker who was in fine form!!Goldie and Pete..sporting some character facial hair!! Can you play Wade in the Water Ramsey Lewis..or Washed Ashore... the Platters for all on board and who have shown us all what good friendship is all about!!!xxx HerMan(Allan from Sheffield.) To Chris Savoury.Part 2 starts Here:-The company would eventually morph through to the present day and become the SONY CORPORATION, Therfore the link with STAX probably stems from the link-up post ATLANTIC split after the buy back from Gulf and Western and the ill-fated link with CBS in the early 70's.Other notable things about ARC was its Canadian arm which produced some excellent Northern Soul tracks including, the Eddie Spencer:-If This Is Love (I’d Rather Be Lonely) / You’re So Good To Me Baby Arc: 1206 CAN. Of course the ARC saga is further complicated by the existence of another company within the CBS network of companies but as this was a revival of a company originally from 1904/08 called the American Record Company by COLUMBIA RECORDS and as this didn't start until 1979 and masterminded by Maurice White of the R & B group Earth, Wind and Fire who re-launched the American Recording Company (ARC), a Columbia Records distributed label whose artist roster included Deniece Williams and the Emotions(Another link with the STAX Record label. I hope this clarified the situation a little more Chris. Yours As Always HerMan (Allan from Sheffield.) HerMan(Allan from Sheffield. I will post this in two parts. Part !:-To Chris Savoury, I said at the time of my last post about ARC I said that I didn't know of the company but looking through my notes I found that I did have info on the company ,ARC or American Record Corporation is often Known as ARC Records and was a New York based record label formed originally by merging a number of label into a larger unit,(REGAL records, CAMEO records, BANNER records, American PATHE records and the parent company of EMMERSON records ,the SCRANTON button company.)The new company started trading from 1776 Broadway in Manhattan, New York City and continued to trade and buy up other struggling labels during the depression years in America, thus getting cheap access to labels back catalogues. In 1931 they became involved with WARNER BROS through a leasing deal involving BRUNSWICK RECORDS and VOCALION RECORDS and all associated companies to ARC. In 1932 ARC started the 3 records for a dollar deal, selling an unprecedented 6 million units for its time a phenomenal figure outselling the mighty RCA who were prompted to create the legendary BLUEBIRD label to try and gain supremacy in the market once more.ARC as a company bought out the mighty COLUMBIA back catalogue in 1934 including OKEH RECORDS also to keep their competitive edge in the market place the company introduced 2 tier pricing structures another innovation at the time, producing and selling records Brunswick at 75c and Oriole, Romeo, Melotone, Vocalion, Banner and Perfect at 35c.Although many labels were made and bought and ended on the parent companies wim,the remains of what was left were eventually sold to CBS for 700,000 dollars in 1938,reviving COLUMBIA RECORDS as a result as it's flagship abel followed by OKEH RECORDS as its subsidiary label as a result BRUNSWICK and VOCALION reverted to WARNER BROS because of anti-trust issues and their rites assigned as a result to DECCA RECORDS. Part 2 follows shortly. Andrew Happy Birthday OB from the north of Scotland. Great show Mary, why don't they network it? Twiggy To Murcians, Try the raresoulman site absolute must, ok some pricey items but there inna much that dunna go through the raresoulman site, hope that helps but dunna know why you conna get onto finylvinyl.gemm site, you have to be quick alot of Cds are also being deleted.To the Bath Tub Crew, i hope you are looking after OB, Ob looks to be having a Whale of a time, whos that Gringo with the ELY WALLACE mustache and did you catch any mermaids, take that bloody fake Mustache off at once, i'm jealous shoulda called the man Blondie not Goldie, only kidding Goldie i know its fake. PeteSco..thurs 2/7/09.. nice meeting you Charlie,,youre a very knowlegeable man on soul.just off to find the cruise of H.M.S.Fearless...SCO.xx. Charlie Waring. I feel a very humbled man having been in the company of OB, and complete crew...Enjoyed myself so much it was unreal, met frank, jim, sco, nick, young OB ( just like his Dad ) and them thar wheelie,s...Entirely my Pleasure !!!...Luv Charlie... MURCIANS TO TWIGGY Still having 'problems' with that website.Some thing about it not being registered etc and to another site????????????don't understand these things.Only just learned to switch the 'PUTER' on and type etc this t'internet gets too complicated for me!!Give me two tin cans and a piece of string anyday!!!.Perhaps you could help me out etc??thanks Mary for that DE b side YOU KEEP ME CRYING .If you check it out again everybody it sounds the same as the DE version of WHERE DID OUR LOVE GO yes that's the one!!!!Well back to the 'pool' and the VINO TINTO it's even hotter today just reached 40oc!!!!!!KTF JINSY AND THE MURCIANSPS mary you play a MJ single on your 'northern' show and see what has happened,that's all i have to say on the subject!! vinny soulshaker PORT VALE SAT JULY 11THa fab night of northern soul n motown alL across the board, this months DJS, OZZ, BAZ RATCLIFF, ROB SMITH DICK DALE N yours truly wooden dance floor 2 bars, record sales bar, parking 8 til late £5 admission all welcome nearly 400 last one hope we see you there x vinny soulshaker happy birthday to you, happy birthday to you, happy birthday dear OB happy birthday to you have a great time john u and the crew hope the fishin is goin well? ps goldie give us a ring please HerMan(Allan from Sheffield.) Hi Mary,I have been thinking,in my case, something which can be highly dangerous.Talk of prices of records recently has prompted me to go back and look through my posts and I've noted that I intended to post, many moons ago a series of articles highlighting cheap ,"Northern Soul," records which could be had if people wished to collect them on a budget of say priced between £10 and £30 pounds which over the next say 20 years will probably double in price, this could be a large list as I will list them at approximately 20 a week.I think that you will be suprised by the bargains which can be had out there for a small weekly outlay,each one posted will be rated and priced and stated if original copy or not.I will be back later on in the week with the first list of 20 .Yours AS Always K.T.F.HerMan(Allan from Sheffield.) sue from stafford it was a real shock to hear the news about michael jackson he was just brilliant and his music will live on for ever i just feel its so sad a man who had so much talent seamed so unhappy and troubled R.I.P. michael how about playing one of the early motown tunes mary. x Twiggy To OB Happy birthday from us all this end have a good time. To Jinsky, I have never had any problem with the site but i do remember on a couple of occassions not being let on to it, great site for bargains but you do have to be careful because of computor virus's. The website again is Finylvinyl.gemm, i think there is another site and its got nothing to do with The Canadian website, i'm sure that tune you after is on one of the British soul Compilations on Goldmine.hope that helps i'll have a look when got more time. PeteSco..mon 29/06.. theres a man I know,,who has graced Gods wonderful earth for nigh on 56 years now..A man of steel,granite like determination,,the will to move mountains.He loves his family,he loves his friends,he loves God,,even though some would falter at that,,when presented with this predicament.He thinks more about others than himself,,and worries himself sick some times.He's a deep thinker,,a lover of the arts,,literature,,poetry,,and his greatest love,MUSIC.To me he reflects everything that is great about life,with the calmness in troubled times,, to match a saint.He has now had a song published ,based on one of his beautiful poems,,and is as proud as any man could be..when he first played it to me,,he said "not bad is it Pete for a raggedy-arsed lad from Tunstall".lol.well i'll tell you this it isnt bad ,its bloody brilliant son('scuse the language Mary).well my dear raggedy-arsed lad from Tunstall,you are an inspiration,,not just to me but to all the soul family,a shining example in a sometimes bleak and soul-less world..the name of this GREAT man,,i salute and wish a HAPPY BIRTHDAY to my dear friend JOHN O'BRIEN,God bless you my beautiful brother.SCO xxxxxxxxxxxxxx HerMan(Allan from Sheffield.) Hi Mary,My last post was cut off and some important point lost therefore I have decided to continue the post with a few amendments and an added postscript.:-As I said you as a presenter put out a programme which has to be researched either by yourself and this research capacity is paid for by the BBC in my opinion not enough,but you still get paid as so does Nick when he appears as your standin etc.You are held in high esteem amongst the soul fraternity and therefore get paid to do what you love,in my case it is just that love of the music,any info of mine is just that love for my kind of music and a desire to share my limited knowledge with other who perhaps want small snippets of such a vast reservoir of info on such a complex subject,I respect those people who have made a living or still make a living but as Ginger Taylors records showed when played on the show whether a record costs 25 quid as the Billy Butler track did or 800 quid for the Timi Yuro Track or Four Grand plus for the J.D.Bryant track on Shrine , you need money.The nearest I come to the latter is a a track on a CD by Goldmine ,"A Northern Soul of Shrine,"That's another reason why I dislike the title ,"Expert," because of the lack of resourse for reference on my part.and Chris I bow to your Knowledge but again I wouldn't pay £200 quid for the record ,I as I've said I have no info on the label mentioned by yourself, perhaps others can help you but many small local independent labels as with the Motown empire were used as a testing ground by Stax before being placed on the main labels a good example of this was a cover of ,"ASK THE LONELY,"by .I could make out that I know everything and am a font of all info to do with Northern Soul but thats not the case ,as was proved I still learn new things on a daily basis.I despite the contrary indications am only a Human Being as could be said of Michael Jackson who although a musician with great talent that bordered on genious but like all humans was not immune to all the frailties that being a human encompasses and in the long run it was not why or how he died that counts but the fact that he left a legacy of music for we other humans to enjoy.Lastly ,I hope everything went well at the Foxley, on Sunday for OB and family and was so sorry for not being there because I couldn't arrange cover for me to attend because of other family holidays and commitments.Your AS Always HerMan (Allan from Sheffield.) Paddy Shevlin (Brighton) Hi Mary,thanks as ever for starting the weekends for us all in the best possible way.Could I ask that you give a mech for our site at www.soul-survivors.co.uk - we've got a social network site there now so people can put faces to the names!! We've also got hundreds of tunes, videos, blogs etc., and promotors are free to announce their events.In just a few weeks we've got people on from all over the world. The power of t'internet!!Anyhow it would be great to welcome a few of your listeners (and you of course). Just tell them to click on 'The Family' and way you go.Love to all especially OB!! Chris Savory to Alan HerMan Hi Alan - I have one rexcord in my collection by Linden Hill on Arch 1302 "used to be love/Remone" written by Hill and Steve Cropper and produced by Nick Charles and Cropper - it says distributed by Stax Records at the bottom. Keep the info coming. Have a good week. Andy Scoffin - Crewe Regarding Michael Jackson's music legacy, of the Motown era Skywriter was a good but very under rated track and his version of Love Is Here Now Your Gone (B side of the annoying Rockin Robin) was also a great track.I wouldn't object to either being played Mary ;-) there are of course many many more.R.I.P MJ a big part of Motown's history and the music world in general. Theresa HAPPY BIRTHDAY for monday OB I missed the show on friday night we were doing a school disco. Wish I was on that boat trip with you, have a fab fab time love and best wishes Theresa and Adj xxx JINKSY TO TWIGGY and OB WE ARE THINKING OF YOU OUT twiggy i have tried to register on that website.But my computer is telling me there is a security problem with this site so beware .Have you had any problems?OB have a great time on your trip.We the MURCIANS have read your message and what can we say.You have great courage.ANNA (one of the spanish murcians )wants to just hold you and give you a big hug!!She is 5ft nothing but a real lovely lady and helps us around the place.you might get lost down there OB if you catch my drift,know, what i mean!!OB a late happy birthday from all us MURCIANS out here.we were all out last night at a 'fiesta' so we could not listen live.A little to much 43 'neat' last night .So i have the funk bros drum section in my head this PM!Some great birthday dedications to you on the MF show 26/06/09.Moving on .yesterday i received a parcel sent from my daughter back in the UK.She sends me some of the local newspapers and a bottle of bovril!!etc(a welcome 'red cross'package from 'back home').It also contained my fathers day 'pressie' a 4x cd called 101 NORTHERN SOUL ANTHEMS must be going around the UK at the moment.So that will keep me busy for a few days.It was posted in enough time but the good old spanish CORREO have been sat on it for over a week!and i have to go and rescue my mail from the PO at my local 'big' town in ABANILA, thanks VIX only 6 weeks to go now until the new baby arrives and we will be old 'gramps' yet again.i could not help noticing in one of the local stockport papers that.if you remeber at the begining of the year i asked Mary to play a record for marine DANNY WINTERS (a stockport lad)who was killed in action in Afghanistan has had his name added to the local MARPLE war memorial(the home town of my wife the 'ROSE')and quite right too.But believe it or not the local stockport council spelt AFGHANISTAN (in stone)wrongly without an H.Who are these people??Only in the UK !!!My daughter went to the local marple carnival on 20/06/09 and noticed that it has now been corrected!!Sorry everybody to go on about these none music subjects.but things like this really annoy me and make me feel like MR ANGRY do you all remember 'him' from the STEVE WRIGHT show in the 80's??(he and the great late BRIAN CLOUGH are some of my all time heroes!!)So OB as you sail off into the sunset on your cruise with your' motley crew' beware of the 'spanish armada' coming the other way!!!Mary perhaps you could play something for the 'SWABS' on HMS SHAMELESS by the ARMADA ORCHESTRA (they had a few 45's out on contempo in the 70's)any will do.Think JAMES J on bass has just joined the FUNK BROS drum section now in my head.Time for a 'dip' in the 'pool' and cool down.It's 38oc here today (that's dammed hot)have you still got the 'heatwave' out there in the UK?KTF JINKSY AND THE MURCIANS(struggling on in the spanish SOL!) Dave A . Telford To John OB. We may have met. I did Stoke clubs 69 to 75. Cant imagine life without the music and soul mates.Enjoy your trip  &  K.T.F. I know you will. jim wilson hamilton love your show , the wonder of the internet ready made soul at your fingertips Trev fr Tod Tell Ginger I remember him and his blue blazer with the Lancashire rose on his breast pocket when he was 16 - as far as being too old - he's 2 years younger than me. I'm in Florida now and listen every Friday. Mick Oliver MICHAEL jACKSON - just pure raw talent.A man who really emerged through his own natural uniqueness.Went see him at Wembley in 87 on the bad tour and having seen plenty of shows before and since ,still ranks as the most phenominal show and performance i have ever seen in my life Mick Oliver Ay up Mary ows tricks just going to deviate from Super Time(wots that thank gudness did i hear you say ha ha) recently thought about a song i havent heard for ages Somebody,s been sleeping in my bed i think it was by 100% proof(aged in soul) HerMan(Allan from Sheffield.) Hi Mary,Sorry if I upset anyone,I truelly am sorry.As I explained I had, had a bad day.No excuse I know,but what more can I say, with regards to Rob in Cadiz,I'm confused myself Rob,I explained to you I hadn't got the album you enquired about on CD only on LP,I told you the album number in previous posts contact such as GOLDSOUL or go onto the site given by Twiggy to see if you could still find a copy somewhere in the world ,most things advertised are either on E bay or affliated companies to the site,to see if you could get a copy of the album. I haven't got the facility of putting my records onto my computer I have approx 300 albums which are in Mp3 format on my computer and another say 300 on Cd which I could convert back to Mp3 but most of my records both Lp and 45's are separate to those,the nine Cd Stax series mentioned ,which was in fact one of three sets of nine issued ie.27 albums, I have as I said only 9 of these in my collection, I don't have the other 18 volumes and as such is therefore incomplete and as a reference tool is I feel of no use without the others in the series,but considering there must be something in the region of 4 to 5 thousand different compilations and individual artists albums out there my small collection only scratches the surface, thats mainly the reason why! I dislike being called an expert,I would descibe myself as mildly knowledge-able, and thats on a good day. I'm not ego driven despite what I think you may have read into that post as what was said in the second if you look back in the archive you will find what was said is correct and as regards to Ian Levine perhaps I was slightly hard but I was putting forward my take on his situation ,I could bask in the kudos but again that's not me ,I'm a total and utter 100% realist.The point about going on Mary's programme as suggested by Chris Savoury I think was a valid observation on my part,perhaps I didn't explain myself with enough cander or clarity,the Stax main label including the original Satellite releases up to the dissolution of the distribution rites and due to small print clauses in the contract the susequent loss of the back catalog of releases up to and including those made up to 1968,As a result of this in 1968 Atlantic got the sole rites to the re-release of these without having to pay for them this included 142 singles and 35 albums.After 1968 and the susequent sale to Gulf and Western and the buying back of the label and the ill fated tie up with CBS Records(which didn't actually work out ,especially when the distribution company failed to promote STAX releases both by STAX and subsiuary labels rather than its own releases ,revenues as a result fell to a point that banckruptcy was forced upon the comnpany.another 255 STAX 45's releases and 126 albums followed from that label of which six were untitled and unreleased.VOLT as the main second STAX label had 60 ,45's and 7 albums released before and 145 ,45's and 29 albums after the Atlantic distribution deal of which 4 wre unreased and untitled.These plus those released by other sister labels create a vast number of items to consider when the makeup of a programme on the STAX record company would or could be made,I believe that with such a wealth of material 60 or 70 hours of music from this label would indeed again only scratch the surface even after cutting all available material one hour would barely be enough to get a full feel of the nature of the label,to do it any justice at all 2 to 3 hours would be the bare minimum I feel and to be representative of all people who listen to the programme all persons views need to be consistered I as a private individual have not got the resourses or the time available to do this,and also I believe enough expertese or experience to do such a programme, if made, justice.This was my point about being an expert and why I mentioned the money aspect also,and forgive me Mary when I say this as its not a personal side swipe at you or any one else, you as the presenter and an employee of the BBC do your own research I assume or use t Tim Northampton Michael Jackson, Superstar.Sad loss and I concur with Jules Allen Gold Coast, Aus.We will miss him but the one good thing about music is that it lasts forever.KTF. Nivk Marshall Hi Jinksy - I've got "That's not love" on 2 CDs: "ABC Paramount - The Northern Soul Story Volume 1", on a Canadian label called Maple St. # MSCD 001, and "Soul Satisfaction" on MCA #MCLD 19398. The Candian CD is more recent, so may be easier to find. Mark (FAZ) BEST OF LUCH TO OBB  &  HIS CREW,MARY MICHAEL THE BEST ENTERTAINER SADLY MISSED MARK Shar Michael Jackson RIPOff the Wall album was a classic and still evokes the same emotions today as it did over 28 years ago - when The Place in Hanley (the basement) was the place to be as it played the album all the time - such brilliant memories Goldie captain dstw/pslc To get ya soul FIX keep going de WHEEL  &  listening to de Mary Fox show ..DONT STOP TILL YOU GET ENOUGH..every time I go de Wheel it is a real THRILLER ...the best soul club in de world you just cant BEAT IT...cant wait till Sunday July12th just: GOT TO BE THERE!!..See ya`ll on de good ship SHAMELESS ...Captain Goldfish yipeee xxxxxxxx IS NICK THERE? Many thanks for your help twiggy.Nick M do you know the answer to the availablity of the holly st james track on cd or 45?KTF JINKSY Theresa Michael Jackson R.I.P love him or loathe him his music bought us loads of pleasure over the years and I felt very sad to hear the sad news Jules Allen Gold Coast ,Australia R.I.P. Michael......Ain't no sunshine when you're gone....I want you back....loved you since I was a kid... in my heart forever...I'll play your songs until the day I die.....and SMILE! RIGHT ON BROTHER....see you in heaven for a duet or two. Andy Scoffin - Crewe a very brave message from a very brave man - cheers OB enjoy your jolly's m8 sue from staford I dont know if any one out there is interested but whilst i was on holiday we watched a movie on the tv called "cadillac records" the story of the chess record label it was an enjoyable movie and worh a watch if you get the chance. sylvia dean Mary can you please play one of my all time favourites....Darrell Banks Open the door to your heart.This is for birthday boy OB. KTF xxxxxxxxxxxxxx Ecky Herman, sorry you were feeling a bit low when you wrote in. The definition of an expert can’t just be making money out of a subject can it? The music is great and it’s interesting to have a bit more info than just the title and artist, so whatever you want to be referred to I really do thank you for passing on your knowledge on the STAX stuff. The record I wasn’t keen on Mary playing on her show the other week was the Jacko one Anyway belated best wishes for your birthday. – Soulong for now Ecky Goldie captain dstw/pslc Right /now then ../mmmm ???cant think of anything to write!!!! ah well I think I will save my strength/breath (for de locks,tunnels, bends etc)for OB`s Holiday Rob(Cadiz) To Mr John O'Brien. OB, brave, brave and dignified post that must have been very difficult to do. I dont think anyone could understand how difficult or brave unless they had been in the same situation. As ive said before, ive never met you...but i really wish i had as it would be a privilege. Enjoy your boat trip with your good mates. Rob Rob(Cadiz) Hey Her Man, Im confused. Make your mind up will you, one minute your sounding like an inspiration to people with heart felt words of encouragement and reasonably friendly, informed but genuine comments, the next minute you sound like a totally (unnecessarily)defensive, grumpy and bitter old geezer. I understand that you've had it tough....so have a lot of us in different parts of our lives. Just because a person doesnt talk too much about personal things on a Soul message board doesnt mean everything has been hunky dory all their life so your not the only one with some genuine hardships occuring in their lives. I only saw positive comments about you and your posts but not over the top in their appreciation of your knowledge and posts or overly sentimental either... in their content but given with a sense of comaraderie and mutual interest in our beloved music. No more, no less. Maybe there is a bit of ego coming into play judging by some of your recent posts. Please dont be offended by these comments, im merely calling it as i see it exactly the same way you do. Cant figure you out at all. I apologise to all readers about this particular post as it isnt even really about music. Just thought i needed to be said. Rob sue from stafford best whishes to all on the H.M.S. SHAMLESS have a brill time and a have a few bevies for me but dont end up "WADEING IN THE WATER" or phoning "RESCUE ME" and dont end up being "WASHED ASHORE" have a great time love and best wishes sue and steve from stafford x HerMan(Allan from Sheffield.) Hi Mary,This will be a sort of part 2 to my post on the board about the STAX label it will include other details of label within the group not mentioned before I'm sorry but I forgot to also mention another couple of labels associated with the STAX label which were run via STAX the first is that of ,"PARTEE," records which specialised in releasing comedy records for artists such as Richard Pryor,Bill Cosby and Moms Mabley, but as it wasn't a music label that was why I ignored it and not mentioned it with the others previously quoted,one other label attached to STAX carried the gospel message and gave political black leaders such as the Reverend Jesse Jackson an outlet to preach the doctrine of racial equality to a wider audience this was named and known as RESPECT a few inspiring sould sounds also appeared on this label notably by artsts such as Barbara and Joe and John Kasandra as well as the Fiestas.Other smaller labels included ARDENT(Could you have mistaken this label for the ARCH,Chris)a label invisaged by John Fry of ARDENT recording studio and Al Bell of STAX to try to capture some of the Rock Market in 1971, artists on this label included CARGO,BIG STAR and HOT DOGS but notable soul artists also appeared on the labe including Sam Dees.GOSPEL TRUTH was the first name for the shortened TRUTH label and was primaraly a gospel label Rance Allen Group was a group from the main STAX label to regularly appear on it as well as church related groups such as,Sons of Truth,the Gospel Artistics,Marion Gaines Singers,The St. James Gospel Choir,The Enterprise label carried Isaac Hayes notably his Hot Buttered Soul Album ,Barbara Lewis,Little Sonny and David Porter.HIP artists included the Goodees.KOKO label revolved around the work of one artist,Luther Ingram but other artists who appeared on the label included Little Dooley and Tommy Tate and Reality .The last label was called,WE PRODUCE and included work by The Temprees,Sain Lee and Ernie Hines.Again I hope this helps somebody out there,Yours As Always(HerMan Allan from Sheffield.) Twiggy Hi Jinsky, it must have been snapped up recently but it definitely was their a few days ago, i have done it myself many times on this site, seen some absolute bargains in numbers, then they get a little air play and the next thing they have gone, it happened with The Dells Monster I'd Rather Be With You, it was there loads of copies(45) going for a few dollars, after it was released on a Dells CD there were no copies left(cheapies thsat is)The site is a fantastic site and it said its Canadian,There were some copies of Odds and Ends Love Makes The World Go Round going cheap but for me The Monster is on the other side YESTERDAY MY LOVE absolute stormer, sorry you didn't get the recotd but as i say pretty sure its on a compilation but which one i dunna know, i'll have a look through some of my stuff, if not Nick might know. hope it helps you. HerMan(Allan from Sheffield.) Hi Mary,Sorry about the last post,file it under?.I suppose it was just one of those days.Now lets get down to last weeks show.The |Third Degree version of Mercy was highlighted by myself in March to Nick Marshall when you were away the "B" side instrumentalisn't bad either,I could hear some Kim Weston like influences when I first heard it on a rival programme and thought it was a long lost version pre dating Duffy, I later learned not so.I also brought Duffy to your attention 3 months before Mercy was released(although her other releases haven't reached those dizzy heights.)Ian Levine for all his faults has had it rough of late ,losing a long time partner in any circumstances is hard but Ian seems to be forgetting that we punters are product driven , if his product is not selling then go back to basics,in the Seventies when he first went into record production he used other labels to release single records on vinyl he produced some great music which continued till his collaboration with ex Motown stars in the early 1990's,after that he became a figment of his own imagination, living in his and basking in his own ego generated life.He began to think that he knew better than anyone else,my suggestion to Ian would be go to the Wheel on a Sunday afternoon session and dance with the people listen to the sounds, not play or comment ,just listen, soak up the atmosphere and then go away and write music that people will want to hear over and over again,until he finds that spark again he might as well not make the music .Turning out bland ineffectual diatribe time after time after time will only send you to the bankruptcy court,so think on! I suppose you all think what an opinionated so and so a right B*****D, but what changes that's who I am I would have thought that you would have worked that out about me all the time I've been writing posts on the board,if you don't like it ,"BITE ME,"Anyway Mary,"That's the Story of My Life," by Major Lance if you can squeeze it in to your fantastic show,and you and everyone else will if they take the blinkers off see where I'm coming from.Yours AS Always K.T.F.HerMan(Allan from Sheffield.) Captain Fishfinger SOUL SIZZLER ALERT!! SOUL SIZZLER ALERT .FRIDAY NIGHT TWISTED WHEEL 9-2-15am a fiver at the draw bridge CLARENCE WONDERFUL DJ /GUEST SPOT ..SOUL SIZZLER ALERT2 SOUL SIZZLER ALERT2. SaturdayJULY 11th Vinnie de SOUL SHAKERS big night of soul HIGH VOLTAGE dancing electric atmosphere st the RAVE VOLT burslem ..end of SOUL SIZZLEER ALERT!..Talking to Pete Roberts He is very very very worried about "OUR IAN" i cant help cos I is SKINT ..But Mary could you please play a sound for "OUR IAN" : "Somebody Help Me" THE SPELLBINDERS...I asked Pete was he all calm  &  mellow for the imminent "BoatTrip" ..He looked at Me  &  said " I is very calm \ & serene ".. &  then carried on oiling his Uzi.....OH MY GOD I FORGOT TO MENTION ....H.M.S. SHAMELESS sets off on HER maiden voyage BLACK PRINCE DOCK Sat 27th ...WILL BE SPENDING ALL SUNDAY @ DE FOXLEY MILTON mooring All welcome Yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee GOLDIE 07954727668 xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx Captain Fishfingerxxxxxxxxxxx H ST J JINKSY TO TWIGGY Hello again twiggyOnce again many thnaks for your help.had alook at that site (is it from Canada?)cannot find the above.has it gone?JINKSY HerMan(Allan from Sheffield.) Hi Mary, Do you ever have those days when nothing you do can or say will make it better.This happened today,so no glib posturing or witty repartee.Straight John Bull,John(OB) you are a Hero,enough said.Today I turned 56 got the usual cards and a Tamla CD(Would rather have had a record or two,)"To Dad from Motown," and set about my days tasks.Have you ever tried to get on with your daily routine and no matter what you do something keeps holding you back,well that's how it's been today,I do wish people would stop saying I'm an expert on this subject ie. "Northern Soul,"now my aquaintance, Russ Winstanley,theres an expert Nick Marshall and even Mary you're an expert, because you all make a living out of the subject,this is what you do,no matter how much I know about the subject, it don't make me any richer just a lot poorer.I started to write as you know a book on the subject but that got knocked in the head, because of family circumstances and my Mum's stroke last year.My point is this my knowledge on this subject maybe vast, but it don't pay the bills or keep the angry wolf from the door,people say to me,sell your Northern Soul collection and make money out of it,stuck like that,it's no good to anyone,sitting locked in a cupboard upstairs,but that's the point,Amy my daughter says she's going to fireback it anyway no matter how much it's worth,because what good is the collection without her Dad to share and explain each record and what they mean to him.It's easy for Chris Savoury to say go on Mary's show and talk about the music, play some records as though being an expert,like (himself) me that is that this would be the easiest thing to do but ten minutes on Mary's show wouldn't do justice,it would take me more like 50 or 60 hours and then I'd only have just scratched the surface,incidentally Chris the only Arch records I've heard of is a small label from New Zealand although I suppose the brit label Marble Arch don't count either(Labels who I associate with STAX are the main label ie.STAX,Volt,Enterprise,Fantasy,Chalice,Hip,Safice, Rhino,Koko and Truth and the purchasing company of Concord Records who bought and reactivated the Stax label in 2004) but if you know more than me then that makes you more of an expert on the subject don't it.To you also the reason I never mentioned the other girl groups you highlighted was not because they were not known to me,I could have mentioned them along with the Emotions and also the Goodees who recorded Condition Red/Didn't Know Love was So Good on Hip8005 re-released on Stax113 in the UK and He's a Rebel/Goodies Hip116 ,that's not the point.The point is the man asked if any girl groups recorded on Stax the answer to the question is "YES,"I know I went into some depth on the subject but that's just me, enough said.Oh and by the way I'm not looking for an arguement or being picky it's just one of those days,now to Rob in Cadiz ,the answer to your question is in the negative,only got it on record but the majority of the tracks can be picked up fairly cheap if you look on reputable record dealers lists.or even on E-Bay.Sorry I couldn't be of more help to you.Actually the thing which I am trully an expert in is feature films but that's another story(only kidding ,or am I.)Any feedback on the questions raised in this post or comments from other contributers would be gladly recieved and answered by myself.As Always K.T.F.(The So Called Expert.)HerMan (Allan from Sheffield.) "INNER-SELF",(Positive-"VIBE"). "YOU CAN BEAT IT "OB",(That,s a,"PROMISE"),S.O.S,Manc. IAN ALFORD O.B....YOUR ONE IN A MILLION MAN...KTF message to the soul family I have deliberated long and hard whether to make this posting but out of respect to our soul family who have helped me throughout my illness in many ways financially,spiritually and respectfully,I decided to post it. As many of you know through our e-mailing and texting etc my brain tumour returned and unfortunately the chemotherapy did not work this time and last week I was told by my oncologist that I have 3 months to live. This is not the easiest of messages to write but its nothing compared to telling my 83 year old mother and only child Daniel. I feel so well in myself i'm getting a guilt complex!!I have not given up to this uninvited bully and never will. This is a fight to the end and as the yanks say,Im gonna kick ass. I am going on a wee holliday next week with my good friends Pete Roberts, Goldie,Micky Rooney, Frank Geirak,and Jimmy Macdonald. A week cruising the Cauldon canal. Did Goldie tell ya,hehe...I have mentioned this before but our motley crew will be moored as close to the Foxley pub in Milton as possible on Sunday JUNE 28TH If the boat has'nt sunk through the weight of ale Golodie has bought all of YOU are welcome to join us for a beer and some snappin. It would be great to see soulies that ive not met but have only seen names on the mesbo. So if you are up to it come along and lets have a blast1!! LOTS OF LOVE TO OUR SOUL FAMILY.....O.B xxxxx Achtung Achtung Achtung Dis is de very very very last message ref de SHAMELESS I will ever ever ever ever post CAN I JUST THANK all the stations  &  SOUL sites  &  texts  &  e mails of encouragement  &  spriritual energy these notifications  &  good will messages have instilled in Sir Oby  &  de CREW..From Lands End to Strathclyde from accross the globe cheers !!!!I undersdtand too : that those affilliated with non nautical or indeed those who involve themeselves only in the fairer gender style open days  &  charity nights were unable to share there acclaim ...we do understand!!GOD BLESS HMS SHAMELESS GOD BLESS THE SOUL SCENE GOD BLESS SOUL MUSIC ...CAPTAIN SENSIBLE yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee Gxxxxxxx Charlie Waring !!!... May I take the time out to wish Admiral OB and the crew of HMS Shameless a wonderful cruise on the cauldon !!!... May you all have a wonderful time !!!...God bless the Shameless and ALL who sail in her !!!...Best Wishes and hope to see you Sunday...Best Regards...GoodTimeCharlie ... RAG SHOWDOWN any feedback out there? thanks Mary for playing the above on last weeks show.Must admit all those years ago.I never thought i would ever here it played on the RADIO and the BBC at that!!!!!!So what did the 'people' out there think of it then??Still waitin' to hear YOU KEEP ME CRYING b side of DONNIE ELBERT 45 and IT'S ALL IN THE GAME by EDDIE HOLMAN with clasped 43 and bitter limon hand!!!Perhaps if i send you another track it could be JINKSY'S THREE on the MF show????KTF JINKSY AND THE MURCIANS Ecky Thanks for those who’s replied on the Stax girl group especially Herman such a wealth of knowledge I really appreciate it. I was looking for the potted history of Stax labels, like you mentioned VOLT was attached, and as we all know it ended up as Atlantic.Songs for the HMS “It’s a Shame(less)-Detroit Spinners”, what do you think of the boat? “She’s Looking Good – Wilson Pickett”, the morning call “Get on Up – Esquires”. Where are you going? “Destination Anywhere – Marvelettes”, to start with they’re “Sittin On The Dock – Otis R”, then someone shouts “Untie Me – Tams”, Yipeeeee comes the cry “I’m On My Way – Dean Parrish”, at last “Nothing Can Stop Me – Gene Chandler”, We’re getting ready for “The Function At the Junction – Shorty Long” and now “The Panic Is On - Roy Hamilton”. At 25 knots “She’s About A Mover – Sir Douglas Quintet”, wow “Lets Hang On – Bandwagon”. What’s that over there? It’s “The Duck – Jackie Lee”, below decks “It’s Getting Mighty Crowded – Betty Everett”.Oh no waters coming in it’s “ Crackin Up – Roy Hamilton”, we’d better send out an “SOS – Edwin Starr”, “Help Me – Spellbinders”,“Rescue Me – Fontella Bass” “C’mon and Swim – Bobby Freeman”. Oh **** now we’ve got to “Get it From The Bottom- Steelers” Hopefully not., wishing you all the very best, “Sock It To ‘em OB- Rex Garvin” Soulong for now Ecky MAY DAY MAY DAY This is de very last posting I will ever ever ever leave for HMS cruise of Chaos on BOARD HMS Shameless Sir OBY DICK , Looney Rooney , CApt Horatio Goldfish , Arr JimLad, Frank de Plank  &  "THE DESTROYER"  &  defender of de boat Gunner Roberts are ready ..We set sail SAT Middday 27th June bound for de CAULDON..for details (call 28th onwards) goldie 07954727668!!MAY GOD BLESS US ALL!!!!.....To-days 2 Shanties : "At The Top Of THE STAIRcase Locks " The Formations  &  " Open DE Paddles To Your Lock" Darrel Banks ....Request for MARY`s Show "THIS IS THE CAPTAIN OF YOUR SHIP" ..Reparatta  &  The Delrons....Pete  &  I were chatting to these two ladies at THE BLACK PRINCE DOCK tother week ..They said "Goldie you remind us of some well known character with that moustache" .."Who" I replied " Magnum..or maybe Jason King" ..."No" ..they replied " MR. PRINGLE"..However they did say Peter Roberts reminded them of Elvis ..I said " Do you mean the way he swings his hips on de dance floor??"..." No" they roared back " He can eat a 2 litre tub of ice cream in 3 minutes!!"...Going round with Pete has made me realise how hard these DJ`s work!!! HE MUST TAKE 10.000 records with him , when he`s doin a guest spot!!..He has this BLACK BOX which weighs a ton...He wants to bring it on de boat ....I think the boat WILL SINK if he lobs that on board ...Well he said if it does  &  the boat does go missing I SUPPOSE THE AUTHORITIES will go looking for DE BLACK BOX..........This is the very last POSTING see Y`all ON DE OPEN WAVES yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee Goldiexxxxxxxxxx Ian Alford Stax/volt :: if your a member of staffordshire librarys there is a 9cd box set of stax/volt singles 1968-1971 available for rental.. Well worth a listen (and accidently copying to I-tunes)...ktf everyone out there Shameless - v - Ferrari 355 Spider Morning OB and just 5 Days to go now mate. Heres a true story for you, Jackie and I went shopping yesterday and I went for some petrol I was filling my car up when I heard Pete..oorrrr Pete..oorrrr I turned around and I could just make out an old mate of mine who I had hadn't seen for about 10 years? He was filling up a Shiney Red Ferrari 355 Spider!! WOW, I had a chat with him about the car and to me honest OB, I was green and as sick as "SNIFFER THE PARROT" I told Tony that I would love one of these, and he told me that he has had it for a bit know, and that he had paid 55 GRAND yes £55,000 for it and it was 11 years old!! (He said it right they hold the Money) and I dont use this one much, He was asking me how was I doing? was I graffing and what I was up to, Well I said, not to be out done!! I am going away next week with 5 of my Mates on OB's Boat and we are going to have a Fantastic time!! He said Sweet,... wheres the Boat moored? Hanley!! Tony said where HENLEY ON THAMES? No Near Hanley!! Stoke on Trent!! OB we are going to have Beltin' Time Mate a Top Holiday that I and the Rest of the Crew (OBs Crazy Gang) on H.M.S Shameless!! will remember forever!! And how long will he be driving that Ferrari for ?? See you Saturday at 9am at your flat John, before we set sail for the High Seas!! Pete xx. sue from stafford Hi Mary just to let you know had an email from ipso factor films with reference to the northern soul film, it is now called SOUL BOY there is to be a free screening on 23 june at the odeon , the print works in manchester, free tickets availabe from ipso factor films (sorry short notice only just got email) im in barmouth so i can not go but i'll bet my very small bit has probablly ended up on the cutting room floor ha ha . xx sue from stafford just listedned on listed again to last weeks show i looooove the third degree version of mercy and really glad its now getting air play i like duffys but this better ! even terry wogan played it last week !!!! x sue from stafford hi mary not been on for a while as been busy at work since returning from my u.s.a. music trip steve and i had a fab trip went to new orleans memphis nashville detroite and new york have to say the the best bit was hitsville u.s.a. in detroit it was amazing (did you get the photos i emailed !!!! must admit not to hot on the computor !) but also went to the stax recording studios in memphis which was realy intersting and iv just caught up with the message board and there is a lot of stuff about stax on there so could you please play for steve and i a stax sound thanks mary x Chris Savory to HerMan Sheffield There was another female group on Stax - the Tonettes who had two singles issued - Volt 101/104. That's a good idea Ecky to have the occassional 'special' devoted to a label. An hour of Stax/Volt would please lots of us. Get a collector or two in to play the discs - HerMan sounds a great choice. Just had a thought that there was another small label associated with Stax - Arch Records. Have a good week everyone. Chris Savory to Ecky Stax/Atlantic Gang is a great title as it becomes SAG and a group of us are SAGGERS - how apt for a Potteries term. Thanks to Mary for playing Rance Allen and Rufus Thomas. It is heartening to see some superb discussion going on about music. Herman from Sheffield - thanks for outlining the Stax girl groups. - there are some fantastic tracks there. My all-time favourite Stax/Volt outing is Hot Sauce with "Bring it Home (Lay it On Me)". - a superb ballad cover of Na Allen's original. Hot Sauce was actually a Detroit lass. Second in my favourites is Dionne Warwick  &  Isaac Hayes "By the time I get to Phoenix". Thinking about Isaac Hayes - could you play "Good Love" sometime please. Have a good week everyone. agger from leek steph andrews you got me in to this. i cant get out of it. so coming down leek in august 09 beware ive still got a move or two to show you, KEEP THE FAITH Lee Harris - Worcester Martin Fox. R.I.P. It's with sadness that we report the death of Martin Fox; Martin, a Northern Soul DJ in the eighties, died suddenly on Monday evening (15th June) aged 58. He was sponsor of the Worcester Crib League but his greatest love was Northern Soul. Martin was well known on the local Worcester Northern Soul scene and helped organise a regular Northern Soul night at his local boozer: The Brunswick Arms.For those wishing to attend the funeral: Worcester Crematitorium 10am Monday 29th leaving from the Brunswick Arms, Malvern Road at 9:30. Then back to the the Brunswick Arms afterwards. Saturday 11th July Northern Soul Disco at the Brunswick Arms 8:00pm. Voluntary £5 entrance fee to go to the British Heart Foundation.Our thoughts go out to Martin's family and friends. Carol Harding Presently listening to your show on my computer here in Mississauga, Ontario Canada while at work (2:30pm here). Brings back fond memories of going to Man U matches then catching the train to Wigan in the 70s for the all-nighters. Rob(Cadiz) Im all Staxed-up these days since Mr Savorys suggestions. What about playing this brassy swinger (no pun intended)"Little Milton - I need somebody" on CHECKER Records...it fair swings along the RnB track OR his Soulie-est track as far as im concerned, "Standing here knocking". Anybody got any memories of seeing him live? Twiggy To Jinsky, i dunna know to much about this track but what i do know is this, theres a copy for sale on Finyl Vinyl.gemm, just type in Holly st john and theres a copy for sale 45 for $16.86 its on Soul Fox label ok the condition might not be mint but if you want it go for it, i'm pretty sure someone will have put it on a CD compilation weither its legal or not. Hope that helps you.Finylvinyl is a great site, i'm giving away my secrets now but hey whats the point in keeping things to myself. "Get Down Get With It" @ The Twisted Wheel Club Yah, Friday 26 June, Its the Wheel and your chance to "Get Down and Get with It" with the Wheel "In Crowd" 9pm till 2.15am. Than I get home at 3.30am go to tesco's for some Grog and food for HMS SHAMELESS and sit on wall with my Bag waiting for Mickey Rooney  &  Goldie to take me down to Stoke to OBs Flat to pick him and the rest of the Crew up! I've got plenty of "SHOPPIN" for the Boys and the New Shameless Polo Shirts for the Crew to wear on Sunday for OB's Party!!See ya Friday!! If not I'll see on the High Seas in Stoke!! Pete xx. MAY DAY MAY DAY FINAL POSTING for nexts weeks Cruise OF CHAOS ..With OB`s CRAZY GANG  > > >  THE SOUL MARINES SIX......Whose aim is to turn the whole world in to YIPEEEEEEEEEEEEEES!!!27th June the GANG meet at HQ in the REAR ADMIRALS flat AND SIGN ALLEGIANCE...Then we are off !!!!call 07954727668 on/after the 28th June ...May GOD bless SIR OBY DICK..GUNNER ROBERTS..ENG..Looney Rooney ...ARR JIM LAD , FRANK DE PLANK  &  my humble self CAPTAIN HORATIO GOLDFISH.....To-days Shanty "JUST ON LOCK " Doris Troy......Under4 7 days cant wait!!!!!!!!!! Goldie xxxxxxxx Yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee Chae Sylvia Dean said C`mon Chae down to you now to contact Mary!!Hi Yah Sylvia/Mary,Been a while since I posted on here though still listen to the show, I have emailed Mary a few times, one was asking if she'd do a wee guest spot on our Sunday Night "Soul Melting Pot" show. The online show initially was an hour, but kept going over, so extended it to two hours...but last weeks show ended up being over 5 hours long (hee hee). Look forward to catching up with yourself  &  Joe at the end of the year. Sylvia Dean Hi Goldie and the CREW of HMS SHAMELESS !! ( READ and think in a DEVON accent !!)Me partner and meeself Joe is hopin` to to come aboard and see all you land lubbers on our way back from a bit a soulin in the fair town of Bridlington by the sea!! We was hoping to bring ye all some good old DEVON Pasties ( I know deckhand OB is partial t a bit o meat and tatties in a good old crust!!!) and maybe if yer lucky..for the rest of you old seadogs!! m`thinks also pot `o clotted cream and scones .. that`ll put hairs on yer chests thats fer sure., a hahh.!!. and if yers very lucky and I am feeling generous and not drunk too much of the stuff in Bridlington with some of our sailor mates up north.. some scrumpy cider . Crippled cock is a fine Barum brand yer know!!oohh arhh!!So ahoy shipmates.. and See ya on board OH.. ARRR!! JIM LAD..from Sylvia and Joe xx PS MARY I double dare you to please read this out on the show.. IN a DEVON accent!!!!! Rob(Cadiz) To Her Man: Allan, i was blown away by your no-nonsense but totally practical advice for OB. Spoken by a man who has seen some of lifes sadder sides i think. OB mate, words are only that but they do convey sentiment and i hope the man from Sheffield's words helped you somewhat. I hope you find the strength to stay as strong and positive as is possible. I dont know how much it means but i think i can speak for everyone on this board and say that we are rooting for you to fight your way back to health and enjoy every moment you can if the pain and worry will allow it....and to say, i hope you enjoy your boat trip with your good muckers and gen-u-wine Soul freaks. Mickey Rooney, any sign of a track list or two or should i give up on that one? Her Man do you have those Stax Albums (DJ Frank, Dave Godin etc) on CD. If so i'd love to swap a couple of CDs with you if you wanted to, that is. Your Soul knowledge has always impressed me since the A-Z series of articles. The only mistake you made with the second list you did was the title...immediately people (me included) switched off with a title about going to sleep....thats the last thing i associate with Northern Soul! I know you explained it but the damage was already done mate. Your knowledge and research capacity are second to none. Summer is here and i'll be away in the mountains for a few weeks without being able to listen to the show...but back by mid-July.....is there any chance our lorry driver mate (Malc) would have the next three shows after June 19th recorded? Id be happy to pay for CDs and postage in order not to miss out and do some Summer catching up upon my return from the Sierras of Andalucia. Its so hot here right now that its all i can do to lift the glass to my lips and swallow my wine but i'll persevere to keep making the trip to the CD player and back to listen to yet more Sweet Soul sounds that brighten every day of my and all the people on this board's life. Peace, love and long cool cocktails to you all. Cheers. Rob Andy Scoffin - Crewe have to say I am very disappointed with the moderation of these boards.Although the code of conduct stated on here hasn't been broken posts have been removed and in my case not even published.perhaps you need to add another clause to the code of conduct adding thou shall not say anything negative about the content of the show - only positive comments allowed. GOLDIE CAPTAIN HMS SHAMELESS Miss u 2 Mike  &  Linda Hope u can visit de boat ..1 week  &  a bit to go Sir OBY Dick  &  de CREW meet in HANLEY early Sat 27th ..THEH WE ARE OFF!!!!rto days boat track "A LOT OF LOCKS" by CANAL BANKS goldie yipeeeeeeeeee xxxx JINKSY TO TWIGGY AND CHRIS nice to see that i am not the only 'bod' in the world that has heard SHOWDOWN by the RAG .I think after a few plays it does grow on you.But yep i agree with you twiggy the AB version is the 'tops'!but it's nice to try new things every now and then (said the actress to the bishop,say no more!!!)Lets leave it up to MF.If she can get hold of a copy.She may think it is worth a spin and ask for comments on the disc etc!Lets hope the record fairies have got their NEW glasses on this time!!!Twiggy,you always seem to come to my assistance in times of need.Do you know anywere or anybody that has a copy to sell of holly st james THAT'S NOT LOVE think its on soul fox on 45.Was it ever on a cd?Not got it, never had it,would like it on 45.However,cd will do.Look forward to your help on this one.KTF JINKSY.i think them MURCIANS must have got lost in IKEA more HEAVEN! Rob(Cadiz) Hey Jinksy, i have to confess ive never heard Rance Allen's "Showdown". I'll keep an eye for it. For all STAX fans everywhere, check out the "Wattstax" (either 1972 or 1973) collection of videos on you tube. Amazing stuff....and so many great names all getting down! Totally into The Barkays....In answer to the question about Stax girl bands...I think the EMOTIONS had a Stax outing or two if im not mistaken....and the STAPLES are nearly a girl band i surpose. Computer been down for 3 days....nightmare, you come to realise just how much of a big role a computer has in your life. Keep up the good work Mary. Cheers. Rob Mike  &  Linda. Hi Mary would you please play Little Richard Get Down with it for us. Whenever they put this on the decks at the WHEEL the place erupts the atmosphere is amazing. You missed another cracking afternoon at the WHEEL last sunday again Mary, you realy are gonna have to try it you know.Oh and tell Goldie from his post that we missed him!! HerMan(Allan from Sheffield.) To Ecky,With regards to your question about female groups recording on the ,"STAX"label.When as a precurser to ,"STAX,"Satelite records when based in Brunswick,Tennessee a record was issued on Satelite103 – Donna Rae  &  The Sunbeams – Whisper Your Love / Little Fool which was a combination of both male and female singers(1958) followed on the ,"STAX,"label in 1964 by STAX 150 – Barbara  &  The Browns – Big Party / You Belong To Her (Which combined Barbara and her sisters)followed by also in 1964 by STAX 158 – Barbara  &  The Browns – In My Heart / Please Be Honest With Me – 1964,then in 1965on STAX 164 – Barbara  &  The Browns – My Lover / I Don’t Want Trouble other notable combination of male and female artistes included the,"Staple Singers," and the,"Soul Children," as groups within STAX.Of-course the label had labels attached to it, the most prominant of which was VOLT and unlike STAX many female groups recorded for the label including the following.Volt 105 - Deanie Parker  &  The Valadors - My Imaginary Guy / Until You Return - 1963.Volt 142 The Charmels - Please Uncle Sam (Send Back My Man) / Something Sweet About My Baby - 1967.Volt 151 - Jeanne  &  The Darlings - How Can You Mistreat The One You Love / That Man Of Mine - 1967.Volt 153 - The Charmels - I'll Gladly Take You Back / Loving Material - 1967.Volt 155 - The Charmels - As Long As I've Got You / Baby Come And Get It - 1967.Volt 156 - Jeanne  &  The Darlings - Soul Girl / What's Gonna Happen To Me - 1968.Volt 159 - Jeanne  &  The Darlings - What Will Later On Be Like / Hang Me Down - 1968.Volt 4004 - The Charmels - Lovin' Feeling / Sea Shell - 1968(A great version of this classic tune.)Volt4005 - Jeanne  &  The Darlings - It's Unbelievable (How You Control My Soul) / I Like What You're Doing To Me - 1968.Volt 4015 - Jeanne  &  The Darlings - It's Time To Pay For The Fun (We've Had) / Standing In The Need Of Your Love - 1969.I hope this was of some use to you Ecky.(by the way what was the record you didn't like this week.)Lastly with regards to the Rance Allan version of Showdown,yes I agree with you it's a great version I have two versions of it, one on LP and one on a 45, the LP was purchased around 1975 and retailed at that time for £1:75 the title is," Stax Northern Disco Sounds,"(StaxB3002)The Album notes on the back state that," Stax Southern Disco Sounds," was also available on Stax3003 and a lengthy dialog. from DJ.Frank(Ian Dewhurst,)explaining each track,on the album,Track listing range from "At Last,"from The Temprees to ,"Happy,"Willian Bell,"Wade in the Water,"Little Sonny to ,"Friday Night,"Johnnie Taylor,"There's Going to be a Showdown,"Rance Allen and lastly on Side 1,"Free for All,"Mel  &  Tim. on Side 2 the first track is ,"You Need a Friend Like Mine,"Annette Thomas "Oh,La,De,Da,"The Staple Singers."Bet You I Win,"Little Milton,""That's the Story of my Life,"from Major Lance,(One to play this week for my birthday)"Chains of Love,"Jimmy Hughes,"The Right Track,"James and Blumberg and finishing off with Margie Joseph's,"Medicine Bend,"the compilation was compiled by none other than the late great Dave Godin and also has black and white photos of Johnnie Taylor,Rance Allen,The Temprees and the Staple Singers on the back.The front cover shows a girl dancer with bobbed hair,red teashirt full green skirt and rather fetching platform shoes with white leather straps, how they expected her to dance in them God only knows.Anyway a great album nevertheless,unfortunately the 45 is no longer playable although John Manship has got copies priced up at £15 on Stax:2025152 or on Gospel Truth:1204 DJ for a £10er, Archie Bells version on Atlantic: 8226 from 1969 £30 is also available from Mr Manships.The track that,Twiggy mentioned by Archie Bell and the Drells,"One Night Affair,"was previously never released until it appeared on the album,"Theres Going to be a Showdown,"in 1969 appearing as track 24 penned by Gamble and Huff(original release 1969 on Atlantic SD-8226,subsequent releases for this album on CD in 2005 on Atlantic/Warner Strategic Marketing 676156 and again on HerMan(Allan from Sheffield.) Hi John(OB),You asked me about my take on the low points that occur in life threatening illnesses.What can I say about the whole complex that we as humans have for coping with these up and downs that are caused by these events in our life.I will tell you I am no expert in how to stem the tide of emotion that comes from the realisation that we as humans are not invincible and when you are told that you are at a point where life could end sooner rather than later, the devastation and raw emotion and deep despair which ensues can at times become unimaginable especially for those not directly affected by it.When I was in my early 20's I was told that I may never walk again without the aid of crutches as you can imagine this was a devastating blow to myself but being the person I was I always have believed in the power of positive thinking and instead of looking to the future I started to concentrate on the day to day routine which I still do to this day.I live in days not years and set tasks however small and trivial.They,these tasks, may seem to other people who look on them as things they take for granted,in my case, I see them as wonders beyond compare, a breath ,the taste of food the mere act of putting one foot in front of the other I view as a miricle,a miricle of the human condition.I am not a bible /basher in fact you could say I'm more of a humanist in my outlook on life and as such I accept that in life there will be up and downs,it's how you yourself cope with these that make you a human,I am no saint but a caring and sensitive human being who by caring for others who are worse off than me find solace in that human condition.I take each knockback in my life and always try to see the silver lining,each one that comes along I use as a crossroads along the wheel of life.As I've said to dwell on one's condition and start to analyse the why and where-for and let the condition take away youself as a human being,then it has won,always show your emotion,because this will show everyone that you are human,you are no less of a man if you cry and be seen to cry,talk to people not just your family,set yourself tasks no matter how small and take each hour as an hour gained not an hour lost,each time you wake in the morning another day of adventure, live it that day to the full and above all,"laugh," even when you would rather curl up in a ball and hide from the world,think of the things that you love and some times hate to focus on getting through,this is how I cope even in my darkest hours,I know that this way isn't for everyone but if all else fails there's always the music and as I Always say K.T.F.helps.I hope my little note helps John and is of use to you.As Always K.T.F.HerMan(Allan from Sheffield.) GOLDIE CAPTAIN HMS SHAMELESS The boat leaves Blackprince Dock /West port lake Stoke on de 27th June obviously that day is a no no ...so from the 28th June over a 6 day period COME  &  MEET SIR JOHN OBRIEN  &  DE CREW inc myself..contact number is 07954727668 I recieved a dozen texts last night A LOT OF DE SOULIES are coming on DE SUNDAY which will be a day of Celebration for OB`s 57th Birthday on that day the HMS SHAMELESS will be moored close to the FOXLEY in Milton for a 24 hr period from noon on de Sunday till noon on de Monday ( 24hrs legal mooring allocation!!) People coming to the barge Monday onwards will find this fun vessel with ease !!!cos we are sticking to de CAULDON section of canal &  if you is struggling to find us= simply call the contact number 07954727668 ok ..PEOPLE GET READY ..THERE`s A barge a coming ..Dont need no ticket you just get on board !!!!! the words say it all!!!!!(OB sent me them the other day) 8 days to go phew!!! yipeeeeeeeeeeeee Goldie to-days 3 Wheel classics "Heart Of A Child"..PERCEY SLEDGE .."From de Teacher to de Preacher"..GENE  &  BABS  &  the monster " Said I was `nt gonna tell no body" SAM/DAVE .... &  a sound for de ever nearing barge of soul trip "SAILTIME" Shirley Ellis....Its Wednesday just love Wednesdays yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee Capt Goldfish xxxxxxxxxxx LETS GET READY for de "WHEEL ON WATER"x mick dale hello maryplease, please, please play celest hardie - your gone (reynolds)thanks again for great showscheersmick dale Rik Williams As former editor of Motown Chatbusters magazine, I went to the Twisted Wheel on Sunday and was blown away by the music Pete Roberts and his DJs played. The atmosphere was truly amazing! What a great Northern Soul venue the Twisted Wheel is. In my opinion, it is up there with the best. Well done to Pete, he deserves fantastic success for all his hard work. I recommend everyone to go and sample this brilliant venue. Ecky 16 June - Mary, another great show (apart from one record!), just wanted to say I Thank You for playing my request last week (whoops I accidentally mentioned another Stax record). Mary, Anytime you want to play Ecky’s My Name – Eddie Holland it’s OK with me. ------Chris Savory  &  Rob(Cadiz), thanks for clearing things up – bottom line is it’s all about the music and thanks for the offer of Albert King tracks. I feel honoured to be a SAG member (Stax/Atlantic gang) very appropriate at my age. I like the idea of a few shows (or maybe just one hour) dedicated to a label – maybe Mary / Nick will oblige? I remember buying the Stax records and seeing S Cropper name on lots of them but it was years later when I found out he (and other musicians on Stax) was white. One thing crossed my mind, the label produced some fantastic musicians and brilliant solo artists, and even some good male groups but I can’t think of any female groups on Stax – unlike Motown  &  P Spector, there must be some – can you enlighten me? Soulong for now Ecky Twiggy To Jinsky, You are on about Showdown, Archie Bell and The Drells will always be the version for me, i have got Rance Allen Groups version somewhere on CD, as you said strange version, didn't this group do alot of Gospel, EveryBodys Talkin is one of my favs Rance and his group did, Archie Bell and the drells did a cover of ONE NIGHT AFFAIR same as Jerry Butlers version, well worth a listen and Archie and his group did a great version, can i find it, its like looking for Rocking Horse Muck, Conna understand why Archies monster Don't Let Love Get You Down isn't spun more, I do feel we must let other stuff get played because to many seem to dwell on how it was,Big believer if alot of the stuff that made it on the original scene was released today it wouldn't do it, it was right for those times but its nice to find out that the orignal Singers and groups did alot of other stuff which i personally think would do some damage to the polished wooden floors, Not saying that it dunna work for some places but there are entertainers and entertainers, It seems now everybody wants to be a Northern Soul Dj, just wonder when the craze as died out again they go back to Pop and doing Quiz nights, Ya shoulda got that job, i bloody hated Slade but we all know who was playing that stuff along with Sweet and Mud weren't you Mary, only kidding Mary Chris Savory to Murcia Rance Allen - "Showdown" another great Stax label subsiduary release. A classic track - Murcia you have TASTE. Yes let's hear it please Mary. On RAG's Gospel Truth LP there's a great cut called "Love POwer2 and a gospel remake of the Tempts "Just my Imagination". Soash Over a 100 Wheel sounds to listen to on the Wheel Forum, now. Many more to come. Should have the full list of EVERY wheel sound finished by the weekend.Click on the link on Pete and John's Wheel site to find the tunes! mandysowden love northen soul went to a disco got into it then at 19 the dejay shwoed me how to dance to noerthen soul Goldie Captain Goldfish 10- days just 10 little days  &  we are OFF ..THE VOYAGE OF CHAOS ..ON BOARD DE GOOD SHIP HMS SHAMELESS ..SIR OBY DICK IS READY...GUNNER ROBERTS IS READY..LOO THE ROO is ready Frank DE PLANK is ready!!! ARR JimLAD IS ready .. &  YOUR ever so HUMBLE CAPTAIN is ready ....OH MY GOD IS WE READY !!!!!!!!yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee LAUNCH 27th June 1 week GOLDIE 07954727668 ,,,,,,,,CANT WAIT just cant wait ..heres another yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee Goldiexxxxxxxxx(Born To Serve)xx Chris Pete and the Crew at The Wheel, almost goes without saying, but Sundays session - AWESOME! See you on the canal Chris, Steph  &  Andy MURCIA TO CADIZ hi RobHave you got SHOWDOWN (same tune as Archie Bell)by the RANCE ALLEN GROUP in your stax collection?Perhaps we should ask MF to give it a spin'.Its a very unusual version of the tune.In the 1970's one of my best friends was the polydor rep for the North West of England (we left school on the same day)and he was only interested in SLADE etc.Why he got the job and not me ,i can never understand to this day!i ended up serving my 'time' as an electrician but was never out of work.So when polydor got hold of STAX,MOJO etc i used to given all the 'rubbish soul demo discs' as he called them!(god bless you GARY H)what price a merry X mas 45 by SLADE compared to the stuff i have stored away in my boxes!!I remember many years ago at a soul 'do'.being demanded to play SHOWDOWN by aload of drunken female 'groupies'.So i put the RAG version on and cleared the floor!!!Perhaps its time for the disc to arise from its slumber in the boxes and see the light of day again.Its would be interesting to find out what the MF audience thought of this track all these years on?KTF JINKSY (the murcians have gone to IKEA again,HEAVEN!!) Pete Dyson (Manchester). Hi Mary,cheer,s to Pete Robert,s,T.W.C,Dj,s & staff for a great afternoon of "SOUL & RnB",Nice "1".9year,s of "DETERMINATION".(with,"GUSTO").cheer,s.PD. "Chaffin Carol". (Chester). Thank,s for playin my record,"SEESAW"on last week,s Show! I went to The "Twisted Wheel Club"in Manchester on Sunday 14 June,met the Promoter,Pete "POPEYE" playing some great 60,s Wheel record,s, &  I danced all Afternoon,I was really "CHAFFIN!".Good show Mary,regard,s,Chaff Carol,with,"GUSTO!!!!". ian alford to herman sheffield and o.b keep the faith mates dont know you but my thoughts are with you..ktf Sylvia DEAN Hi Mary can I have another plug please??This is for the 1st Barnstaple weekender September 18-20th. YES.. in SUNNY DEVON ( god help me if its not this weekend!!).. seriously.. it should be a cracking weekend, with Tommy Hunt live on the Saturday nite , and a top line up of DJ`s from across the UK..readers/listeners can check it out on www.freewebs.com/barnstapleweekender There are e-mail addresses on there.. and also Mary I don't mind if you give out my e-mail also!!Thanks Mary xx Tony Heinemann (Nantwich) HI Mary,NickCould you please play me "I can't wait any longer" by Big Maybelle a big voice from a big woman.Cheers Tony. Chris Savory Hi Eckky - would you like me to drop you over an Albert King CD? Give me an address - you can get me on chris.savory@tinyworld.co.ukMy request for this week - Otis Redding's "Hard to Handle" or, failing that howabout "Wade in the Water" by Little Sony! To Colorado Colin do you remember Simons Records in Southend - a super vinyl shop back in the late sixties and seventies. Mary - you have not lost credibility by playing Wacko Jacko - mind you, if we go down that road I'll change my request of "Hard to Handle" by Otis to the version by the Black Crowes!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Just a reminder everyone that the next Stoke Record Fair is on June 28th at the Cobridge Centre. It's good for quality soul. Have a good week everyone. Goldie De Dreamer I had a sleep Sunday Day something I never do.......I had this amazing dream..I dreamt: I picked these 2 lads up one who lived on a duck pond  &  the other at the Dog  &  Partridge in leafy Failsworth the "Bowden" of Manchester ..We travelled thru picturesque Cheshire  &  north Staffs  &  Parked outsiede of a blue * yelllow Football stadium called "Love Trap"..It was clean  &  classy with a 100 rooms ..The resident DJ (looked like a Latin Romeo)..Soulshaker Vinnie &  The 2 guest DJs Robbo  &  Greenie were dynamically good .It must of been a dream cos Peter Roberts was never off de dance floor!!! Vinnie kept hurling cds thru the air ..then a gang came up from Kidsgrove  &  screamed "There He Is" which prompted John Green to go scuttling under ..yes under the stage floor!!..430 local people turned up The girls looked like angels  &  the men all looked like Tom Cruise..The Dancing was out of this world Angels of note :Rosemary , Sadie , the 2 Jjs Jud  &  Jan ..Do, Sexy Susan from the Wirral  &  Beryl the Peryl from Notty ash ..Gillian  &  Julie Chris  &  Chuff Flash  &  Tim all danced chatted  &  embraced this heavenly atmosphere.. Pete Roberts danced with everyone except me .. &  then the dream gets a bit Foggy .... &  Stokes Finest Sir John Obrien enters the arena with a saintly Posse in tow  &  I get to present him with a Football on Behalf of Dave Evison  &  STOKE CITY FC ..Robbo presented him with A Twisted Wheel cheque in the sum of £57million pound ( That Must of been some Charity night!!)..As the night drew to a close groups of angelic soulies surrounded the wheel mobile chatting  &  hugging  &  laughing till de early ours ..we left bound for de duck pond at 3 am we saw Derby in the near distance  &  quickly did a u turn as we made our way up the a34 two officers of the Staffs Force stopped us  &  diverted us thru these "Twilight bZone" woods. 3 hrs later we arrived back at the Duck Pond I had never seen Greeny so HAPPY...Pete got out at the DOG  &  PARTRIDGE  &  after giving me a glass of vimto  &  a bag of pork scratchings  &  with tears in his eyes yelled "WHAT A BEAUTIFUL NIGHT , WHAT GREAT PEOPLE WHAT GREAT MUSIC!!"......It was foggy again I was in Middleton on yet another diversion when I woke up ...from this gorgeous dream about this scumptious soul night I had in the Vale Of dreams.....I was aroused from my slumber by Pete Roberts who phoned to ask ( and of course after every dream comes a night mare) Where I was  &  why I had missed the WHEEL for the first time in years!!!!I told him I had slept in ..well Pete said you missed the best WHEEL EVER scoring 78billion million trillion out of 10.......It was de best ever NEVER ever ever ever ever ever to be beaten .."  &  you missed it Goldie!!!!"..." Oh no " I yelled " Did anyone ask where I was " ..." No Goldie" "Not A soul"...Oh Woe is me!!!!!!!! any way lets look to the future IN 2 weeks we launch HMS SHAMELESS MAIDEN VOYAGE 27th June that is`nt a dream that will be a REAL CRACKER.....yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee Goldiexxxxxxxxxxxxx vinny hi all just to say a big thanks to each and everyone of the 400 plus who attended PORT VALE and made it a brill night,thanks to pete roberts,john green,goldie,OB ,the vale staff and not forgetting dave evison for the signed stoke ball ob was made up dave even though it was put in a VALE bag lol,also thanks to mary and nick for the mentions,stay tuned for the next one Colin Elstob from Colorado Mary thank s for the top four singles being played, it did not sound too bad from my end, i hope it opens another option regards more X-pats having there top three Northern or sould traks played..... hope kevin Williams is listerning, and he can contact me direct on colinhouston1@yahoo.com Bob "E" Thanks for the set from the dude in the US. I enjoyed his music. Colin that's his name. Sylvia Dean Good show last week Mary!! On the note of ex-pats can I give a plug for Chae in New Zealand. He has a cracking radio show which is on UK Sunday morning 8-10 but has been known to go over another hour!! It was excellent this morning and what was fun is there is a live forum so comments are made as records are played!! Chae has an impressive collection, and I am sure would entertain your listeners. But there are quite a few english listeners anyway!! go to www.northernsoul.co.nz and follow the usual links a good website to follow!!C`mon Chae down to you now to contact Mary!! Julie Hey Mary, You deserve a medal some weeks (wink wink mention no names) I just wanted to tell you my soul story....When I was 4 or five (this would have been 1967-1968)my older sister used to play records like 'Hey girl don't bother me' Tams and 'soul sister brown sugar' Sam  &  Dave . So I was born to soul.My Sister (Chris) married John and when I was 13 I had my Noerthen experiance via vinyl embeddeded into my being.Although I went to school with people who went to youth clubs where 'soft' Northern was being played I went with them but it never compared to my deep morthern roots and although I know that youth clubs played a big part in the scene I seemed to side trackthem and have become a 'Northern' snob!!!!!!I used to go to Palais All dayers in Nottingham and on friday nights I went to The Brit (under age I'm afraid).I wasn't old enough to go to nighters and I always cursed the fact that I sould have been born two or three years later!!Mary, there are a lot of female fans like me who are not coming out and telling their story on a personal level.I would like to come on the show one day and speak up for the females on the scene. Northern soul talks of love most of the time and I'm sure the blokes would not feel the way they do about the music if they didn't think about a lost or new love when they hear or dance to 'THE MUSIC',Keep on keepin on. Julie Pete Dyson (Manchester).12/6/09. Hi,Mary/Nick,as i have not been intouch with the Mess-bo for some time,i wondered if you could play a trak for "Your,s Truly!"...,CLOVERS("Love Potion Number No.9")or THE CASTAWAYS ("Liar Liar").Both would be great Mary,I,m not greedy!!!.Cheer,s,good show,Pete Dyson("I Think???"). TO HERMAN SHEFFIELD Thanx Alan for your words of encouragement. I know from the mesbo you've had your share of illness, Ihave had many messages wishing me well and ive done well coping and being positive but a question to you is how do you cope with the bad days? Last week was the first time I let my head drop and felt pessimistic,and thats not me...Im a sod at anylysing things and ive gotta get myself sorted-any ideas? 56 days in hospital this year and I dont want to see another hospital in my life. OK I know some might say its understandable to have a downer after whats just happened but honestly its very rare I get down.After my tumour came back and took all the feelings out of my left hand side I thought nothing else can happen but how wrong I was Ihad a pulminary embolism,trust me you dont wanna get one of those, then to top things off I got a chest infection that put me back in ward 1 with severe hallucinations.So Alan, any tips bout hangin in will be appreciated. Im looking forward to the barge trip and once again it would be fab to see faces from the mesbo names, so if you want a beer and some snappin come to see captain goldfish Pete R Jimlad macdonald, micky rooney,Frank Gierak and myself on Sunday week we will be moored up as close to the foxley as possile. ps who are the FFF? WE COME IN PEACE Bobby(Rhyl) great show Mary colorado visitor was interesting music was mixed i thought the monitors track was poor but to each their own my favourite motown track is get ready by the temptationsmy fathers favourite motown was baby i got it jimmy ruffinBobby Kev Bourne Hi Mary, Hope you are well, could you please inform your listeners that Crewe Soul Club now have a new website at: www.soulclubcrewe.webs.comThank youKev IT'S ALL IN THE GAME well done stoke city!!!! hello again Mary/ everbody.Still looking forward to hearing that DE 45 on next weeks show(send your record fairy to spec savers!!).Sorry to bring the crazy subject of football onto the MB.But i just had to say well done to STOKE CITY for last seasons fantastic finishing league finishing position.NICK etc you should be really proud of them all.They play football with passion and 'guts' and reflect their manager's principles etc.He reminds me of the old fashioned managers of the 1960's and 1970's when i used to go to MAINE RD (a fan now for 45 years now!!!and CITY till i die!!)week in week out(and could afford the ticket prices etc)Keep hold of him as long as possible ,he is GOLD.He motivates his team and has kept them in the Premiership.WE AT 'MIDDLE EASTLANDS' would swap you with our ex red (put you to sleep) manager guy anyday!!!!If CR is worth 80 mill (but at least we will be able to watch him in the LL next season)and he is a great modern player.How much would the great ,late George Best and the best player i have ever seen in a sky blue shirt .The legend that is COLIN BELL .What would they be worth at today's values??Had to laugh when i was away in the USA.Made a big effort to watch the ECL final in Rome.The 'red S.C.'s' thought they had already won that cup before they kicked off!!!(win it 2or 3 times in a row my backside )However, the great BARCA showed them what we have been watching all last season .what a great team they really are.Lets hope 'CITY' use some of that oil money and bring in some strikers (who can hit the back of the net)for next season.Then we should be OK.Sorry to go on so much about football as i know that this is a music MB.Thanks for your understanding.Feel better now i have had my 'rant'Mary at the next opportunity,please would you play IT'S ALL IN THE GAME by EDDIE HOLMAN (not the 4TOPS,although i love their version )the EH deserves a play because you never here it these days.For all the football/northern soul fans who read and listen to my 'rubbish'and here's to next season and the coming world cup in SA 2010.KTF JINKSY AND THOSE MURCIANSps ROB from Cadiz we have your drink up here too.But we put some SANGRIA in as well,gives it an extra kick!!!!and puts the MURCIANS to 'sleep' at night! Rob(Cadiz) Mary, good show yet again. Nice variety of stuff. It made my Friday night and listened to it into the early hours after getting home late from the bar. Eye Up Ecky: Interesting comments I thought. I don’t really care (or often know) what colour the label was of a given song but i do know quality music when i hear it and all aspects of STAX and artists that have appeared on the great label have produced classic music that has stood the test of time in their different genres, in my opinion. Although it was by no means their main area of operations, I love all the bluesy stuff and have collected the likes of Little Milton, Albert King, Little Sonny and Freddie Robinson for 30 years but I also love the Memphis Soul of all the classic STAX artists (Issac, Staples, Eddie Floyd, etc etc) alongside the Gospel stuff and then of course STAX artists moved onto the likes of Atlantic, Hi and all the other classic Soul labels that tried to compete with Motown. I like to hear anything from any of these great Soul exponents if it gets my foot tappin’. Im not an expert by any means but I know what I like and don’t restrict myself by worrying about the colour of a label…and in the case of STAX, it’s also a totally interesting story to boot with the racial mixes of Steve Cropper, Issac, David Porter, Donald Dunn etc etc all playing integral roles in the development of the label through a set of circumstances that threw them together at STAX. We should take each great label in turn and pay homage….maybe start an Atlantic rush of requests to appreciate their rich contribution to the Soul world and then move onto Okeh and then Philly, Cameo-Parkway, Invictus, Brunswick….the list would be long. You’re safe selecting any solid Soul sound from the labels you mentioned, its all good stuff. Loved your selection of “Soul Finger”….always had a soft spot for it….reminds me of a couple of old mates. Hope that helps with the confusion you mentioned. Nice to hear that the Sharon Jones/Dapkings Records connection is being fruitful in terms of introducing us to some new music. I was hoping it would. Generally, I really like the stuff they are doing and the story of their label is also a fascinating one if you delve a bit deeper. Always enjoy a re-run of Billy Butler….sometimes the thought of it doesn’t appeal cos it was played so much but once it starts it never fails to get you dancing and well, lets be honest….you could listen to Tony Clarke just about all day and still be dancing. How about playing Wrong Man by Tony Clarke…it’s a moody cracker and I love having a groove to it. Cheers, Rob BEACHBRIT Thanks for yet another great show. We listen here in the office in Hollywood Florida. You have a few American fans who hang out in my office and generally make a nuisance of themselves. It's a great lead in to the week end as I only have an hour after your show before knocking off time. MARK BOBEN hi mary, Im mark living in marmaris,turkey. expat from kidsgrove, (missing the oatcakes, ha ha). its true...great show ... as always. would you please play barbara mills - Queen of Fools. Thanx from mark. p.s. coming in loud and clear via the internet. Alan How a about playing crying all night,Watson T Browne.Great tune. Chris Savory Hello Ecky. Any Stax/Atlantic stuff - yellow, blue or even the later red. Volt, Enterprise, Gospel Truth (Josie Jo Armstead is a classic on this label), even early Satellite releases. You mentionm Albert King - I saw him at Birmingham Town Hall - absolutely mind blowing. "Crosscut Saw" is a favourite cut of mine as well as the 10min+ "Blues Power". Keep 'em coming Ecky - you are now a member of the Stax/Atlantic gang. P.S. re my last message: should have read 'able to drive' NOT dive!!!!!!! It's the tablets I blame. Ray and lydia Hi Mystery person writing about the Monitors. Yep certainly have heard Number One in your Heart Brought"Greetings! were the Monitors" TML/STML (if you were lucky enough to have stereo)in Newquay Cornwall in 1971 (Bit slow on the uptake there, released in 1969 but life was a lot slower then unless you were dancing lol. What a belter of an LP with lots of semi stompers on it Number one in your heart for one, plus Time will pass you by, Serve yourself a cup of happiness etc,etc. If you were lucky enough to get hold of "Since I lost you girl" on VIP 25039 then on the B side you also had "Don't put off till tomorrow what you can do today" (Contrary to what was promoted an a previously unreleased track on Cellerfull of Motown volume 1). Since I lost you girl was released 1966 and by the time the punters here in GB had the opportunity to get hold of a Monitors LP it was made up by a mix of tracks recorded over several years (similar Irresistable Tammi Terrell) As for Since I lost you Girl being the best Tamla Motown record ever well beauty is in the eye of the beholder and it's only Thursday. All the best Ray and lydiax Trev Reynolds To Pete Sco, Thanks for the info on the Luckey Davis Track, Can you tell me were i can get it Vinyl, CD, Tape, Or MP3. HerMan(Allan from Sheffield.) Hi Mary,As usual great show last week and Goldie and Petes contribution ,truelly awesome,loking back over the last few weeks, one of the other highlights was of course Nick's couple of weeks and his spot last week but ALSO THE TRACK you played for Twiggy by O.C.Smith,"The Wichata Lineman,"now usually Twigg's musical choices don't co-incide with mine but on this occasion they did, hi-five Twiggy for that.Perhaps he would like the following,"The Hesitations,"To Dream the Impossible Dream," or B.J.Thomas,"I Don't Have A Mind of My Own,"or Sugar Pie DeSanto,"Do I Make Myself Clear," or perhaps two from Baby Washington on the Sue label,Firstly,"That's How Heartaches Are Made," and secondly,a cver of the Timi Yuro classic,"It'll Never Be Over For Me," any of these Mary or perhaps all of them over the next couple of weeks would do,nudge,nudge ,wink,wink especially as my birthday is coming up shortly on the 23rd of the month,June that is.Lastly to John(OB) keep your strength up and keep fighting John,I know its hard and can seem that there is no let up, but always know that we are all with you in your fight and after all you've got to keep those reprobates Goldie and Pete Roberts in their places on this cruise of yours.Yours As Always K.T.F.HerMan(Allan from Sheffield.) Ecky June 10th - STAX - Chris Savory and Rob (Cadiz) I’m really pleased you have championed Stax to be played on the show, although I am a little confused, maybe you can help. Are we talking about the old blue Stax label or do you include the later Yellow (clicking fingers) also? I’m not sure what I can nominate for instance I have Sam  &  Dave and Otis R records on Stax and Atlantic (and other labels), so don’t you want to hear the Atlantic ones? I also have a very Bluesy (blue) Stax record – Albert King – I Love Lucy (nothing to do with the old TV Prog), which doesn’t easily fit in the Soul scene. I’m not criticising, I love the Southern Soul grittiness of the old Stax and Atlantic labels – really soulful stuff, I just wanted to add to the debate. I guess I’m safe suggesting The Bar Kays – Soul Finger for the next show please Mary. Soulong for now Ecky Good Time Charlie !!!...suggested R & B Garnett Mimms- There goes my Baby !!!...Lovely... Nick Marshall Trevor Reynolds - the tarck you asked about is by Luckey Davis. The 45 was on the Highland label, and it appeared on a Goldmine CD called "Hot wax 3" Ian Edwards Hi Mary,Hope to be at The Wheel Sunday,not been for a while,hope to entice some to Bilston in October,can I ask,what has happened to the big family we used to have,we dont hear from some people anymore,what has happened to the lovely Wheelettes,such lovely ladies,but not heard for ages from them,I hope they are all ok.We all used to be such a big group of friends but now it seems as though as we have gone different ways.From my point of view I hope to see loads of you at Bilston this time again,you came before please come again,you are friends and are all welcome,Hi to Big Andy,Goldie,Brav,Sylv and Joe,and Pete and John,and The Foxley Boys,and Jen,Kath and Carol,hope to hear from you and hope to see you 22nd October in Bilston,can we get thisbig happy family back were it was,and god bless OB,who is always in our thoughts. GOLDIE CAPTAIN HMS SHAMELESSdstwpslcCH.spoqten Okay briefly Marys show this Friday yipeeeeeeeeee 7pm till 9 cant wait!!! Port Vale Soul Emporium Vinnie Soulshakin evening with the soulies with Roberts  &  His Royal Highness Sir John Green :the finest DJs around!! 13th Sat= Go there if u love Soul!!!! Sunday `s marvellous Matinee in de place where it all began THE TWISTED WHEEL MANCHESTER 3 till 8 a Man A Liver on de door JUST GO u know it makes sense !!!..Voyage of Chaos on Schedule ==all crew  &  your humble Captain READY TO GO!!! SAT 27th June...(contact number)07954727668 call this number during trip for LOCATION of de BARGE of Hope  &  Glory HMS shameless..THE WHEEL IS ON as usual FRIDAY 26th June!!!!!...Sniffer  &  the Sniffettes are on tour will prob be At THE PORT VALE SOUL sizzler Saturday..yipeeee To-days 3 WHEEL CRACKERS: "Count The Days" Inez  &  Charlie.."Bet You Never Thought " Gene chandler  &  " Walk ON The Wild Side " Jimmy Smith..Oh My God its Wednesday love Wednesdays yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee Goldiexxxxxxxx PLEASE NOTE IAN MAC Doncaster I lost your contact numbers please foreward to goldiescool@aol.com cheers Chris Savory Hello Mary, as enjoyable as ever - "Zig Zag Lightning' and "Wang Dang Doodle" raise the hearbeat of an oldster like myself. No requests this week but would endorse the messageboard request for Booker T's 'My Sweet Potato'. Thanks for playing the Newcomers - great underated group. Just to let everyone know that I'm out of hospital and recovering. I now know what OB must go through!! He has my heartfelt admiration and support. I love the amount of good R & B that is being featured. I can remember a classic that used to fill the floors down south - Lazy Lester 'Lover Not A Fighter' - classic sound for us old mods. Keep up the good work. One of these days when I'm allowed to dive again I'll try and get to the Foxley. best motown record (PROBABLY) ??????? ray I'm glad you used the word Probably when you said the Monitors {since i lost you girl} (1967) VIP 25039. was the best motown record of all time? you must be joking its not even the best record that the Monitors have done, let alone the best motown record of all time? the better Monitors record for me and a lot of others is "NUMBER ONE IN YOUR HEART"...if you know it? "Sunday Afternoon Soul Session" @ The Wheel. THIS SUNDAY 14TH OF JUNE ITS THE TWISTED WHEEL CLUBS "SUNDAY AFTERNOON SOUL SESSION" PLAYING THE BEST IN 60's SOUL  &  RnB CLASSICS IN THE ORIGINAL BASEMENT CLUB. WITH Djs PETE ROBERTS AND JOHN GREEN @ 6 WHITWORTH STREET. MANCHESTER CITY CENTRE. NEXT TO PICCADILLY RAILWAY STATION  &  CAR PARK, TWO FANTASTIC ROOMS. 3PM TILL 8PM ***** £5 POUNDS ON THE DOOR. HOPE TO SEE YOU ON SUNDAY. Pete xx. soash New WHEEL forum site now up and running. Click on the links page from Pete and John's Wheel site. Log on, listen to some sounds and have a chat at the same time!! Charlie Waring Many thanks to Goldie and John Green for the info about the Wheel, also in total agrement about Pete,s policies about the Wheel, if it changed it would be ruined and would kill the real authenticity of the Best R & B Club in the world, see you at the Wheel sunday,Best Regards, to All, GoodTimeCharlie, Bye4Now... Sylvia Dean I too, would like to comment on Fridays show and the sheer enthusiasum that Pete and Goldie have about the Wheel. The wheel is unique and Pete is spot on about keeping to the music policy. Ther are lpots of very good soul venues all around England and the current scene is very much alve and equally enthusiatic.The venues we attend and the people that run them are equally positive and have their own take on soul.The Wheel is the Wheel and long may it continue as it was in the 60`s and testament today that great music lives on forever. KTF Ray and Lydia Hi Mary Hope everything is OK with you. Could you play "Since I Lost You Girl" by The Monitors for Joan, Pat and Anne and The Foxley Soul brothers Six please. Sad song but probably the best Tamla Motown record of all time! See you all at the Foxley open day on June 21st! Ray and Lydiax Chris Williams Pete's policy at The Wheel is 'bang on'. The proof is there to be seen on the Sunday sessions (Can't do the Friday one's due to DJing commitments) For those of us who go regularly - that's what we go for. The atmosphere is awesome (as I've stated before)Pete is a great guy to talk to, always open to suggestions (of a music nature!)and no big ego. The people who visit from all over are a crackin' bunch. We could fill a coach with Stokies and its great to meet up with old friends from all over. Absolutely love it. Can't wait for this Sunday! Sunday after (June 21st) is the Outer Circle Scooter Club Open Day at The Foxley in Milton, Stoke-on-Trent - hope the weathers good, great day last year looking forward to this one - then the week after OB and the Pirates of the Canal mooring down at The Foxley. Top stuff! Good luck to Pete and the crew at the Vale - see you Sunday - Ahoy there me hearties! Chris, Steph  &  Andy VINNY SOULSHAKER hi folks and a big thanks to all who have purchased tickets for the port vale do this sat june 13th 8 till 2 loads sold but you can still pay on the door a diver TWISTED WHEEL djs PETE ROBERTS and sniffer the parrot, JOHN GREEN, special slot from guest dj dance steward compere comedian and long boat technical adviser, steerer turn left for go WRIGHT s pies liverpuddles GOLDIE xx yipeeeeee plus yours truly VINNY hopefully if OB s up to it as well for his little pressie? hope to see you all there and then on sun 14th next day is TWISTED WHEEL session 3 till 8 phew, stay well all PeteSco..MON 8/6/09.. TREV RETNOLDS..its not where you start,,is by LUCKEY DAVIES,,and is on the Highland label,,about £50 nowadays.. Pat GREAT SHOW FRIDAY PETE ROBINS SELECTIONS REALLY TOUCHED THE SPOT ERIC  &  ERNIE  &  SNIPPER SO FUNNY PAT "Chaffin-Carol",(Chester). "GOOD-SOUND,S",on the Soul Show,Mary.Gud Guest,s last week,Pete Roberts,Manchester, & "OLDIE",Liddiepool. "ACE" Show!.Mary,could you play,"Seesaw"(Don Covay),cos I,m, "Chaffin-Carol",.Regard,s,(p). Brett A couple of comments about last Friday’s show.Firstly, I thought PETE's record choices were easily the best that I've ever heard from a guest. He also went on to clarify the music policy at the Wheel, which I fully support because, as far as I know, it’s the only place still operating from the original soul scene. When I went to the Wheel in the sixties, it was primarily a Mod club that played a mix of Soul, RnB, Motown and Ska. Pete is right to stand by his policy because that is what defines the Wheel and sets it apart from all the other venues. I think the numbers that attend the Wheel these days, most of whom could not have attended in the sixties, speaks volumes for that music policy. Secondly, thanks to NICK for his tribute the late Koko Taylor, who has always been a favourite of mine. I can understand why he had problems finding a track, other than ‘Wang Dang Doodle’, suitable to play. A track of hers that I still play regularly is called ‘Fire’ (on What It Takes – The Chess Years LP) and would love to hear that played on the show, which would be my tribute to her. Billy Barking, " Broadway",Manchester. Hi,B/rad/Stoke,MaryFox.As a first time Listener, I would like to say how much I enjoy the Music on your Show!. I would like you to ask a guy called, Pete Robert,s, from Manchester,to do a slot on your Show!,It may be hard to persuade him Mary,as the Lad is Re,Known for his ,"SHYNESS".Could you give the lad a "SHOUT" on your Show Mary, &  play "ON BROADWAY"(The Drifter,s)for him,I know he listen,s to your Show,  &  he is your Biggest Fan."Soulfully" your,s,Billy Barking,("AS-IS"),with,"GUSTO!!!",Manchester. Trevor Retnolds Hi Can Anyone Tell me the Artist who did the fist track that mary's guest played on the 29th May the record is ( Not where You Start)Can Anyone help Trev Reynolds THE WHEEL ON WATER 27 June 09 First of all great being on Marys show with Goldie and Sniffer the Parrot on Friday Night, the Film that was recorded at the Twisted wheel Club is called "KEEP ON BURNING" and Goldie did a fine job and kept a straight face through out (I didn't) Hello to Pete Dyson, and hello to Twiggy, get yourself down to the Port Vale Club for the Soul Night on Sat 13th of June (Goldie said) we have not seen you for ages Mate!! Goldie,OB,Pete,Mickey Rooney,Jim Lad,Frank Le Plank and the Gorgeous Mary Fox  &  Sniffer the Parrot are looking forward to seeing you all on the 28th of June (Sunday) for OB's Birthday Party onboard H.M.S Shameless!! Phone Goldie for details on 07954727668 plenty of Grog and Snacks onboard yipeeeeeee 19 Days to launch day!! The Soul Ship departs Black Prince Dock on the 27th of June.. May God Be With Us!! And Bless All Who Sail On Her!! Tattoo's half price for the first 10 onboard.. And a freebie for Queen Mary Fox. Pete xx. GOLDIE Yesterday was de best day I have ever ever ever ever ever ever had on de soul circut scoring 77000zillion million billion thousand trillion out of 10 IT WAS THAT Good ...OB is doin ok!!!....Pete  &  I were taxied around de potteries by the Duke of Westlake Vinnie soulshaker ..The club rooms at the Vale are superb ...Next Sat OB will be coming along to recieve a special award ..John Green  &  Peter Roberts are providing the Music with a little elp from me ..200 tickets sold but you can pay a deep sea diver on de door Oh wat a nite this will be ITS NOT SOCCER ITS SOUL..Come along  &  enjoy!!!!The Black Prince Boat yard is THE IDEAL LAunch PAD FOR HMS SHAMELESS ..PETE  &  I so impressed with the facilities  &  de vessell itself ..A big thanx to Steve ....FOR THOSE wishing to join the crew for light entertainment  &  refreshments please call 07954727668 between the 27th June  &  2nd July ALL VISITORS welcome !!!!!..Pete  &  I enjoyed the pies at Wrights ... great to see the Torch plaque in HOSE St..Really fab to be on Marys show  &  surely any listener would have picked up on the genuine , wholesome , soulful HUMOUR yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee style atmosphere in Mary`s studio as this diverse clan found themselves in the same chamber betwixt 7pm  &  8 Gunner Pete ,Myself Captain Horatio Goldfish ,, Queen Mary  &  King Nick...ta Mary great to be there...Natalie was very kind with the bevarages  &  off air banter cheers Natxxxx..Maureen the cleaner was fabulous  &  joined in....YOU ARE$ A CHILD OF DE UNIVERSE MO!!!!! &  yes YOU CAN COME TO the CAULDON TO CLEAN BARGE "HAPPY GO lUCKY"...Sniffer de parrot was rushed to de vets hospital at 2am in de morning shaking  &  swearing in a cold sweat  &  he keeps screeching "SHUT UP GOLDIE" "SHUT UP GOLDIE" Gunner Roberts said the specialist said he will be alright JUST NEEDS A GOLDIE FREE WEEK"""..Dont we all ????..The Documentary is called " KEEP ON BURNING" filmed at the Wheel  &  starring Pete  &  I...hee hee.. &  others.. will be out in October ....Mick  &  Linda love ya 2 bits SEE YOU NEXT SUNDAY ..Charlie Waring it is ON SUNDAY 14th C U THERE!!! To the crew OBY DICK , My self HONEST JOHN GOLDIE , Gunner Roberts, Looney Rooney, Jim Lad ( love de beard) Frank de plank HE GETS SWORN In to-day !!! MaRY OUR RADIO HOSTESS WITH THE MOSTESS (HAS BOOKED A COUPLE NIGHTS THRU GUNNER pete) URWELCOME mARY BE GREAT 2 C YA! it is NEARLY "sailtime" GUYS .. 19 DAYS and away we go GANG YIPEEEEEEEEEE..OB , PETE  &  I had a Chinese last night ( meal that is )  &  chatted till the early hours ..WE is ready for DE CRUISE OF CHAOS 27th JUne lunchtime launch ..MOORED BY THE FOXLEY MILTON FOR THE ALLOTTED 24hrs on Sunday 28th to celebrate OB`s Birthday...MORE IN FO to follow !!!!..Ian Macdonald YES ..Hilary a great girl WE used to meet up at THE WHEEL ...then go Dolphin cafe ..the the Stax .. Then Top Twenty in Oldham ..then back to Donnie where I met all the crowd at the ATTIC above the Co-op..I used to see her home the go up to Fred Bensons in Scunthorpe  &  stop over ..OH Ian lovely soul Wheel crowd 68 thru till 70 Hilary was a real pal  &  dance partner we socked it to em along with the Lincoln , Notts  &  Derby . Stoke .crowd great days great people  &  MACK ITS BETTER NOW HOPE TO SEE U on de 14th you will spot me I AM STILL UGLY  &  BORING ..GO DE WHEEL U KNOW IT MAKES SENSE !!!! HAPPY ANIVERSARY TO mY WIFE SHELL YOU ARE THE BEST WIFE I HAVE EVER EVER EVER EVER EVER EVER HAD scoring a billion trillion zillion out of 10 phew11 to days track THIS IS THE CAPTAIN OF YOUR SHIP Raparata  &  THE DELRONS ..Goldie yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx CU at the PORT VALE cL:UB on de 13th foe Vinnies Fabulous Soul Sizzler  &  THE OF COURSE THE TWISTED WHEEL SUNDAY MARVELLOUS MATINEE OF LOVE HOPE COURAGE  &  SOUL CLASSICS AT PETES place THE TWISTED WHEEL MANCHESTER 3pm ---8pm a lady godiva on de door GOODNIGHT  &  GOD BLESS GOLDIE ps I am 56 years of age seriously ( ASK PETE)xxx 'PRESSGANGIN' ' IN MURCIA GOLDIE and PETER another 'classic' performance on the MF show 5/06/09.You have become a 'must' here!!!!!Can't believe you have an engine in your 'old tub' what with price of diesel etc.Get some oars and a sail its alot cheaper.Can i offer you the 'MURCIANS' as galley slaves??When i can get them out of their cavehouses of course!!!!They can row to the beat of northern soul etc(free for all would be a good start!)!!!!!!Mary,If you have got any room on next weeks show please can you play.A 45 i picked up in the US for 50cents (yes 50 cents).Its the b side of DONNIE ELBERT'S ARE YOU READY (willing and able).The track is called YOU KEEP ME CRYING circa 1979.If you listen to it .I think it sounds just like another DE well known 45.But just at this moment in time i cannot remember which one !!!!Please play it for OB (how are things at the moment?)and of course for GOLDIE and PETE who keep us crying with laughter everytime they grace your show with their fantastic performances.KTF JINKSY AND THOSE LAZY MURCIANS. sylvia dean to the PIKEYS ARMS MOB !!Its ooh arrr from Devon.. though I night add we ARE from the midlands!!! (and proud of it!!!)Joe and I hope t0 make it on board HMS Shameless we both have our sea legs!! Shall we bring some DEVOn pasties ?? and a bit of cider maybe??? let us know KTFxx mick oliver Hi Mary hope your break went well big thanks to Nick for playing Jnr Walker,s Sweet Soul the other week fantastic to hear it just need to hear Golden World Strings Super Time now and i will be made up.Show gets better every wk love the diversity of it and some of the new stuff is really good never met OB but would just like to wish him all the best in everything he does and keep his spirits up and along with everyone else Iam rooting for you mate Twiggy To The Murcians, i have to agree with you about The CD Battle of the Bands, i don't know to much about Black Ivory but as you know The Cd covers all or nearly all ODDS AND ENDS stuff, i picked mine up for 3 quid un-opened, I have seen other Battle of the Bands Cd's but covering different tastes and styles, i'm pretty sure that if you get hold of the right specalist lists the there ain't much that hasn't been released onto a CD and whats more satisfying is they are cheap.Dionne Warwick as a few Cheap cds out and there are some belters on um so it worth taking a chance.glad to help Rob(Cadiz) To Tony (Hightown): How can i find out about more Southport Soul events....especially around Xmas or New Year time. Cheers. Rob John Green Charlie Waring - Wheel.Next Wheel is on SUNDAY 14th June. BIG UP FOR TWIGGY FROM MURCIANS twiggy,sorry in my last posting to thank you for the info about the battle of the bands cd.Managed to pick up a copy in the US for a bargin price on the sequel label.really like this item .so many thanks for your help with this matter etc.Notice that the cd is 'round one' are there anymore cd's in this series?Well back to the 'barcos'!KTF JINKSY AND THE MURCIANS Charlie Waring !!!... Anybody on here tell me if the Wheel is on this coming sunday or the 14th, the week after ???...Also Best Wishes to OB, from Myself, Roy and my Angie... Pat Boulton Totally agree with Rob(Cadiz) the board is dominated by a few comediens.Sam Dees is a new sound to me but enjoyed it as I am attempting to wean myself of the old school in order to graduate from being an anorak. Tinto de verano sounds wonderful and I am trying to patent the Stokies' version as we have sun here too.Mary I would love to hear My Sweet Potato by Booker T. perfect for these summer nights. My husband has just resurrected our old Bang  &  Olufsen (Vintage state of the art circa 1972) and we are spending nughts playing the old vynl. One I have enjoyed is Ric Tic Relics LP released by Motown in the 70's with Please Let Me IN JJ Barnes etc etc....Great show. Twiggy To Chaz Hatcher, lets face it Chaz, you can laugh at some making themselves sound stupid, i personally think some people who didn't get anywhere were or did have got something regarding talent, its about opinions and what gets me is Simon Cowell being a judge, anybody please tell me what talent as he ever had so how come he thinks hes a good judge, I watched it because i was hoping just maybe there might be something up my street and there was with the Clarinetist, Clarinets are a lot harder to play so my mate as told me who also plays the Sax, it would have made my day to see the guy win it but Britain is becoming GREAT at OVERLOOKING TRUE TALENT, i would have also loved getting MIDNIGHT MOTION to the Clarinetist or Chaz how about him banging out Junior Walkers Walk In The Night or maybe RIDING HIGH ON LOVE, i just think the song he chose just didn't have the right thing going for it but pretty sure the guy will be a star and he didn't seem to have an ego like some in entertainment have got. Chaz one more point it would be nice if The BBC gave Simon Cowells show SOME COMPETION but the luvvies who run The BBC just haven't got a bloody clue what us viewers want, its up to The BBC to find something different but talent scouts are like football scouts they all have these badges and qualifications but don't seem to have much else when recognising True Potential, I have had a word with Mary about the Bad treatment that was dished out to that young pianoist, the judges told her mate to ditch her on NATIONAL TELEVISION on Simon Cowells say so, the girl got dumped by her friend because her lust for stardom meant more, the poor girl was heartbroken and what gets me is this she actully played the piano pretty well so i have asked Mary if poss get the girl a break on her show get her to do HURT SO BAD or WADE IN THE WATER by Ramsey Lewis the poor girl deserves her chance of stardom after those pillacks the judges embarrised the girl, Hey Chaz when you go on shows as an act then nothing should divide them and what those judges did was nothing more than disgraceful and its them that should have been told to go.TELE is just about as boring as it gets for me theres plenty of boring actors, footballers and entertainers and aren't alot of the films made today bloody CRAP, i play music alot or listen into Shows on the radio that play Soul Music, would love to see this film about the Soul Scene but alls gone quiet on that score we all should be making our own or making something to show the world that there are other ways of being entertained than watching Mr Cowell and an co. Rob(Cadiz) Great to hear you back in the hotseat Mary, great show in my opinion. I had a little moan about the MSGB but its only cos right after the show (for 2or 3 days) is when i love to contribute a message or two, see peoples reactions to the guests, songs and news in general and its frustrating to keep logging on ready for some interesting comments and keep drawing a blank for 3 or 4 days. Anyway, nothing could put me off the show in general as it certainly is the best out there, for me anyway. Ive been playing "Sam Dees' - "Lonely for you baby" a lot recently and have been totally captivated (again) by the power and emotion in the mans voice...so Soulful. What a great Soul sound. Could you play it please. Suns shining here and its time for a "Tinto de Verano" (local drink of red wine and sweetened soda water with plenty of ice and a generous slice and squeese of lemon)taken in pint glasses if you live in this town. Rob GOLDIE CAPTAIN HMS SHAMELESSdstwpslcCH.spoqten sorry missed that one YES IT WILL BE A PLEASURE TO DANCE AT DE PIKEYS yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeGx Chaz Hatcher Twiggy! Twiggy! You mean to say you watch that garbage - I wouldn't waste electricity on it! KTF GOLDIE CAPTAIN HMS SHAMELESSdstwpslcCH.spoqten Have More Time ..M.Smith a real WHEEL Cracker!!!!!!Heres 3 from Brasenose Street 1. Hit The Road Jack..2..Quarter To three( Gary U.S.Bonds 3. Jailhouse Rock.......Gonna see me mate  &  Gov OBY Dick on Friday have a look at the canal etc Just 22 days to "SAILTIME" HMS SHAMELESS Maiden voyage of Chaos ..Vinnies Soulshakin night at THE PORT VALE Club looms simply cant wait yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee....Pete Roberts in training always has a trowel / stripper in his hands these days Jim  &  Frank jogging away;;in anticipation the fabulous verbous Michael Rooney keeping in trim this master of the anecdote will be great company for the rest of us on de soul cruise The Goc OB is goin thru THE ITINARY  &  is playin footie to get my peak floe up OH MY GOD THIS BOAT TRIP WILL BE DE BIZ !!!!!....I promise you !!!! to days track NOBODY BUT ME ..BEN E KING  &  THER DRIFTERS...Captain of the ship  &  MASTER OF DE CAULDON ...HONEST JOHN SILVER CAPTAIN GOLDFISH yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee ITS MARY FOXES SHOW soon woooooooo x Goldiexxxxxxxxxxxxx The Pikeys Arms Mob Twas on the good ship Shameless, my god you should have seen them, the figurehead was Goldie in bed reading the Liverpool Echo.OK Captain Pugwash, if Long John Goldie doesn`t dance at The Pikeys Arms he can walk the plank on the cut, and you`ll get the black spot aaa arrrrhhh Mickey lad. ( taking speech lessons off Joe and Sylvia )Be good to see our old shipmate OB back to his regular drinking hole aaaa arrrrhhhhh Rob(Cadiz) Same messages since last Thurs....losing interest fast due to lack of care updating your listeners comments. Probably wont see this message anyway, same as the last one that justifiably complained about the time it takes to update the board. Im sure that Mary is extremely busy and i know she has other shows but surely a Radio Stoke person (other than our favourite DJ, Mary) can press a few buttons and update the MSGB. If im wrong and theres another reason more substantial then please let me know and i'll stand corrected. Rob Sylvia Dean Mary Its Levi Stubbs` Day this Saturday 6th June.Can you play I CANT HELP MYSELF ..One of the all time greats in my humble opinion and just superb vocals from Levi!! Chris Savory Great show Friday - your guest was articulate, well-spoken, and talked a LOT of sense - very interesting choice of records. Has that set the trend for the future. Little Anthony's son was working in the UK and he may still be a regular visitor to these shores. I have a contact number in my diary. My request for a STAX record this week - can you play "WHO'S MAKING LOVE" by Rufus Thomas. If not The Newcomers "KEEP AN EYE ON YOUR CLOSE FRIENDS". Rob (Cadiz) - that was a great Stax choice - I dug out my Soul Children albums after and had a listen to them. That makes two of us who want to champion Stax - anyone else out there dare to have a go and join the club? Jerry Butler wrote "I STAND ACCUSED" along with his brother Billy. Isaac Hayes did a version as well. Twiggy Hi Mary, thanks again for playing OC Smiths killer The Witchita Linesman, that recording of that song is just CRAVAT SOUL for me.The song takes me back as a young kid watching the trains go past my house, why oh why did we let that plonker shut down our railway lines, I just can't believe that nobody yet as tried to put a tram line or a little locomotive back onto the stretch of railway walks that are still there, i dunna know about LOVE TRAIN how about a SOUL TRAIN and what a tourist attraction it could be without destroying the trees and shrubs that have been planted along the stretch, its a great walk or bike ride going from Castle to Madeley or Castle to Chessy which ever fork in the line you pick to take, we as young kids ambushed the trains for a few lumps of coal we knew the train had to slow down to change direction so as it came from holditch pit we were ready, hey mary what we took, coal that is would hardly have warmed our cat up by the fire, times were hard but hey give me those times anyday, why clogg the roads up when we can make use of these great walks again, i guess one problem would be the do-gooders saying the trains are dangerous, many have lined their pockets over the closure of our Railway Lines i for one want um back and think that tourism just might be the way of doing that, just imagine tea for two going along at a nice steady pace, Talking of pace was that break dancer on britain gots talent with us, i didn't see him move and then the Big Flasher tried to dazzle us with her big knockers, some say those are talented one of those who say that is Simon Cowell, i just wonder after this final that will be the end of Mr Cowell, the show as run its course, If Mr Cowell is listening in hey get our railways back up and running as we remember them with a little help of his millions he would make a lot of people even more happy, Break Dancer my back side what a joke surely he was booked as a Comedian, i have seen a dead toad move faster than he did, one thing that might have been good for the Breaky is that he made a few quid ow't of it what alls he as he got i'll give him that oneand i'm after the others number bum bum, i would have loved to be a piece of ice in that champanye glass with that other steamy contestant, my heart nearly exploded and i thought Simon Cowell had swollowed his pen, did you see his eyes light up and poor peers he was besotted with her. So whos going to win, Well for SOUL MUSIC sake i hope The Clarinetist pulls it off i would love him to play Midnight Motion by Kenny G because i'm pretty sure with that Monster Instrumental the viewers wouldn't know what as hit um. Good Time Charlie... No cranks on here M8 !!!...Anyway I thought all soulies were mad, well they were forty years ago !!!...Havva Gud Weekend, all... GOLDIE CAPTAIN HMS SHAMELESSdstwpslcCH.spoqten Well wat a week  &  last night at the WHEEL topped it off beautifully..Summer nights at de WHEEL ..Quieter than usual but on a personal note THE BEST NIGHT I HAVE HAD  &  will this time never ever ever ever ever ever ever ever be bettered !!!!ON JUST a PACKET OF PORK SCRATCHINGS  &  A COUPLE of CANS OF PEPSI i gets meself in the bestest of moods ultra happy * energetic great to see Barry , Bret , Joan , Pat , Anne , Eric , cliff.. David , Jock , Brenda , Paula . Jean great dancin with de VELVETS on stage on de floor with Suzie , Marie , Barbara ( Firsttimer ) from North Allerton loved itxx ..Brian Rae did a fab set  &  is`nt it weird the later Peter Plays Touch Of velvet the better it sounds ..Pete  &  Greeny all in all gotta be de best djs around AND DEY IS GETTIN BETTER .The Wheel scoring points last night 9999900000 zillion billion million out of 10  &  recieves the Inez  &  Charlie award for Wholesome living yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee Next up take the grandaughter to feed the ducks  &  a sleep in the garden..God bless us all ..Stoke next week  &  again the week after for Vinnies Soul Blast PORT VALE club 13th June I is ready for that/Goldie!! To days track well what else "" Competition Aint Nothin ...if you really love this soul " Little Carl Goldfish .......Mike  &  Linda missed your prescence last night cant wait to see ya on the 14th June at CLUB HAPPY GO LUCKYxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxTo my dear crew members 27 days to go LETS GET READY FOR THE MAIDEN VOYAGE .. I is so fired up for this for this soul splash on de HMS SHAMELESS............YES !!!!!THERER WILL BE CONTACT NUMBERS FOR THOSE WHO WISH TO COME TO DE VESSEL OF LOVE ,HOPE, Faith  &  SOUL Gxxxxx JINKSY BACK IN ESPANIA FROM WAY OVER THERE!! hello again everbodyJust got back from our USA trip.Wow what stories etc we have to tell you all about.Picked up loads of cheap 45's ,LP's and cd's.We hope Mary will be happy to play some of these items over the next few months.But the most important news on our return is that we are to become grandparents again later in the year!!!It's a little girl this time and is to be called ZARA.Mary hope you enjoyed your trip to the fjords.It's a lovely part of the world.Did you 'put into' BERGEN?we have some Norwegian friends that live there.We spent a christmas over there in the 1990's.what a great experience.But there is not many daylight hours in the winter.mary, did you see any 'NORWEGIAN BLUES' flying near your ship or were they 'ALBATROSS'S' or 'STORMY PETROL'S ON A STICK'??This experience will be good training for you if you are planning to take part in a trip on HMS SHAMELESS in june!!OB, we are all thinking about you over here in Murcia.Sometimes with this dammed 'thing'.There are a few steps backwards before you can make a big leap forwards etc.One of my best friends back in the UK is currently spending time in Christies in manchester fighting the 'big C'and undergoing stem cell treatment.some days he is up and other days he is down but he is determined to beat it.He has plans to buy a 'casa' out here and join us as soon as he is well enough.We have found him a property close by and prices are bargins at this moment in time.he will not let the 'big C' stop him chasing his and his wife's dream.So OB, KEEP ON KEEPING ON.Mary please can you play on next weeks show WAY OVER THERE by EDWIN STARR for all the fantastic people we met and helped us out over there in the USA.Especially for DAYTONA DAVE and PERCY who helped me to find and buy some very nice vinyl and cd items.they have promised me they will try to listen to the show if they can find you on the internet.They cannot understand why we all in the UK value the 'music'so much.they prefer the 'beatles' and the 'police'etc.i know what i prefer!!!!So now the show may have gone international!!!Well time to round up the MURCIANS who have been running wild and living in 'cave houses' while we have been away!!Got to try to get a bit of 'sailing' in at the end of next week and check the 'barco's' out.KTF JINKSY AND THE MURCIANSps the 'WALLS' are still up!!! PeteSco..fri 29/5/09 many happy returns to 2 lovely soulies..ROSIE DIGGLES a lovely lady..and COLIN PULIZZI one of lifes great gentlemen,,God bless you both.. SCO.xxxx. Mike Moran Mary just a quick line to thank your experts on the message board. They correctly identified the track "Have More Time" by Marvin Smith from the incorrect lyrics I posted. Too many folks to mention but thanks again you know who you are and could you please play the track and dedicate it to them. Thank You Mike Moran, Ennis, Co Clare, Ireland MR REYNOLDS TO MR ROONEYEvening Mr Rooney,very funny message, it would be even funnier if i knew what the hell you were on about, not heard some of those jokes since infant school.Enoy your cruise, wherever you park your boat.As for you're invite, it would'nt have been fair on the others, not until your verbal diarrhea clears up "MYSTIC" Martha, & "MAVERICK" Minnie. Hi,Mary,Good Sound,s on ya Show Lass!!!.Thee take,s us back year,s with the,"SOUL"music on the "WIRELESS",make,s me  &  Minnie feel so,"PEACEFUL"(Georgie Fame).G/show,B/Stoke,Luv from, Martha &  Minnie Collyhurst,Manchester,(U.C.P.)CO-OPERATIVE.("RIBS & CABBAGE").xx. BEE NEXT HOLDITCH SOUL NIGHTFri 29th may 7.30-12.00£1 otd.RED LION SOUL NIGHTEvery sat 8.30-1.00free admission.Cheers. Mike  &  Linda Hi to Pete and Goldie Hope the filming of the Documentary went well, thank you both for your mention but let me assure you the pleasures all ours. No Goldie your right, i dont honestly think there's anywhere near as soulfull or friendly as the TWISTED WHEEL CLUB, it was certainally another fantastic sunday afternoon!Sadly we won't make friday night one hours sleep and then work almost killed me last time, and the customers weren't too impressed either watching the postie falling asleep on his bike and miss delivering their mail. Oh well i'll look forward to the Mary Fox show and the next WHEEL Sunday soul session. Oh by the way Pete that was me on soul source posting on the WHEEL thread who pinched your TWISTED WHEEL badge for my avatar. See you all soon Mike  &  Linda. sarah evison Hi Mary and all soulies out there! Dont forget, this Sunday at the Crown and Anchor in Stone Staffs between 8.30 and 11.30, Dave Evison will be doing 'his thang' (always the last sunday of the month) Including 60s and 70s Soul and Motown. Small Dancefloor, great beer and all importantly, the SOUL QUIZ...Come and test your knowledge! Great prizes to be won courtesy of Will and the team at the Crown and Anchor. Quiz isnt too hard, so come and have a bash...new faces always welcome.It would be great to see you. "SPIRIT OF SOUL",(Manchester). Hi,to OB!!!,"You Keep Strong John O,Brien",there,s 100,s of people that wish you Well!!!.(pd). Concerned stoke Soulie Lets ban the fffs off this site no room for cra nks here. Paul  & Clare Manchester We would like to visit hms Shameless for a few hours is there a contact number? Mike - Scholar Green When are you going to play Cleo's Mood - Jr Walker? Captain Goldfish DSTW PSLC CH Yippeeclub MD sopqte Yesterday my 100th visit  &  longest stay at the TWISTED WHEEL MANCHESTER 378 visits in all proved to be the BEST EVER scoring 99billion zillion million billion out of 10..........Pete R oberts was suberbly brilliant looking the part talkin de talk  &  walkin de walk WELL DONE PETE!..Marie..(Tears So Soulful), Gill excellent portrayal of the Wigan casino..Graham won the battle of the snorers gr4eat guy!! Neil R excellent ..Russ , Tim C ..Mr.T.did a fine job on de Northern front... &  THE film crew Julie xx Glynn , Byron  &  David were de best film crew I have ever ever ever ever ever ever ever ever ever ever worked with scoring 4000 zillion out of 10 KEEP IT BURNING GUYS!!!The film is 1hr 55 mins oh my God on my spot??? i spoke for 2 hrs/ oh never mind maybe they can use that for de Follow up .....CRUISE OF CHAOS on board the legally backed voyage THE HMS SHAMELess is upon us ..The family my wife  &  bros are NOW ..TOTALLY involved  &  have supplied me with ALL I NEED to Captain the amazing soul trek on de WATERS of de delightful CAULDON canal!!!!Shell bought nme the Captains hat .. My bro Derek has provided the Captains out fit the others are going to comb the cauldon on the 5th 6th  &  7 th June PETE ROBERTS  &  i will be in stoke that weekend dotting the eyes  &  leaving NO STONE UNTURNED in preparation for this memorable trip ..The boat will be visted by folk near  &  far  &  I am making arrangements for a contact number for those seeking the BARGE OF HOPE..FOR THE LOVE OF OB WE WILL MAKE SURE THIS EVENT is righteous  &  has the spiritual backing of everyone!!!!!!.Vinnies massive night at the PORT VALE club JUNE 13th looms  &  I SIMPLY CANT WAIT yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee Marys show to morrow  &  then OH MY GOD back in the absolutely brilliant TWISTED WHEEL MANCHESTER yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee your proud  &  happy  &  well not bad lookin Goldie  &  here is another yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee for you , take it off this message board  &  Put it in ya soul Gxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx To days record NOTHIN CAN STOP ME GENE GOLDFISHxxx Rob(Cadiz) Hey Chris Savory: Love the fact that you are trumpeting some STAX appreciation. How about playing "The Soul Children - Hearsay" or "Eddie Floyd - Raise your hand". I had the pleasure of seeing Eddie Floyd live in central Europe. He did a superb solo set of 60's Soul and then appeared later in the evening taking the "Jake" role in a live gig from the Blues Brothers (with Steve Cropper, Blue Lou Marini, Mr Fabulous, Matt"Guitar" Murphy and the whole gang). Its was superb. Jake  &  Elwood were (on the night) Eddie Floyd  &  Bobby Thurston...what a great night of truly wonderful Soul and RnB. We danced till 4 or 5 in the morning before slipping off into the night a contented bunch of Soulie travellers. Rob "Leo the Fish",(Arp-pur-"HEY"). "Thank's for the,"OIL-CLOTH",(VINYL),PR,"TWC".O,Kay!!!,Regard,s,Leo. MICKEY.2 Pete that holiday camp you spent 5 years in' you must have got to know someone who can get their hands on some free range' we may need them. If by some miracle they take o.b. as prisoner ! we may have to all do a spot at The Pikes Head [FOXLEY] to get him back. That should deter them. Bernie Williams Hi Mary, it’s Bernie from Tittensor. Remember how I was so disappointed after Burnley’s crushing semi-final exit from the Carling Cup? You told me to get over it. Well I have big style. My wife Janet and I were among over 35,000 rapturous Burnley supporters at Wembley on Monday when Burnley won the Championship play-off final and will now mix it with the likes of Man U, Liverpool, Arsenal and, dare I say it, Stoke. Since moving to Stoke 4 years ago I have had to endure regular taunting from my Stoke supporting work colleagues, notably Dave(the Potters) Sharpley. Please play a track, around 8 o’clock, for all the long suffering, Soul loving, Burnley supporters whose faith has finally been rewarded. I think “(Come on Baby) Let the good times roll” - Bunny Sigler, would be appropriate. Always a great show, Mary, long may it continue,Best Regards, Bernie (dedicated soul fan and long suffering Burnley supporter)Tittensor MICKEY.ROONEY, So Mr Reynolds were not invited to your housewarming !! I did visit the foxley the other week but left a bit confused' I've never approached a dj before and woke him up? I'm looking for the soul six i said' your new round here he replied! everyone knows wev'e never had more than five in here. I've come for permission to sail past your club! why he said everybody sails past it ? What about pets I said i've got a shittsoo' is that a zoo with no animals he replied ? Look i said you know you people accumilate round the canal once a month' but when you start resembling pike its that time. On arriving home I contacted the landlord of the Foxley and asked how well does the soul nights do' You carnt say that mickey he said' if the trade descriptions hear you talkin like that myself and the soul three are in trouble. You said three i thought it was five! we have to build it up. The lady on the door wearing the yashmac' is she religious!! no he said she's just ugly]. Why not change the name of your club to THE PIKES HEAD i asked! I carnt name the place after my customers looks he said. Why do they threaten people with eggs' its a big problem down here Mickey the police dont have the facilities nor the manpower to cope.The police say Drive bye's with the eggs is on the increase. Good TimeCharlie.......don,t worry men !!!.. Any problems wit that foxley crew I will be down ther Immediattament as our french ( distant ) relatives say...and if it gets really bad I will bring my two pussycatto,s and posible Keith Broardsword, so watch it Stoke is furious, watchout !!!...regards Charlie (pissed)...thank you and gudnite... VINNY HI ALL, PORT VALE EXECUTIVE SUITEPRESENTSA FAB NIGHT OF NORTHERN SOUL + ORIGINAL TWISTED WHEEL SOUNDS ALL ACROSS THE BOARD INC MOTOWN N CLUB CLASSICS 13 JUNE 2009 8 TILL 2DJS PETE ROBERTS JOHN GREEN , GUEST DJ SPOT BY GOLDIE,PLUS VINNYSOULSHAKER TWO ROOMS TWO BARS WOODEN DANCE FLOOR SECURITY, ALL WELCOME HOPE TO SEE YOU ALL THERE FOR A VERY SOULFULL PACKED FUN NIGHTTICKETS £5 FOR INFO AND BOOKINGSCONTACTPORT VALE FC HAMIL RD BURSLEM S O T ST6 1AWTEL 01782 855809 07772 521803 07814 982114 OR PETE OR JACKIE HAVE A FEW AT THE WHEELOR CAN PAY ON THE NIGHT steve schofield hi mary and nick,great show friday, as allways of great interest thank you.I wish you both could have been at the wheel on sunday the lads played out of there skins not a poor sound all afternoon,honestly you people all share the same gift,you never stop amasing us youre truly wonderfull.its that time of the year when i ask for your kindness a birthday request for the most beautifull thing that came from the east coast,boston lincs,rosemary diggles is 50 on saturday,if you could play the olympics baby do the philldog or mitch ryder devil in a blue dress you would make her weekend and ours sent with love from mummy,steve and peter (the sco bros) annie,amie,ob and all who rightly love you.believe me mary she is one special girl. thank you for the great work you do,you are legends here.best wishes to all Rob(Cadiz) To Chris savory: Forgot to say: Benidorm used to have a club called "The Instanbul" that wasnt a Soul club but used to play lots of Motown and Soul of the day.....maybe not rarieties (the odd rariety)but the Isleys, The Four Tops, The Temps, Sam  &  Dave, Chairman of the Board etc etc...i think i first heard "Sam Dees - Lonely for you baby" in there if im not mistaken...the club used to have a huge lit-up sign that you could see from 2 blocks away and it showed two silhouetted black Soul singers in 60's suits and a microphone (i think the original image might have been a publicity shot for Sam  &  Dave or some other 60's Soul duo. Anyway, its long gone but my brother put me onto it back in the 70's and the couple of times i was there with my mates for holidays, we made good use of it. Thinking about Sam Dees makes me want to listen to it right now....so thats what im going to do. Any chance of playing Sam Dees Lonely for you baby. Its about as intense a delivery as you'll hear of any Soul song and is an out 'n out all-time classic. Please play it. Cheers. Rob Rob(Cadiz) Hey Chris Anderton: I really enjoyed the tracks you played and commented on your choices but not just to be nice but because they and your taste strikes me as excellent. I'd be well chuffed to get a couple of CDs from such a real Soul dude such as yourself. You did send me a "Dab of Soul" CD after your appearance in Jan and it is great. If you still have my address then id love to give the new Cds you mention a listen and id be happy to pay the postage of course. If you dont have my address its Rob Walton, Calle Boya, Bloque 1, 3 IDA, El Puerto de Santa Maria, Cadiz 11500, Spain......usually id offer a couple of CDs in return but with a man with your track record i dont know if i could actually come up with anything you didnt already have. Let me know your preferences if i was to send you a couple of CDs in return and i'll see if i can dig out a surprise or two for you. I'd love to get to one of your Nantwich Night Train nights someday. I have a great mate from Sandbach who lives in Crewe so you never know. Cheers mate. Rob Twiggy To Nick Marshall, Stanley Clarkes THE DANCER i think was on an LP called SCHOOL DAY'S, now theres a track if you like listening to someone, who can just play a BASS GUITAR, never could understand heres a bloke who just leaves the rest for dead when strumming his Bass, Monteaux Jazz festival love Stanley Clarkes stuff, Ok not Northern perhaps not even Soul to some but Stanley soon will hook you when you hear THE DANCER, i watched Montreux Jazz festival about 20 years ago and another world famous 12 string guitarist PACO he was just awesome, i just can't understand why good musicians just aren't getting onto some of our Radio Stations, perhaps its down to those who promote themselves and not the music when it comes to presenting a radio show, wheres all the originality gone some presenters are just so bloody plastic, thank god we have Mary who for me is up there with Richard Searling, they can all copy but they just anna got it. The Dancer got blasted out at The Waggon and Horses just outside Audley and they loved it along with Hot Butterfly Greg Diamond, Darling Darling Baby Everette Harp and This Time Baby by Jackie Moore along with other killer tunes, Great Beer Nick you should go and do a bit of supping Marstons Best Bitter what a pint that is. Nick i just missed what your guest was on about when he mentioned The Bali Hi, anyway Nick 1974 was the time to be in The Bali Hi, i go through all the years and for me it was that period that will always stick out, just like those thoughts of those who originally went The Wheel, its most probably because we were all hungry for a goodtime teenagers once. Listen out for Darling Darling Baby which for me is just an awesome instrumental version of The Ojays classic. To Goldie take 10 off the number mentioned and you have got it, Sounds like all you guys had another good un at The Wheel, HOME of The Soul Club Scene FOXLEY FREEDOM FIGHTERS---(FFF) So Captain Goldenballs and his ugly crew think they can just sail into our water space and throw anchor eh? who gave you permission? Aqua Marina? If you lot had asked permission first we may have bent the rules for you but no you had to assume.well, assume this you chancers,ask permission on this message board for all to see then we may consider letting you moor up.Any funny buisness and you will face the consequenses. Can the cook make a 100 egg omlett? cus he wont be short of eggs if you catch my drift. so heres your one chance ask nicely for permission and we shall debate on it at our next meeting And todays song of the week which i rate 44328zillionperkillion out of 10 is WADE IN THE WATER cus thats wot captain fish head and his loser crew will be doing unless they impress us with there aplication.FFF Good Time Charlie t o Chris Savory. Hello M8, am indebted to you for the info about Benidorm. Guess I,ll have to switch the soul head off for a fortnight ,buy an ipod or just enjoy the San Miguel, its not that bad really is it, lol. Thanks M8 !!!...Did,nt make the Wheel this sunday but am going down to Stoke station to see if I can crack the system of purchasing a railway ticket, not been on a train in England for about twenty five years, lol !!!...See you all at the Wheel next Sunday Aldayer !!!...Best Regards, K.T.F. Charlie up hanley duck... PETERBOROUGH SOULIES Can you tell me if I went in the correct club' Attended Longfield Suite latest [all nighter] left at 12.30. No northern played' very few in. Please keep the message board as honest as possible as some of us travel great distances. WHAT A FANTASTIC AFTERNOON @ THE WHEEL A Big thanks to everybody who travelled to the Wheel on such a hot day!! Nice to meet all the people who came up to Wheel from down South and hello to the 2 coach loads who are coming up from Brighton in August I'm sure you will love it!! And a Big hello and thanks to the 100's we get up from the Midlands!! Great to see the "Sicilian Mafia" Vinny, Colin and Joey there on Sunday you could of made a "killing" knocking out your ice cream!! Hi to Kev  &  Maggie, Mick  &  Linda, Dave  &  Venessa and all the back right hand corner "Queen Of Fools Crew" HAPPY 50TH BIRTHDAY!! Rosemary!!  &  (Steve) Goldie was on Top form as always!! And a Big thanks to the Djs John  &  Jock for their excelliant mix of all the (back catalogue) of Soul and R'n'B Wheel Classics that they played!! 33 Days to go now OB!! And we will be on the ""High Seas"" Goldie has told me that most of the Wheel are coming to see you on the Boat!! So I think your (£100 GRAND) 70 Foot Soul Ship is gonna sink!! And OB Martha's coming!! Hope to see you all on Friday and on 13th June at the Port Vale Do! Pete xx. Nick Marshall I also had trouble with "listen again". I found that if you go to the page with the playlists on, below the picture of a shirt is a link that says "Click here to listen to the northern soul show. This has worked for me when other links haven't. Chris Savory Hi Charlie - Benidorm is SOULESS! You may hear the odd soul track playing out of bars but we couldn't find any that were run by soul people. Best place to change £s to Euros is in te Indoor Market. Ther are a lot of 'have whatever you want printed on your hat/t-shirt' places - so you can get an individual T-Shirt made up. Hello to Mary - here are my STAX requests for this week please - Eddie Floyd THINGS GET BETTER and Eddie Floyd I NEVER FOUND A GIRL. Really enjoyed Friday's show - floowed by 2 James Brown Concerts on BBC4 - wow. Uptight and Outa Sight. Nick's guest mentioned the Bali Hi - I'm sure it was a coffee bar and not a surf shop. I used to frequent Contempo up the narrow stairs in Hanway Street - soul packs were £4 for 100! Those weee the days my friends. captain goldfish I was humbled by yesterdays fabulous day at The WheelIt was de best time I ever ever ever ever ever ever ever Had scoring 8ooo zillion billion million out of 10 ............Can anyone tell me of a more soulful friendly place on this planet with the history ???? Genuine people gathered together with one aim to celebrate soul , dance chat  &  get the soulful spiritual injection........Thios will never be beaten THANK YOU Pete  &  Greeny  &  all the crowd Mick Linda Vinnie ( WOW WHAT A NIGHTY PORT VALES GONNA BE ON THE 13th...Margaret , Paul, Kev , Maggie ,, Pat  &  Sue in de corner  &  Flash  &  Tim ..I would like to thank Gerry for De New Orleans Shirt  &  Derrick 4 de Motown one back in manchester on midweek  &  THEN DE WHEEL AGAIN ON FRIDAY yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeee dont miss Brian RAE 9-pm till 2-15 a lady godiva on de door CANT WAIT Captain Goldfish..Goldie xxxxxxxxx Happy Birthday Rosemary xxxxxxxxxxx Charlie Waring to Chris Savory ???... Hiya Chris, did you find any decent venues in Benidorm, please M8 ???...If so where were they, Best Regards, Charlie Waring...reason I ask is am going there with the good Lady in about 5 weeks... Captain Goldfish DSTW PSLC CH Yippeeclub MD sopqte Great show last night the best yet scoring 8 billion out of 10 well done Nick  &  your guest!!!track of de night  &  thanks for playin it Nick |!!!.."Too Busy Being A Dance Steward" ..The words are brill .." I aint got time to think about money ..or what its about oo ooo i aint got time to think about what makes a grown man cry oo ooo TOO BUSY BEIN A DANCE STEWARD  &  I aint GOT TIME FOR NOTHIN ELSE wo wo wo"" Goldie proud to be a humble DANCE STEWARD yipeeeeeeeeeeeee TMSITWxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxGoldiexx Chris Anderton Rob (Cadiz) Glad you enjoyed the Blinky track..its always a talking point! Thanks for the comments re my brief appearance on the show, be glad to send you a couple of CDs if you enjoyed what i played...just get in touch.Dont forget the next Nantwich Civic hall, 2 rooms of quality soul...June 20th. Keith Freeburn Dear Mary,I wondered If you can mark the passing of a very dear friend of mine. Ian Partington of Wrexham passed away suddenly on the 13th of May 2009 at the age of just 51. We started out at Wrexham soul cub in the early 70s Wednesday night with Sam and then went just about anywhere until work and life took us in different directions. You could never get him off the dancefloor and I know two records which will always make me think of him are High Voltage Country Roads and The Dells - Wear it on your Face as he ALWAYS had a smile on his face. His family and friends including big Mel Jenkins will miss him. BANK HOLIDAY SUNDAY " WHEEL SPECIAL!! THIS SUNDAY!!... BANK HOLIDAY "SUNDAY AFTERNOON SOUL SESSION" @ THE TWISTED WHEEL CLUB!! IF YOU WANT THE BEST IN 60's SOUL AND RnB CLASSICS AND A FANTASTIC ATMOSPHERE THEN BE THERE!! IN THE ORIGINAL BASEMENT CLUB AT 6. WHITWORTH STREET. MANCHESTER CITY CENTRE. 3PM TILL 8PM..£5 POUNDS ON THE DOOR. A BIG THANKS AS ALWAYS Pete xx. Hi Hi "OBY Dick" Only (5) weeks to go now Shipmate!! And OB's "Crazy Gang" set sail on H.M.S Smameless...GOD HELP US!!!! Captain Goldfish DSTW PSLC CH Yippeeclub MD sopqte Let the good times roll..Wheel on Sunday 24th May ..Full soul week all next week culminating in The Wheel on Friday 29th ...Stoke/Derby on the 5/6th June with Pete Robbo on Queen Mary`s Epic Show..back to the Potteries again for Vinnies SATURDAY NIGHT AT DE PORT VALE PALLADIUM of SOUL ..Be NICE 2 C ya..2 C ya nice on the 13th June ..phew..Durham on de 19th June ..Back to the Wheel again on the 26th June on the Saturday 27th JUNE we set sail on the voyage of Chaos with HMS SHAMELESS CREW : OB`s crazy gang..it will be fab to shout "WELCOME ABOARD" ..lets get the ball rolling with the NICK MARSHALL show tonight!!!!......to- days track "Let De Gud tymes role" B.S.....I saw a film last night on sky "As Good As It Gets " Jack Nicko " ..YES SIR THIS IS AS GOOD AS IT GETS ..AS GOOD AS IT`s ever been .Captain Goldfish .YCCYCBYCCYA...yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee xxxxxxGoldiexxxxxxxx Mike TO MIKE MORANTry Marvin Smith, "Have More Time"Cheers, if you want it send your email address to Mary Mick @ Red Lion Chesterton Our Northern Soul evening on Saturdays is still going strong, free entry, from 8.30pm right through until close at 1am. Come along! Keith Beardmore To Mike MoranI think hundreds of folk will reply and tell you the two most popular vocal versions of My Sugar Baby are by Connie Clarke and Frank Wilson Vince - Port Vale do in June tickets available for the Port Vale do on Saturday June 13th. £5 on the night at the Vale, or available from the Twisted Wheel this sunday (24th May) GoodTimeCharlie for Mike Moran. Hello M8, I think the track you want is by Artistics lead singer Marvin Smith called have more time on UK coral about 66, hope this helps.. Chris Savory We're back from Benidorm - the Indoor Market there has a great display of Northern Soul CDs and most are reasonably priced. Don't bother with the Saturday outdoor market - way over the top prices. I saw the Supremes once in Majorca. They performed in the open air - they were all about 18-20 years old and white. I must be missing something somewhere. For Nick - if you come across a CD called TENOR TITANS there's a great instrumental cover of Curtis Mayfield's GIMME YOUR LOVE. See you all at Keith's Northern Soul Fair on the 24th and the Record Fair at the Cobridge Centre on the 31st. SCO..thurs 21/5.. to MIKE MORAN....HAVE MORE TIME Marvin Smith is the song youre after..I think he sung with the artistics..its on Coral(rare),,brunswick or revue,,plus loads of CD's if you dont collect vinyl...PeteSco... Shameless vs FFF Meeting at the clock tower Leicester 11-15am Sunday Tony Heinemann (Nantwich) Listeners!Check out Little Anthony and the Imperials performing "Hurt so bad" with full backing on the Letterman show (YOU TUBE)The guys can still cut it.UK appearance?? Rob(Cadiz) Damien: You can watch the "This is England" programme on youtube...in fact there a whole world of fantastic Northern/Soul/Funk/RnB/ on that web site. Its a world of entertainment. You only have to remember that 5 years ago (maybe more) it didn't even exist and now its a staple of daily life(especially if you live abroad). Check out the fantastically huge collection of Soul related material. Rob Mike Moran Can anyone help, im looking for a track. Fast paced where the chorus goes something like:"Cos I aint got time, to see my baby. "Aint got time to see my baby; aint got time to see my sugar baby"Heard this track ,been looking for it for ages, love this track Ecky 20 April Nick, Been thinking of some topical records you might want to play. For the H of P speaker Headline News - Edwin Starr, I’m on My Way to a Better Place - Chairmen of the Board, Job Opening - Del Larks, I Walked Away – Bobby ParisFor the rest of our reps in the H of P. I'm Gonna Change - Frankie Valli  &  The Four Seasons, Money (That's What I Want) - Barrett Strong, Ain't Nothing But A House Party – Showstoppers, Don't Be Sore At Me - Parliaments (very appropriate), Who Are You Trying To Fool - Little Ann. Soulong for now Ecky Rob(Cadiz) General Johnsons 66th birthday!! I absoulutely love the man and his voice of course. What about a wee medley of his or Chairman of the Board songs. What about "Please dont walk away" or "Bless your heart". We have to honour this genius of Soul. Rob Ian alford Re damien..Function at the junction a good dvd set with a cd as well ...Strange world of northern soul not so good in my opinion also supposed to be a new one coming out keep on burning I think it's called mate .... K.T.F Ian alford Re damien..Function at the junction a good dvd set with a cd as well ...Strange world of northern soul not so good in my opinion also supposed to be a new one coming out keep on burning I think it's called mate .... K.T.F Eddy Edmondson Mary can I say a big thank you to all your listeners who supported our Charity Soul Night at Nantwich Civic Hall last Saturday. I was unable to attend myself having just had a kneee replacement, but everyone that I have spoken to has said what a fantastic night it was, AND we raised over £1100 for Cancer Research. It's just a pity that the room costs so much (nearly £500)Big thanks to Big Andy  &  Jamie for the door, Kev Jones for the brilliant sound system. John Griffith, Matty Sherlock and Kev Jones for a fantastic mix of music. It really doesn't come much better.Does anyone know of a suitable (cheaper) room for next years event.And finally can I invite your listeners to take part in a brilliant Sponsored Walk in The Grizedale Forest in The Lake District on Sunday June 14th. It's a great walk, more details can be found at www.silurianwalk.co.uk Eddy Captain Goldfish K.T.F.F.  & T.M.S.I.D.E.. Yes Havin the people u is close to makes u realis how much u love them bein in ya life ...when they are abroad!!!missin yuz so much to-days track "7 days is to long" .....Hurry Back Pete Roberts yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeee ITS DE WHEEL on Sunday cant wait !!!!!!! Goldiexxxxx Ken Wright (Barnet) Hi Nick,It's General Johnson's 66th Birthday this saturday,any excuse to hear his fantastic voice.I'd love you to play 'Bittersweet',but if that's too slow for the show,'Everything's Tuesday' would be good.Cheers. Damien From an enthralled Northern Soul newbie from the States; does anyone know of a good documentary on Northern Soul? I believe BBC's "This is England" did a piece in the 70s? Anyone know how I could get hold of a copy, or another good alternative? Availability is, of course, key. Thanks in adbance all! Pete Dyson. Hi,Mary/Nick.Good Show.Like the way you "Move th Sound,s Around"on ya show!!!.Willie Mae Thornton "TOM CAT",or Georgie Fames version of "LAST NIGHT"(MAR-KEYS)on ya show iff poss!,cheer,s,B/appy!,PD. Toeknee Are the playlists after 29 Dec 2006 but before 4 Jan 2008available? As I cannot find them on the Radio Stoke Website! Thanks, keep up the GOOD work mel owen Is it me? Has the BBC taken Marys show off iPlayer or am I doing it wrong? Captain Goldfish DSTW PSLC CH Yippeeclub MD sopqte Message to the crew HMS Shameless 39 days off Maiden voyage Start grooving guys I.E.: Ive packed de ciggies in  &  started de NAVAL style moustache ..Loads a people comin down to Port Vale 13th june for Vinnies shoulshaker celebration of classic soul sounds ....THE WHEEL this Sunday 24th May3-opm while 8pm a yankee screwdiver on de door I hope Pete gets back from LARA beach in time... If ur stoppin in Manchester HOTEL INTERNATIONAL ..A Must just round de corner from de Peoples cluc...KTFF ( Keep THe Floor full !! or could be Keep the Faye  &  de Fuller).Well done to Pete dyson/ jocks team but NO yipeeeeeee lads sorry ..to days track OUR DAY WILL come RUBY  &  DE ROMANTICS Captain Horatio Goldfish.Its Monday ..luv Mondays yipeeeeeeeee 4 Mondays Goldie Dstw xxxxxxxx Rob(Cadiz) Mickey Rooney: Mickey, i just re-read my last post. I meant to say "how" can i get a couple of CDs to you (postal address) and not "why" as it reads in my last post. I hope that the board will be updated while Mary is away on her hols in the Fjords otherwise it will be a week or more before you see any new posts. Rob Lesley Why can't I get to listen on line any more? It's so infuriating. Rob(Cadiz) Great show from Nick despite a couple of technical hiccups. Mickey Rooney: Hey Mickey, just got a CD through the post with simply “Mickey” written on it….what a great surprise, thanks mate…great stuff, lot of RnB influenced stuff on there and that something ive always loved…....just one thing mate, no play list again…I recognize more than I did from the OB Cd but still need a good few blanks filling in….if theres any way you could see your way to posting or emailing those 2 different track lists….i’d be most grateful to yer! It would scratch an itch massively. Id like to send you a couple of decent CDs in return if thats ok, so i would need a postal address....you could reply to the email i sent your partner in crime, Pete Roberts with your address or let me know why i can get a couple of CDs off to you...cheers....Rescue Me” - There were enough differences in the Blinky track for it to have real appeal as a reworking of a classic and not just a copy…always loved that song and enjoyed that version of it…plus great appreciative comments from Nick and Chris Anderton. Love Chris Andertons taste….a healthy balance between various Soul sectors and great stories of hunting records down and DJ-ing in Europe and beyond……and well interesting in my humble opinion!! Brill Sister Sledge track!!! Saw Sister Sledge with my mates at the Floral Hall, Southport back in the late 70’s and always loved their stuff even their ultra commercial stuff. Id never heard Albert Washington …what a great song. Really good mix bag of sounds from Mr Marshall. Nick, could you play “Lee Rogers – Sock some love power to me”….a rare piece of Detroit Soul that always gets me moving and grooving on a Friday night. Cheers. Rob Tony Heinemann (Nantwich) Hi Nick,Thanks for playing me the Albert Washington track,the show for me on friday was the best for a long long time,content and variation brilliant.The rescue me track by Blinky on the cellarful of motown cd vol.2 sounds slightly different(more backing vocals)to the one Chris Anderton played last friday.I like this version better than Fontella bass,it deserves more plays.Cheers Tony. rob haigh dj, tsop, longfield suite, prestwich. hi mary, baz maleedy has asked if i would contact you as i am just over boarder in telford, about tsop and would you possibly give our regular soul night a plug?. we are on 1st friday of the month 9-2am with 2 rooms of northern/60s/motown/r & b and the latest nu grooves and retro/80s/90s/jazz funk with regular top quality guests and residents baz.m, bob hinsley, ginger taylor, mike stevens and myself. admission is £6 otd always busy and august sees our 10th anniversary all-nighter. would look forward to seeing and meeting you in person, if you can find the time to pop up and see the venue, would make you most welcome, very friendly crowd and brilliant tunes and dancefloor. next soul night is 5th june. cheers, rob. p.s. do you have guests on your show occasionally? Captain Goldfish Great show Friday Nick !!!!The best yet scoring 4368 zillion million out of 10 WELL DONE MR. Marshall best 4 me like shining beacons :HE WAS REALLY SAYIN SOMETH)N  &  DONT MESS UP A GOOD THING . u can try but u will never beat 62 - 69 soul will ya ??? answer ... NO .. so stop tryin !!!!!it will make u old b4. ur time . just enjoy it !!! Now then Nick my wife  &  Kids  &  grand kids are on a globe trot , back on de 27th PLAY A RECORD fOR MY WIFE SHELL ......... " TOO BUSY THINKIN ABOUT MY BABY".. BY THE TEMPTATIONS.. Cheers Nick !! A real cracker by the Detroit Dudes!!!... been speakin to the Gov OBDICK  &  we are on course for a canal cracker ... Captain Goldfisn c xxxxx Yipeeeeeeeeee Ian Gray Hi Mary,Is this a sign of troubled times?For the last 2 weeks I've sat down at PC (Sat.morning)trying in vain to get my regular fix of the best show on the air waves.I must confess I'm a Mary Fox addict and "it's doin me ead in!!!" (use best Southern/London).Please help I'm to old to do rehab.I've tried the substitutes but they don't compare. I must be doin Cold Turkey can't even operate this keyboard half hour latter and 100 mstakesi.Still luv ya! Mr.Fox will have to put up with it just like Mrs. Gray (Val).Ian XX Bob Baker Hi, Is anyone else having problems with the "listen again" for the show?Have been trying all week but keep getting "Show unavailable"Has somthing changed?Cheers Bob Sandy Kelly Hi Mary - Great Show! if any one fancies coming down Southampton Soul Clubproudly presents12 hours of Quality SoulSunday 24th May 092pm – 2amNorthern/60s, 70s RnB/Motown/ X-Over/Modern/Classics/ Lesser known Gems@The Empire Hall Totton, Southampton(5-10 mins Junction 3 off the M27)DJ Line up – Alfie/Chilli/Chris Thorley/Dave Abbott/Moldie/Nick Mack/Russ Vickers/Simon Preston/Wigan Brian/Steve Lyons£7 before 9pm £8 after (no admission after 11pm)Record dealers welcome!For more info:alfie00soul@yahoo.co.uk mick oliver Hi Nick know Mary,s away just wondered if there,s any chance she left you a message to play Super Time (Golden World Strings) or Sweet Soul(Jnr Walker) would love to hear either one of these preferably Sweet Soul as I beleive this was Junior really enjoying the sax Pat Boulton Hi Mary!(my original message for this week's show seems to have disappeared)It was good to hear "Trouble In My Way" by the Gospel Queens last week, I'd never heard of them but it reminded me of The Impressions "People get Ready" which was on a "You've Been Cheatin'" EP I have got somewhere. Could you play it? My lovely daughter, Esther,(21 years old; reared on soul)loves "In The Basement" by Etta James. Could you play it for her to welcome her home from a stint in the USA. All the best. vinny soulshaker hi all , ob glad your home give me a ring, the wheel was tremendous last sunday met anne ex wheelette WOW, lots of torch scooter lads there as well as a few foxley who rode up on scoots... mary thanks for request sorry you cant make it on june 13th at PORT VALE goldie is gonna ask robbie williams now, pete robbo and family hope your having a fab holiday c u soon a t b FFF v SHAMELESS Meeting of the FFF next Tuesday at the Foxley 8pm neale Thanks to Radio Stoke for mentioning the Northern Soul dancing lessons at Newcastle High School(formerly Sneyd High School) off Gallowstree Lane in the Westlands. The lessons take place on Monday nights (term times) and start at 8pm. Pay on the night £3 each person. Good music, excellent teacher and great company. Feel welcome to attend, the more the merrier. Pat Boulton Thank you, Mary, for playing Pigmeat Matkham for me last week. A bit "off the wall" but definitely a part of the Torch Scene of the 70s. I would love to heat The Four Tops "Something About You Baby" for my beautiful daughter, Esther, who is returning from a holiday in Miami. She has been reared on Soul Music ( I still struggle with the Northern label as I am old school Wheel circa 1970 and we just called it Soul then) She loves all the old classics and although many consider Motown too mainstream for the soul police, this is a brilliant track. I was interested in the gospel thread you introduced last friday and I really enjoyed the track you played, but it got me thinking about the old Impressions tracke "People Get Ready" which were in the same vein and definitely the roots of many po our soul stars lie in the gospel tradition. So could you give that track some air time. I used to have it on an Impressions EP called You've Been Cheatin'" Thanks for the show. KTF. Malc Falle, Brittany, France 13/05/09 To Nick Marshall- Hello Nick I am really looking forward to listening to you presenting the show over the next two weeks and wondered if you could play me a request on one of them? I would like to hear either Moses Smith-The girl across the street or the Charisma band-Ain't nothing like your love. Both top sounds I have not heard for ages. Thanks in anticipaton.KTF. Chris Anderton Just to let everyone know i`ll be Nicks guest in the studio this coming Friday, 15th May. Looking forward to playing something a bit different. Dont forget the next "Dab of soul" in Nantwich is JUNE 20th! beertowel jimmy can Nick Marshall play Betty Everett "Love Comes Tumbling Down".?...Thanks Pete Dyson ("AS-IS").Manchester. Hi Mary/Nick,Ow ya Doin!.A great Twisted Wheel on Sunday 10/5/09!Good variety of Sound,s played to a packed club by by guest DJ,s Al "JOCK" Heron  &  Phil Stone,s,  &  Res DJ,s Pete Robert,s &  John Green.Goldie did a fine job as Dance Steward, chekin out for,"WINDBREAKERS!!!" on the Dance floor("No Red Card,s Given"),Mickey Rooney was in a nostalgic mood, tellin me about the time he was booked to appear at a "Las-Vegas"gig in the U.S.A,but he let "ELVIS" do it instead, cos they couldn,t afford Mickey,s fee!,"VIVA" to you Mickey lad!.Nick,"GOOD LOVIN" The Elgin,s or "My Baby Must Be Magician",The Marvelettes, on the show if poss!, cheer,s,pd. Ian Edwards Hi Mary,Many thanks for the kind words and your support on children in need night in Bilston.Well dear lady its BOOKED UP!!!,it will be held on THURSDAY 22ND OCTOBER,at SPRINGVALE SPORTS AND SOCIAL CLUB,MILLFIELDS RD,BILSTON,7.45 until MIDNIGHT £6 a ticket all proceeds to the appeal.Sue in Stafford thanks for your support as always and also to Tony Price.So its on up and running and again Mary welcome um mar wench!!!,can you please play THE BELLES "DONT PRETEND.Love Ian Edwards.xxxxxxxxxxxx GOLDIE CAPTAIN HMS SHAMELESS Well done Tony Pullis mgr of the year...good job I never put an N between the U  &  the H in previous post I would have emigrated phew lucky me phew Goldiexx Kev Bourne Hi Mary, love the show every Friday, as you know we are running a Soul Cruise in May 2010 and have had a big response from Staffordshire  &  my old stomping ground Cheshire. But just to keep you updated over 350 have now booked and less than 150 spaces left, if you could let your listeners know would not like them to miss out, once it's sold thats it no more. For all info visit www.freewebs.com/soulinthehindThanksKev GOLDIE CAPTAIN HMS SHAMELESSdstwpslcCH.spoqten 560 people cant be wrong the Wheel 0n Sunday WAs DE BEST YET scoring 560 zillion million billion out of 10 quite good marks hey?  &  recieves the coverted GOLD STAMP OF approval it was even better than the 9 th Jan 1967 when LJB  &  Jimmy Hendrix popped in TO the SAME!! stage room where I is de dance steward to see THE REMARKABLE NEW JERSEY MARVEKS AKA THE "SPELLBINDERS " Yes it was that good !! 1120 eyes witnessed a truly wonderful day at Pete Roberts  &  John Greens Gaff THE TWISTED WHEEL....Great to see CHARLIe havin a Good time Waring  &  I enjoyed dancin with de girls Anne x Carol x cath x jen x Sue x LULU ( she made me SHOUT)  &  Georgia (now she`s always on my mind)Linda , pat  &  the other 280 girls all lookin good...Andy (sc) thought the Wheel was that good he scaled the Pole  &  yelled it to the whole world WHAT A DAY never ever ever ever ever to be Beaten...Petes in turkey  &  when he returns we will be having a look at de Cauldon de boat de places of interest THANX to all who have sent me brochures of de area I am doin little runs on 70  &  100 footers to get myself canal worthy It will be a great trip THE CREW : GOV..Sir OBY DICK , Gunner Roberts , ENG Looney Rooney , Cabin Attendant JimLad ( Jimmy Mac) .. &  look out Frank Le Planc will be joining Vinny Soulshaker  &  I for a REAL SOUL WHOPPER AT DE PORT VALE CLUB ...great memories for me here  &  I will be playing A WHEEL TRIBUTE  &  anthem set along with my fave DJ PETE ROBBO ..others will be comin down from de wheel clan that will be a fab night  &  a chance for de crew of HMS Shameless to chill out before THE JOURNEY ON CANAL " HAPPY GO LUCKY"  &  Captain Horatio Goldie will be "DANCIN 4 DOUGIE"....It WAS GREAT TO SEE SO MANY SOULIES SO UHAPPY ON SUNDAY God you all YIPEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE Todays track WILL YOU STILL LOVE ME TOMORROW/ THE SHIRELLES GOLDIE your humble dance steward  &  proud captain of de shipxxxxxxxx rob littlewood hi nick ,love the shows.would be great if you could play ,charlie gracie-he,ll never love you (like i do),or - freddie north ,the hurt....for all the cannock and rugeley soulies.many thanks rob littlewood. Tony Heinemann (Nantwich) Hi Nick,My birthday on the 21st(eer...fifty something) could you please play I'M THE MAN by Albert Washington for me.Cheers!! Tony (Hightown) Southport Soul nite 09 May 2008.a big thank you to the guys who organised a great nite at LA Fitness Southport. The venue was great, and the sounds fantastic. Although not a packed house, the atmosphere was as soul-tastic as you would expect. A big hello to Baz (100 club) and Leigh, great to have met you.Well done Southport, and maybe many more local soulees could get down there for the next event! it's worth it Good Time Charlie !!!... Nice photo, Pete, shame you wound,nt stand on box as supplied, what you don,t understand is caldon canal is only 3/6 deep. Lovely day M8 !!!...Thank you Sir, enjoy your Hols, OneLuv to Ann ( Wheellette ). My Pleasure entirely ) as an old buoy I appreciated that, + nice to meet you Goldie, and spider and my new mate,s from Stakehill area, Kev  &  Sue, xxx...Nice people mancs !!!...down to earth people, like us Stokie/Ashburnians, by the way Keith nice to see you as well you old badger, you speak at the wheel as we were 42 years ago, and it,s bloody hard work in the street ???...I remain confused and old but I feel so much the better having made my second expidition to to nouveau Wheel. Am hoping to dangle a line from HMS. Shit or Bust on the Caldon, next by the Foxley, I don,t have mi rod licence yet, so it will be lines on the deck and complete denials from yours truly, mr O,Brien, see you soon OB....big kisses, Charlie xxxx..... Barry from slough congratulations to all you city fans for staying in the premiership.ktf [a fulham fan] GOLDIE CAPTAIN HMS SHAMELESSdstwpslcCH.spoqten Last nights show The Mary Fox Show 09/05 : THE BEST EVER scoring 348zillion out of 10 best trax 4 me TWINE TWIME (DYSON DE DUDE)...Get Ready temptations I keep forgettin they did that!! ..OBY DICK is home  &  thats good news  &  hows this 4 good news Wheel Tomorrow , 2 weeks of Nick , Pete  &  Family in Turkey dashing back for the Wheel Sunday 24th Soul biggie @ the Wheel on de 29th Pete  &  Mary together on de 5th of June on Mary`s show...Port Vale cracker on de Vinnie Shoulshaker Spectacular Saturday Soul Sizzler On The 13th June ..Hey Up I might do a dancethron for the cant think ..well maybe THE DOUGIE MAC ..phew the The Wheel on the 14th June Sunday ..Oh My God then The Wheel on 26th June Friday with the superb Clarence.and then and then wait for it .....WER`E off ON DE CRUISE OF CHAOS SATURDAY 27th with OBY DICKS birthday OUR BROTHER JOHN O`brien on SUNDAY the 28th ..cant wait yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee To days track PEOPLE GET READY : THERES A BARGE A COMIN ..dont need no ticket you just get on board Goldie Captain HMS SHAMELESS .. dstw .. PSLC ..CH sopqten PRES yipeeeeeeee club .ITS GREAT TO BE ALIVE ..is`nt it ??? well answer me is`nt it ?? of course it is yipeeeeee Goldiexx MORE PUSH UPS fOR YOU ABLE SEAMAN rear gunner Roberts at the double !!!!Gxx charlie waring (I,ve always neglected ) To mention a DJ that was very influencial to me at the Wheel and that was Brian 45 Phillips, probably the mainstay in my years of attending said heaven !!!...and I,ll see you sunday, me and Mr Roy.... Chris Savory Great diverse show tonight from Vicki Sue  &  Pigmeat to Gospel. On the latter - what about Paul Kelly 'Stealing in the name of the Lord" or Rance Allen with "Love Power" and "Showdown". Don't forget the Staple Singers. Here's a request for Nick on May 22nd when I'm back from my hols - Jimmy Beaumont. I'll be starting up the SSAPS soon so watch oiut for requests. - SSAPS is Stoke's Stax Appreciation Society. Let's kick it off Mary on Friday 29th with Eddie Floys 'Things Get Better' Eddie Edmondson The next Soul in the Sun Charity night takes place on Saturday 16th May,at Nantwich Civic Hall 8-1am pay on the door, All proceeds to Cancer Research, DJ's John(Biff)Griffiths,Kev Jones,Matty Sherlock  &  Eddie Edmondson. A Big thank you to everyone for supporting our previous nights  &  i look foreward to seeing you all at Nantwich. brian roberts hy mary great show love the programme nice taste in music listen to you on my lap top every friday i am a member of the worcester soul crew and we try to all northern soul dances now the kids have grown up we are all having our second youth great!!!!!!!!!!!!! Pat Boulton Hi Mary. Great show last week, Could you play Pigmeat Markham "Here Come The Judge" for my wonderful husband, Ian. EXTRA...EXTRA ...READ ALL ABOUT IT!!! BY PUBLIC DEMAND WE WILL BE HAVING ON SUNDAY 24th OF MAY A "SPECIAL BANK HOLIDAY"!! "SUNDAY AFTERNOON SOUL SESSION" AT THE TWISTED WHEEL CLUB!! PLAYING THE BEST IN 60'S SOUL AND R'n'B CLASSICS WITH Dj's PETE ROBERTS AND JOHN GREEN IN 2 EXCELLIANT ROOMS WITH GUEST D'js TBA. 3PM TILL 8PM £5 POUNDS ON THE DOOR!! THANKS. Pete xx Goldie dstw pslcch sopqtenMDyippeec. Happy Birthday to Bret..!!.Just been chattin to OB (OBY DICK as he is known on the waterways)  &  have ordered the crew Gunner Pete , Eng. Rooney , Jimlad  &  Frank de plank for daily excercises : Jogging , pushups  &  stretching /keep goin chaps 49 days to launch day...Cant wait for Mary`s show  &  will there be a Mary SHOW @ De WHEEL SUNDAY ????3-pm till 8 a deep sea diver on de door ...Petes  &  his family off to Lara Beach  &  still lookin forward To a real soul cracker PORT VALE 13th yipeeeeeeeeJune with HMS SHAMELEES setting off o n her maiden voyage a fortnight later .. Shell keeps asking whether a lass called Martha will be sailin with us mmmm??? To days track "Fingerpoppin " I  &  TT Goldiexxxxxxxxxx Colin Marshall aka Jerry Attrick TO VINNY SOULSHAKER Thank you for enlightening me about the second rarest northern single - it's appreciated.Mary, - you played it for Kathryn and I once before - any chance of a second spin for the fantastic "If only we'd met sooner - Linda Jones. Thank you PS I enjoy a dance at slower pace these days [ I'd enjoy a dance at a faster pace but the old legs sre not as mobile as they were] 7/5/09 CRAWFORD BLENKINSOP-SMYTHE I SAY,THE NEWS HAS REACHED ME THAT SOME OF YOU SOUL PEOPLE ARE GOING TO BE TRAVELLING ON THE OLD WATERWAY WHAT!,I HOPE THAT YOU DONT UPSET THE OLD SALMON SPORT FOR THE DAY OR GET UP TO ANY BOUNDERISH TOM FOOLERY WHAT!.ITS AWFULY NICE TO SEE THE EWLD WATERWAY USED FOR THIS ALTERNATIVE PLEASURE STUFF,BUT MIND NOT TO STRAY ONTO THE SMYTHE PASTURES.PIP PIP  &  TOODLOO.YOURS CRAWFORD THIS SUNDAY 10 MAY @ THE WHEEL Hiya Mary hope to see you at the Wheel this Sunday because its.. THE TWISTED WHEEL "SUNDAY AFTERNOON SOUL SESSIONS" YES AT 6. WHITWORTH STREET MANCHESTER IN THE ORIGINAL BASEMENT CLUB AND PLAYING THE BEST IN 60's SOUL AND R'n'B CLASSICS!! WITH Djs PETE ROBERTS AND JOHN GREEN AND THIS MONTHS GUEST Djs ARE, ALBERT "JOCK" HERON AND PHIL STONES, SPINNIN' THEM NOW IN TWO EXCELLIANT ROOMS!! 3PM TILL 8PM *** £5 POUNDS ON THE DOOR!.. Not long now OB just 7 weeks to go mate!! OB had the Shock of my life last night Mickey Rooney knocked on my door with a Ski Mask on! I said Mickey what are you doing with that Mask on? He said Goldies wife Shell is looking for me, and how did you know it was me? Well Mickey you have still got your Hat on and the other clue is the 2 Milkmen that you have got tattooed on your arms (The Pictures Of your Dad) and thanks for the Pirates hand book which i dont need!! You forget i have watched you for 50 Years. Hope to see you all on Sunday. Pete xx. "PORTHOLE -DUFFY"HMS,Navy Cake". Hi OB,Keep an eye on them Pirate,s matey! Check under the Hammock,s for Contraband!eg,Goldie,for his "Senior Service"ciggie,s,Mr,Rooney,for his Autographed photo of,"CLIFF RICHARD"(To Mickey,luv from CLIFF x) &  Mr.Robert,s,who,I,ve heard,will be taking his favorite,"STRING-VEST!".OB,under no circumstances let Pete Robert,s Sunbathe in that Vest! the last time he did he looked like he,d been Fried in a "CHIP PAN!!!".cheer,s,(pd). Mickey.Rooney I'm sure a few of you will be glad to hear Mickeys having a rest! Rob thanks for the compliments about the cd and soon as i get chance i will forward the playlist. The trouble with putting it on the board is Roberts goes and buys them. OB whats this they sent you for breathing excersise's and you told them' i'm not being bigheaded but i'm pretty good at this' in fact i can do it in my sleep? Giving your medicine to Goldie and Roberts is wrong! sell it to them. I beleive Pete has bought a parrot for the trip and it sits on his shoulder? Goldie is supposed to have said where did you get that silly looking thing and the parrot said' theres loads in the wheel? Right' Pete have a great holliday will try to get to the wheel sunday before you go' Shez and Phil Hi Mary.Please play a record for all the friends we went to Soul In The Sun with and all the new ones we made there. They helped to make our first time there brilliant! Could you please play Happy by Velvet HammerThanx Mary KTF x MICHELLE GOLDSTEIN TUT TUT MR. ROONEY thought that was you between the yukka  &  the ferns.....I am married to the DANCE STEWARD @ THE TWISTED WHEEL MANCHESTER yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee Shellx THE PAPER HAT FACTORY ASHWORTH, RAMPTON AND BROADMOOR (and in my case) CARSTAIRS Scotland. Mickey dont you remember any of these? You should do you have been in 3 of them!! I had Goldies wife Shell on the phone to me last night upset, saying what did ROONEY have to put that on the Messageboard for, about Goldie!! He only went to Ashworth visiting and they wouldn't let him out!! And why? just because he shouted Yipeeeeeeee I go to the Twisted Wheel Club in Manchester!! And when Goldie was asked does he ever hear any voices? He said YES all the time, its MARY FOX on listen again 10 times a day!! YIPEEEEEE... Well Mickey dont you remember being in Broadmoor and every other Friday afternoon they would take you for a little walk down to the basement and put that thing on your head (you know the one) the one that they promised you if you wear this you will forget ROBERTS moving in your Flat with Wanda!! And now I have told the world why you wear that hat, yes its to hide his burn marks on the top of his head and on his temples what they did with the Electric probes!! And not to be Judgemental in my case (as always I did nothing wrong)I only knocked on somebodys front door!! But it was with an Axe!! And they put me in the Paper Hat Factory in Scotland "Carstairs" I was (two up) at first with a Cockroach and "It Really Did Hurt Me Girl" !! So Mickey Rooney we have all been in the same Boat!! Talking of which I will see you on the 27th of June with the rest of OB's Crazy Gang onboard "HMS SHAMELESS" not long now OB and we will have you sunning yourself on that roof mate!! Oh its 9.22 and I haven't taken my Meds??? Pete xx. Rob(Cadiz) Hey OB, Ive never met you but it was still a great and uplifting feeling to read your last post. You sound positive and glad to be alive and im sure everyone on this message board feels the same way for you. Well done mate and "keep the fighting faith". I have a favour to ask you mate. I got your "Wheel" OB Day CD and it has some tremendous stuff on there but i dont know a good few of the tracks on it. Could you please post the track list on here so as i can copy it down. I asked a couple of gentlemen i found in the "Black Pearl" pub who were sharpening their cutlasses ready for action but i know that Mr "Blackbeard" Roberts  &  Mr "Davy Jones" Rooney are probably busy drawing treasure maps and hoarding barrels of Rum for your High Seas Adventure but if you could just scribble down the tracks on your CD for us, i'd be eternally grateful and then could satisfy my unquenchable thirst! (for Soulie details like artists and song names). Mary, any chance of playing "The Dynamics - I need your love". Id hadnt played it for a couple of years until the other day and was blown away by it (again). Cheers Rob Ian Edwards Hi Mary,Last appeal do people still want a C-I-N night in Bilston.I have had people our way saying "do it",I want to in a way,but I dont know if it carries much weight on this board anymore.Pete Sco my apologies I did appreciate the "grand national"bet again,and goes to prove what a real genuine bloke you are mate,respect to ya Sco.Mary hope you well,from a premier league team supporter. "Bell Bottom Billy",H.M.S."Golden Rivet". Hi,John O,Brian,Good to hear you are in "SHIP-SHAPE"condition for the "VOYAGE!".There,s a few Pirate,s on ya Crew, but just giv em "RUM"  &  it should be plain sailing!(OB,iff that "ROONEY,S"cookin, try his "PORTHOLE-DUFF", before Mr.Robert,s has it all!),Gud on ya,s!!!.(Pd) vinny soulhaker first of all OB glad your feelin a little better mate, hope you will come along the canal on H M S shameless to westport lake where i will feed you and your shipmates to some real traditional ice cream made by my famous cousin colin from trio ices, a fellow scooterist and soulie from the golden torch scooter club... secondly SAT JUNE I3TH where PORT VALE and i are proud to present ... mr PETE ROBERTS,from the TWISTED WHEEL manchester for a fab night of northern soul classics and motown etc, also guest spot from JOHN GREEN not forgetting a spot from the mr versatile,all in one dj, stand up comidian, and dance steward on the night? GOLDIE plus myself...it will be in the executive suite upstairs (yes there are lifts) 2 rooms 2 bars dance floor security,admission is £5 and tickets can only be got from port vale there contact no is 01782 655800 ask for collette for more details hope to see you all there stay well vinny Kevin and Maggie in Sale Hi OB, so good to read your message to us all and see such spirit there, the boat trip sounds as though it will be really special so just to calm you down a bit we will be coming down to the Caldon canal on thursday the 2nd of july to search for the wreck and any surviviors. See if you can save a bottle of grog and some crisps from sunday at the Foxley. Best wishes Kev and Maggie xxx Re; The Informer "Mickey The Hat" !!!! Mickey you dont think that Goldie believed that story what you told him, when he found you hiding in the long grass that Goldie was cutting at the weekend do you!! That you was working for the Government and was looking for illegal immigrants? Yah right, its funny that you only go on the days when Shells pegging the washing out!! But there is some truth in it, you have always worked for the Government? Well you have on a Monday under your Code Name (UB40) when you join the long Q under R's to T's at 11 Bells. Mickey you are wrong about my two eye patches, I have picked something out of your wardrobe NO not the GERMAN UNIFORM but the KAMI-KAZI Pilot's Helmet and I am going to Specsavers to have to have Black tinted Pentax varifocal lenses fitted to the GOGGLES!! Oh and stop asking me how much holiday spending money I am taking with me!! I have told you that I'm taking £7 Quid and what I dont spend I will be bring home with me. Pete xx HerMan(Allan from Sheffield.) Hi Mary,I managed another foray into the world this weekend when I attended for me a club that you would say is local to my area.This club has recently celebrated it's fifth year,but as it fell on the bank holiday it was sparsely attended on Saturday night,but although this may have put a dampener on the proceedings the contrary occured.I got a great reception from the organisers of the event, and had a great time,medium dancefloor which when full could possible accomadate about 150 dancers ,great music accross the board and the floor was sublime,as usual I picked the wrong as," Wallace  &  Gromit," would say shoes but was able to show my paces and really enjoyed my self and would defo recommend the place to anyone so if any of you are in the area of ,"The Barrow Hill,"Soul club the first Saturday of the month its well worth a visit, can I please beg a request Mary,Lou Pride,"I'm Comin Home in the Mornin,"Yours as Always HerMan (Allan from Sheffield.) sue from stafford ohh am gutted it appears i missed you goldie on marys show im having trouble trying to get the show on internet but am off to try again !!! oh guess wot c.d. i picked up in a nashville farmers market yesterday it was called "northern soul " it looks a good one and for $4 a bargain !!!! Goldie Captain/ dstw/pslc/Chyipeeclub/MD sopqten Mary`s show very enjoyable Keep Lookin S.B.  &  yeas this was played at de Wheel B.Paris I Walked away .. The Voyage of Chaos NOW A GOER good style  &  yes we expecy many visitors To "PEOPLES BARGE " 27th June 7days On "Carry On UP DE CAULDON ... Busy forty days or so ahead lookin back to last week Shell  &  I stayed @ De HOTEL INTERNATIONAL around de corner from De Peoples club ..great location , discounted prices cos we go the Wheel I re4commend it to those wanting to stay over when they visit the Wheel...Next up at the Wheel Sunday 10th May 3pm -8pm An L.A. Law on de door ..On the 13 of June Pete  &  I will be AT THE PORT VALE CLUB watching Vinny shake his soul simply cant wait .... Petes off to LARA beach Turkey after de Wheel on Sunday for a well deseved break.....HE WILL BE BACK IN TIME for The Wheel 29th May yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee I have trapped in the Garden for 3 days or should I say Jungle ( I AM A DANCE STEWARD GET ME OUTTA HERE "  &  to the crew of DE HMS SHAMELESS stay ship shape guys just 55 days 2 go yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee Goldie xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxshver me timbers xx Hitsville Chalky So Delighted to Announce the Groovesville Review Live UK Shows coming in July 09 , Steve Callaway Professionals will be performing live at Certain Northern Venues In July , The track list I've Chosen will be ...... That's Why I Love you Did My Baby CallDay Tripper Agent 00 Soul ( Tribute to Edwin)Somebody Somewhere Needs you plus a few more Steve is really looking forward going back on stage as The Professionals again and seeing the Northern crowd, singing his heart out of pure Detroit Soul . I've worked so hard putting this together and Would Especially like to Thank Burnley Dave and Jackie ! and also the Promoters of the Venues where The lads will be performing . Pat Boulton Could you play "Here Come The Judge" by Pigmeat markham for my husband Ian with all my love. I have tried for a number of weeks to get a request played, so I thought an old "youth club" sound would do the tri. Seriously, though as a Twisted Wheel veteran, I would also like to hear Tell Me It's Rumour by the Isley Brothers. Chris Savory Thanks for playing my request on Friday - I'm really chuffed. I must get my Stax T-Shirt out. Lena Zavaroni did have her "Ma" single on Stax. They leased it when they were in financial straits hoping it would ease their cash flow - it didn't. You mentioned "Rappers Delight - I was under the impression that it was still banned by the BBC - somethig to do with 'little worms and super sperm'. Sugerhill did a track that I do like "Bad News Don't Bother Me". Now here's my request for this Friday - are there any vinyl outlets, soul bars, charity shops etc in Benidorm as I'm off there in the next few weeks. Do they even have charity shops in Spain!! Loved Nick's gospel track - an area worth exploring. After the Friday prog I turned on BBC4 and heard a live performance of the track that was the first disc played at the inaugeral Twisted Wheel All-nighter. It was part of a few hours of blues at the BBC recordings. Brilliant! Mark (From Darwen) Hi Mary, its nice to be able to listen live for a change I just don't seem to have the time these days. It is usually Sunday before I get to listen to your show. I had a great night last Saturday at the King Georges Hall, Blackburn not as busy as usual but still buzzing. Even my wife Sue (Not very keen on N/Soul) had a good time and she actually got up and danced :-) which is extemely rare these days. Could you please play a record that got her in the mood to dance either Seven Day Lover (James Fountain) or Ordinary Joe (Terry Calier) many thanks KTFMark. The Informer. Mary Sorry I carnt give you my name but all is not as it seems? Roberts has bought two eye patches' one for each eye! As has also started calling himself Blind Pugh. [typecasting] Look Pete I said taking him to one side' Joking aside we have a sick man with us!! Dont you worry he said Goldie will be fine? They sent me a Photo of the Boat today its called [The Black Prince] sounds like something out of a Sex Book?? what worries me is its eighty feet long and yes' Blind Pugh is driveing.I really am having second thoughts!! Goldie Reckons if we tie OB's wheelchair to the side of the boat and pull him along ? this will be great exercise and will also familierise him with his wheelchair. What do I do! I remember visiting Goldie about five years ago in the mental home' how did liverpool go on saturday Mickey! got beat two nil' they'll go barmy in here when they find out he said? You carnt blame these lads for the way they turned out' at Pete's house the other night I came out to find my front tyre flat! as I knealt down to fix it a bloke walking passed said' If your having the wheels I'm having the radio? This is how they live. Now this may sound silly but why does he want to bring a Shotgun? It helps me sleep he says! He's the only man I know who asks' do you prosecute thieves when he enters a shop. I remember him going to see Ben Hur one night' Bet you a tenner that red chariot wins his mate said' And I bet you a tenner Ben Whatsit wins it. Yes Ben Hur won the race and Petes mate says' How did you know that was gonna win that race so easy? Are you thick Pete says! look at the form of it' last week it won at the odeon' week before it won at the Gaumont?? Right I'm out of here see you next fridayxxx mick oliver Hi Mary thanks for the e-mail unfortunately only picked up the sound track and no info on how to get hold of track. Dont know if you were watching DIY SOS last night but utter astonishment ! they played Sweet soul (jnr walker) you remember that track dont you ! (ha ha) OB Hello Soul Family,I have just come out of the Duggie Macs after 25 days of drug and physio treatment/alteration and feel so much better physically,mentaly, and spiritually. Reading the mesbo after 25 days of no internet access was like opening a book and picking up where I left off. I had no idea the canal trip would create such interest but I am pleased that it has because this gives me the opportunity to invite ALL OF YOU to come and visit me and the crew Goldie,Pete Roberts,Mickey Rooney,Jimmy Macdonald and Frank Gierak and allow me to give all of you a drink and some snappin to help celebrate my birthday on Sunday June 28th. I would love to meet soulies ive not met off the mesbo to put a face to names! and Her-Man you wont need a "name plate" if you come!lol.... The barge will be moored by the Foxley pub in Milton if I can get permission on Sunday 28th June. what possibly could go wrong!!!!!! argggghhhh. This adventure is my birthday treat so like I said let me treat you to a few beers and a wee bite to eat. the more the merrier. I would also like to see if we can get into the Guinness book of records by having the most people on/in a barge sailing from one lock to another whilst dancing,singing,and juggling CDs or for the purists vinyl... Before I pipe out, let me tell you that money raised by the soul family has gotten me a recliner chair for the living room, an orthoepedic bed for the bedroom, a nearly new electric wheelchair and a table top fridge. All of these were thanx to you and have made my life so much more comfortable. I know our family rally around fellow soulies in times of need and I cant think of a better example of how this kind gesture can be bettered on one individual. My spirits are high and I aways think positive, I have my faith and say to the "BIG GUY" every day-- If you want me take me, but if you think I can do good down here...let me stay a while...So far so good BUT with the impending boat trip....well!!!!! lets see lol, so for now shivver me timbers, Im off to splice the mainbrace!! I LOVE YOU ALL--- OBxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx rob[rubber soul records] hi mary love the show-a plug would be much appreciated for the only independant record shop in stoke-on-trent!rubber soul records-hide street-stoke town centre,opp poundstrecher,as always loads of northern-stax-tamla-atlantic vinyl and cds!at sensible prices!thanks mary i do appreciate it! Frank from Derby Being the final member to be recruited to the crew of the H.M.S. Shameless I feel it an honour to be sailing with such a fine bunch of pirates, sea dogs of fortune, setting sail on the high seas,I hear pete's at the "Wheel" steering a straight course under the orders of "Admirable Goldie" I suppose being the smallest I will be assigned to the galley, as long as its not my turn in the barrel, i hear O.B's been seen in the local outfitters being measured up for a blazer and sailors hat, and buying white flannels, cravat and deck shoes, On a serious note its an honour to be going with some really good guys Mary Fox you are a really nice lady keep up the good work, you really are a true SOULDIER. by the way any chance of playing "Ship Of Fools" by Ray Marchand Rob(Cadiz) Hey Pete Roberts and Mickey Rooney: Pete, i have received the O´B CD already....gonna listen to it at the weekend when i can give it the attention that it derserves. Thanks mate...lovely stuff. One thing though....theres no track list. I know Mickey compiled it so could you or Mickey put the track list on the MSGB....as two "giants of the scene"...not literally i know but you know what i mean....anyway, you know how inportant it is to Soulies to know details (song names  &  artists)to mull over while listening/dancing/appreciating our great music....so please, please, please lads put us a track list on this MSGB...much appreciated. Rob "HMS SHAMELESS" OB's Cruise Of Chaos!! Mary would you please be kind enough to play a record for our Captain Horatio Goldstein!! DSTW/Ex,PSLC,Ch.SOPQTEN.. The 1968 "Captain Of Your Ship" by Reparata  &  the Delrons would be great!! Goldie has been grounded this weekend and is in Dry Dock!! And Shell has told Goldie never mind TWINE TIME and SOUL TIME its GARDENING TIME with no QUITTIN' TIME!!.. Goldies Boss has told him that he has got to work late this Friday but he will be still listening to Marys show in work. Mickey Rooney has told me that he has WARNED everybody not to give me any Alcohol on the Boat (I don't know why??) and not to let me Tattoo anybody? OB, Jimmy and Frank have already booked me for a Big One on their backs!! (Well we have got to do something to pass the time on at night)haven't we?? The Boat is booked and OB is over the Moon and he can't wait!! And to poor Jimmy and Frank you dont know what you have let yourselfs in for!! Pete xx. GOLDIE CAPTAIN HMS SHAMELESSdstwpslcCH.spoqten OKAY REF voyage of Chaos AKA THE WHEEL ON WATER ..Allcrew members CRB`d  &  seaworthy ..will be Known as THE NOT SO DIRTY HALF DOZEN ...Attitude is one of Positivity  &  all rearing to go...All barge members will recieve Attire instructions forthwith...Ports of call , facilities for guests etc to be finalised THIS WILL BE A BEAUTIFUL experience trust me yours sincerely Captain Goldie H.M.S Shameless cant wait ..Roll on June 27th LETS GET READY TO RUMBLE .Ob, Myself, Jimmy, Frank , Rooney  &  gunner Roberts MAY GOD bless THE SHAMELESS  &  all who sail in her Captain Goldiexxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxyipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee ..the voyage of the TITANIC 2.. well well well ,,dear Mr Rooney,,i havent laughed so much in ages,,youre a star..Ive told John to take a Video Camera with him,,this will be a block-buster..woooooooooooohoooooooooooo..watch that ice-berg..hahahaha..SCO xx Rob(Cadiz) Could you play "Expansions - Lonnie Liston Smith" I a remember certain era when you could hear a classic Jazz Funk track such as this followed by a Northern classic and the dance floor would remain full with no disagreement, just good music to dance to(it didnt last long from memory). I saw a request for "Rappers Delight" I can remember the first time i ever heard this song at an All-Dayer at the Nottingham Palais (i think that was the name)and i knew right then that this represented a big change of direction in sections of the scene and boy was i right. Rap  &  Hip Hop followed and the rest is history. I dont mind all that stuff but you definitely cant beat/match that "hair on the back of your neck" feeling of a good Northern track. Rob Able Seaman Rooney.. Mary just received conformation that my application to join HMS Shameless has been accepted.The fact that I worked at Macfisheries on my C.V. for one year may have swung it. Pete reckons O.B. has enough medication for everyone and said some people need it more than O.B. As you all probably know by now Pete's eyes are worrying me! Many years ago he was on board a cruise liner when it suddenly started to sink' after about an hour' when all of the passengers were placed in the lifeboats' a ship steward opened pete's cabin door and their was pete putting his dickie bow on singing?? Sir you need to leave the ship were sinking' Well some idiots running up and down shouting Band on Ship he said.Then we come to Goldie' all he keeps asking is' we dont go through customs do we?? and do boats have alarms and crooklocks? Now we come to O.B. as he already knows theres no favorites on this trip' we all get a go of the new wheelchair and because he says he has trouble sleeping' he can be the night watchman! and watch Goldie? On marys show it came to our attention O.B. that your walking a little now so you can do the locks! Now I'm along as Vice Captain' and to make sure theres no mutiny on board 'In a way to keep the peace!and make sure everyone gets on? Off the record OB has told me' he's not that keen on Pete' and Goldie gets on his nerves but hey? thats between me and OB.Pete said he carnt wait to search Mary when we pipe her aboard and reckons if he finds anything untowards' she may have to be taken below and placed in irons?? [he keeps saying it] Anyone wishing to view Mary in irons can only watch for the length of three records???? NOW for the serious bit! I feel kinda proud that OB asked pete and Goldie to bring me along on his trip' Maybe he thinks their boring I dont really know' what I do know is' if it wasnt for you people listening to Marys show[You know who you are]all this couldnt have taken place. We hear Mickey' Pete' Goldie' The Foxley' Mary' but even these generous people know its you wonderfull people that have made a very sick man the happiest man in the world many thanks on behalf of OB. I HATE BEING SERIOUS. PS. Lets have some tunes for me to play on board I really will try and play them all [Not Silly Ones] GOOD TUNES ONLY. vinny soulshaker TO COLLIN MARSHALL re 2nd most expensive record is don gardners, cheating kind it went for £10.000 but you can get it on a grapevine re issue for about £20 or less hope this helps, atb vinny Chris Savory To Rob (Cadiz) Deon Jackson did the first recording of "Love Makes The World Go Round." Here's a request for one Friday - 'Keep On Keeping On' by Ruby Johnson. A slab of 100% Stax - lets have more Stax please Mary - or will I get shot for saying that!! Twiggy To Brett, Thanks for that Brett, love to hear Barbara Lewis's version, i have got Kiki Dees somewhere, Did you know Mary Wells did a version anyway that whats itsaid on CD, I hope to get to The Wheel soon so should see you in there. Rob(Cadiz) Mickey Rooney: Hey Mickey, glad you liked the Ike  &  Tina Turner track, (thanks for playing it Mary)..its a belter. I'll make you a copy. Ive emailed Mr Roberts as you suggested so if you send a reply to that email, send me your postal address and i'll pack one off to you. Enjoy the cruise lads and im sure OB will enjoy having his good pals around him with a few bevvies (if he's up to it) and great Soul music non-stop. Cheers. RobP.S Mickey, i heard you are an old Southport Soul boy...is that right as we might know some of the same folk if you are, although i think you were around on the scene, dancing up a storm a while before i was. Goldie captain dstw/pslc Yeah it was a great weekend with good soul vibes all over...Just been conversing with Gunner Roberts  &  Commanding officer O`brien ref Cruise of Chaos On the Soul ship H.M.S. SHAMELESS I can verify its for 1 week Maiden voyage commencing Sat 27th June ..I think all crew  &  passenger spots more than filled  &  I feel the barge will call at several venues on de Cauldon  &  will be visited by soulies near  &  far on a daily basis ..Nothin is set in stone!!!!!  &  the FULL ITINARY will be announced A.S.A.P .......NEXT Biggie for me : Sunday May 10th AT THE WHEEL 3-pm till 8 pm a Bobby Moore on de door Should be a cracker..Goldiexxxxxxxxxxxxx yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee It`s Tuesday just love Tuesdaysxxxx Vanda and Shar Could you please play a special request for us - its a little out of the genre of the show, but the music was a natural progression from the northern scene - and its for a local legend Randy Conteh who is 50 and we will be at his party tomorrow night - and the track is Rapper's Delight Sugar Hill Gang and its for all those memories and fun times from that timeHappy Birthday Randy - Enjoy your 'boogaloo' party - its gonna be mighty funky!! xx Mickey.Rooney. Pete enjoy your holliday in Mexico?? Goldie hope you managed to nick a car to get home to liverpool after the show' Mary you need to give your guests longer' We are getting to meet some real characters and we know sooner say hello and their gone. Rob [Cadiz] loved that Tina Turner track must track it down? Give pete your e-mail address got a cd for ya? Pete take lots of tissues!! "HMS SHAMELESS" NO PIRANHA'S PLEASE!!! Hi Goldie the Birthday BUOY you were great on Marys show on friday with 3 great record choices and the talk of OBs Boat which is a week long Holiday!! Not a day!! I know that our Crew have been called "Salty Sea Dogs" Pirates, Rascals  &  Rogue's but something that we are not is "Lying Piranha's In Disguise" and we will not have any onboard "HMS SMAMELESS"!! OB fantastic news that you are going home on Tuesday and I hope that your foot gets better soon, Thank You, Ellen  &  the O'Brien Family for the lovely flowers for Jackie. Rob (Cadiz) I got your Chq for £6 for the (OB Day) CD, and I will post it to you today, and the (OB Day) total is £1,346 thank you all. OB I will see you at your flat soon, Ship Mate!! Pete Roberts and yes I'm not lying thats my Real Name. Great to see you all on Friday at the Wheel and I hope to see you on Sunday 10th of May for our "SUNDAY AFTERNOON SOUL SESSION" at the Wheel. Pete xx. Goldie DSTW/PSLC Dance stewards log entry 26/04..After a blissfully spiritual day in Derby , Dougie Mac  &  a lovely visit to the Queen Of De Soul Family 1s show I have to Report that Friday`s Soul sizzler at The Twisted Wheel Manchester was de Best I have ever ever ever ever ever ever ever experienced .. I have never been hugged  &  kissed  &  squeesed so much in my life by so many people  &  THE WOMEN were even more amourous phew ..It was electric soulfully sublime THe Music was spot on Ta for all the cards  &  cards  &  pressies Pete Robbo ,Steve Co , Mark ,Anne Pat  &  Joan , Ob etc etc etc ... &  hallo Mike  &  Linda from Cannock xxxxxxx (the kisses re for Mark)..Mo from Hastings (we aint seen here for 41 years .. Shirley , (Bradford) ..Clare  &  Celia (Hull ) all first timers along with 20 other newies  &  all the regs Maggie Kev/ Bret/ THE VROWD in de corner Sue ( Goldette ) Sue Dance stew.ard ushette , Pat , Kev ,JOCK HERON great spot Jock ..John Green ta 4 de music..THE TOUCH OF VELVELETTES ...Shirley ( Happy birthday ) Suzie  &  Marie Pete  &  Suzie  &  a couple of hundred more fabulous night never ever to be surpassed scoring 3098 million trillion out of ten Yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee for the TWISTED WHEEL ..Goldie ( I am actually 56 ) OB`s song for THE WEEKS bopat trip to be posted next Gxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx I'M ON MY WAY TO THE USA Hello MaryGreat show yet again Friday 24/04/09.Could be our last for a few weeks (oh no!)Wow you and GOLDIE what a double act!!!!!like two ferrets wrestling in a bag!!!Mary you should have been a diplomat in the civil service.What skill you have when'dealing' with your studio guests etc!Are you still pickin' the 'egg shells' out of the bottom of your feet?GOLDIE ,well what can we say.You have TWO or more fans and you should get your own weekly slot on the MF show(our sides are still aching!!)Or perhaps your own radio show.We also think the bbc should also give GOLDIE his own saturday tv show.It's got be better than the rubbish that is on at the moment.we have been driven to whatching shows like the spanish version of who wants to be a millionaire (keeps our spanish up etc!)and celebrity flaminco dancing (or 'floor banging' as well call it!!)GOLDIE three great choices yet again and the smokey robinson 45.What a great choice .Not heard it for years and holds some great memories for me and a certain young lady in Hyde,Tameside many,many years ago in the early 70's!!Well the suitcases are all packed .The HAINES safely rescued from the WALLS(bit splashed with 'whitewash' though???)The Spanish members of the MURCIAN soul crew have been told to 'brew' the almond and olive oil liquer,mind the fields(they live outside in the 'grounds' of JINKSY and the ROSE towers) all summer!! whilst we are away!!!Great news about OB and your maritime adventures sound fantastic (you old sea dogs!!)Perhaps if you get the time you could post some pics on youtube etc for us to all enjoy????Will try to bring you back some 'coke'??? from Atlanta,Georgia if possible!!!Well time to go the taxis will be here shortly.Mary if you could play either I'M ON MY WAY DEAN PARRISH and /or TREAT HER RIGHT (mary,while we are away)ROY HEAD.Two on the same show (or spread em' out)sounds greedy though!!KTF and Mary(our golden lady) safe while we are away.JINKSY AND THE MURCIANS. Martin Jones A couple of weeks ago, Neil Rushton was after northern soulers' memories. He gave out his email address on the show. Anyone got it? mt.jones@virgin.net Kerstin Andersson I just bought the Isley Brothers and This Old Heart of Mine and the young salesman said to this quite old woman: I think this is the best record made ever! Brett TWIGGY - Long time no speak and I hope you and Mrs Twiggy are keeping well. I can let you have LOVE MAKES THE WORLD GO ROUND by both Barbara Lewis AND Kiki Dee if you want. Although a little slower, I think the Kiki Dee version is brilliant. vinny soulshaker hi all just to say i had a rare night off fri listened to marys show and went to moorville hall for the first time, nice to see some old faces from leek and the potteries there nice venue well done alan, phil, baz, ozz, ps hi to o b hope your doing well, hi to pete roberts, happy birthday goldie enjoyed listening to you on the show, pete see you at the wheel soon atb Rob(Cadiz) Hey Pete (Roberts), Sorry mate, i just assumed "The Wheel" was your business address and as i didnt know your home address....anyway, cheers mate, much appreciated...cant wait for another "Wheel" inspired CD.....I'll give it a right good goin' over. Thanks again...See you at the Wheel next time im within striking distance. Cheers, Rob rob hi all, northern soul and motown night at the monckton pinfold lane penkridge sat 2nd may 8pm till 1am. Jon DC Hammer Hey Goldie will you move over so we can see you on the webcam. Alls we can see is the top of your head and we know what Q-Tips look like already. Twiggy To Jinksy, The CD is called BATTLE of the BANDS BLACK IVORY verses ODDS and ENDS its about 10 years ago i brought it from a shop in Manchester, when i can find it in my collection i'll let you know exactly it was released, you can get LOVE MAKES THE WORLD GO ROUND by Odds and Ends for a few Dollars, well worth it and will be snapped up, I think Barbara Lewis did a version and never heard it, i would love someone to send it in to Mary if she did a version.Oh by the way Jinksy i have noticed alot of Cd's have been deleted and prices of some of um have rocketed, one nice tune on a Robert John CD WHEN THE PARTY IS OVER is an absolute Monster, i have a copy but can i find it watch out for that one. Mickey.Rooney. So Mr Roberts now everyone knows about my cossie! As for the police' no charges were brought just my passport taken. Remember your holliday in America mr tight? you dropped fifty pence down a rabbit hole and that became The Grand Canyon!! You even bought a German car once because the dealer told you 'their great at jumping the queue. he's also [paranoid] he once went to a rugby match and when they got down in a scrum'he turned to me and said I bet their talking about me thats how he is. I'll give you speedo's !! Now pete by his own admission will tell you he's not the best speller in the world' so when he said let me give you a tattoo!alarm bells should have rang. Whats your girlfriends name he said' Helen as it was at the time i replied' right sit here with your arm stretched out I'll get the shoe polish and the sewing needle?? Well i sat their for over an hour gritting my teeth thinking what have i started. Right take a look at that he said 'Pete you've wrote [Melon] To this day I still have the word Melon Tattoo'd on my arm and will show anyone that asks? Now would you go on a Barge with this man???? To answer one little question'how can somebody who came on the scene fourteen years after me'pick the top 500northern soul tunes most of which he's pressed.Goldie many happy returns will catch you up later. Re; Donation for OB  &  CD....(OB DAY)!!! Hiya Rob (Cadiz)How are you doing Pal, just read your post on the messageboard about your letter? Rob I don't live at the Twisted Wheel Club so I didn't get your letter as yet!! But any mail which is Addressed to me go's around the corner to the Hotel, and yes Rob there is a letter waiting for me on the desk (I have just telephoned them) they said Pete we knew the Wheel was on tonight so we was going to give you then! Rob I dont know when your letter came? And I have been in the Wheel in the afternoon twice this week and nobody told me that I had any mail? Sorry Rob I will pick it up tonight and I will post you the CD!! If you want my Address email me at twistedwheel@tiscali.co.uk Looking forward to seeing you soon Rob. Best Regards  &  Thanks very much for the OB Donation. Pete Roberts. Ozz Hi All, Its MOORVILLE HALL Tonight Friday 24th April, 8 till 1am with Dj's OZZ, ALAN TWYFORD,PHIL ANKERS  &  BAZ. Also Soul Sundays starting this week With OZZ + Guest Dj's Every Week at The Victoria Stoke 8 till 12. Thanks To all. Ozz ps check out www.thesoulguy.com over 1 million hits cant be bad !!. HerMan(Allan from Sheffield.) Hi I'm back again ,looking at the feedback and noting Twiggy's and Nick's contributions with regards to the original question from Jinksy.Yes,another version from odds and Ends surfaced as a cover of the original 66 recording in the early seventies on the Today label (Today 103)if you can find a copy you should pay about $10-$20 dollars a stock copy.I agree with Twiggy when he says not alot from this group 5 recodings on this label including one which can be found on John Manships site,a cover of,"Apples ,Peaches ,Pumpkin Pie."(Today1513.)for a (as Goldie would say)tenner.Hope this info.was helpful.AsAlwaysK.T.F.HerMan(Allan from Sheffield.) Rob (Cadiz) To the one and only Pete Roberts: Hey Pete, the Wheel sounds like its going from strength to strength...keep up the good work. I'll definitely be there, next UK trip!! Pete, i was wondering if my letter turned up addressed to you at the Wheel. After reading your comments a while back about the OB Day at the wheel and that there was still some of Mickey Rooney's CDs left over that were made for OB Day, i sent a wee donation for the CD, postage ect ect and a letter explaining what i was doing. Im dying to hear the CD and can re-send the cheque if the first one didnt turn up...let us know mate and i'll be on the case. Rob MANY THANKS EVERYBODY_WHAT WOULD I DO WITHOUT YOU? twiggy,do you know when that cd was released etc and the exact title etc?I would not mind getting hold of either the cd or the 45!Today records is new to me .is it a UK or USA lable?One to look out for on my travels.Rob,i went to Torrevieja today to a great little chinese and to take in some sea air and it chucked it down.The rain was bouncin' off the footpath and the road was like a river!!!!!!!!!!!!!!But it was still quite hot though!!Good old weather Espania!!!!Well back to me packin' for the USA.Where's me clean HAINES'S.Oooops the ROSE has put em'on the WALLS to dry!!!!!!!!!!!!Mary please make Friday's show a good un as it could be last one for nearly a month!!! Must try to get to an internet conection in the States asap.Because i know i cannot last that long without my weekly MF show fix!!!!KTF JINKSYps look after Mary while we are away,please be kind to her,maybe she will tell you where she gets those NORTHERN SOUL ALICE BANDS from while we are away!!?? Pat Boulton Hi Mary. Could you play Tell Me It's A Rumour by the Isleys for my wonderful husband Ian. It's one of the most compelling dancing records ever recorded. Mark Johnson To Jinksy, Love Makes The World Go Round is by Odd's and Ends on Today Records. It's the flip to Yesterday My Love which is a great track itself and one I have not heard played out for years. Cheers Mark rob littlewood hi mary ,love the show,last time i put a request in,i asked for al kents funny feeling ,would have been ok ,if that was the right title ,just testing you .if you get chance could you play marvin holmes you better keep her,or ,kelly garrett ,loves the only answer .many thanks rob Mark Johnson To Jinksy, Love makes the world go round by Odds and Ends is on Today records. It's the flip of Yesterday My Love which is a great track but I've not heard it played out for years. Cheers Mark Rob(Cadiz) Hey Chris(Savory), who did the original of; "Love makes the world go round"? Jinksy: Glad those walls are finished, its beach time. First dip of the year is in order this weekend, me thinks. Looking forward to Fridays show. Rob AHOY CAPTAIN GOLDIE "HAPPY BIRTHDAY" Mary would you be kind enough to play a record on your show this Friday Night please for Goldie its one of his Favorates from 1966 "A Touch Of Velvet, A Sting Of Brass" by the Mood Mosaic! From all his true friends at the Wheel, What more could we do for Our very own Twisted Wheel Dance Steward. Captain Goldie a word of warning!! Tricky Rooney went for a few pints of Grog (10) and a bottle of Rum in the "Smugglers Arms" and overheard some iffy men talking about an attack on your Boat!! So take your yellow spirit level with you, because there is a bent stretch of that canal in a bad area and he heard the Pirates planning an attack on you and your crew!! They said that they will have us over in the Sea Fog or the Froghall Tunnel and have our Loot  &  Woman away, well I know that they have got no chance against "Salty Sea Dogs" like you lot, so there nowt to worry about. Have a good one Goldie and many Yipeeeeeee Returns of the Day to you!! MOODY MARTHA X Andrew (SC) Hi Mary listened to your new show in the week, got to say very good, some nice music for the journey home from biggest hotel in Brum. Your going to be snatched by the Southerners if you are not careful. This MB gets better is Mickey R trying to nick Twiggys crown as the stirrer number 1. Pete Roberts you are a star I sincerley hope you become the richest man in the City of Manchester because nothing can beat the Sunday session the set up is A1, watching the floor last time was just brilliant the old movie stuff blew some of us away, what are the saddles for? Goldie KTF old lad if we could bottle your enthusiasm we would all be worth a bob or two. Worked last week so unable to get to Carols function at the Foxley but the boys did her proud well done Amo, you would make a good Crewie actually your good enough to be a Manc!!!Anyway cheeky request please Mary Friday "Never Stop Loving You" Carla Thomas for Ann  &  "William Grandson of this parish". For Monday's show Mary can you play "Deliver me" by the beloved from the New Classic Chillout Album "Dawn". Cheers to all and never stop dancing. Twiggy Hi Jinsky, I think you may find Odds and Ends Monster on TODAY label because i know ODDS and ENDS didn't do alot of stuff and that label rings a bell, Yester Day My Love is another good un by them along with Let Me Try.You will find them on a CD called BATTLE of the Bands BLACK IVORY v ODDS and ENDS i must tell you its not easy to get hold of but if you find one go for it.To Micky Rooney i do agree with you about some milking the scene but you can get your fingers burnt promoting Soul Nites or not really making any money, i guess there are alot connecting with Soul Music just to make money but they always get found out and for me theres nothing worse than a Dj playing Soul Music who just dunna understand the music, nevermind the media opens doors for some but they will have to go a long way to beat Mary who i think if she had all her own way with slections would knock spots off some shows, Absolute killer Mary Odds and Ends track i bet that tune wunna go for a few dollars for much longer. HerMan(Allan from Sheffield.) Hi Jinksy,With regards to your question?Yes the track comes from Deon Jackson and is found on Carla 2526 star date 1966 it actually came out with the same cat no.twice ,but each had a different "B" side firstly, "You Said You Loved Me,"and secondly,"Hello Stranger,(Instrumental.)I thinkthe artist had 7 titles on the label which had a very chaotic numbering system,this does not however stop the track in question being a great tune,one which I am proud to say I have in my own collection.Anumber of copies have emerged on "E" bay of late so I would suggest if anyone requires a copy ,take a look you may be very suprised.Yours as Always K.T.F.HerMan(Allan from Sheffield.) Nick Marshall Hi Jinksy - Odds  &  Ends' version of LMTWGR is on Today. Deon jackson was on Carla. All the bestNick Steve Amison Big thanks to everyone who attended the Foxley last Friday night 17th April for Carol's fundraiser. We raised £321 on the night which we passed on to Carol. It was a cracking night  &  extra special thanks to guest DJ's Nigel, Ben, Ged, Ian  &  Dave from Stone Soul Club  &  all the Foxley regulars for turning out  &  supporting the event. Cheers  &  KTF Amo Colin Marshall I just wondered if any of the listeners/experts can tell me 01. What is the second rarest northern soul single? and 02. What is the second rarest "popular" northernsoul single?Any chance of playing the ubiquitous, cheap but sublime, Isley Bros "This Old Heart of Mine" the opening bars of which still stop conversations and draw the dancers inexorably to the floor?Please play it for Kathryn !If you can - it will be appreciated - thankyou. HMS SHAMELESS "Caldon Canal Cruise" Mickey if thats right? well what can I say because your Wanda can't get enough of me? And its your bedroom thats got Net Curtains and Blinds up!! Oh and do yourself a favor and don't be wearing your Speedo's on the cruise (you know why)the police had a little chat with you the last time! And out of the two of us!! I will be the one who will be able to tell us if the water is hot or cold or not. OB we have got you a New Deck chair for you to Sun Bathe in, on top of the Boat and Goldie has ordered a new hat  &  eyepatch and a parrot out of the cataloge! See you on Friday Goldie at the Wheel and "Happy Birthday" Mate, Goldie I know what DSTW is, but what does PSLC stand for ??? The Crew or is it the Crazy Gang!!!! Vanda and Shar Cheers Randy - we will be there- Will get in touch soooonnn! Cant wait! Chris Savory Deon Jackson 'Loves makes te world go round' is on Carla. It is on UK Black Atlantic 4070 as well. Another great sound played at the West Brampton Bear hotel was 'Chills  &  Fever'. Derek Smith Hi Mary, just a note to say how much I enjoyed my appearance on your show on 17th April, went all too fast! Hope to be on again later this year, To Rob of Cadiz--- Nice to see someone else likes my choices, and yes I am local, born and bred Chell heath to begin with, S-o-t then lateley Newcastle Staffs, Hi to everyone at Foxley, Fab night again on 17th, I was off all that day, playing Northen and Motown, Marys Show in Evening, then onto Foxley, in the words of the song--- What more could a boy ask for!!--- Mary, any chance of Baris Track by Dani Burdock, another belting Instrumental we never hear nowadays KTF Derek LOVE MAKES THE WORLD GO ROUND ODDS AND ENDS Mary/Nick or anybody out there.Is the above on the usa CARLA lable?It's very hot again today here.I am so glad the 'WALLS' are completed!!!KTF JINKSY Pete Dyson,("AS-IS!"). 21/4/09,HiMary,could you play,Marth & the Vandellas,(You,ve Been In Love To Long),on the show,Cheer,s Pete.D. Chris Savory To Rob (Cadiz) - I was at the same Earth Wind  &  Fire concert. It was a great night and then a crowd off us went off to Wigan to round off the evening. The Angelo Starr voice is great but the track needs A LOT of working on. Enjoyed the 'Love makes the world go round' The original was a Bear Hotel favourite. Jimmy Beaumont on London Records is a great track to play one night - both sides of the singles are brilliant. Just heard a great track by Alisha Keyes - 'You don't know my name'. Not a dancer - just a great tune. What CD dis the Bessie Banks come from? Sunday April 26th at Cobridge Community Centre will have THOUSANDS of soul singles up for sale all day. Randy Conteh To Vanda  &  Sharon,Randy's big "Five-0" Birthday Party, Sat, 2nd May, 2009, King's Hall, Stoke, 8 till late and you're invited! Soul and Motown DJ's including Wilf, Johnny F and Doris. Also Soul Duo-"Ruqaze".Free entrance to Friends! (Strictly ticket only.) For more info call Randy on 07929223201. Andy Scoffin - Crewe Not sure how to take your comments Mickey - surely most promoters are making a few bob out of the scene, all the dealers with record boxes at venues are making money from the scene, I don't know many DJ's who work for nowt (guesss there are some) so they make money from the scene.The exceptions are of course dedicated charity nights but they are not every weekend at every venue.Just a few thoughts on the topic. Derek Smith Hi Mary, very much enjoyed my appearance on your show on 17th April, went all too quickly!! Hope to be on later in year, nice to see some positive comments from Messageboarders, and yes Rob cadiz, I am a local lad, glad you liked my choices, Shout out to the Guys at Foxley for a really good night same Friday,I will be going there as much as I can. Finally, how about Baris Track Doni Burdock for a Good Instrumental Mary?? KTF Derek Smith Goldiedstwpslc Just been talkin to OB he`s doin ok  &  has delegated me as "CAPTAIN" during H.M.S. "SHAMELESS" maiden voyage on the CAULDON canal network ONE WEEKS trek @ 4 miles per hour REAR ADMIRAL PETE ROBERTS will be assigned to rear Gunner duty  &  Mickey Rooney has been awarded the post as Cheif Engineer  &  Muck Stirrer For the trip...The soul Barge will set off Saturday 27th June will be moored near the Fabulous Foxley on The Tuesday the 30th  &  it looks like we may have Mary Fox on board for a cuppa as we manouver the ship around ALTON BASIN cant wait yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee to days tracks "On The Good Ship Lollipop"  &  Hughes Corporation "Dont Rock The Boat".....Captain Pugwash AKA GOLDIE DSTW  &  PSLCxxxxxxxxx vinny soulshaker hi all, every sat 9 till 2northern motown club classics etc, as always your requests at thebed bar newcastle u lymedance floor security free entry all welcome Harry Webb. Re;Mickey Rooney,"Good News Mickey" I have managed to get the two record,s that you have been searching for! "Travellin Light"(Columbia DB4351) & "Please Dont,t Tease"(Columbia DB4479)both on mint Vinyl by your favorite Singer,"Cliff Richard". Hope you will add them to your great collection of "CLIFF,S!!!,enjoy Mickey Lad,Luv,Harry x. soash from Wakefield Just like to say hello, and thanx to my old mate Paul for introducing me to this great site. I went down the Wheel last sunday for the first time in nearly forty years! So many memories - well done you guys! BTW, does anyone remember the Metro in Wakefield? I had the great pleasure of DJing All-nighters there when the Wheel closed back in 71. We closed after a while, but it was a blast while it lasted. It would be nice if someone remembers it! See you all at the Wheel again very soon! Mike (Cannock) To Kevin from Sale. Hi mate your lucky, the full time list was full for this sat but i noticed a slot on the part time list, i asked the gaffa if full timers could book absent leave on the part time list, he replied under special circumstances. I thought what can be more special than a trip to the Wheel? sadly he didn't share my passion as his reply was no chance, i've done the staffing for this week and i don't consider that as special anyway!! How sad is he? still thinking of comming anyway but if not will be there on the next sunday soul session! Regards Mike. carol from shrewsbury Hi Mary this is just to say a big thank you to all who came to the foxley on Friday 17th May.Special thanks to Mick and Amo for arranging it all and to all the DJ's including Nigel and Jed you gave us all a wonderful night and as always great sounds.Thank you so much everyone for coming along especially those who travelled miles to support my night.special thanks to Theresa and Jayne, Anne and Pat, Sharon and Mick,Sharon and Jed and all the gang, Ray and Lydia, my dear friend Pete,MY GIRLS Jen and Cath, Tina and Ben and everyone else. You all have big hearts and I have made some very close friends in the Stoke and Crewe area. Thank you all so much and big love and thanks to OB. Mickey.Rooney Yes I've been on the phone for over an hour ? Mr Serling my deepest appoligy' What I should have said was [Kev Roberts] as Pete Roberts pointed out to me at seven this morning with his favorite record in his hand [Shotgun.]and to let everyone know he's not part of the Pete Roberts family?. Anyway the meaning was meant! sorry to Richard' and to make it up' I'll do a spot on your show for FREE? as for Roberts telling people the doctor prescribed viagra to stop him falling out of bed well!! Jackie once told me how they made love in the afternoon and the curtains were open? Pete stood up on the bed and she shouted[get down or the neibours will know i married you for your money.Once again sorry Richard. Pete Roberts 20/4/2009 (Post 2) Mr Rooney, Lets get this right!!! It was NOT Richard Searling who was selling a CD about his Holiday in America it was KEV ROBERTS! Sorry Mary for sending this post twice but I missed the R out of Searling and my BP is up at the moment and I cant see for Red Mist. But some will say whats new?? Pete Roberts 20/4/2009 Mr Rooney, Lets get this right!!! It was NOT Richard Sealing who was selling a CD about his Holiday in America it was KEV ROBERTS! sue from stafford Hi to ian edwards wondered why we had not heard much from you lately hope you and mary are both well as for doing a c.i.n. this year i hope you do as its one i look forward to love sue and steve x Mickey.Rooney Can we have some truth on the board please?? No I'm not touting for fans ! but its about time some people out there stopped making money out of the scene. Mr Searling' no I dont want to watch your holliday in America on dvd !!! Would you like to buy my dvd of me in turkey on holliday? no i dont think so. Couldnt you have at least said [And every dvd sold] £1 will be donated to ob. I listened to Tommy Hunt being interviewed the other day' and after every question he replied [Buy the book] Now maybe I'm on my lonesome here but can we stop milking the scene. Now Somebody like ob' who has built his life around this music gets his one and only visit from a star like yourself Mary. I'm sorry for going on one but once again' its you people out there that get my respect the Foxley' of which i carnt wait to visit' the Wheel' even though i carnt stand that Roberts ?and everyone that gave of their time and money for a great man OB. Mr Serling' try giving a soul brother a leg up in life' Mary will be more than' happy to tell you what ward ob's on ? or ring the show!! like you did for your dvd. Right back to the board' Nice one stoke you should stay up now? Pete Roberts got his crisis loan from the social and is taking a holliday! Jos missed your fantastic spot and people are still talking about it' Pete reckons you'll be back.Right I'm off out! Mary you havent printed my last two messages???? we carnt here nice things all the time. ps. Edwins Starrs nephew 'great voice rubbish record. Tim, Northampton Oh, Mary.What a great way to start a Friday night programme.Just back from hols; on the listen again and I hear this.Thank you.Tim Ecky 18 April, It's St George's day on Thursday, so i was trying to think of some souly connection, but the only one I can come up with is "Fascinating Girl" - "George" Lemons, there must be something better than that - Any ideas anybody? Soulong for now Ecky Theresa Had a great time at the Foxley on friday night, a charity night for the lovely Carol. Thank you to Mike from Meir for sharing his taxi with me and Jayne. Lovely to see Anne and Pat (wheelettes) catching up with Jen and Cath had a great dance, music was really good, what a lovely friendly crowd, great night. M.F.SOUL SHOW 17/04/09 Hello again mary.We all really enjoyed the above.What a great show it was.TWO of my all time favourite motown 45's (TELL ITS A JUST A RUMOUR and WHAT DOES IT TAKE)not rare but the 'tops' never the less.What alucky boy i am!!!i remember when i was young (long time ago now!)having MOTOWN CHARTBUSTER VOL 3 AND 4.playing them over and over again ,taking them to house parties etc,etc.when ever i hear certain tracks like WHAT DOES IT TAKE and it finishes.I always then think of the track that followed on those wonderful discs.Anybody out there have the same reaction or is just me that was brainwashed and hypnotised (think thats right!!)as a youngster by motown etc??If you have any room on next weeks show.Please can you play CRUISIN'by smokey.As we are all looking forward to hitting those Americian freeways next week on our journey fron Atlanta,Georgia to Jacksonville in Northern Florida?KTF JINKSY AND THE MURCIANSps it's 43 and 'bitter limon' not limon,it's makes all the difference!!!!!!! Rob(Cadiz) Friday night again, Jeese, they come round fast.... Thank goodness!…....Ive listened to Marys last show (April 10th) a couple of times this week to hear Wade Flemmons again…....great stuff…an old Soul mate of mine told that he thought Mr Flemmons used to be a drummer with Earth, Wind  &  Fire in their early days….can anyone confirm. My first EVER live gig was Earth, Wind  &  Fire at Bingley Hall, Stafford….what a show….Around that time, E W  &  F were right into Egyptology and some obscure ancient philosophy and Egyptian symbolism, the music was mind blowing and the stage show was all Pyramids and special effects and the show ended with the whole band climbing into a triangular Pyramid-like space ship and it being hauled 30 odd m up into the air and then in a big flash of light disappearing and then all the individual members of the band reappearing still playing their instruments but flying around all over the stage area and 10m above the stage….couldn’t see any wires and it was a magical experience for me…somebody told me EW & F employed a full-time illusionist to orchastrate their live performances in those days. I was probably 14 or so and one of my brothers mates took pity on me as he was picking up my brother as they set off for the gig…....he asked me if I wanted to go, I ran into to ask my mum and she said OK as long my brother kept an eye on me…....it was another coat of glue that has kept me stuck to Soul music ever since the 70’s…despite various flirtations with other types of black music. Joe Hicks…pure brilliance of taste from Derek….Newcastle – Stoke or Newcastle, Geordieland…...im assuming cos of accent and excellent Soul knowledge and localized comments that its Newcastle, Staffs. Still got my copy of Earl Wright…crackin’ instrumental dancer. Im right in tune with Dereks choices and a certain era by the sounds of it. The ultimate storming Motown dancer…....”Tell me its just a rumour” is a tune I could listen and dance to all day long…...its pure Soul genius without a shred of doubt. The Anderson Brothers…...orgasmically good and makes me think of so many great venues…...I remember sliding across the floor to it at the Mecca…probably one of my lifes finest periods and individual moments now I can look back. Thanks Mary for playing Mr Floods Party…..i hope im not asking for too many requests to be played …I could always ease off for a few weeks if that were the case…..but having said that…...I was wondering if you could play “Ike  &  Tina Turner” – “You got what you wanted”. I asked for this a couple of years ago but it wasn’t played….it’s a mid-tempo shuffler that’s great to dance to and that builds into a crescendo of raw Soul vocals from Ms Turner that you just don’t hear every day…...same era as Dust my Broom and Crazy bout you baby but its never played although it absolutely deserves to be heard and appreciated by your knowledgeable audience. Cheers. Rob Phil Sheridan, Warrington Hi Mary,I watched the Alexander Patton "A Little Lovin sometimes" video you spoke of a few weeks ago on u tube it is a great. he has definatley still got it... we are out tonight at Tetley walkers in Warington its a good night.. Kevin From Sale To Mike from Cannock - it's a tough life being a soul loving postie and the sunday sessions are a blessing. I've walked home a few times at 03:00 in the morning and then got up again for the early prep a couple of hours later but my very understanding boss arranged a swap so I could go to the last allnighter in March. This month it's my rota saturday off so I'll be there again. Hope to meet you at the Wheel sometime so we can have a moan about the job between dances. "Lightbowne Lil",(With,"GUSTO!"). Hi,Mary,can ya play a track?,"YOU CANT,T SIT DOWN",(Phil "UPCHURCH" Combo),regard,s,LiL. Mike (Cannock ) - New WHEELER. Tell you what Dave Abbott you're sooo... right!!! with the comments you make about the WHEEL. We have only been going since the boxing day event, and hav'nt missed a Sunday session since. The place,..the atmosphere,..the people,..and most of all the music has me completely spell bound it's absolutely amazing. I'm 49 and find myself looking forward to the WHEEL like a school kid, you'll see me in the queue grining like a cheshire cat can't wait to get in. This sunday session was out of this world didn't think you could improve perfection but Pete and John have!! Loved it!!! Would love to get to the Friday nights (did make the March all nighter) but i'm a postie and have to be at work for 5 a.m. after the hour and a half drive home i would only get 30 mins in bed mmm??? could i manage on that? i'll have to give it a try, god knows where the mail would end up though. Anyway for me this is the best soul event on earth and long may it continue, we enjoy lots of venues but no where comes close to THE WHEEL. mick oliver Hi Mary just been reading some of the Motown Memories.My first buy was Marvin,s Heard it through the grapevine.Remember going into Bews record shop in Burslem{seem to remember you had to go upstairs} and just being mesmerised by the what seemed like endless list of records to buy pinned up on sheets on the wall behind Keith Minshull.Thats where I also first heard Sweet Soul {Jnr Walker},which youre still going to play arent you along with Super Time {million pleases} as for the track that epitomises Motown who could ever judge that? too numerous to mention ideas would be Ask The Lonely{acapello of course}, or David Ruffin,s magical tones with the Temps on Aint To Proud To Beg Thanks for a fantastic show and KTF.P S Anybody pass on how to get hold of Ask The Lonely ? Disco Bazzer People like us who loved soul music travelled to place`s like The Wheel because British radio was pap!,all you heard played would be white pop.So when motown released there tune`s it was only pirate off shore stations who played them. Dave Abbott Pete, It couldn't fail - the 2nd room had to be a winner, the old fire station across road is empty you know. Gobsmackingly good on Sunday. Just as an add-on we told some people about the Wheel a few months ago they've been going ever since. I love to watch the reactions when new people first walk down the stairs there facial expressions are 1 Where the ********* have you brought me. 2 They're thinking Most of these people should be at home lookin' after their grandkids 3 After between 20 and 30 Mins they are on the floor with a big cheesy grin on their faces 4 when they're on the way home a look of stunned disbelief on their faces. Their mum came with them on Sunday she's 70 and she loved it. Long live the Wheel GOLDIEDSTW Dance Stewards LOG Entry Starship Twisted Wheel Manchester Easter Sunday 12th April.THE Most Superbly Soulfully Sizzling Soul Day YET!!!!IT WAS THE best I have ever ever ever ever ever experienced scoring 4000 million zillion out of 10...Marvellous day put on by THe ever industrious Peter Roberts  &  John Green ..Gos  &  Rigo put on a Motown treat well done to the delightful Dutch Duo The whole day was a Soulies treat : Birthdays , anniversaries new  &  established members collabrating in SOULFUL BLISS ............It Just does`nt get any better than this NO SIR!!!!.......THE TWISTED WHEEL is not just a soul club IT IS A CODE FOR LIVING...450 soulies gathered together to enjoy the music , enjoy the dancing , enjoy the company !! NEXT UP FRIDAY 24th I simply cannot wait Goldie yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee To days track LITTLE MISS SWEETNESS ..The Isley Brosxx Charlie Waring Thank you bbc technicians for reprinting my message so quickly. Mary, Can The Wheel Get Any Better??? Hi Mary, I heard you read out BIG ANDY's (SC) post from the Messageboard on your Friday Night Soul Show! And it said can the Wheel get any better? And you said I dont know? may be it could? It did and the "Sunday Soul Session" was AWESOME!! A BIG THANKS to Chris,Steph  &  Andy for your very kind comments and to everybody who has emailed me with the same comments!! Well what can I say but the TRUTH!! It was the BEST EVER!! I was lucky enough to go as a kid (I lived in the Town) so it was only a mile walk for me, and I have run and Dj'ed on the Wheel for the last 9 Years and it was.. To Quote Goldie the Best ever, ever, ever, ever!! A Big Thank You to all of you that came on such a hot day!! (Both Rooms Jam Packed) And just think how many would of been there if alot of the regulars hadn't gone away for the Easter Holiday!! Jos and Sue (Not her Real Name) but she likes it! Did they bring us any Tulips from AMSTERDAM? No they came with 18 Heavy flights cases? And what was in them? Pure Vintage Film Magic!! Jos you was BILLIANT!! The only trouble that we had was trying to get into the Dj Booth, you had more Equipment in there than Steven Spielbergs "Editing Suite" and all our records were on the floor!! But like everybody said you was Fantastic and when are we having back on again?? So Jos  &  the lovely Sue, we will have you back any time you wish!! But I think you will go for that vacancy, for the Record Producer's job of "Phil Spectors" because I dont think he will be coming back, do you? "His Walls Of Sound" now are gonna be 2 foot thick of concrete  &  a slopping out bucket!! And if he's lucky a visit off Big Andy the "Man with the Golden Key's" But Phil you have got NO CHANCE OF A R.O.T.L .... But Phil heres a tip for you tell Andy that you are into Soul Music and that you wrote "Any Day Now" for Chuck Jackson!! Hope to see you all on the 24th of April at the Wheel. Pete xx. Charlie Waring ( Wheel visit ) Went to OB,s do at the wonderful Twisted Wheel with my mate Roy Harrison, the atmosphere was absolutely wonderful mainly I would say down to the dedication of the one and only Mr Enthusiasm ( Pete Roberts ). It was actually like stepping back in time. Very nice to meet Sylvia of Joe and Sylvia fame. We sat on the seat near the decks and were made most welcome by a load of Manchester Characters, really nice people. I felt like I,d come home !!!...Well done to Goldie for his marathon dancathon, he seemed a likable guy as well. A big hello to the Foxleigh crew some of whom we also met and I will pop down there one tuesday night. Next a Big Shout to Mcnulty who got in touch via the mesbo from Chiang Mai ( Indian Ocean, I think ????? ). Now an apology to Steve Bott for not giving him a request when I was on Nick,s show, Sorry Stee ,next time if there is one ???... Now last but not at all least, big shout out for the Guy we all went the Wheel for, Mr Soul...a.k.a...OB,s keep on keeping on M8, we,re with you !!!...Again a big thanks to Mr Pete Roberts for recreating THE WHEEL, and thanks for playing that Jackie Wilson ( absolutely brill )...Thanks for your indulgence Mary, and Roy and I WILL be back at the Wheel...K.T.F...GoodTimeCharlie... Charlie Waring. put rather a long message on here it only appeared this afternoon. Then Guess What, IT GOT ARCHIVED AND LOST, WELL DONE !!!...it had only been put on about 5 days ago ?????????????? Dave Abbott - (Wheeler) Scarlett - pretty scant info but could it be Tightrope - Charlie  &  Inez Foxx - Ask Mary she might play it for you Ha Ha Jos (Amsterdam Soul Club) Hi Mary, thanks for mentioning my sunday guestspot at the Wheel last friday. It was great. People qeued up around the corner already at half past two! Two rooms with 400+ people. Thanks to Pete  &  John for taking a gamble with me and my footage. I hope everybody enjoyed it, I certainly did. If you want to see more: look at Amsterdamsoulclub.com or come round this saturday in Amsterdam.Btw Goldie has a fantastic looking car. (Ernie's Hotrod with a picture of Pete, Mary and him in the rearwindow) last updated: 26/10/2009 at 15:38 created: 10/04/2008 You are in:  Stoke  &  Staffordshire > Entertainment > Music > Northern soul >  Northern Soul Show Messages Archive 2009 Today's schedule Help with BBC iPlayer 