Pineapple Blood Orange Smoothie | 4-Ingredient Smoothie with Pineapple, Blood Orange, Vanilla Bean Yogurt and Coconut Water | Shockingly Delicious Shockingly Delicious Drool-worthy, scrumptious,  " scary good "  recipes for people who love big flavors!  by  Dorothy Reinhold  on  February 11, 2018 Teenagers need lots of smoothies, or, left to their own devices, they will reach for their wallets and hit the soda fridge at the convenience store. Because we are smarter than to keep soda at home anymore, but we cannot outsmart a teenager with a debit card and a newly acquired drivers license. So this smoothie was born not only from necessity, but because I spied a perfectly in-season blood orange in the fruit bowl. All you need is some frozen pineapple chunks, a blood orange, vanilla bean yogurt, a splash of coconut water and some ice. And a blender. Always, a blender. It would make a very sweet Valentine s Day breakfast, or a lovely beverage on another special day. Prep Time:  5 minutes Total Time:  5 minutes Yield:  1-2 servings Blood orange adds a gorgeous natural pink color and pineapple and vanilla bean yogurt add sweetness and spark to this Happy Morning Smoothie.  Ingredients Directions Notes Recipe source:  Dorothy Reinhold | Shockingly Delicious Note about the banana:  I list it as optional because it is great with or without it. If you have an absolutely dead-ripe banana, use it, If all you have is a greenish bananas, it's fine not to use it. Also, since nearly every smoothie has a banana in it, I wanted you to be confident that this one will be fine without it if you choose.  FACEBOOK  |  PINTEREST  |  INSTAGRAM  |  TWITTER This post may contain affiliate/referral links. It is a way for this site to earn advertising fees (at no cost to you) by advertising or linking to certain products and/or services. Disclosure : Melissa s Produce sent the blood oranges for recipe development. Tagged as: blood orange ,  breakfast smoothie ,  coconut water ,  pineapple ,  smoothie ,  yogurt Name Email Not published Website Comment This looks so refreshing, perfect for a healthy breakfast! Love smoothies! Yum! My kid loves anything pineapple! Sounds delicious! Love this combo! Have to try this! What a creamy and delicious smoothie! Would love to have one of these for breakfast! I love this smoothie and I LOVE that glass! Smoothies are always such a great go to for my kids! Can t wait to try this one. Looks like a great way to change up our normal smoothie routine! The flavors sound so refreshing! I LOVE the flavors in this smoothie!! It sounds sooo good!! Such a great flavor! The pig is so cute! So refreshing! I love to wake up with a smoothie like this! Yummy! The flavors in this smoothie are so amazing! This sounds like the perfect smoothie! I m on my way to hunt for blood oranges now! Looks delish! My toddlers are just now able to handle citrus without sensitivity, so I ll definitely try this out. Thanks for the recipe. Previous post:  Succulent School: Succulent Heart for Valentine s Day Next post:  Low-Carb Baked Kohlrabi Fries (Vegan) SPONSORED POSTS: Occasionally I feature a product, service or post that is sponsored by a brand or company. These are companies that I would purchase items from myself. I always disclose the relationship, not only because the FTC requires it, but because it is the right thing to do. Sponsored content allows me to provide you with free recipes and content. I appreciate your readership and support of these partnerships.  AMAZON: Shockingly Delicious is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites. Posts may contain affiliate/referral links. It is a way for this site to earn advertising fees by advertising or linking to certain products and/or services. Shockingly Delicious content Copyright © 2018, Dorothy Reinhold, All rights reserved. Unless noted otherwise, all content is created exclusively for Shockingly Delicious, 2010-present. I invite you to link to my recipes from an outside site, but copying and pasting my posts or recipes or photos is a copyright violation and I will pursue my rights.  LINKS: When you link, I appreciate you citing my blog by name and including a direct link. PHOTOS: For use of photos, ask me first -- DReinhold {at} charter {dot} net.  Thank you.  Welcome to my kitchen, where the oven is always on, and the fridge is packed with delectables!  At ShockD, you’ll find scrumptious, tried  &  true, scary good recipes, tips and coaching to make YOU a fabulous home cook! Don't blame me if you need a 12-step program to wean yourself away!  E-mail me: DReinhold [at] charter [dot] net Get smart with the  Thesis WordPress Theme  from DIYthemes. Shockingly Delicious  content Copyright   2019, Dorothy Reinhold, All rights reserved. 