SCISSOR - Supra Footwear free shipping on orders $100 and over Your Cart is Empty Buy in monthly payments with Affirm on orders over $50.  Learn more free shipping on orders $100 and over Your Cart is Empty Buy in monthly payments with Affirm on orders over $50.  Learn more  LT.GREY-WHITE $56.00 $80.00 You Save 30% ( $24.00 ) Buy in monthly payments with Affirm on orders over $50.  Learn more A synthesis of contemporary casual runners and athletic-inspired skate shoes, Scissor features a lightweight construction of breathable materials on a progressive new sole unit. Composed of ultra-soft SUPRAFOAM, the sole gently slopes to offer exceptional comfort and heel protection while a laser cut mid cage and an asymmetric toe cap provide added containment. Suprafootwear.com will ship all orders Monday-Friday. All orders received by 11:00AM EST will ship the Same Business Day, Mon-Fri. Orders placed after 11:00AM EST will ship the following business day. Note that all orders placed after 11:00AM ET on Fridays, Saturday or Sunday will not ship until the Next Business Day. STYLE: 08027-054-M  2019  Supra Footwear . Items from the order will be added to your shopping cart, but you already have some items in your cart now. Would you like to keep or remove your current shopping cart items before the order items are added? Items from the order will be added to your shopping cart, but you already have some items in your cart now. Would you like to keep or remove your current shopping cart items before the order items are added? + GET 20% OFF YOUR FIRST ORDER Buy in monthly payments with Affirm on orders over $50.  Learn more A synthesis of contemporary casual runners and athletic-inspired skate shoes, Scissor features a lightweight construction of breathable materials on a progressive new sole unit. Composed of ultra-soft SUPRAFOAM, the sole gently slopes to offer exceptional comfort and heel protection while a laser cut mid cage and an asymmetric toe cap provide added containment. 