Ogden Point hosts largest cruise ship to ever come to the Island   Victoria News The Norweigen Bliss has just arrived at Ogden Point. It s the largest cruise ship to ever visit Victoria, and is bringing over 1,200 travel agents. (Ragnar Haagen/BLACK PRESS) The Norweigen Bliss will bring over 1,000 travel agents to explore the Capital’s highlights Ogden point is hosting a mammoth cruise ship today: The Norwegian Bliss is the newest addition to the Norwegian Cruise Line, and the largest ship to ever visit Victoria. It also belongs to an exclusive list as one of the 15 largest cruise ships in the world. The Norwegian Bliss hosts 20 decks, is 994 feet long, and weighs 169,028 tonnes. She will be able to bring over 4,200 passengers and 1,500 crew members on regular trips, but on Friday a special selection of people are arriving. The inaugural voyage from Seattle will bring over 1,200 travel agents to partake in a day tour of the capital city. It s really wonderful to have them showcase the destination,  says Tourism Victoria CEO Paul Nursey.   What s really exciting about them coming is that it shows that we re a popular and relevant destination. The travel agents will follow various agendas to see the city s highlights over the next day, before returning aboard to sell their information to incoming visitors. The Norwegian Bliss will be making regular runs to Ogden Point every Friday from June to October, as a part of the line s tour between Seattle and Alaska. RELATED: Tourism Victoria, WestJet partnering to attract more conference business here Nursey says the extra 4,000 people per week will make a huge impact for the local economy. It really positively affects smaller businesses when our city is busy and full,  he says.  It gives businesses the confidence to invest in themselves because they can expect regular customers. Nursey says Tourism Victoria is trying to build up the city to have a year-round tourism season, and that hosting a larger cruise ship is a positive step towards reaching that goal. This is part of a broader integrative mix, including cruise businesses and media conferences,  he says.  We re really trying to build a year round season here this is one good news story. nicole.crescenzi@vicnews.com The Norweigen Bliss is the largest cruise ship to dock at Ogden Point. It has 20 decks, is 994 feet long, and weighs 169,028 tonnes. It will bring over 4,200 passengers and 1,500 crew members each trip. (File Contributed) Community meal serves up 450 kilograms of turkey Andrew Berry faces life sentence; justice to return Thursday with verdict on parole eligibilty Two 18-year-old students were killed in the Sept. 14, 2019 crash in Bamfield Citizens followed suspect until Victoria police could arrive ‘Ol Saint Nick spread Christmas joy to five hospitals on Tuesday High school brings back A Christmas Carol for a second year Vancouver drops third straight NHL game Workers have been on strike since July 1 BC Hydro releases its weirdest and wackiest power outages of the year The PredatorBwear harness, invented by two B.C. women, expected to be available in the new year Personal information of 15 million test clients involved One food safety expert says pre-washed and chopped produce is not always as clean as it looks Alberta argues it has its own power to address carbon emissions and Ottawa should butt out Bonnie Hayes alleges Air Canada employees lifted her out of a wheelchair without her consent Before researching and buying consider these questions Despite innovations in food distribution, the need is still there in B.C. communities High school brings back A Christmas Carol for a second year One food safety expert says pre-washed and chopped produce is not always as clean as it looks Workers have been on strike since July 1 Vancouver drops third straight NHL game The PredatorBwear harness, invented by two B.C. women, expected to be available in the new year 