100 Best Places to Have Sex - Men ' s Journal This website is AudioEye enabled and is being optimized for accessibility. The AudioEye Toolbar contains the following The AudioEye Help Desk to report accessibility and usability related issues. The AudioEye Certification Statement to explain the completed testing and optimization for accessibility on this website. Ongoing analysis will continually enhance accessibility and usability. Wyoming is rodeo country, so if you really want to do it like a cowboy (or reverse Cowgirl) follow these five steps: 1. Head to Cheyenne, rent a truck, and then buy yourself a Stetson. 3. Get in the mood by checking out the famous Frontier Days rodeo. 4. When the rodeo ' s finished, find the nearest dirt road and drive until you ' re a dot on the horizon. 5. Climb into the bed of the truck and let her wear your hat. Or not. For access to exclusive gear videos, celebrity interviews, and more,  subscribe on YouTube! Opens in a new Window. …because, golden bathrooms, and, well, because. Furthermore, it was specifically designed  " for those bold enough to think big. " Travel to Scandinavia for the greatest light show on earth — on display all winter long. At Finland ' s  Kakslauttanen Resort Opens in a new Window. , which is 155 miles north of the Arctic Circle, you ' ll have your own private glass igloo, so you can bath in those blues and greens while naked in bed. Available at  Wayfair Opens in a new Window.  for  $123 Opens in a new Window. . Copper soaking tubs, raw wood beds, and views over a prairie that looks exactly as it did a hundred years ago — a night at  Paws Up Resort  Opens in a new Window. in Montana is the place to live out your outlaw fantasies with your favorite saloon girl. Like some fantasy suite in Vegas, the luxury tents are perfectly curated time-capsules, so where better to do a little role playing? The High Sierra Camp in  Sequoia-Kings Canyon National Park Opens in a new Window.  is every man ' s trump card in turning that wilderness-averse woman in your life into a backcountry betty. An easy one-mile hike leads to 32 comfy canvas tents at just above 8,000 feet, for the sort of camping that is just cozy enough to strip naked before crawling into the sack. It ' s a little like doing it in a limousine, but without the privacy divider. So yeah, maybe it ' s best to wait until after the ride. Gentle Giants in Christmas-quaint Stowe, Vermont, offers private horse-drawn sleigh rides over covered bridges and through the surrounding winter wilderness. Ask for extra blankets, and maybe for your driver to keep his eyes on the road. Available at  Wayfair Opens in a new Window.  for  $739 Opens in a new Window. . Sign up for our newsletter to get the latest adventures, workouts, destinations, and more. How we use your email address You have successfully signed up. Men’s Journal has affiliate partnerships so we may receive compensation for some links to products and services. American Media Active Lifestyle Group © American Media, Inc. 2019 Powered by  WordPress.com VIP Opens in a new Window. < # if ( data.category_name ) { #>{{ data.category_name }} < # } #> {{{ data.title_truncated_top5 }}} transfer transfer close carousel 