The Fleur-de-Lis Found in Ancient Egypt   Ancestry & History Ancestry & History Royalty, Ancient History, Secret Societies, Colonial History, Native American Genealogy, African American Genealogy, European Genealogy The image of the ancient symbol, the fleur-de-lis, conjures thoughts of ancient conspiracies and hidden secrets known only to a select few (nobility and those involved with them). It is now the symbol for France (and all things French and/or Acadian including the New Orleans Saints football team) because it was the symbol of the royal houses of France, dating back to the descendants of Charlemagne, the Carlovingian kings. Anglo-Saxon kings used it as well. The fleur-de-lis was an iconic symbol long before European monarchs were being established. It is found among Egyptian hieroglyphics. From t-shirts to tattoos, the fleur-de-lis arouses  emotion  and  attitude . In colonial America during the 1700’s, the symbol was branded onto the shoulder of slaves who ran away for longer than a month. The punishment for running away again was another fleur-de-lis on the other shoulder. A third time and the slave lost an arm. In this instance, it probably became a symbol of resistance and rebellion, those sentiments no doubt exist today. Another example of using the fleur-de-lis as a strong symbol is the author Dan Brown and his book and movie, “The Da Vinci Code.” Suellen Ocean  is the author of the Civil War Era Historic Romance,  Black Pansy . Available Here:    http://www.amazon.com/Black-Pansy-Suellen-Ocean/dp/1484900278 Ever Wonder Why the Fleur de Lis is So Popular? In  " African American History " History… What’s the Rosetta Stone? In  " Ancient History " Mason’s Marks. Just a signature or Cryptic Signs? In  " Freemasons " With a Bachelor of Arts degree from Sonoma State University, Suellen Ocean does her writing from the hills of Northern California. She began writing professionally for print and radio broadcasting in the late 1980's. Her first self-published book led to her becoming "officially" published, when in 1998 she was asked to participate in the anthology, "The Simple Life" through Berkley Books, New York. She is the author of sixteen books on diverse subjects. View all posts by Suellen Ocean Great info!! Like Liked by  1 person Your email address will not be published.  Required fields are marked  * Comment Name  * Email  * Website Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email. 