Marvel Universe LIVE! Tickets @ Arena Birmingham - 05 December 18:00 | TickX TickX Logo TickX Logo 18:00 Prices are based on a single standard ticket Best Option Other Options Tickets Unavailable Tickets Unavailable Tickets Unavailable Tickets Unavailable Tickets Unavailable Tickets Unavailable Tickets Unavailable To find you the best deals and all the ticket options. To find you the best deals and all the ticket options. TickX is trusted by over a million people and our team of experts vet all providers. The prices shown include the ticket face value and any fees that the seller charges. TickX doesn &# x27;t add any fees and is completely free to use. Bringing the powerful bombast of the cinema &# x27;s biggest super hero films and taking it from the big screen to right in front of your eyes. With an incredible original story, and featuring some of your favourite characters, this is unique experience for the superhero fan in you. Marvel fans, assemble for this live, action-packed, legendary battle to defend the universe from evil. Spider-Man, the Avengers and the Guardians of the Galaxy join forces with Doctor Strange, master of the mystic arts, in a race against time to recover the Wand of Watoomb before it falls into Loki’s hands. This ancient artifact holds immeasurable mystical power and would allow Loki to achieve his eternal quest to crown himself ruler of Asgard and Earth. This all new show unites some of Marvel’s greatest Super Heroes including Iron Man, Captain America, Thor, Black Panther, Hulk and Black Widow against some of the most threatening villains. Their journey sparks new feuds with old foes, pitting student against mentor, sister against sister and brother against brother.Witness cutting-edge special effects, aerial stunts and video projection in this incredible adventure. Fans of all ages will be immersed in the Marvel Universe and experience it all with their family…LIVE! B1 2AA Thu 28 Nov 2019 Fri 6 Dec 2019 Sat 7 Dec 2019 Sun 8 Dec 2019 TickX Logo 