Editorial: Time for Missouri to tackle its backlog of untested rape kits | Editorial | stltoday.com Already a subscriber? Log in  or  Activate your account. © 2019 Lee Enterprises Terms of Service   |   Privacy Policy Clear skies. Low 21F. Winds light and variable.. Clear skies. Low 21F. Winds light and variable.  Updated: December 10, 2019 @ 8:41 pm Biologist Kelly Pokorny demonstrates how to test for the presence of blood on a shirt during tours of the new St. Louis County Police crime lab, which opened in Clayton in 2013. Crime labs around the state are believed to have large backlogs of untested rape kits. Photo by Stephanie S. Cordle,  scordle@post-dispatch.com N o one appears to know how many untested rape kits are sitting around gathering dust on the shelves of police crime labs around the state — an appalling fact that should outrage all Missourians. By one accounting, there are at least 56 sitting in the Missouri State Highway Patrol crime lab, but that accounts for just a fraction of the probable statewide total. No one knows because no one has cared enough, until now, to find out. Stop a moment to think about what that means. For each untested set of swabs and paraphernalia used to collect forensic evidence from a victim, there’s a woman who has undergone severe emotional and physical trauma. She’s waiting for justice to be served so a rapist can be put behind bars. She lives in constant terror knowing that, as long as the evidence goes untested, a predator remains at large, ready to attack again. Her attacker has the comfort of knowing that the trail of evidence linking him to the crime is getting colder by the day. As his feelings of impunity grow, so does the likelihood that he’ll attack again. The failure of Missouri law enforcers and legislators to follow up only serves to embolden rapists. Attorney General Josh Hawley  has pledged a statewide audit to determine the exact number of  untested rape kits  remaining in local crime labs. The audit is an essential step toward ensuring that justice is served. Hawley — who is running for the U.S. Senate despite having served less than a year as attorney general — felt compelled to act on the backlog because reporting this month by the  Columbia Missourian  drew attention to the state’s embarrassing inaction. Nationwide, more than  200,000 rape kits  have gone untested, according to one foundation working to reduce the backlog. Missouri and Illinois are among 15 states and the District of Columbia that have failed to complete audits of untested rape kits. Only one state, Texas, has a GOP-dominated legislature motivated enough about this injustice to have enacted comprehensive statewide reforms aimed at reducing its backlog. Missourians know about the highway patrol’s 56-case backlog because a state lab technician testified to it in court, citing a total 900-case backlog of untested kits involving crimes against property and people. It takes an average of about 35 days to process a rape kit and isolate the attacker’s DNA. Processing the backlog requires a financial commitment by federal, state and local authorities. Spearheaded by Sen.  John Cornyn , R-Texas, Congress passed  Safer Act  legislation in 2013, offering financial assistance to states that undertake audits and commit themselves to reducing their backlogs. Missouri has no excuse for leaving this money on the table. It has even less of an excuse for leaving victims in emotional limbo while their attackers enjoy their undeserved freedom. Editor's note: This editorial has been updated to reflect corrections in the number of untested rape kits, versus the total number of untested DNA crime kits, currently in the State Highway Patrol's crime lab. Letters to the editor on topics of general interest are welcomed and encouraged. Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device. 