quality assurance software cartoon - Google Search | Software testing, Tech humor, Geek humor Got a few spare minutes? Come and read the best of The Testing Planet archive from Ministry of Testing Explore Ministry of Testing &# x27;s photos on Flickr. Ministry of Testing has uploaded 3093 photos to Flickr. Nerd humour is the best humour. I &# x27;ve been conducting a lot of interviews recently and I thought I &# x27;d share my format for asking questions and stemming conversations that works well for me to be able to determine if the candidate is the right person for the job when it comes to skills, experience, mindset and remaining relevant in the industry. Here is the format… Explore Ministry of Testing &# x27;s photos on Flickr. Ministry of Testing has uploaded 3093 photos to Flickr. Agile is the New Waterfall — Geek & Poke 36 Hilarious Pictures about Marriage ADVERTISEMENT Keep waiting! She’s right though. Sigh. We have all had those nights. Mm….what’s he up to? It’s fun! Marriage is testy at times. Brr. Oh yes. Romantic. Oh magical. Ha. Please I hate the laundry. That sweet flutter. I did it, did you see? It never ends. I…can’t. Marriage … Explore Ministry of Testing &# x27;s photos on Flickr. Ministry of Testing has uploaded 3093 photos to Flickr. 46 points • 9 comments - Coding while someone is watching - 9GAG has the best funny pics, gifs, videos, gaming, anime, manga, movie, tv, cosplay, sport, food, memes, cute, fail, wtf photos on the internet! Cartoons Software development satire in a web comic. Tweet “The real side of software development” The blog relating the daily life of web agency developers 22 Tech Memes That &# x27;ll Help You Reboot - Funny memes that  " GET IT "  and want you to too. Get the latest funniest memes and keep up what is going on in the meme-o-sphere. How Projects Are Born — 12 Hilarious Project Management Jokes . “The problem is not the tool itself” is published by Akmal Chaudhri. The blog relating the daily life of web agency developers The blog relating the daily life of web agency developers The blog relating the daily life of web agency developers Yep, I’ve used a few of those in the past… on several hundred occasions! :) Thanks Véro! Tweet Buy  &# x27;// the wedding code &# x27; by swashandfold as a Throw Pillow, Tote Bag, Art Print, Canvas Print, Framed Print, Photographic Print, Metal Print, or Greeting Card JAVASCRIPT! ALTER! Tweet 