XIAOMI Wowstick SE Electric Screw Driver Review: A Cordless Power Screwdriver Repair Tool (0-50pcs limited) Xiaomi Wowstick SE  the world s Newest electric screwdriver. A totally new working knowledge, much the same as holding a pen when you utilizing it. Xiaomi Wowstick SE  embraces aluminum body, double modes like programmed mode and manual mode. Design The design of this Wowstick SE it comes in an aluminum body and made a beautiful structure. it easy to carry without and slippery. it has the lightweight. Thin aluminum amalgam lodging with pen shape configuration, worked in 2xAAA batteries can work 8 hours ceaselessly. this is the totally new working knowledge, much the same as holding a pen when you utilizing it. An extraordinary aide for electronic reporting ventures.  the best part also comes with Auto self-locking ratchet wheel introduction, with Dual Torque 0.12/3N.m working mode. Features Thin aluminum amalgam lodging with pen shape configuration, worked in 2xAAA batteries. Driven lighting with the autonomous controlling switch, an incredible assistant for electronic repairing ventures. Auto self-locking ratchet wheel introduction, with Dual Torque 0.2/3N.m working mode.The Xiaomi Wowstick SE has a coordinated anodized aluminum configuration additionally accompanies a 3 worked in shadowless. Elecguru cordless exactness screwdriver is the ideal apparatus for imaginative compact cordless power screwdriver for home machines, gadgets and additionally side interests and artworks produced using a quality aluminum composite for long. This first-of-its-kind smaller than normal cordless electric power screwdriver.A snappy change throw makes changing bits simple on this power screwdriver, The hurl is good with all miniaturized scale bits.An ergonomic handle and a solid battery-fueled engine suit this electric screwdriver for some business and home applications. To convey power and torque to 2 long life batteries. White stockpiling round box brings the craft of you an existence surface. Six sorts of standard and expansion pole. Attractive vestige style lodging plan. All New, All Different. Conclusion Xiaomi Wowstick SE Electric screwdrive r is perfect to repair things and its has lightweight you can carry anywhere easily without any trouble. so don t wait to buy this beautiful screwdriver from  Banggod with 0-50 pcs at US$14.90 Igeekphone.com provides the first China tech news and reviews about smartphone, tablets, RC drones, VR headset,  and other accessories. It's the best platform to improve your brand and product. Contact us :      info@igeekphone.com *Shop and Compare Price Here* Privacy Policy Redmi brand was officially upgraded to Redmi, and successively released Note series, digital series, and The high quality with which Xiaomi manufactures its devices and in addition to the immense catalog of The Xiaomi QiCYCLE TDP02Z Moped Electric Bike is well-built and affordable, making it the next The Ninebot Segway ES4 KickScooter kicks the ES2 s performance up a notch delivering more speed Copyright © 2019  IGeekphone . 