Digital Marketing Agency Birmingham | Clear On Friday, Clear, a top digital marketing agency, enjoyed an afternoon out to Birmingham for training. The purpose of the trip wasn t just to eat and drink, but to familiarise with our new Birmingham office. Close to Snow Hill train station and a 15-minute walk from Birmingham New Street, our new office will be accessible and convenient for clients in and around Birmingham to discuss web development, digital marketing projects and more. Together with our office in Shrewsbury, our Birmingham office enables us to bring our professional level of web design, SEO, PPC and marketing to a wide new audience. It makes it really easy for us to meet clients from all over the West Midlands, as well as providing a central location for people travelling from London and elsewhere in the UK. In the last year, Clear has grown to have a new Account Manager, Web Designer, Marketer and soon a Web Developer, and we ve seen great potential for web design in Birmingham. With this team, we re looking to expand our potential with new challenges, offering the complete digital marketing agency package to new clients whilst still looking after those who are close to our hearts. Our Birmingham office will be open weekdays 9:00 - 17:30. If you re searching for a digital marketing agency in Birmingham, call us on 0121 726 6849. Want to know more?  Get in touch  :) Please do not fill in the above field to help us identify genuine requests. Fancy more of the same in your inbox, sign up to our newsletter Pete, our Digital Marketing Director, recently headed to Harper Adams University to share his business expertise with the students. Now the Christmas countdown is well on its way you might ' ve thought we ' d seen all the ads, but have you? We discuss our…  Living proof that you shouldn ' t give up on a creative activity as you get older - you never know where it may take you! Shrewsbury 5 Town Walls,Shrewsbury,Shropshire,SY1 1TW 01743 404 712 Birmingham Edmund House,12 22 Newhall St,BirminghamB3 3AS 0121 726 6849  2019 Clear  Legal Cookies Privacy Policy Support Web Design Shrewsbury 