IR camera ImageIR 9400 series | InfraTec In addition to its headquarters in Dresden and subsidiaries in Austria, Great Britain, the US and China InfraTec features through a global network of dealers. Infrared Camera Series The benefits of the ImageIR  9400 infrared camera are clearly based on its versatility. Especially users looking for a cooled camera with a high geometrical resolution will find an excellent solution with this model. Would you like to know more? Receive assistance from our specialists. Integrated into camera, genuine temperature measured values  Precise and highly repeatable measurements  Pixel size with microscopic lens up to 1.3 μm Precise measurement of smallest temperature differences Analysis of fast processes at an ideal NETD The camera series ImageIR  is equipped with a snapshot detector as well as with an internal trigger interface, which guarantees a repeatable high-precision triggering. Two respective in- and outputs are used to operate the camera or to generate digital control signals for external devices. Two digital channels of the data stream can be recorded synchronously with those trigger inputs. Additional digital and analogue in- and outputs are available in connection with the process interface IRBIS  3 process. Furthermore, extra information will be saved directly with the images.  The thermal resolution of the ImageIR  infrared camera series allows you to measure smallest temperature differences of Better than 0.03 K. Thermal images with a narrow temperature span display details absolutely sharp. You will find interesting signatures even there where other infrared camera systems cannot detect any temperature differences any longer. The closed, industrial-suited, high-strength aluminium alloy housing is very compact and protects the sensitive sensors and electronics even during roughest applications. It impresses with its low weight. The modular design allows for an application-specific configuration and later adaptation to varying demands. The interfaces are equipped with push-on connectors to uphold the degree of protection. Behind the function is a fast-rotating MicroScan wheel, which is integrated into the camera. It ensures that four different individual exposures are taken per wheel revolution, which are offset laterally by half a pixel each. These individual exposures are brought together in real time into a thermogram with quadruple image format. Each pixel in the image represents a genuine temperature measured value and not an interpolated image point. In this way, thermography achieves a new quality due to thermal images providing a spatial resolution up to 5.2 Megapixels. The 10 Gigabit Ethernet interface of the high-end camera series ImageIR , opens this extremely fast transmission standard with a NIC specially developed by InfraTec. This works with optical or electrical transceiver modules that are easy to change and are called SFP+. For all models of the ImageIR  9400 with their (1,280 × 1,024) IR pixel detectors this leads to a transfer rate in the full frame mode up to 2.601 Hz. Users can transfer/store large quantities of data to a computer easily and reliably. Different 10 GigE fiber SFP+ transceivers allow transmission ranges of up to ten kilometers with the same low sensitivity to electromagnetic interference. A corresponding standard SFP ensures backward compatibility with the conventional GigE interface. This combination allows the ease of use of the cameras with the new 10 Gigabit Ethernet interface in existing systems - though at a reduced transmission rate. Check the geometrical resolution of our infrared cameras for your application. Each measurement or testing task has its own characteristic basic conditions. For getting optimal results camera, detector and lens have to be perfectly matched to one another. The field of view calculator helps you to determine the appropriate combination. The software family IRBIS  3, which was developed by InfraTec, is part of a complete system of the camera series ImageIR . The comfortable and professional thermography software IRBIS  3 professional offers a wide range of analysis- and editing tools to analyse sophisticated thermal investigations. The combination of ImageIR  together with the professional thermographic software meets all requirements that are set as standard for efficient high-performance tools for thermographic investigations. InfraTec expands its expertise in the field of thermography by participating in various research projects. This selection of projects illustrates which topics we are promoting and which partners we are working with, therefore. The InfraTec product range includes numerous protective housings. The all-weather and robust metal housings allow the use of the thermographic cameras in harsh environments and protect against mechanical stress, dust and splash water. Depending on requirements, users can also choose ATEX-certified protective housings that can be used in potentially explosive atmospheres. A detailed briefing by our specialists is always part of the delivery of your thermographic camera. Upon request, we can also extend this offer to a comprehensive seminar with the contents of thermal imaging, which are important for you when using the camera. In this way, you can ensure that your employees are optimally prepared for the daily handling of the entire system. We will be happy to organise a suitable seminar at your premises.  Our experienced service team will be happy to assist you. Make use of active thermography for non-destructive and contact-free material testing, for both automated inline and offline solutions. Detect persons and objects in the field or monitor wide-area geologic properties or environmental damages. Comply with highest security demands by applying state-of-the-art infrared camera systems. Infrared camera systems help you to secure a high product quality in production and at your suppliers. Choose from more than 30 infrared camera models. Our product range includes entry-level cameras, professional cameras as well as universal cameras, high-end and industrial systems. **expected to be available from 2020/02 