Serena Williams proves semi-tough at Wimbledon The Undefeated She rallies after dropping first set to position herself to win first major as a mother If there was any panic among fans of Serena Williams as she dropped the first set of her Wimbledon quarterfinal match against Camila Giorgi, that angst definitely didn’t carry onto the court and into the mind of the world’s greatest tennis player. “I said, ‘All right,’ ” said Williams, who hadn’t dropped a set the entire tournament before Tuesday. “ ‘Let’s go three sets.’ ” Seventeen months ago, Williams won her last major, the 2017 Australian Open, while pregnant. On Tuesday, Williams was one step closer to winning her first major as a mother, as she came back from a set down to beat Giorgi (3-6, 6-3, 6-4) to advance to the Wimbledon semifinals. This journey that Williams is taking tennis fans on since her return earlier this year has been pretty spectacular considering: Yet here Williams is, getting stronger and moving better with every match. In Giorgi, Williams was facing an opponent who was young (26), strong and playing, perhaps, the best tennis of her career. In a tournament where the top 10 women’s players have been eliminated, Giorgi hadn’t faced a seeded player since her first-round win over No. 21 Anastasija Sevastova. Giorgi, when asked going into the match against Williams whether she would watch her opponent on tape, responded, “I don’t follow tennis, women s tennis.” She probably should have done her homework on Williams, who crushed the upset-minded Italian after dropping the first set. Williams has more wins in a major after losing a first set (39) than any other player in the women’s Open era (Chris Evert has 28 and Venus Williams has 27). Giorgi appeared a bit salty — maybe that s her normal demeanor — as she shook hands with Williams at the net after the match and quickly grabbed her bag and walked off the court. “It was great matches,” Giorgi said in her postmatch news conference. “I think it’s a great week.” Williams, asked whether she’s felt any pressure during this tournament, said, “This is only my fourth tournament back. I don’t feel pressure; I don’t feel like I have to win this. “I’m just here just to be here, and to prove that I’m back,” Williams added. “I feel like I’m back, but I still have a long way to go to get to where I was.” That was winning majors, and Williams enters the semifinals as the lowest-seeded player (25th) remaining in this year’s Wimbledon tournament. Her opponent on Friday, Julia Goerges, is seeded 13th. Williams hasn’t lost a set against Goerges in three previous matches, including a victory last month at the French Open (6-3, 6-4) in the round of 32. Against the other two players in the semifinals, Williams has never played No. 12 seed Jelena Ostapenko and has won six of her eight matches against Angelique Kerber, the No. 11 seed. Here’s the reason Williams has emerged as a favorite: She has seven Wimbledon titles, while the rest of the field has zero. The Queen is back, with Tuesday’s win guaranteeing that she will jump from 181 to at least 51 when the new rankings are announced next week. Kamaru Usman on Colby Covington:  The people want me to destroy him Read now Monty Williams and James Jones: The only black coach-general manager duo in NBA Read now For black fans in Baltimore, Lamar Jackson’s success  resonates way beyond football Read now When Williams was asked her expectations after winning her first match at Wimbledon in two years, she said, “Not only do I expect to win, I expect to win emphatically.” Williams has won her first five matches against unseeded opponents. Williams needs to beat two seeded opponents to win her 24th major title, tying Margaret Court s record for Grand Slam wins. Williams, for the first time since her comeback, appears to have her body and mind aligned to take that next step. Jerry Bembry is a senior writer at The Undefeated. His bucket list items include being serenaded by Lizz Wright, and watching the Knicks play an NBA game in June. The Week That Was Dec. 2-5 Free-agent wide receiver Antonio Brown, attempting the rare feat of embarrassing the New England Patriots more than Aaron Hernandez,  posted on Instagram  that he is “starting to question” whether Patriots owner Robert Kraft wants to win another Super Bowl by not re-signing him, and then added that “a report came out that [Kraft] had fingers up your a– during the spa.” Arizona Cardinals defensive back Josh Shaw, who at least had the common sense to bet  against  his own team, made a three-team parlay bet  that included a Cardinals game , all of which led to Shaw being suspended through at least the 2020 season. Philadelphia Eagles head coach Doug Pederson, being in lockstep with the team’s fan base for the first time since February 2017,  told a radio interviewer  that following the team’s 37-31 loss to the Miami Dolphins on Sunday he is “disgusted,” “angry” and “mad at myself.” The Patriots, shuffling through kickers like Steve Belichick shuffles through barbers who attempt to cut off his mullet,  released Kai Forbath  three days after releasing Nick Folk and five weeks after releasing Mike Nugent. . Philadelphia Eagles backup quarterback Josh McCown, the opposite of Michael Jordan when it comes to kids, could possibly  spend more than $100,000 on private flights  between Philadelphia and Charlotte, North Carolina, to coach high school football during the NFL regular season. Former Tampa Bay Buccaneers head coach Greg Schiano, back like a MRSA outbreak,  agreed to an eight-year, $32 million contract  to return to Rutgers, a program he coached from 2001 to 2011. Dallas Cowboys owner and general manager Jerry Jones, who will surely tap Mark McGrath to do his dirty work this offseason,  said  Cowboys head coach Jason Garrett “will be coaching in the NFL next year.” Former Boston Celtics forward Kevin Garnett said he wasn’t surprised that Kyrie Irving left the team after just two seasons  because  “Boston’s a tough town” and “You have to have some major cojones to be there,” which might finally explain  that  one Ray Allen tweet. The NBA, treating the Golden State Warriors like a wounded horse at Santa Anita,  removed the recent three-time champions from two national broadcasts  in December after the team started the season with the worst record. Hip-hop artist and New York Knicks fan Fat Joe, days after the Knicks lost by 44 points to the Milwaukee Bucks,  said  Irving and Kevin Durant didn’t sign with the franchise over the offseason because the duo “didn’t want that New York Knick pressure, they didn’t want that media attention … they didn’t want that smoke.” In “You hate to see it,” news, musician Kid Rock’s restaurant located at the Detroit Pistons’ home arena, Little Caesars Arena,  will close down  after video surfaced of Rock yelling “f— Oprah” at a concert. Atlanta Dream co-owner Kelly Loeffler, who said in October that her team “has long been at the forefront of expanding the platform for women’s sports,” was  appointed to fill a soon-to-be vacant Republican U.S. Senate seat in Georgia , a state that was recently blocked by a federal judge from implementing a restrictive abortion law. The Houston Rockets, making New Orleans Saints fans seem reasonable in comparison, plan to  file an official protest  with the NBA in regard to a dunk attempt by Rockets guard James Harden that wasn’t counted in a 135-133 double-overtime loss to the San Antonio Spurs on Tuesday. Dallas Cowboys defensive tackle Antwaun Woods, who would have been sent on his merry way had he had a firearm in his possession instead,  was arrested  by Friso, Texas, police for possession of marijuana. The Kentucky’s and Michigan men’s basketball programs, finding just enough money in the coffers to book dozens of round-trip tickets to Europe,  announced  that the schools will play each other three times over the next three seasons, including a 2020 game in London. Cleveland Browns wide receiver Odell Beckham Jr., sounding like Savannah James when her husband decided to leave the Miami Heat,  said  he “wouldn’t rather” be anywhere else but Cleveland even after the team’s 5-7 start to the season. Illustrations by Nathan Gelgud. Martenzie is an associate editor for The Undefeated. His favorite cinematic moment is when Django said  " Y ' all want to see somethin? " By naming its gym after the Hall of Famer, Hampton’s Bethel High School honored a prep career that came to an abrupt end 25 years ago H AMPTON, Va. — Allen Iverson wasn’t scheduled to speak Tuesday when Bethel High School renamed its gymnasium and basketball court in his honor. But realistically, the man known locally as “Bubba Chuck” had to know he wasn’t getting out of his former school’s airspace without touching  his  people. And as the 2001 NBA MVP and Hall of Famer began to speak, on came those familiar tears and lip quiver and that familiar choppy voice. “I’m Virginia,” he said. A few seconds later, Iverson tried again. “I’m Virginia.” Fighting back tears, he continued, “It’s as simple as that … I’ve loved y’all for all these years for supporting me throughout the ups and downs in my life. We us. We Virginia. We beautiful. We the best. And we the toughest, strongest and we believe in each other. I just love y’all.” To say the feeling was mutual wouldn’t do the moment justice. The Tidewater region of Virginia — known as Seven Cities or “the 757” — worships the ground Iverson, 44, walks on, especially its black community. Screams of “We love you, Chuck!” and “Take your time, bruh!” made this ribbon-cutting ceremony feel like Sunday service. “This is my home. This is who I am,” the 11-time All Star  told News 3  in Hampton. “It’s just a beautiful feeling seeing people that are here that actually care.” More than 200 men, women and children stood shoulder to shoulder near the outside entrance to the gym, all hoping to get close to the four-time NBA scoring champion. The speakers included Hampton mayor Donnie Tuck, school board chairwoman Ann Stevens Cherry and Iverson’s longtime confidante and manager  Gary Moore . Taking in the moment from the back were New Jersey high school basketball legend, former University of Memphis star and Cleveland Cavaliers 2002 first-round pick  DaJuan Wagner  and consultant William “Worldwide Wes” Wesley. “Allen Iverson needs no introduction in this community because he has always been invested in this community,” said Cherry.  “ We thank Bubba Chuck for not forgetting where he came up. We thank him for contributing to Hampton City Schools and to Bethel High School’s athletic program — male and female. The naming of this gym is significant, but more significant is the fact that he gave generously to a school that he didn’t forget. And today this school is not forgetting him.” Bethel High, known as “1067” for its street number on Big Bethel Road, in some ways still looks like it did when Iverson was enrolled there for three years in the early 1990s. About  two-thirds  of its nearly 1,800 students are black. Its basketball and football teams, which Iverson made national commodities with two state titles in the same academic year, have found occasional success — though in recent years  both programs  have struggled. Inside the entrance to the gym before arriving at the court, the first sign reads: ALLEN IVERSON GYMNASIUM. To the left stands a glass case of memorabilia from signed basketballs, jerseys and vintage photos of Iverson at various stages of his playing career. Iverson returned to Bethel when the school  retired his jersey  in 2003 and he’s been  donating  to its athletic program ever since. Now the gym he made famous will bear his name. “Totally well-deserved,” Grammy-nominated rapper and Virginia Beach native  Pusha T  told The Undefeated via phone. “Seeing this happen right now — we needed to check off that box.” Of course, Iverson technically never finished Bethel High School. He couldn’t. Life saw fit otherwise. But if Tuesday proved anything, it’s that not all graduations come with a diploma. NBA Hall of Famer Allen Iverson encourages the crowd to get loud before the game between the Toronto Raptors and Philadelphia 76ers at the Wells Fargo Center on Feb. 5 in Philadelphia. Mitchell Leff/Getty Images In the ’90s, high school sports in the 757 featured future household names such as  Aaron Brooks ,  Ronald Curry  and  Michael Vick . Yet Iverson accomplished just as much, if not more, while playing with a shorter high school shelf life. He started at wide receiver as a freshman and by his sophomore year played both quarterback and roamed the secondary on defense. He was  unanimously named  to the All-Peninsula District team as a sophomore after recording 13 interceptions —  including five in one game . In his junior year, Iverson became a national name for his exploits both in football and basketball. “I was in Los Angeles, and they’re talking about Allen Iverson. I was in Florida, and they’re talking about Allen Iverson,” AAU basketball guru Boo Williams  told the Newport News  Daily Press  in 1993 . “He’s a living legend. I hang around the gyms and hear kids talking about him,”  said Bob Bailey , who served as public address announcer at Bethel’s basketball games during Iverson’s time. “I think everybody who lives in Aberdeen and North Hampton who’s 6 or 7 years old knows Bubba Chuck.” In the summer of 1992, Iverson led Williams’ AAU squad to the national championship in Winston-Salem, North Carolina. As he was at four other venues that summer, Iverson was named MVP of the tournament. Once the school year started, his domination continued. As a quarterback, defensive back and kick returner, Iverson amassed 2,204 total yards and 29 total touchdowns, including four punts, a kickoff and two interceptions returned for touchdowns. Iverson would lead Bethel to its first state championship since 1976 that season. In the title game against E.C. Glass, he threw for 201 yards, ran for a touchdown, took a punt 60 yards to the house and intercepted two passes on defense.  At the time , Florida State saw Iverson as the heir apparent to  Charlie Ward , who played both quarterback and point guard for the Seminoles. Iverson didn’t rest long. Three days after Bethel’s football title, he got to work on the basketball court, dropping 37 in a season-opening win against Kecoughtan. He’d score at least 40 points seven times that season. His games packed his local gym and the Hampton Coliseum. College scouts saw him as the best high school basketball player in the country. Iverson’s 982 points that season stood as Virginia’s single-season scoring record  until Mac McClung  broke the mark in 2018. “His high school games felt like college! Even at that age and during those times, he was somebody,” said Pusha T. “He was a hero to all of us. I don’t really remember him being a peer. He changed [the game]. And he was from us!” Save for maybe  Teddy Riley , there was no bigger celebrity from the 757 at that time than Allen Iverson. Which made what happened on Feb. 14, 1993, one of the most pivotal and  dividing  moments in Hampton’s history. Iverson and a group of friends were bowling, having fun and being rowdy at Hampton’s Circle Lanes (now called Sparetimes). Typical high school behavior, as most around town tell it. But a brawl between Iverson’s friends, all of them black, and a white group ignited into a national news story. America was on edge over racial violence and the criminal justice system’s role in preserving it. This was two years after the  Rodney King police beating  and  Latasha Harlins ’ murder, a year after the Los Angeles riots and a year before  the O.J. Simpson trial . Now the most recognizable high school athlete in the country was at the center of a controversy involving race and justice. Footage of the brawl showed chairs being thrown and chaos erupting in the bowling alley. One side claimed racial epithets were used. The other said the black teenagers were looking for trouble. But all those charged were black, including Iverson for three counts maiming by mob and one count of assault by mob. Iverson’s focus on the basketball court remained sharp, even as his world shifted around him. The night he was charged he dropped 42 in a game. Iverson’s last home game at Bethel would take place on  March 2, 1993 . It was Bethel’s first regional appearance in nearly 19 years. Against the Western Branch of Chesapeake, Iverson delivered a masterful performance with 32 points, 13 rebounds, nine assists, eight steals and four blocked shots. Much like in football months earlier, Iverson would lead his team to the state championship and be honored as Virginia’s high school basketball player of the year. He would never play another game at Bethel High School in either sport. As Iverson’s legal dilemma stretched past the end of his junior year, not many expected the case to go beyond a slap on the wrist. Until it did. Iverson, Michael Simmons, Melvin Stephens Jr. and Samuel Wynn were all convicted as adults of maiming by mob. In September 1993,  Iverson was sentenced  to five years in prison. Months later, Iverson, Simmons, Stephens and Wynn  were granted clemency  by Virginia Gov. L. Douglas Wilder — the first elected black governor in American history — on the condition they continue their education. It would be Wilder’s final act in office. Iverson  would receive his high school diploma  from Richard Milburn High School in Virginia Beach. His conviction was  officially overturned  less than a year later in June 1995. Under then-Georgetown head coach John Thompson, Iverson would resume his basketball career in the nation’s capital. Like Virginia, Washington instantly came to embrace Iverson. As did Philadelphia, which drafted him first overall in 1996. Iverson’s career would be a hallmark of meteoric highs, public lows and an unceremonious NBA exit. But all of this, he’d admit, went into who Iverson was. Just another flawed human trying to get life right. “I just wanna thank y’all for being there for me and always on my side, always in my huddle, always in the foxhole with me,” Iverson said Tuesday afternoon. “I love my kids for believing in their daddy. And understanding that I’m human and I make mistakes just like everybody else.” Allen Iverson responds to being introduced at halftime during the NBA All-Star game as part of the 2019 NBA All-Star Weekend at the Spectrum Center on Feb. 17 in Charlotte, North Carolina. Streeter Lecka/Getty Images Bethel High originally planned to name just its basketball court after him. But the reaction was instantaneous: Is that all you wanna do? Put his name on the court? You sure you don’t wanna name the gym after him ?  Hampton was  never a perfect city , nor was Iverson a perfect person. But it is impossible to tell the story of one without each other. And that reverberated far beyond the city limits. “Being from the 757 and being an artist from the 757, you don’t always win everybody over. Artistically, I’ve watched people love  the Clipse  — I’ve watched some people not like the Clipse.  Pharrell ,  Timbaland ,  Missy [Elliott] , all the same. It’s been unanimous for Iverson,” Pusha T said. “He wore the Superman cape. He was loved by all seven cities like he was from all seven cities.” Two hundred people congregated outdoors here because Iverson is Bethel. And Bethel is Iverson. “He’s always been loyal to us,” said Hampton resident Stephanie Brown. “And we’ll  always  be loyal to him.” The story wasn’t always pretty. Nor did it have the ending many believed it should have had. But Allen Iverson and Bethel High School are forever. And now it’s in writing. Justin Tinsley is a culture and sports writer for The Undefeated. He firmly believes “Cash Money Records takin’ ova for da ’99 and da 2000” is the single-most impactful statement of his generation. ‘I told you from the start, he talk about things that matter.’ BURBANK, Calif. – Damian Lillard is a four-time NBA All-Star who is in the first year of a four-year, $191 million contract. But if Lillard had to rap for a living, could he make money as his alter ego Dame D.O.L.L.A? Famed rapper Lil Wayne thinks so. “He’d do awesome,” Lil Wayne told The Undefeated. “I think he’d do well. Dame is Dame off the court as well in the music game. What I mean by that is Dame has a lot of friends off the court with other teams, just because of who he is, and how he is. That’s the same thing in music. So, if he was to switch over, he’d have a lot of help. And we all make sure that he won’t put himself out there the wrong way. “So, if you ask the question without the basketball, if he was just a rapper, with that said, then I think he’ll still be up there. Given what I’m hearing out here today? Yeah, he’d be up there.” While Lillard, of the Portland Trail Blazers, has collaborated with the likes of G-Eazy and Jadakiss, the biggest star who he has shared a song with is Lil Wayne, who has been on all three of his albums. Sitting in a record studio as the sun rose on the morning of Nov. 24, Lil Wayne talked to The Undefeated about his respect for Lillard as a rapper and basketball star, how he has improved his rap skills, what he typically thinks of  rapping athletes ,  Shaquille O’Neal  and more. When did you and Dame first meet? Man, I met Dame a minute ago. Dame was so young. I was so young. Honestly, I’ve been following him since school — since I turned on the TV and found out who Damian Lillard was. I think I met him just by being courtside at a lot of the games. A simple meet, handshake, or something like that. When did you realize that Dame had talent as a rapper? When I gave him my ear. When I listened to it. First time I listened to it. Anyone who say they rap, I’m gonna listen to it before I hear it. There’s a difference, ladies and gentlemen, hearing something and listening to something. So, there’s no cliché for music. Everybody’s got a category and the category is individually their own. But those categories, they have umbrellas that they fall under. And when I saw the umbrella that he fell under, I was like, ‘Wow.’ This is not the average sports person that want to rap. They usually have a different — they fall under a different umbrella. When did you realize that he was serious about music and that  he was real ? What made this rapping athlete special? Truth. Plain and simple. When I heard what he was talking about. When I heard what he rapped about wasn’t about what I thought it would be. When you listen to a person like Dame, or any NBA celebrity, NFL, that say they rap, first thing I thought about just like first thing everybody else thought about was, ‘What is this song gonna be about? The Game?’ About basketball? Or is it gonna be about your everyday life, which I imagine is beautiful and we all imagine that? So, what it’s about to be, about how he came up. And it’s about what’s real around him. Once I heard it I was like, ‘Well, what else did I expect?’ Typically, when an athlete says ‘I rap,’ what’s your initial response? It depends on the person. So when Dame say he raps, I know where Dame from. That’s why I said, ‘Once I did listen to it, I asked myself, what else did I expect?’ That’s why I said, ‘Depends on the person.’ But overall, they are younger these days. That was the difference with Dame. The kids that coming up and play sports and say they rap, they’re younger, so I understand where they coming from with it. They got a different umbrella, different category over there. Dame, he in that, so that made me listen. What do you think about Dame’s lyrics and his flow? Love it. Love it. And also, Dame is with anything, gonna keep working at it, especially doing things like this now. Definitely, gonna keep working at it and the only thing you can get is better. He started and the way he’s at now is nice. He don’t talk about nothing fake. That’s what’s awesome. When you cut on a song and you hear someone talking about something that’s true — truthful is something you can relate to in some kind of way and something that’s not fabricated. Why is he important enough for you to be on his tracks? Good question. Because of the lyrics. It’s not something that we’d expect. Not fabricated — this and that, that and this. It’s truthful. He sends me a song and I got to think about the song. That right there is just the difference. I do features every day. Mack [Maine] sends me features every day. I got two features that he emails me every other day. You got to do this song, you got to do that song. I look at the song title. See what it is. Sometimes I don’t even got to hear it. ‘What’s the song title? Got you.’ Get a song from Dame, I’m like, ‘I dunno.’ I got to sit down and think about this first. Dame talking about all this real truthful stuff. You got to think about it. What do you think about his court game? Come on, now. Dame is a killer. I’m from the [Michael] Jordan era as far as the fan and kid watching Jordan. Jordan had the killer instinct. Jordan didn’t see no one in front of him. You can see that in his eyes. He didn’t see no one in front of him. Dame got that. That’s also [Russell] Westbrook to me. Dame got that  I don’t see you . The biggest part about Dame’s game that I love is his commitment. His commitment to his teammates, and to that city, and to that team. It’s not about not going there for this, and doing this, and not joining this person for this. It’s just for the simple fact that he’s there. Plain and simple, he gives his all every time he’s touched the court. As a Jordan baby, you’ve seen a lot of big shots, right? I already know what you about to ask. Go ahead then about Dame’s game-winning 40-foot shot that knocked the Oklahoma City Thunder out of the playoffs last season and was followed by a goodbye wave and a fierce face. ESPN 6M subscribers Subscribe Damian Lillard hits 37-foot Game 5 winner | Trail Blazers vs. Thunder | 2019 NBA Playoff Highlights Info Shopping Tap to unmute If playback doesn ' t begin shortly, try restarting your device. Your browser does not currently recognize any of the video formats available.  Click here to visit our frequently asked questions about HTML5 video. More videos on YouTube More videos Share Include playlist An error occurred while retrieving sharing information. Please try again later. Watch later Share Copy link Switch camera 0:00 0:00 0:00  /  4:59 Live An error occurred. Try watching this video on www.youtube.com , or enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser. Man, my girl to this day still tries hard to do that Dame face. That face he made after that shot. Her and I have a 20-30 minute conversation about it. She just can’t understand how in such a moment that’s his reaction. She still can’t understand that. Dame hit em with the Supa Hot Fire “but I’m not a rapper”  Legend  pic.twitter.com/7vlHtvtZRz — The Undefeated (@TheUndefeated)  April 24, 2019 Did you pay attention to Dame’s rap battle with Shaquille O’Neal? I didn’t even hear the songs. I didn’t pay attention to it. I cannot lie. I’d be lying if I said I did. But I heard about it, obviously. I saw what was going on, but I have no opinion on it other than they totally different … They two different [rappers]. Shaq is a platinum artist. I try to tell people that all the time. Shaq is a platinum artist and I know how hard it is to go platinum. How do you think he’s grown over these three albums? As far as an artist he’s grown lyrically. He’s grown subjectwise. I told you from the start, he talk about things that matter. Now, what I noticed in his last [album], something that he wasn’t doing. To me, he was making it a thing to not be what the public [wants], what the general music is, just what I was expecting. Marc J. Spears is the senior NBA writer for The Undefeated. He used to be able to dunk on you, but he hasn’t been able to in years and his knees still hurt. League still struggles with diversity, in both coaching numbers and front-office positions Although Black Monday is more than four weeks away, the NFL’s head coaching ranks became whiter Tuesday with the firing of Carolina Panthers  head coach Ron Rivera . Two days after losing to lowly Washington on Carolina’s home field, Panthers owner David Tepper removed the two-time Associated Press NFL Coach of the Year — and one of only four head coaches of color in the league — with four games remaining in the regular season. The Panthers promoted former secondary coach Perry Fewell, who is African American, to interim head coach. The timing of the move raised eyebrows, but it was not altogether unexpected. For weeks, there has been growing speculation within the league that Rivera would be ousted on Dec. 30, the Monday following the conclusion of the regular season, when most coaching changes occur. Under Rivera, who had held the position since 2011, the Panthers have struggled the last two seasons as veteran quarterback Cam Newton has often been ineffective or sidelined because of injuries. Moreover, Tepper, who completed his purchase of the franchise in July 2018, has privately expressed his desire to make substantive changes throughout the organization, league sources told The Undefeated. With Rivera out, Mike Tomlin of the Pittsburgh Steelers, Anthony Lynn of the Los Angeles Chargers and Brian Flores of the Miami Dolphins are the league’s remaining head coaches of color. The NFL has 32 teams. The Panthers’ search for their next on-field leader is already underway. The Fritz Pollard Alliance hopes that the Panthers, as well as all teams that make changes with their top coaching positions, will strongly consider deserving candidates of color. Rod Graves will insist on it. Graves was hired in April as the primary decision-maker for the group that advises the NFL on matters of diversity and inclusion and which assists the league in enforcing the Rooney Rule. He said he is eager to help Panthers ownership chart a course forward with diversity in mind. “We’re disappointed to see Ron released. Ron is a fantastic coach, he had an incredible record there in Carolina and he did some outstanding things with that football team,” Graves said. “We do understand that it happens in the league, but the Fritz Pollard Alliance is very concerned about the dwindling numbers. At some point, we hope to have a conversation with the ownership in Carolina, and we expect that that will be soon.” Graves has much to share on this topic, though none of it is encouraging about the state of diversity in coaching and senior management in football and business operations. When the 2018 season began, the league had eight coaches of color, matching 2011 and 2017 as the most it has had in any season. At the end of the 2018 season, there were eight head-coaching vacancies. Seven of those positions went to white coaches. The league, which is commemorating its 100th season, has never had an African American team president. Kevin Warren, formerly the league’s highest-ranking African American in business operations while serving as chief operating officer of the Minnesota Vikings, left the NFL to become Big Ten commissioner. Tony Wyllie, formerly the highest-ranking African American in public relations at the team level when he was a senior vice president with Washington, left for a position with Special Olympics. At the end of the 2016 season, the NFL had seven black general managers. Now, Chris Grier of the Miami Dolphins is the only African American in that role. The NFL’s on-field workforce is nearly 70 percent black. Commissioner Roger Goodell has acknowledged that the league isn’t satisfied with where things stand in coaching and senior management. “The league is very aware of what the issues are with respect to diversity,” Graves said. “I would expect that as much as the league has talked about diversity, that this ownership [in Carolina], as well as all ownership, is well aware of what the issues are.” Goodell largely views the  awful optics as a pipeline issue , arguing that by doing more to help increase the pool of candidates of color for jobs, minority representation would improve from the front office to the field. We’re in an era in which owners overwhelmingly pick from the offensive side of the ball to fill head-coaching vacancies, effectively making the league’s offensive coordinators head coaches in waiting. Leftwich and Eric Bieniemy of the Kansas City Chiefs are the NFL’s only black offensive coordinators, and Leftwich is the only one of the two who  has play-calling duties . The other issue is that the pipeline argument doesn’t entirely hold water. Theoretically, the more qualified candidates of color there are for openings, the greater the likelihood more will be hired as head coaches. Last season, however, Bieniemy wasn’t a top candidate for openings despite the key role he played in helping to develop Kansas City Chiefs superstar quarterback Patrick Mahomes, the 2018 Associated Press NFL MVP. For the NFL to effect positive change, owners must be truly interested in hiring those in the pipeline. Rivera could be back in it. Presumably he would be an attractive candidate, having guided the Panthers to the playoffs four times in nine seasons. In 2015, Carolina went 15-1 and reached the Super Bowl. Rivera was selected the Associated Press’ coach of the year after 2013 and ’15 seasons. “The talent that Ron has is not out there in abundance,” Graves said. “He has been a major contributor to league discussions, whether it’s regarding player safety or regarding rules. He goes so far beyond the city limits of Carolina. He’s well-respected in the league. A coach of his stature will be sought after, and I fully expect that if Ron wants to coach, he’ll find a job.” Jason Reid is the senior NFL writer at The Undefeated. He enjoys watching sports, especially any games involving his son and daughter. Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy  and Safety Information/ Your California Privacy Rights / Children's Online Privacy Policy  are applicable to you.  2019 ESPN Internet Ventures. All rights reserved.  Interest-Based Ads .  Cookie Policy . Powered by  WordPress.com VIP .  About Nielsen Measurement . 