Smith's Auto Service - 612 Bell Fork Road, Jacksonville, NC 231 Brynn Marr Road, Jacksonville, NC 28546 Saving You Money On A Reliable Car. 1135 Lejeune Blvd, Jacksonville, NC 28540 Mark helped me jump my car and told me I needed a new battery. He was very quick to arrive to help and he and his crew were kind, hones ... Aweful, the person who came to get my car was nasty, he was covered in grease. Smoked inside my car and left grease on my steering  Mark helped me jump my car and told me I needed a new battery. He was very quick to arrive to help and he and his crew were kind, honest and knowledgeable. Just wanted say Thank You! I broke down on bell fork headed to a dr appointment that took quite a bit of time to get... luckily what are the odds of breaking down in front of an auto service truck. Not only did he have my car towed FAST but also took me to my drs appointment. Then my car was ready the same day with the most friendly folks there. In talking with David I find out it was Lynn the owner that went above and beyond because he is one of the few folks that still believe in helping people. To bad we all don ' t radiate that same belief. So what could have been a really bad day, it was all just fine! Thank you! Smith ' s towing came to get us when we were stuck on Western Blvd. Our tow truck driver was  " Dan " . He was awesome! Very professional and kind. He made us laugh through a tough time after being stranded on a busy road at the worst traffic hour in Jacksonville. He ' s also a former Marine and treated us ( Marine Wounded Warrior) with the awesome brotherhood all Marines share no matter what. Thank you Dan! We appreciate it. We highly advise everyone to call Smith ' s Towing for all your towing needs. They were super fast as well! Called for a rollback to have my truck hauled within 40 minutes they had my truck loaded and down the road. Every body i spoke with to include the operater was very respectful and pollite. I felt the price was reasonable for the distance. I would definately recommend and use the company again. These boys came out and pulled my F-150 out of nasty Mud/Sand hole way back in the woods and it went great. Very effecient service and the friendliest guys you could find. Everyone had a good time playing in the mud and got the job done. Highly recomend for those that enjoy getting sunk to the axel stuck and making some memories. Mark helped me jump my car and told me I needed a new battery. He was very quick to arrive to help and he and his crew were kind, honest and knowledgeable. Just wanted say Thank You! I broke down on bell fork headed to a dr appointment that took quite a bit of time to get... luckily what are the odds of breaking down in front of an auto service truck. Not only did he have my car towed FAST but also took me to my drs appointment. Then my car was ready the same day with the most friendly folks there. In talking with David I find out it was Lynn the owner that went above and beyond because he is one of the few folks that still believe in helping people. To bad we all don ' t radiate that same belief. So what could have been a really bad day, it was all just fine! Thank you! Smith ' s towing came to get us when we were stuck on Western Blvd. Our tow truck driver was  " Dan " . He was awesome! Very professional and kind. He made us laugh through a tough time after being stranded on a busy road at the worst traffic hour in Jacksonville. He ' s also a former Marine and treated us ( Marine Wounded Warrior) with the awesome brotherhood all Marines share no matter what. Thank you Dan! We appreciate it. We highly advise everyone to call Smith ' s Towing for all your towing needs. They were super fast as well! Called for a rollback to have my truck hauled within 40 minutes they had my truck loaded and down the road. Every body i spoke with to include the operater was very respectful and pollite. I felt the price was reasonable for the distance. I would definately recommend and use the company again. These boys came out and pulled my F-150 out of nasty Mud/Sand hole way back in the woods and it went great. Very effecient service and the friendliest guys you could find. Everyone had a good time playing in the mud and got the job done. Highly recomend for those that enjoy getting sunk to the axel stuck and making some memories. Get Your Estimates  &  Call Us Last, We Beat Them All! 1366 Ramsey Rd, Jacksonville, NC 28546 300 Chinquapin Round Rd, Annapolis, MD 21401 110 Georgetown Rd, Jacksonville, NC 28540 2695 Piney Green Rd, Jacksonville, NC 28544  Claim your free business listing The more information you provide about your business, the easier it will be for customers to find you online.  Claim your free business listing on Superpages. The more information you provide about your business, the easier it will be for customers to find you online. 