Latest News | Direct Motocross Canada From: https://techcrunch.com/2019/10/31/supercrosss-anticipated-ev-class-not-ready-for-primetime-in-2020/ Supercross’s Anticipated EV Class Not Ready for Primetime in 2020 Jake Bright@JakeRBright /  • October 31, 2019 Motorcycle racing series Supercross isn’t quite ready to add an EV class. The sport — where riders race high-performance machines on jump-filled stadium tracks — currently fields only gas-powered two-wheelers. Supercross was poised to launch an all-electric class this month, by converting its junior program to a new e-moto manufactured by KTM — Supercross Director of Operations Dave By Billy Rainford #23 Wyatt Waddell rides in the 250 class for the Carlson Racing FXR Husqvarna team. After making his way back from a previous injury, Wyatt cased a jump at Round 2 of the Rockstar Triple Crown MX Nationals and tweaked his ankle. He did the sight lap for the first moto but the pain was too great and he headed back to the pits. He s since been Calgary National   Saturday Race Day Schedule *schedule subject to change Dakota Alix Injury Update   No Broken Bones By Billy Rainford To quote Mark Twain,  Rumours of my breaking my wrist in a dirt bike accident have been greatly exaggerated.  It s a little known fact that Twain was a huge moto head and Ricky Johnson fan. But seriously, we were told by the race director of the Riviere du Loup Arenacross that #164 Dakota Alix had broken his wrist and Dakota Alix IN for Arenacross By Billy Rainford Dakota Alix is the Vermont native who s no stranger to racing in Canada. Over the years, he s made appearances in several stops along the Canadian circuit. He has just confirmed that he will be racing the final 2 rounds of Rockstar Triple Crown Arenacross Series in Sarnia and Barrie, Ontario, in the 450 class. He will be doing his own deal but Jess Pettis Breaks Collarbone By Billy Rainford As we were sitting around the pits in Detroit Saturday morning, someone let the cat out of the bag that Jess Pettis had crashed and broken his collarbone recently. We posted the news on our Twitter account @DitrectMX and it was confirmed. Jess, himself, has just posted on Instagram @jesspettis about the injuries he sustained in the crash: View this post on Instagram Bjorn Viney Injury Update By Billy Rainford Fast Intermediate/B racer #53 Bjorn Viney is from Ottawa, Ontario, but now calls Murrieta, California, home. He crashed in the whoops while practicing for the Supercross Futures series that starts January 13th in Glendale, Arizona. As we type this, Bjorn is headed into surgery to repair a broken collarbone with Dr. Alexander in Murrieta. He s the same doctor that had Jess Pettis back #63 Graham Scott Injury update By Billy Rainford Motocross is an extreme sport and can jump up and bite you when you least expect it. Case in point, Vancouver Island s #63 Graham Scott is the most recent rider to be put on the injured list. After signing on to ride for the Cycle North Honda team alongside fellow Islander Ryan Lalonde and American Collin Jurin (for Arenacross), Graham hit the ground Will Colton Facciotti Be in Hamilton this Weekend? By Billy Rainford With everything that s gone on between the Quebec City Supercross and now, the question remained: Would 5-time champion GDR Honda Canada Fox Racing rider Colton Facciotti be at the final round in Hamilton to race or at least sign autographs at the Rockstar Pit Party? We interviewed Colton for his Frid Eh Update #45 last week and he wasn t able Dillan Epstein and Rockstar OTSFF Yamaha Part Ways By Billy Rainford Dillan Epstein is the gregarious racer from Thousand Oaks, California, who has spent the past couple summers racing our Canadian National Motocross Series. Dillan became a fan favourite with his willingness to interact with them on race day and his from-the-heart podium speeches. When we arrived in the pits at round 3 of the Rockstar Triple Crown Supercross Series  2019 Copyright Direct Motocross Canada. All Rights reserved. Web Solution by  Amplified Creative 