91 Works From The Museum Of Contemporary Art-Plaza, La Paz, Bolivia - PIRAN CAFÉ PIRAN CAFÉ - Notebooks from a trampfest. Travel tips, tales and images, online since 2006. Human Rights poster series in Geneva marks 70th anniversary of Universal Declaration El Antídoto, Independent Art Market in Bogota   21 Street Art Pieces on a Discovering Palladio: 35 Minutes at Villa Barbaro in Maser, Italy ‘Soul of a Nation: Art in the Age of Black Power’ at the Tate Modern   Notebook Below are 91 pieces from the Museum of Contemporary Art-Plaza in La Paz, Bolivia, and above is Pueblo de las Alturas by noted Aymaran painter  Mamani Mamani . If you’re looking for the planet s largest online collection of works from this museum, you’ve come to the right place. Situated in a restored 19 th -century mansion on the Avenida 16 de Julio, or Prado, it’s worth visiting just to experience the building  according to  Lonely Planet , the house is just one of four originals that remain on the Bolivian administrative capital’s main thoroughfare. Its stained glass panels and glass roof were designed by Gustave Eiffel. The collection, spread out over two floors, is an eclectic mix of mostly contemporary work, primarily by Bolivian artists, and extensive enough to offer a good starting point and even some valuable insight into the country’s art scene of the 20 th  and 21 st  centuries. The collection is strongest in reflecting and conveying the recent experience of the country’s indigenous population as it continues to be redefined by subsequent waves of post-colonial and contemporary history. That’s a common theme throughout much of the world, whose interpretations are only limited by the number of artists choosing to share those stories. Some of those told here are utterly fascinating. It could do with a few less portraits of Che  and weeding out some of the pieces heavy on political dogma—but those cons are balanced nicely with the temporary exhibits occasionally offered. Like this one,  The Power of Silence , by Vidal Cussi. Entry is Bs 15 (2.17 USD / 1.96 EUR); if you want to take upwards of 100 photos, it’ll cost an additional Bs 20. There is a nice gift shop with additional works on display and for sale. With works available for as little as 30 USD, there really isn’t a good reason not to take an original art work or two home with you. Museo de Arte Contemporaneo-Plaza (Plaza Museum of Contemporary Art)  Avenida 16 de Julio 1698  Mon   Sun 9am to 9pm A few notes  about the images below, all taken in April 2013 : These were all taken handheld with no flash at a very high ISO. When post-processing, I tried to remain as true to the actual colors as memory allowed. My apologies to the artists if anything is unfairly represented. To help with load speed and to lend some organization to the presentation, the works are divided into eight groups. The slide show speed is set at six seconds. If that’s too fast, just hover over the center of the image and click the pause icon. Too slow? Click the right arrow. And for those of you in the U.S., I m obligated to tell you that a few probably are NSFW. Enjoy and do share! The top floor features an elegant walkway with a small selection of sculptures; a few shots below. And finally, here s me, taking a break in front of the top floor stairway s mirror.  Prev Post Calle Venezuela, Quito Next Post  A Mission to Correct Grammar and Punctuation on Quito s Graffiti Urban Canvases   La Paz Plaza San Francisco, La Paz Espacio   Tiempo by Guiomar Mesa A Woman and her Dog, La Paz On the Street, La Paz Shoeshiners of La Paz   Pic du Jour Fabulous works! Thanks for taking us along. My pleasure, glad you enjoyed. HERMOSA Bolivia y majestuoso resinto cultural el mas impotente del pais Gracias!  A very nice museum, great collection. Morning Bob, We live in the UK but have visited Bolivia on several occasions. When last there in 2011, we were at the  Museo de Arte Contemporaneo Plaza in La Paz. I have kicked myself several times since for not buying a painting by Simon Copali titled  Soledad . The gallery seems to be permanently closed and I have run out of places to look for this artist. All my searches have drawn a blank. I guess I m hoping that you might be better informed about the gallery or artist than I am. Would be very grateful for any search ideas. Trevor Your email address will not be published. Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. I'm Bob Ramsak, a Ljubljana, Slovenia-based reporter, photographer and blogger driven by a lust for travel, wine, culture and justice. I have a goal to visit all 195 countries recognized by the UN and then open a small cafe and wine bar in a quiet seaside setting. Piran Café is that destination. In the meantime, Piran Café, occupying this space on the web since 2006, is my notebook, an ever-evolving collection of experiences, moments, images, reactions and vignettes, both long-form and short, connected and propelled by those primary passions and published here to inform, inspire, entertain and engage. Thank you for visiting. Hope to see you tomorrow, too.  Don't miss a post! Subscribe to The Piran Café READER, the website’s free weekly companion digest newsletter and be automatically entered in a monthly print giveaway. Urban Canvases   La Paz Plaza San Francisco, La Paz Espacio   Tiempo by Guiomar Mesa A Woman and her Dog, La Paz Don't miss a post! Subscribe to The Piran Café READER, the website’s free weekly companion digest newsletter and be automatically entered in a monthly print giveaway. Welcome, Login to your account. Recover your password. A password will be e-mailed to you. 