Jeep Wrangler TJ Passenger Flip Seat Slider Bracket 97-02 adjuster riser fold OS | eBay Jeep Wrangler T… $74.99 Free shipping Jeep Wrangler TJ RH Flip Seat Slid… $69.95 Free shipping OEM Jeep Wrangler TJ Pas… $74.95 Free shipping Jeep Wrangler TJ 97-02 Passenger… $34.99 Free shipping Jeep Wrangler TJ Driver LH Flip Se… $79.95 Free shipping Jeep Wrangler TJ Passenger Flip Seat Slider Bracket 97-02 adjuster riser fold OS This listing is for part or sub-assembly number  given below  only. Good used Jeep Wrangler TJ Passenger's side flip Seat bracket with slider. This seat bracket is in good used working condition.  This is the flip riser that bolts to the floor of the Jeep and has seat slider adjuster attached to it. This will fit TJ model years 1997-2002 . WE ARE RAY’S WRANGLERS. We have been in the Salvage business since 1959. We are a regular retail business with a storefront that is open to the public 6 days a week for purchases and pickups. Our hours are Monday through Friday 9-5 and Saturday 9-12 noon. (Hours are Eastern Time) Any questions use the "Contact Seller" link. We are here to help you. If you do not see the Jeep Wrangler parts that you are looking for in our Ebay store, you can email our Jeep Wrangler parts department through the contact seller link or call our shop. Please keep in mind when ordering from us that we are a Jeep Wrangler salvage yard. Unless specified as new, all of our parts are used and show some signs of wear. The parts we sell are used but in usable condition. We try to disclose any defects in the parts in the description. Some of the parts that we have for sale are still on the Jeep Wranglers. If there are any problems during the removal of the part(s) the customer will be notified right away and refunded accordingly. Some of the parts might have some dirt on them. The parts might not be cleaned unless it is necessary to have it shipped properly and safely. PLEASE NOTE: We mark all of our parts when they leave so an item without our markings will not be returned to us. Information is for informational purposes only, we only guarantee that the part you are purchasing is for the year(s) specified in the sale. Please do your research to make sure this part will fit your application if you are purchasing it for a vehicle that is not specified in the description. Visit My eBay Store: Rays Wranglers Sign up for my email newsletters by adding my eBay Store to your Favorites PAYMENT POLICY: We accept payments via PayPal or Visa and Mastercard over the phone. If you are unsure of how to pay for your purchase, feel free to give us a call. SHIPPING  &  FEEDBACK POLICY: We try to ship out the same or next business day after receipt of your payment. We will not ship an item out until the item and shipping is paid in full. If you do not receive an item within a reasonable time (up to 10 days in some areas of the USA) please notify us. We use the USPS and UPS tracking services to confirm delivery of your item. Please leave feedback when you get your item so we know you got it and are happy with it. If you have a problem when you receive your item, email or call us before leaving feedback. We will leave feedback for you after you leave feedback for us. RETURN POLICY: Returns: We gladly accept returns within 14 days of purchase. If return is due to customer error, there will be a 20% restocking/handling fee. No returns on installed or altered parts. We test all electrical items and make sure they are in working order prior to selling them. Therefore, there are No returns on electrical items. All return freight charges are the responsibility of the customer. No refund on shipping charges. 