Make It Last Forever: The Dos and Don'ts by Keith Sweat, Paperback | Barnes  &  Noble Bn-logo_307x47 Bestsellers Browse Subjects Discover Featured Blogs Special Values See All Bestsellers Browse Subjects Discover Departments NOOK Store Special Values Start Reading NOOK Tablets NOOK eReaders NOOK Mobile Apps NOOK Store Gift Finder Brands We Love Need Help? Blogs SHOP NOW Departments Subjects Related Categories Special Values Shop Now NOOK Newsstand Print Newsstand NOOK Favorites Print Favorites Subscribe Now Bestsellers Browse Subjects Discover Featured Popular Authors Blog Special Values See All Bestsellers Browse Discover Featured Age Groups More For Kids Blog Special Values See All Browse Shop By Age Categories Brands  &  Characters Special Values See All Browse Categories Brands  &  Characters Special Values Shop Now Browse Gift Finder Categories Brands Special Collections Special Values SHOP NOW Browse Format Genres Special Collections Special Values Shop Now Browse Genres Special Values Special Collections Related Categories Shop Now Subjects Customer Favorites More Ways to Save Explore Now Uh-oh, it looks like your Internet Explorer is out of date. For a better shopping experience, please  upgrade now. ! Javascript is not enabled in your browser. Enabling JavaScript in your browser will allow you to experience all the features of our site. Learn how to enable JavaScript on your browser  Hardcover  Paperback  NOOK Book From recording artist and radio host Keith Sweat comes help for anyone struggling with relationships problems, based on his popular radio show  The Sweat Hotel. Gaining its title from Keith Sweat s R  popular album and single,  Make It Last Forever  offers tools to help couples build and maintain strong, long-lasting relationships. Here is detailed advice on how to better communicate needs and desires to your mate, including suggestions for keeping a relationship romantic and exciting for both parties. Keith also suggests how to fix, mend, and reinvigorate troubled relationships. Finally,  Make It Last Forever  reveals the single-most important ingredient of a successful relationship :  compatibility. Keith tells readers why it s so crucial, how to find it, and how to sustain it over the long haul. Click here to go back to the previous book Keith Sweat  is the host of  The Sweat Hotel , the #1 urban nighttime radio program in the nation. He is an award-winning recording artist. He lives in Atlanta, Georgia. Average Review  Share This Item See All Customer Reviews Barnes  &  Noble Press Publish your book with B & N  Learn More  The B & N Mastercard® 5% Back on All B & N Purchases  Learn More  Barnes  &  Noble Café Relax and Refuel  Visit BN Café  Become a B & N Member Members Save Every Day  Learn More  ©1997-2019 Barnes  &  Noble Booksellers, Inc.   122 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY 10011 Place your order online and   we will notify you when it ' s ready for pickup. Press Escape to close the tooltip. Place your order online and   we will notify you when it ' s ready for pickup. Press Escape to close the tooltip. 