New Jersey Heroin Supplier Sentenced to More Than 14 Years in Federal Prison | USAO-CT | Department of Justice John H. Durham, United States Attorney for the District of Connecticut, announced that DAVID MONSERATTE TORRES, 30, of New Jersey, was sentenced today by U.S. District Judge Victor A. Bolden in Bridgeport to 170 months of imprisonment, followed by five years of supervised release, for trafficking heroin. According to court documents and statements made in court, this matter stems from an investigation headed by the DEA’s Bridgeport High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area Task Force, Stamford Police Department, Norwalk Police Department and Connecticut State Police into a drug trafficking organization led by Wilfredo Gutierrez, also known as “Bean” and “Big Pun,” and his brother, Bobby Gutierrez, also known as “B.O.”  The investigation, which included court-authorized wiretaps, controlled purchases of narcotics and physical surveillance, revealed that Wilfredo Gutierrez, Bobby Gutierrez and others conspired to distribute at least 10 kilograms of heroin in Fairfield County between September 2015 and May 2016.  TORRES was the Gutierrez brothers’ main source of heroin for several years. TORRES was arrested on May 31, 2016.  On July 5, 2016, he pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to possess with intent to distribute one kilogram or more of heroin, and admitted that he was involved in the distribution of more than 30 kilograms of heroin. After TORRES pleaded guilty and while he was released on bond pending sentencing, an investigation revealed that he had purchased U-47700, a synthetic opioid also known as “Pink,” over the dark web.  On March 7, 2017, TORRES was arrested by the DEA in New York.  A search of his person and vehicle revealed approximately 60 grams of U-47700, approximately 100 grams of heroin, and $8,600 in cash. TORRES has been detained since his arrest on March 7, 2017. Nine individuals were charged as a result of the investigation.  All pleaded guilty, and TORRES is the last to be sentenced. On March 16, 2017, Wilfredo Gutierrez was sentenced to 180 months of imprisonment and, on April 24, 2017, Bobby Gutierrez was sentenced to 160 months of imprisonment.  Bobby Gutierrez also was ordered to forfeit $171,462 in cash. On April 13, 2018, TORRES pleaded guilty in the Southern District of New York to one count of conspiracy to possess with intent to distribute 100 grams or more of heroin.  He awaits sentencing in that case. The DEA’s Bridgeport High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area Task Force includes members from the Bridgeport, Stamford, Stratford, Norwalk, Milford and Trumbull Police Departments, and the Connecticut State Police. This case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Anthony Kaplan and Heather Cherry. Our nation-wide commitment to reducing gun crime in America.   Making sure that victims of federal crimes are treated with compassion, fairness and respect.   