WO2003085011A1 - Polyisobutenamines - Google Patents WIPO (PCT)  polyisobuteneamines  description  The present invention relates to novel polyisobutene amines whose polyisobutene having a polydispersity of less than or equal to 1.4, a process for their preparation and fertil Applicable methods of polyisobutenamines as fuel additives.  From polyisobuteneamines refers to oligomeric compounds of the general formula R  a  -X, wherein R  a  is a polyisobutenyl radical having a number average molecular weight M  N  in the range of 500 is to 1500, and X is a polar organic radical having one or more amino groups. Polyisobuteneamines have paramount importance as fuel additives for gasoline and diesel engines, in particular for keeping valves and carburetor or injection systems as well (as lubricant additives see also M. Ross Beck in catalysts, surfactants, oil additives, Ed. J. Falbe, U. Hasserodt, S . 223, G. Thieme Verlag, Stuttgart 1978).  The preparation of polyisobutene amines is generally carried out by functionalization of reactive polyisobutenes, ie polyisobutenes having a terminal reactive functionality. Olefinic end groups are suitable for functionalization in special dimensions. Polyisobutenes are, therefore, with a high content of olefinic nic unsaturated end groups for the preparation of polyisobutenamines advantageous (see formulas (A) and (B)).  (A) (B) The prior art teaches the preparation of olefin polyisobutenes by cationic polymerization of isobutene or isobutene-containing hydrocarbon streams in the presence of boron trifluoride complex catalysts (see for example DE-A 27 02 604, EP-A 145 235 EP -A 481 297, EP 671 419, EP-A 628 575, EP-A 807641 and WO 99/31151). The polyisobutenes obtained have a high content of olefinically unsaturated terminal groups, in particular end groups of the general formula (A).  However, the polyisobuteneamines prepared by functionalization of the abovementioned polyisobutenes have an unsatisfactory viscosity behavior, in particular at low temperatures, and can therefore be undesirable side effects in engines such. As the valve insert so-called lead. This deficiency is remedied usually by the addition of large amounts of so-called carrier oils that are not own or have only insufficient detergency and only the viscosity characteristics of the conventional polyisobuteneamines improve. The proportion of carrier oil exceeds the additive fuels in general the proportion of Polyisobuteneamine significantly. Although one can improve through the use of shorter polyisobutenes the viscosity behavior, at the same time, however, the detergency considerably lowers.  The present invention is based on the object to provide polyisobutenamines, which have a high detergent effect and an improved viscosity behavior simultaneously. The polyisobuteneamines to a significantly reduced amount of additional excipients, in particular carrier oils, make do without affecting the properties of the additive compositions negative.  Investigations have shown that the unfavorable viscosity behavior of conventional Polyisobuteneamines is due to a comparatively high proportion of products whose polyisobutenyl exceed a molecular weight of 1500 Daltons. In other words, the relatively high molecular non-uniformity of the polyisobutenes previously available, by a polydispersity M  W  / M  N  (ratio of gewichtsmitt- sized molecular weight M  w  to the number average molecular weight M  N)  is charakterist, requires a comparatively high proportion of undesirable polyisobuteneamines tenresten with long chain polyisobutylene.  Although known from the cited prior art provide polyisobutenes having a high proportion of reactive end groups, however, the products obtained have comparatively high proportions of high molecular weight products on. The molecular weight distribution of such polyisobutenes is therefore characterized by the polydispersity M  W  / M  N  above 1.6.  Polyisobutene derivatives having a narrow molecular weight distribution of the polyisobutene groups may  " living "  by so-called cationic polymerization of isobutene are produced in principle, see, for example Kennedy and Ivan  " Carbocationic Macromolecular Engineering " , Hanser Publishers 1992, and US 5,169,914. Under a living cationic polymerization is meant the polymerization of olefins in the presence of an initiator system comprising an apparatus suitable for formation of carbocations compound, for example a benzyl or a tert. includes alkyl halide or a corresponding benzyl or alkyl ethers or esters as an initiator and a Lewis acid as coinitiator. The polyisobutene derivatives thus obtained generally have a halogen atom as an end group and are therefore not suitable for the production of mineral Polyisobutena-.  The Applicant has now found that polyisobutenes can be prepared with a high content of olefinic end groups of more than 80 mol% and a polydispersity below 1.4 cationic by  " living "  polymerization when isobutene is polymerized in the presence of an initiator system as an initiator at least one compound of the general formula III,  CH3-C (CH  3)  2 [CH  2  -C (CH 3) 2] .n-FG (III)  includes, where m is 0, 1, 2, 3 or 4, and FG halogen, Al- kyloxy or acyloxy, if the molar ratio of Lewis acid to compound III is in the range from 5: 1 to 1:20. The polyisobutenes obtainable in this way can be converted in a known manner in Polyisobuteneamines due to the high proportion of reactive olefinic end groups.  The present invention thus relates to polyisobutene amines of the general formula I:  RX (I)  wherein R is a polyisobutenyl radical having a number average molecular weight M  N  in the range of 500 to 1500, which has a polydispersity M  W  / M  N  below 1.4 and X having a amino groups organic radical. The invention further relates to a method for producing the polyisobuteneamines I, comprising the steps of:  i) polymerization of isobutene in the presence of an initiator system comprising  a) a Lewis acid selected from covalent metal chlorides and semimetal chlorides,  b) and at least one compound of general formula  CH  3  -C (CH  3) 2  - [CH  2  -C (CH  3) 2] πl  -FG (III)  wherein m is 0, 1, 2, 3 or 4, and FG halogen, OH, alkyloxy, acyloxy, CH  2  C (CH  3)  CH  2  OH or a group  CH  2  - C / ° \ CH  2,  CH  3  in relation to the Lewis-acid inert solvent at a molar ratio of Lewis acid to compound III is in the range of 5: 1 to 1:20, especially 2: 1 to 1:10 and especially 1: 1 to 1: 5, wherein receives a polyisobutene with a content of olefinic end groups of at least 80 mol%, which has a number average molecular weight M  N  in the range of 500 to 1500 and a polydispersity M  W  / M  N  below 1.4,  ii) introducing an A residue at inogruppen having the olefinic double bond of the polyisoprene obtained in step i) butene in a conventional manner.  Under polyisobutenyl refers to those organic lenwasserstoffreste coal that results in a major proportion, preferably 80 mol%, in particular 90 mol% of repeat units of the formula [-CH  2  -C (CH  3) 2]  - are constructed, whereby also such may also include an OH group radicals are to be detected, wherein the carbon atom WEL ches is adjacent to the X group carbon atom carrying production reasons. The group X may be bound to both the α-C-atom and at the ß-or γ-carbon atom of the polyisobutenyl (see formulas A and B). Those polyisobutenes having a polydispersity M  N  to 1.3, and especially up to 1.2 are preferred. The number average molecular weight M  N  is vorzgusweise in the range of 600 to 1400, in particular 650 to 1,300, for example at about 670 or 1300th  Geignete X groups are in principle all organic radicals having at least one, for example 1 to 40 have basic, primary, secondary or tertiary amino groups. The molecular weight of these radicals X should preferably not exceed the molecular weight of Polyisobute- nylrests and is preferably in the range of 16 to 1000. Examples of suitable functional groups X obey the general formula II  wherein k and 1 are independently 0 or 1,  Methylene or phenylene,  is 0 or NR  ' wherein  R  ' is hydrogen, alkyl, hydroxyalkyl, aminoalkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, aralkyl or a group -Y-NR! R  2  means  -Y- is a group  Alk- Alk ' - O- or -E Alk N (R  " ) alk  '  means, in which Alk is C  2  -C  4  alkylene, p and q are independently an integer from 0 to 25 and R  " represents hydrogen, alkyl or aryl, and Alk  ' is alkylene, substituted by 1, 2 or 3 adjacent oxygen atoms can not be interrupted or is cycloalkylene,  R  1  and R  2  are independently hydrogen, alkyl, cycloalkyl, hydroxyalkyl, aryl or aralkyl group or a group Y-NR  3  R  4,  wherein Y has the meanings mentioned above and R  3,  R  4  are independently hydrogen, alkyl, cycloalkyl, hydroxyalkyl, aryl or aralkyl, R  3  and R  4  together with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached form an optionally substituted saturated heterocycle, optionally containing a further heteroatom selected from oxygen and nitrogen; R  1  and / or R  2  can also stand for R or -CH  2  -R, provided that 1 = 0, where R has the abovementioned meaning, or  R  1  and R  2  together with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached rocyclus form an optionally substituted, saturated hetero-, optionally containing a further heteroatom selected from oxygen and nitrogen.  Alkyl is a linear or branched alkyl radical having from 1 to 12 and preferably 1 to 6 carbon atoms such as methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, iso-propyl, n-butyl, 2-butyl, iso-butyl, tert-butyl , n-pentyl, 2-pentyl, iso-pentyl, neopentyl, n-hexyl, 2-methyl-l-pentyl, n-heptyl, 2-ethylhex-l-yl, 2-methylhex-l-yl, n-octyl , n-decyl, 2-Methyldec-l-yl, n-dodecyl, etc.  Cycloalkyl is a cycloaliphatic radical having preferably 5 to 10 carbon atoms, which may be  4  alkyl substituted by 1, 2, 3 or 4 Cι-C, for example, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl or cycloheptyl, 1-methylcyclopentyl, 1-methylcyclohexyl, 4,4-dimethylcyclohexyl.  Aryl represents for example phenyl or naphthyl which may be substituted such as cycloalkyl.  Aralkyl represents alkyl, preferably C _.- C  4  alkyl, especially methyl or ethyl, which is substituted by aryl, especially phenyl, eg benzyl or phenylethyl.  Hydroxyalkyl is alkyl having preferably 1 to 6 and in particular 2 to 4 C-atoms, the hydroxy group as a ten Substituen- comprising: for example 2-hydroxyethyl, 2- or 3-hydroxybutyl, 2, 3 or 4 hydroxybutyl.  Aminoalkyl is alkyl having preferably 1 to 6 and particularly 2 to 4 carbon atoms which has a NH  2  -, NH (Cχ-C  4  alkyl) - or N  (Cι-C4  alkyl)  2  group as a substituent : for example, for 2-aminoethyl, 2- or 3-aminopropyl, 2-methylaminoethyl, 2- or 3-methylaminopropyl, 2-dimethylaminoethyl, 2- or 3-dimethylaminopropyl.  Alkyloxy represents an oxygen atom bonded alkyl. Accordingly are aryloxy, cycloalkyloxy and arylalkyloxy kyl via an oxygen atom bound aryl, cycloalkyl or Arylal-. Acyloxy is a bonded via oxygen alkylcarbonyl radical having preferably 1 to 6 carbon atoms in the alkyl moiety, for example, acetyloxy, propionyloxy, butyroxy, etc.  Alkylene represents a divalent linear or branched  Alkyl group preferably having 2 to 20 carbon atoms, whereby the two free valencies are preferably located on different carbon atoms. C  2  -C  4  alkylene, for example, is, therefore, 1,2-ethylene, 1,2- or 1,3-propylene. Thus C  2  -C  2  o-alkylene stands for the at C  2  -C  3  alkylene groups mentioned and, for example butane-1,2-diyl, butane-2,3-diyl, butane-l, 3-diyl or butane -l, 4-diyl, pentane-l, 2-diyl, pentane-2,3-diyl, pentane-l, 3-diyl, pentane-l, 4-diyl, pentane-2,4-diyl or pentane-l , 5-diyl, hexane-1,6-diyl, 2,2,4-trimethylpentane-l, 4-diyl, 0ctan-l, 8-diyl, etc. In the alkylene groups may also contain one or two  Kohlenstoffato e be replaced by oxygen atoms which are adjacent to each other yet neither the linking sites. Such alkylene groups have 5 to 20 C-atoms in the rule. Examples are: 3-0xapentan-l, 5-diyl, 3-oxahexane-1,6-diyl, 4-0xaheptan-l, 7-diyl,  3, 6-dioxaoctane-l, 8-diyl, 3, 7-dioxanonan-l, 9-diyl,  4, 7-dioxadecane-l, 10-diyl, 4, 8-Dioxaundecan-l, 11-diyl,  4, 9-dioxadodecane-l, 12-diyl, 4, 11-dioxatetradecane-l, 14-diyl.  C  5  -C  2  o-cycloalkylene represents a divalent cycloaliphatic radical preferably having 5 to 20 carbon atoms. Examples are cyclopentane-1,2-and cyclopentane-l, 3-diyl,  Cyclohexane-1,2-diyl, cyclohexane-l, 3-diyl and cyclohexane-l, 4-diyl,  Cycloheptane-1,2-diyl, cycloheptane-l, 3-diyl and cycloheptane-l, 4-diyl.  Among the compounds of formula I those compounds are preferred which do not have aromatic groups. In principle, such compounds of general formula I are preferred, WO rin having R  1  and R  2  is as defined below, the radicals: hydrogen, Ci-Ce-alkyl, phenyl, 2-hydroxyethyl, 2-aminoethyl, 3-aminopropyl, 2 di- (Cι-C  4  alkyl) aminoethyl, 3-di-  (Cι-C4  alkyl) aminopropyl, or radicals of the formula [CH  2  -CH  2  -0]  p.-CH 2  -CH  2  0H and [CH  2  -CH  2  -NH]  g  ' -CH 2  -CH  2  NH  2,  wherein p '  and q  ' are independently an integer from 1 to 20; and those compounds of formula I wherein NRR  2  ridin- for a pipe-, piperazine, N- (Cχ-C  4  alkyl) piperazine or morpholine lin radical. In a particularly preferred embodiment of the invention R  1  and R  2  are hydrogen. When k is 1, A is preferably methylene. When 1 is 1, R  ' is preferably hydrogen, Ci-C  ß  alkyl, 2-hydro xyethyl, 2-aminoethyl, 3-.Aminopropyl, 2-di-  (Cι-C4  alkyl) aminoe- methyl, 3-di-  (Cι-C4  alkyl) aminopropyl or a radical of formula [CH  2  -CH  2  -0] p.-CH  2  -CH  2  OH or [CH  2  -CH  2  -NH]  q.  CH  2  is -CH  2  NH  2,  wherein p  ' and q '  are independently an integer 1 to 10 then Alk 1,2-propylene or 1,3-propylene is preferably 1,2-ethylene in the group Y,. R  " is then preferably hydrogen, and Alk  ' is preferably alkylene having 2 to 10 carbon atoms which may be interrupted by 1, 2 or 3 nonadjacent oxygen atoms.  In the present process the polymerization of the isobutene by the initiator system comprising a Lewis acid and GR nigstens a compound of general formula III triggered. It is believed that the Lewis acid forms a carbocation or at least one ionic complex with the compound III, which interacts with the olefinically unsaturated double bond of the isobutene while a positive (partial) generates charge on the ter- tiären carbon atom of the isobutene. This in turn interacts with a further isobutene while continuing the polymerization reaction.  The terms  " carbocation "  and  " cationic complex "  are not strictly separated from each other, but include all intermediate stages of solvent-separated ions, solvent-separated ion pairs, contact ion pairs and strongly polarized complexes with positive partial charge on a carbon atom of the compound I.  Suitable Lewis acids are, for example, the (semi) metal chlorides BCI  3,  TiCl  4,  VCI  5,  SnCl  4,  FeCl  3  into consideration. Preferred (semi) me- tallchloride are BCI  3  and TiCl.  Among the compounds of formula III, those compounds are preferred in which m is 1, 2, 3 or 4. FG is preferably halogen and in particular chlorine.  As a rule, is for the preparation of polyisobutenes in the inventive method, the compound III in an amount of GR nigstens 10  -2  mol per mole of isobutene, preferably in the range of 0.02 to 0.3 and especially in the range of 0.05 to 0.2 mol per mole of isobutene use. It should be noted that the molecular weight of the produced by the inventive method polyisobutene on the amount of compound III depends reached such that decreases with increasing amount of compound III, based on isobutene, the molecular weight of the polyisobutene.  The Lewis acid is used for the preparation of polyisobutenes in the inventions to the invention process inherently in an amount sufficient to form the initiator complex. This is usually already at low concentrations of the Lewis acid in the reaction medium, generally at least 0.01 mol / 1, is ensured. Therefore, in general, the Lewis acid in the reaction medium is a concentration of 3 mol / 1, preferably 2 mol / 1 and more preferably 1 mol / 1 are not exceeded. In particular, the concentration in the range of 0.1 to 2 mol / 1, and most preferably in the range of 0.2 to 1 mol /. 1  Preferably, the initiator system comprises at least in addition to the compounds III a further aprotic polar compound IV, which is suitable for complex formation with the Lewis acid or the carbocation formed under reaction conditions or ionic complex of Lewis acid and compound I. These are so-called Lewis-bases (electron donors) which have at least one free electron pair on at least one hetero atom which is selected for example from oxygen, nitrogen, phosphorus, and sulfur atoms.  Examples of such donor compounds IV are pyridines such as pyridine and substituted pyridines, especially sterically hindered pyridines, also N, N-dialkylamides of aliphatic or aromatic carboxylic acids, such as N, N-dimethylacetamide, N-alkyllactams, such as N-methylpyrrolidone, dialkyl ethers such as diethyl ether and diisopropyl ether, cyclic ethers such as  Tetrahydrofuran, trialkylamines such as triethylamine, Cι-C  4  alkyl esters of aliphatic Ci-Cβ-carboxylic acids such as ethyl acetate, or Dialkylthioether Alkylarylthioether as methyl phenyl sulfide, dialkyl sulfoxides such as dimethyl sulfoxide, alkyl nitriles such as acetonitrile and propionitrile, trialkyl or triaryl phosphines such as trimethylphosphine, triethylphosphine, tri-n butylphosphine and triphenylphosphine, and nonpolymerizable, aprotic organosilicon compounds having at least one organic radical bound via oxygen. This residue has 1 to 20 carbon atoms in the rule. Examples of such radicals are alkyloxy, cycloalkyloxy, aryloxy, arylalkyloxy and acyloxy (alkylcarbonyloxy =).  Among the abovementioned donors, preferably pyridine, and sterically-made gehin- pyridine derivatives and in particular organosilicon compounds. In a particularly preferred embodiment form is at least used as a donor is a organosilicon compound.  Sterically hindered pyridines are those which groups sterically demanding alkyl at least in the 2- and 6-position of the pyridine ring include, for example, 2, 6-diisopropylpyridine, and 2,6-di-tert .- butylpyridine.  The donor IV, and especially the organosilicon compound is preferably used in an amount such that the molar ratio of donor molecules IV to the metal atoms or the semi-metal atoms in the Lewis acid ranges from 1: 1000 to 1: 1, preferably in the range from 1: 1000 to 1: 2, and particularly preferably in the range from 1: 1000 to 1: 5, is located.  The suitable as a donor IV organosilicon compounds, one or more, for example, have 2 or 3 silicon atoms having at least one bonded via oxygen organic radical. Preferred organosilicon compounds which have one, two or three, and in particular 2 or 3, bonded via oxygen, organic radicals per silicon atom are preferred.  Preferred organosilicon compounds are those which have the general formula IVa:  R  n  Si (0R  b) 4-n  (IVa)  wherein n is 1, 2 or 3;  R  a  may be the same or different and are independently Cι-C  2  -alkyl, C  5  -C  7  cycloalkyl, aryl or aryl Cι-C  4  -alkyl, where the three last-mentioned radicals, one or more Cι-Cιo -alkyl groups as substituents, and  R  b  are identical or different and Cι-C may also form a 2- or 3-membered alkylene unit  2  denote o-alkyl or, where n = 1 or 2, two different radicals R.  In formula IVa, the variable n is preferably 1 or 2. The variable R  a  preferably represents a Ci-Cβ alkyl group, and especially a branched or bonded via a secondary carbon atom alkyl group such as isopropyl, isobutyl, 2-butyl, or a 5-, 6- or 7-membered cycloalkyl group. The variable R  2  preferably stands for a pre-Cι-C4-alkyl group. Examples of such preferred compounds are dimethoxy, dimethoxyisobutylisopropylsilane, dimethoxydiisobutylsilane isobutylsilan, dimethoxydicyclopentylsilane, di ethoxyisobu- tyl-2-butylsilane, diethoxyisobutylisopropylsilane, triethoxytoluylsilane and triethoxybenzylsilane.  Suitable isobutene feedstocks for the novel process are both isobutene itself and isobutene C  4  raffinates are  4  hydrocarbon streams, such as C  4  from steam crackers, C  4  fractions from isobutane dehydrogenation, C  4  fractions from steam crackers, C cuts from FCC crackers (FCC: fluid catA lysed cracking), provided they are largely freed from it contains 1,3-butadiene. According to the invention suitable C  4  -Kohlenwas- serstoffströme contain less than 500 ppm, as a rule, preferably upstream less than 200 ppm of butadiene. When C  4  th -Schnit- as feedstock assume the hydrocarbons other than isobutene the role of an inert solvent.  Suitable solvents are all low molecular weight organic compounds which are different from the compounds III and IV and of isobutene, which do not have abstractable proton and which are liquid under the polymerization conditions, optionally as a mixture with one another. Preferred solvents are hydrocarbons such as acyclic alkanes having from 2 to 8 and preferably 3 to 7 carbon atoms such as ethane, iso- and n-propane, n-butane and its isomers, n-pentane and its isomers, n-hexane and its isomers, and n heptane and its isomers, cyclic alkanes having 5 to 8 carbon atoms such as cyclopentane, Cy clohexan, cycloheptane, acyclic alkenes having preferably 2 to 8 carbon atoms such as ethene, iso- and n-propylene, n-butene, n-pen th, n-hexene and n-heptene, cyclic olefins such as cyclopentene, cyclohexene and cycloheptene, aromatic hydrocarbons such as To- luol, xylene, ethylbenzene, and halogenated hydrocarbons, for example, halogenated alkanes having 1 to 5 carbon atoms and 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6 halogen atoms selected from fluorine and especially chlorine such as methylene chloride, dichloromethane, trichloromethane, ethyl chloride, 1,2-dichloroethane and 1, 1, 1-trichloroethane and chloroform, and haloaromatics such as chlorobenzene.  Suitable not only the solvents as such but also mixtures of these solvents. Mixtures are particularly preferred if the solvent has a melting point above the desired polymerization temperature.  Particularly preferred are solvents and solvent mixtures which comprise at least one hydrocarbon. Among these, particularly preferred are solvent mixtures which comprise at least one hydrocarbon and at least one haloalkane. Among these, particularly preferred are solvent mixtures which comprise at least one cyclic or acyclic alkane having from 4 to 7 C atoms, in particular hexane, and at least one chloroalkane, especially methylene chloride or methylene chloride. Also particularly preferred are mixtures of solvents, which comprise at least one aromatic hydrocarbon, especially toluene, and at least one chloroalkane, especially methylene chloride or methylene chloride. The volume ratio of halogenated hydrocarbon to nated hydrocarbon is preferably in the range of 1:10 to 10: 1, in particular in the range from 4: 1 to 1: 4. Of course, the chlorine Alkanes in these mixtures do not include compounds in which chlorine atoms are attached to secondary or tertiary carbon atoms. Another particularly preferred ternary mixtures of solvents, which comprise at least one aromatic hydrocarbon, in particular toluene, at least a cyclic or acyclic alkane having from 4 to 7 carbon atoms, in particular hexane, and at least one chloroalkane, especially methylene chloride or methylene chloride, are. The volume ratio of the three aforementioned components is then selected such that the ratio of alkane to aromatic in the range of 1:10 to 10: 1 and the volume ratio of alkane + aromatic to haloalkane in the range of 10: 1 to 1: 1. When the polymerization with evaporative cooling, the solvent or the mix Lösungsmittelge- contain up to 50 vol .-%, eg 5 to 50 vol .-%, preferably 10 to 30 vol .-% of a volatile solvent component such as ethylene.  It goes without saying that you, the polymerization is carried out under substantially aprotic, especially under anhydrous reaction conditions. Aprotic and anhydrous reaction conditions, it is meant that the water content (or content of protic impurities) in the reaction mixture less than 50 ppm and in particular less than 5 ppm. In general, the feedstocks will be dried physically and / or prior to use by chemical means. For example, If the aliphatic or cycloaliphatic hydrocarbons preferably used as solvents according to a customary prepurification and predrying with an organometallic compound, for example an organolithium, organomagnesium or organoaluminum compound, put in an amount sufficient to remove traces of water from the solvent amount. The treated solvent is then condensed directly into the reaction vessel. Similarly, it is also possible with the α-olefins, aromatic hydrocarbons and the monomers to be polymerized, in particular the isobutene, process.  The pre-cleaning or pre-drying of the solvents and of iso- butene is carried out in a customary manner, preferably by treatment with solid drying agents such as molecular sieves or predried oxides such as calcium oxide or barium oxide. In an analogous manner to dry the feedstocks for which a treatment with metal alkyls not come into consideration, for example the alkyl halides used as solvents solu-, and the compounds III and IV.  In general, the process according to the invention at temperatures below room temperature (25 ° C) and preferably below 0 ° C, eg in the range of 0 to 140 ° C, preferably in the range of -30 to -120 ° C , and particularly preferably perform in the range of -40 to 110 ° C. As a rule, the higher the reaction temperatures are possible, the greater the purity of the reactants used. The reaction pressure is of minor importance and depends in a known manner on the apparatus used and other reaction conditions.  The polymerization of isobutene or of the isobutene-containing feedstock occurs spontaneously upon mixing of the invention employed in accordance with the initiator system with the isobutene or the isobutene-containing feedstock in the inert organic solvent at the desired reaction temperature. Here, you can do this, is to initially charge isobutene in the inert solvent and cooled to reaction temperature and then add the initiator system. One possible procedure is to initially charge the initiator system in the solvent, and then the isobutene or the isobutene-containing feedstock is added, either all at once or in accordance with consumption. In addition, one can provide a portion of or the total amount of isobutene or of the isobutene-containing feedstock in the solvent and then to add the initiator system. The residual amounts of isobutene or isobutene-containing feedstock are then, for example, in accordance with its consumption, is supplied in the course of the reaction. With the addition of the initiator system it will go so forth in the rule that adding the components of the initiator system separately. In the presently described batch operation, the procedure will typically so that one first compound III and optionally the compound IV and then adding the Lewis acid. The timing of the addition of initiator is considered to be the time at which the two components of the initiator system are present in the reaction vessel. For example, one can proceed so that firstly the solvent, then the compound III and optionally the donor IV, and then introducing a portion or the total amount of isobutene or of the isobutene-containing feedstock, the polymerization is initiated by adding the Lewis acid, and thereafter optionally supplying any residual amounts of isobutene or isobutene feedstock polymerization. However, it is also possible first to the solvent, then submit the Lewis acid and part or the total amount of isobutene or of the isobutene-containing starting material and then the polymerization by adding the compound III and, if necessary to start the compound IV, but performs this procedure to a slightly broader molecular weight distribution.  In addition to the herein described batchwise procedure can shape the polymerization as a continuous process. In this case, that is, the monomers to be polymerized, the solvent and the initiator system of the polymerization reaction is carried out continuously to the starting materials and reaction product is withdrawn continuously, so that more or less stationary in the reactor polymerization len einstel-. The components of the initiator system may be both separately and together, preferably diluted in the solvent are fed. A polymerizing isobutene or isobutene-containing starting materials which as such may be diluted with a solvent or are supplied as an isobutene hydrocarbon stream. For example, the addition of the diluted in the solvent components of the initiator system via multi-fluid nozzles can be done in order to achieve good mixing of the components.  The heat of reaction in the batchwise as well as in the continuous reaction is carried out in a customary manner, for example by internally installed heat exchanger through external heat exchangers and / or by wall cooling and / or taking advantage of evaporative cooling. Here, in particular the use of ethene and / or mixtures of ethylene with other hydrocarbons and / or halogenated hydrocarbons has been proven as a solvent, since ethylene is not only inexpensive, but also has a boiling point in the desired Polymerisationstempera- turbereich.  Suitable reaction vessels for carrying out the method according to the invention are in principle all reactors, as they are usually used in a cationic polymerization of isobutene, for example, a cationic polymerization of isobutene with boron trifluoride-oxygen complexes. Reference is made here to the relevant prior art. In the batchwise reaction, the stirred tank customary for this purpose come into consideration that, outside (external) are provided heat exchangers suitable mixers, feeds, heat exchanger elements and inertization preferably with an evaporative cooling. The continuous reaction can be performed in 5 by customary for this purpose reaction vessels, reaction cascades, tube reactors, tube reactors, in particular circular-run pipe and tube reactors, which are preferably equipped in the manner described above for reaction vessel way.  10  In order to obtain the polyisobutenes from the reaction mixture, this is deactivated after the polymerization in the customary for cationic polymerization manner, preferably by adding a protic compound, in particular  15 by addition of alcohols such as methanol, ethanol, n-propanol,  Isopropanol, n-butanol, isobutanol, sec-butanol or tert-butanol, or mixtures thereof with water. Preferably, the substances used for the deactivation in a diluent, for example a so-called solvent einge-  20 sets in order to avoid an unwanted increase in viscosity. Incidentally, reference is also made here to the above-cited state of the art for the polymerization of isobutene with boron trifluoride whose working-up measures can be transferred to the novel process in an analogous manner.  25  Preferably, the means used for the deactivation or its mixture with an inert solvent is cooled prior to deactivation at polymerization temperature in order to avoid undesirable side reactions.  30  the solvents are then usually in suitable equipment, for example rotary, falling-film or thin-film evaporators or flash evaporation (relaxation of the reaction solution downstream of a heat exchanger in pipes or  35 removed by a hole / nozzle plate). In general, to remove the solvent under pressure, for example in the range of 0.1 to 800 mbar, preferably 1 to 100 mbar, or edit. The bottom temperature is preferably 50 ° C to 250 ° C and in particular 150 ° C to 230 ° C. The use of elevated temperatures, for example above  40 150 ° C, especially 170 ° C or higher, resulting in further reducing residual chlorine content and thus to an increased proportion of terminal double bonds in the reaction product.  The 45 polyisobutenes prepared in step a) of the process according to the invention have a high content of olefinically unsaturated end groups of the general formula (A) and / or (B). The end group content is usually at least 80 mol%, in particular at least 90 mol%, and more preferably at least 95 mol%, based on the polymer chains. The polyisobutenes prepared in this manner have a narrow molecular weight distribution defined by a polydispersity D = M  W  / M  N  below 1.4, preferably below 1.3, and particularly below 1.2, for example in the range from 1.05 to 1 is characterized. 2  Advantageously, show the polyisobutenes according to the invention obtained in addition to the low polydispersity also a favorable value for the position of the maximum of the molecular weight distribution (M  p).  Thus, the Peakaximum M  p is  the molecular weight distribution of the polyisobutenes according to the invention is preferably less than 10% above the value of the number-average molecular weight. In many cases, the Peakaximum M  p  even less than 8% or even less than 6% above the number average molecular weight is.  All data relating to molecular weights refer to the values ​​as determined by means of gel permeation chromatography (GPC). Gel permeation chromatography was carried out using THF as Fließmit- tel and CS  2  as a reference on two columns connected in series (L 300 mm, d 7.8 mm), wherein the first column with Styragel HR5 (molecular weight range 50,000 to 4 x 10  6)  and the second column with Styragel HR3 (molecular weight range of 200 to 30,000) were packed Fa. Waters. Detection was tialrefraktometer a differentiation. As standards for determining the isobutene commercial polyisobutene were in a molecular weight from 224 to 1,000,000 from the company. Polymer Standards Service, Mainz, are used.  The introduction of the X functionality in step b) of the process according to the invention is carried out in manner known per se. Overviews of suitable methods for aminofunctionalization be found in EP-A 382 405, the scriptures listed below, as well as in WO 98/20053 and references cited therein. In addition, in the lit- erature numerous methods for producing OH or aldehyde functionalized polyisobutenes are described (see for example EP-A 468 966). The polyisobutene derivatives so produced may be aminofunk--functionalized in a known manner by reductive amination.  Examples of suitable functionalization are the functionalization (1) listed below, known from the literature to (7):  (1) hydroformylation of polyisobutene and subsequent reductive amination tive of the hydroformylation in the presence of ammonia, amines or aminoalcohols or hydroformylation of the polyisobutene in the presence of ammonia, amines of amino alcohols or under reducing conditions as described in EP-A 244 616 or WO 94 / 24231 described;  (2) hydroboration of the polyisobutene with subsequent oxidative cleavage of the ver borane adduct (see JP Kennedy and B. Ivan  " Designed Polymers by Carbocationic Macromolecular Engineering " , S. 178f.) And subsequent reductive amination in the presence of ammonia, amines or aminoalcohols etc. in a known manner;  (3) hydroboration or hydroformylation under reducing conditions to a polyisobutenyl alcohol, followed by alkoxylation and a reductive amination in the presence of ammonia, amines or amino alcohols (see EP-A 277 345, WO 98/20053 and WO 00/50543);  (4) reaction of the polyisobutene with a nitrogen oxide-containing oxy dans and subsequent reduction of the thus introduced NO  x  - groups to NH  2  groups, see FIG. for example DE-A 4425834, WO 96/03367, WO 96/03479, WO 97/03946;  (5) epoxidation of the polyisobutene and subsequent reaction of the epoxidation product with ammonia, an amine or an amino alcohol, optionally with subsequent or simultaneous removal of water and catalytic reduction, see FIG. for example, WO 92/12221, WO 92/14806, EP-A 476 485, EP 539 821, EP-A 696 572 and DE-A 19,620,262;  (Described (6) hydrocyanation of the polyisobutene under acid catalysis and subsequent hydrolysis in the sense of a Ritter reaction as described in DE-OS 2,061,057 or EP-A 567 810 to Ritter reaction see also Houben-Weyl E5, pp 1032-1041 (1985 ) or Houben-Weyl, XI / 1 page 994 f (1957);. or  (7) reaction of the polyisobutene with phenol under Friedel-Crafts conditions and subsequent reaction of the Polyisobutenylphe- nols with formaldehyde and amine or diamine in a Mannich reaction (see for example EP-A 647 700, US 4,117,011, EP-A 831 141) ,  Among the above described methods, the methods (1) to (5) are particularly preferred. In these methods as well as in method (7) used amines generally have the group of II to-grunde lying structure. Examples of suitable amines in addition to ammonia, ethylene-l, 2-diamine, propylene-l, 2-diamine, propylene-l, 3-diamine, butylenediamines, the monoalkyl, dialkyl and trialkyl derivatives of these amines, such as N , N-dimethylpropylene len-l, 3-di.amin. Further polyalkylenepolyamines can be used, whose alkylene radicals have not more than 6 carbon atoms, for example polyethylenepolyamines, such as diethylenetriamine, triethylenetetramine and tetraethylenepentamine, and Polypropylenpolya- mine. Also suitable are mono or dialkylamines in which the alkyl radicals are interrupted by one or more nonadjacent oxygen atoms and optionally substituted groups may have or more amino groups such as 4,7-dioxa-decane-1, 10-diamine, also hydroxy, ethanolamine , 3-aminopropanol, 2- (2-Aminoe- thoxy) ethanol, N- (2-aminoethyl) ethanolamine. Further examples are N-amino-C  2  -C  6  -alkylpiperazine. Preference is given to using ammonia. In the methods (1) polyisobuteneamines obtained through (7) may further be alkoxylated by being monoxide in known manner, optionally with the addition of alkoxides as catalysts with Cι-C  4  alkylene oxides such as ethylene oxide, Propyleno- or 1, 2-butylene oxide is reacted. Alkyleno- the hydroxides are preferred in a molar ratio of 1: 1 to 1: 2, based on the nitrogen atoms in II employed. Methods for this are known from the prior art. Here alkylene oxide is first added to the NH bond- ring opening. Further alkylene oxide is then added to this liberated OH group in the presence of suitable catalysts, for example under catalysis OH  _  analogous to that described in EP-A 398 100 method or by using DMC catalysts (double metal cyanide catalysts) in analogy to the WO 00/14045 described method.  The polyisobuteneamines invention are distinguished over the polyisobutene of the prior art for the same payment lenmittleren molecular weight, both by an improved detergency as well as by improved viscosity properties, especially at low temperature, from. This effect occurs in particular when used as a fuel additive to bear. Because of these advantageous properties of the polyisobutene amines of the invention they can be used with significantly lower amounts of auxiliary substances such as carrier oils allow so in good to very good efficacy of a significantly reduced total amount of additives in the compositions.  The present invention thus relates to the use of the inventive polyisobuteneamines I as fuel additives.  Providing additives suitable fuels are in principle all suitable for gasoline engines gasolines, which may contain in addition to hydrocarbons as a main component and other low molecular weight components, for example alcohols such as methanol, ethanol or tert-butanol, and ethers, eg methyl tert-butyl ether. Furthermore, usually the fuels contain other additives such as corrosion inhibitors, stabilizers, antioxidants, demulsifiers, antistats or ferrocene. The polyisobutene amines of the invention are preferably added in an amount of 50 to 1000 ppm of the fuel 5 par- particular in an amount of 10 to 5000 ppm and.  The Polyisobuteneamines I of the invention are generally used together with so-called carrier oils. Carrier oils are known eg from K. Owen, Gasoline and Diesel Fuel Additives, John Wiley  &  Known 10 Sons 1989th In particular, carrier oils, for example, are based on polyalkylene glycols, their ethers and / or esters, as described in US 5,004,478 or DE-A 3,838,918th The reaction products of long-chain alkanols or long-chain amines with alkylene oxides such as ethylene oxide, propylene oxide or  15 1,2-butylene oxide (degree of alkoxylation is preferably in the range of 10 to 50), as are known for example from US 4,877,416, pro poxylate of dialkyl phenols as described in DE-A 4,142,241 described as well as mineral carrier oils (hydrocarbon oils, base oils), in particular those of the viscosity class Solvent Neutral (SN)  20 500-2000, olefin polymers having molecular weights from 400 to 1800  N  M, (hydrogenated or unhydrogenated), mainly based on poly-n-butene or polyisobutene are suitable. The proportion of Träge- Roël, based on the total weight of the fuel is generally in the range of 10 to 1000 ppm, preferably 20 to 500  25 ppm. Based on the polyisobuteneamine a lesser proportion is required than in known fuel additives based on polyisobutene. the weight ratio of polyisobuteneamine I is preferably to carrier oil in the range of at least 1: 1 and is preferably in the range from 1: 1 to 20: 1 and in particular  30 in the range 3: 2 to 10: 1. The Polyisobuteneamines invention can also be used without carrier oil as fuel additives.  The present invention further relates to additive concentrates.  35 This the Polyisobuteneamine I usually include in a  Amount of 10 to 80 wt .-%, preferably 20 to 50 wt .-%, based on the total weight of the concentrate, as well as other additives, if appropriate solvent and, optionally, carrier oils. Furthermore, the additive concentrates may also contain conventional Detergensad-  40 -propellant additives included, such as for example, from J. Falbe et al., Surfactants and Mineral Oil Additives, G. Thieme Verlag, Stuttgart 1978, p 223ff or K. Owen (loc. Cit), pp 23ff are described. Their share is, however, not exceed the amount of the inventive polyisobutenes generally and preferably below 25  45 wt .-% and particularly below 10 wt .-%, based on the total weight of polyisobuteneamine I and conventional detergent additive. The following examples illustrate the invention without limiting it.  I. analytics  The determination of molecular weight (M  N,  M  w)  was carried out in the manner described above by means of GPC, mass spectrometry and / or by ^ -NMR spectroscopy. The double bond content was determined by  1  H NMR spectroscopy (integration of the vinyl protons to the methyl and methylene protons) or via the chlorine content. The residual chlorine content was determined by elemental analysis.  II. Preparation of polyisobutenamines  Ha. Preparation of the polyisobutenes  Preparation Example 1 (preparation of a polyisobutene having an M  N  of 670)  As a reaction vessel, a 2 1 four-necked flask was used, the dry ice condenser, dropping funnel, thermometer, septum, magnesium trührer and another dropping funnel containing a bed (molecular sieve 3 Å, 250 g; dried for 16 h at 150 ° C / 2 mbar has) and a dry ice condenser is fitted. The reaction vessel was dry twice evacuation and flushing with  dried nitrogen. Was added through the septum 260 g (1 mol) Te- traisobutenylchlorid and 0.38 g (2 mmol) of 2,6-di-tert-Butylpyri- din into the flask. Then successively 400 ml of dried methylene chloride and 400 ml of dehydrated hexane were in the Tropftrich- ter condensed with the bed of molecular sieve and added dropwise such that the average residence time in the molecular sieve about 15 minutes. Subsequently, in the same dropping funnel 448.9 g (8 moles) of isobutene were condensed and passed through the molecular sieve with the same residence time in the flask. The mixture was cooled contents of the flask with a dry ice / acetone cooling bath with stirring to -78 ° C and gave about the septum 379.42 g (2 mol) of titanium tetrachloride. After a reaction time of 15 minutes, the reaction by addition of 50 ml of isopropanol was terminated, the reaction was warmed to 0 ° C and washed three times with 200 ml of water, dried over sodium sulfate and at 200 ° C to the final pressure of 2 mbar in vacuo solvent removed and treated with basic aluminum oxide.  690 grams of clear oil, M  N  = 670 Dalton, M  W  / M  N  = 1.18; Viscosity at 100 ° C 43 mm  2  / s; Proportion of terminal double bonds 65%, chlorine content below 1 ppm. Preparation Example 2 (preparation of a polyisobutene having M  N  1300)  Preparation Example 2 was carried out similarly to Preparation Example 1, 5 except that 78 g (0.3 mol) Tetraisobutenylchlo- chloride, 113.8 g (0.6 mol) of titanium tetrachloride and 336.7 g (6 mol) of isobutene used: 408 g of clear oil, ΪΪ  N  = 1300, M  w  / M  n  = 1.15; Content of terminal double bonds 65%, viscosity at 100 ° C 103 mm  2  / s; Chlorine content 3 ppm.  10  Hb. Aminofunctionalization the Polyisbutene  Example 1: (amino functionalization of the polyisobutene from Preparation Example 1):  15  In a 2 1 stirred flask made of glass 1200 ml of a 1 molar BH  3  solution were initially charged in THF, cooled to 0 ° C and 210 g of polyisobutene th of Example 1 was added so that the temperature could be maintained at 0 ° C. After 5 hours of reaction time at 0 ° C  20 cooled to -10 ° C and aqueous sodium hydroxide solution (6N; 250 ml) with vigorous stirring was added so that the temperature did not rise above 0 ° C. Once the addition was completed, 30% hydrogen peroxide was (187 ml; 1.65 mol) was added so that the temperature of the reaction mixture 40 ° C is not exceeded. Thereafter  vigorously stirred for 25 another two hours at 40 ° C. were then. the phases were separated, the organic phase is concentrated by distilling off 1,000 ml of THF at 40 ° C in a vacuum, mixed with 300 ml of heptane and 50 ml of isopropanol and washed with water (three times 500 ml). The solvent was then at 150 ° C in vacuo  30 to distilled off to a final pressure of 2 mbar. The residue had a hydroxyl number of 14.1, and contained 7.8 wt .-% un- unreacted polyisobutene (determined by HPLC).  This residue was then transferred with isododecane in a 35 50 wt .-% solution and in a stroke-stirred autoclave at 190 ° C and 190 bar hydrogen pressure in the presence of 30 wt .-% ammonia, based on the solution used, with a residence time aminated reductively one hour over a Hydrierungskontakt. After cooling the reaction mixture and exhaust gases of the gene überschüssi- 40 ammonia at 40 ° C and normal pressure, the product obtained was washed neutral. The titrimetric determination of the amine value gave a value of 38.2, the functionalization was 98%.  45 Example 2  (Amino functionalization of the polyisobutene from Preparation Example 2)  The hydroboration / oxidative cleavage and subsequent reductive amination was carried out as in Example. 1 sierungsgrad The functionalization was 98 wt .-%, the amine number of 20.4.  III. Test the performance characteristics material additive as power  In an Opel Kadett engine The intake valve cleanliness was tested according to the CEC method F-05-A-93rd For this purpose a commercially available Euro Super-base fuel according to EN 228, to which either no fuel additive (Comparative Example 1) or a noninventive fuel additive based on polyisobutene butenamines (Comparative Example 2) or an inventive polyisobuteneamine was added (Example 1 and Example 2). The concentration of the additive in polyisobuteneamine strength materials was in each case 200 mg per kilogram of base fuel.  The fuel additive not according to the invention from comparative example 2 is a commercially available Isobutenamin (Kerocom PIBA.) Made by BASF based on a polyisobutene having a number average molecular weight of 1000 and a polydispersity of 1.65, that of the by hydroformylation and subsequent reductive amination with ammonia according to Example 1 EP-A 244 616 was obtained.  For determining the valve plugging according to CEC F-16-T96 three additized fuels were prepared as described above, where here was the concentrations of polyisobuteneamine 1 g per kilogram of base fuel. This additized fuels were treated with a reference carrier oil of poly-1-butene oxide (Kerocom®3364 BASF Aktiengesellschaft) in concentration steps of 0.03 g per kg additized fuel, so that fuels with a carrier oil concentrations of 0.03 g / kg to 0 , 15 g / kg was obtained. The addition of carrier oil thereby reduces with increasing concentration the viscosity of the additive-containing fuel, and hence also the tendency to sticking of the valves. Was then determined by CEC-F-lb-T96 method at 5 ° C, which concentration is required to transfer oil, to reliably prevent a sticking of the valves under the experimental conditions. In Table 1, the concentrations are given to carrier oil in which the test successfully, that is without a valve plug, composed and concentration at which an undesired sticking of the valves was observed. therefore are beneficial in this Test Polyisobuteneamines pass the test with the smallest possible addition of carrier oil, as this indicates a particularly favorable viscosity behavior. By comparing the amount together in Table 1 summarized data show that Polyisobuteneamines the invention are distinguished by good to very good valve purification at significantly superior viscosity properties.  Table 1 2)  M  w  = weight average molecular weight; MM  N  = polydispersity 3)  Fuel Euro Super according to EN 228, concentration of the carrier oil in grams per kilogram of fuel Kind code of ref document : A1 Designated state(s) : GH GM KE LS MW MZ SD SL SZ TZ UG ZM ZW AM AZ BY KG KZ MD RU TJ TM AT BE BG CH CY CZ DE DK EE ES FI FR GB GR HU IE IT LU MC NL PT RO SE SI SK TR BF BJ CF CG CI CM GA GN GQ GW ML MR NE SN TD TG Kind code of ref document : A1 Designated state(s) : AE AG AL AM AT AU AZ BA BB BG BR BY BZ CA CH CN CO CR CU CZ DE DK DM DZ EC EE ES FI GB GD GE GH GM HR HU ID IL IN IS JP KE KG KP KR KZ LC LK LR LS LT LU LV MA MD MG MK MN MW MX MZ NI NO NZ OM PH PL PT RO RU SC SD SE SG SK SL TJ TM TN TR TT TZ UA UG US UZ VC VN YU ZA ZM ZW Ref document number : 163980 Country of ref document : IL Ref document number : PA/a/2004/008985 Country of ref document : MX Ref document number : 535387 Country of ref document : NZ Ref document number : 2479940 Country of ref document : CA Ref document number : 10508397 Country of ref document : US Ref document number : 2003227566 Country of ref document : AU Ref document number : 2003724959 Country of ref document : EP Ref document number : 2003724959 Country of ref document : EP Ref document number : 1020047015752 Country of ref document : KR Ref document number : 373240 Country of ref document : PL Ref document number : 2003582200 Country of ref document : JP Ref document number : 20038078597 Country of ref document : CN Ref document number : P20041032A Country of ref document : HR Ref document number : 1020047015752 Country of ref document : KR Ref document number : 2003724959 Country of ref document : EP Ref country code : DE Ref legal event code : 8642 