Marriage Compatibility Vedic Astrology | Vedic Astrology Match Making | Marriage and Vedic Astrology Analysis Vedic Astrology Guide to Your Karma Stay Updated:  Posts  |  Comments Lagna Lord of Girl is Mercury and Lagna Lord of Boy is Jupiter. Mercury and Jupiter are not friendly to each other. Chara Dara Karaka of Girl is Mercury placed in the 11th in Aries, Boy s is Moon, afflicted in the 8th House placed in Cancer in Marana Karaka Avastha. Darakaraka shows the partner on a level of Karma at the Soul. Position of Venus   Karaka for Marriage and Spouse. Venus in the girls chart is Exalted in Pisces in the 10th house but afflicted as it is Conjunct the same Degree as Rahu. Venus conjunct Rahu tends to spoil the Karakatwa of Venus and makes the native prone to illicit relationships and extra-marital affairs. Venus is placed in the 7th house in Navamsa which is also the 12th lord. It is not the best placement. Venus in the Boy s chart is placed in the 9th house in Inimical Sign Leo with Gulika, the poisonous son of Saturn. In the Navamsa, Venus is placed in the evil 8th House which is also the lord of the 6th House. This shows distress and strife in marriage. 7th Lord from Venus is Mercury placed in the 2nd from it for the girl   Its fine. Kendra and Trikona placements are better. 7th House from Venus has Ketu. This is an affliction. It is also aspected by Rahu which is a Malefic. Tithi Lord of Girl is Mercury is placed in the 2nd from Venus. Tithi Lord of the Boy is Jupiter placed in the 5th from Venus. There is no affliction. Chandra Nakshatra Lord of Girl is the Moon, Nakshatra Lord of the Boy is Saturn. Saturn is inimical to the Moon. Ashtakoota compatibility points between the Girl and the Boy are 26 out of 36 which is Good. 7th Lord of Girl is Jupiter afflicted in close conjunction with Rahu (Guru Chandal Yoga) in the 10th house. It is the 7th Lord (Marriage) placed in the adverse and evil 8th house in the Navamsa in Debilitation. This is a very adverse sign for marriage and the Spouse in General. Jupiter is the Sthira Karaka of the husband in a woman s chart. The affliction of Jupiter in the Rasi and the Navamsa is not positive for married life. 7th lord of Boy is Mercury placed in the 9th which is auspicious but not quite as it also houses Gulika. In the Navamsa, the 7th lord of the boy is Mars placed in the 6th House whos dispositor is Venus which is afflicted by virtue of its placement and being Lagnesh. Venus is also the Chara Atma Karaka of the boy. Such individuals have to learn to control their passion and sexuality in this life. The AK in the 8th House is not a positive placement in terms of Marriage, being Venus   the Karaka for married life and spouse. 7th House from Chandra of the Girl is afflicted by a Retrograde Saturn in Scorpio aspected by Mars and Rahu. This is again indicative of inharmony and adversity in Married life. Upapada Lagna This Lagna shows the actual Spouse. UL for the girl is in the 8th House. Upapada Lagna in the 8th house is indicative of  Dushta Karma  from past lives related to Marriage. It is not positive. Lord of the Upapada Lagna is a Retrograde Saturn placed in enemical Scorpio in the 6th House. Saturn is also the 8th Lord and the Second Lord from the Upapada Lagna which shows sustenance of Marriage. It is aspected by Rahu and Mars. This again is not a positive omen for the marriage partner. UL for the Boy is in the 9th house in Leo which has Venus, Sun and Mercury. It shows a bright and elegant wife. The second from UL is aspected by Rahu which shows a sudden end to the first serious relationship or Marriage the boy goes through. The Upapada Lagna is placed in the 12th from Arudha Lagna. The 2/12 axis is not favorable for compatibility between the partners. It shows that he may reject the spouse and not be emotionally or physically in harmony with her need for affection and attention. Dosha:- Girl has Mars in the 12th and Boy has Mars in the 12th too. They are both Manglik. Two people who are Manglik in Marriage cancels the Dosha. However, it is recommended for your daughter to get married after the age of 28 to avoid any complications. Mars reduces its Martian Energy at this age. Conclusion:- I would not recommend this couple to get married based on the 10 Factor analysis above. It will not last according to my knowledge and experience. Hare Rama Krsna Sunit P Mehta Vedic Astrologer Dob:21/5/1981(23.40 hrs) Time of birth: 11.40pm Star: moolam, Dhanus Rasi My question is when i will be getting married and will i be having successful marriage life. How my future would be. Will i get a good husband? My future career. Currently not working. Is there any possibility of me working in future. I am awaiting Ur reply Sir. Hello Kirthika, Please order the desired service. Hare Rama Krsna Sunit P Mehta Very well written article. Thanks! Hare Krishna! Ratnesh! Hi sir, I have got a match with below details for marraige, i want to know the Navamsa compatabilty between us. Boy Details : 6th december 1987 time: 12:35 PM,Sunday Raasi : Mithunam Nakshatram : Mrigasira Girl Details : 1st September 1989 Time: 3:44 AM ,Friday Raasi : Leo Nakshatram : Purvaphalguni(Pubba) Please let me know whether the Navamsam compatability is good or not Thanks, Mounica Name (required) Mail (will not be published) (required) Website Donation to Astrologer 