Acadia Junior High School Please provide your question and email address in the boxes below. Your question has been successfully submitted. Thank you. For the 2019-2020 year, students who wish to remain at school for lunch will be charged $70.00.This money is used to pay our adult supervisors and covers the cost of the Acadia Lunch Program lanyard, as well as incidental costs such as plastic cutlery, microwaves, lunch tables etc.. Please note that although we receive a divisional grant to support the lunch program, it only covers about 20% of the program ' s operational costs. While staff is on their lunch break, 10-12 supervisors are required for the 300+ students that traditionally stay for lunch! There is no casual, pay as you go, lunch program and this amount covers the entire school year. Students eat in the gym at the lunch tables provided until 12:00 noon. At this time all students go outside unless they are staying for an activity, club, or going to the library. Outside supervision is provided on school grounds. Beginning September 23 rd , all students remaining in the school between 11:40 and 12:40 must be part of the lunch program.  Students that participate in clubs/activities at lunch are expected to pay this fee as supervision is still required . Paid participants will be given a lanyard that they will show supervisors before entering the gym. This lanyard will have their name written inside in indelible ink and cannot be shared. Students not registered on-line in the Lunch Program will be dismissed at 11:40 and will not be allowed to re-enter the building until 12:40.  Staying at school for lunch should be a safe and pleasant experience for all concerned. If disruptive behaviour becomes an issue, students will lose the privilege of staying for a time. We appreciate parental support in this matter. If you would like to enroll your child in the Lunch Program, please follow the instructions below and register your child on-line by  FRIDAY SEPTEMBER 20 th 2019 along with payment of $70.00. You have the option to also pay online using our divisionally-approved online permission/payment service (Permission Click) or you can pay in the office via cash or cheque (Payable to Acadia Junior High).Note that the small fee associated with the online registration and online payment option via Permission Click is already incorporated into the total operational cost of the lunch program. Online Permission  &  Payment Link (also a link on our website):  https://permission.click/yq2p/ca Copyright © 2019  Pembina Trails School Division. 