NPG D11958; Algernon Sidney - Portrait - National Portrait Gallery The Gallery holds the most extensive collection of portraits in the world. Search over  215,000 works, 150,000 of which are illustrated from the 16th Century to the present day. Advanced Collection search  National Portrait Gallery, London  Please Like other favourites!  If they inspire you please support our work. Algernon Sidney probably by Edward Lutterell (Luttrell), after  Justus van Egmont mezzotint, (1663) 8 1/4 in.  x 6 1/2 in. (210 mm x 165 mm) plate size; small margins Purchased, 1944 Reference Collection NPG D11958 Can you tell us more about this portrait? Spotted an error, information that is missing (a sitter’s life dates, occupation or family relationships, or a date of portrait for example) or do you know anything that we don't know? If you have information to share please complete the form below. If you require information from us, please use our  Archive enquiry service . You can buy a print of most illustrated portraits. Select the portrait of interest to you, then look out for a  Buy a Print  button. Prices start at  6 for unframed prints,  25 for framed prints. If you wish to license this image, please use our  Rights and Images service . Please note that we cannot provide valuations. We digitise over 8,000 portraits a year and we cannot guarantee being able to digitise images that are not already scheduled. There are occasions when we are unsure of the identity of a sitter or artist, their life dates, occupation or have not recorded their family relationships. Sometimes we have not recorded the date of a portrait. Do you have specialist knowledge or a particular interest about any aspect of the portrait or sitter or artist that you can share with us? We would welcome any information that adds to and enhances our information and understanding about a particular portrait, sitter or artist. How do you know this? Please could you let us know your source of information. The National Portrait Gallery will  NOT  use your information to contact you or store for any other purpose than to investigate or display your contribution. By ticking  permission to publish  you are indicating your agreement for your contribution to be shown on this collection item page. Please note your email address will not be displayed on the page nor will it be used for any marketing material or promotion of any kind. Please ensure your comments are relevant and appropriate. Your contributions must be polite and with no intention of causing trouble. All contributions are moderated. If you  tick  permission to publish your name will appear above your contribution on our website. Contributions are moderated. We'll need your email address so that we can follow up on the information provided and contact you to let you know when your contribution has been published. Choose your favourite portrait from our Collection as a framed or unframed print for your home. Ideal Christmas presents! Buy now Look right round a selection of sculptures in our Collection Explore today Explore who is who in our  group portraits See this portrait Newsletter sign up Join  &  Support National Portrait Gallery, St Martin's Place, London, WC2H 0HE Switchboard: +44 (0) 20 7306 0055 Open daily 10:00-18:00 Friday Lates  until 21:00 Admission free About the Gallery Commercial User information Language options National Portrait Gallery, St Martin's Place, London, WC2H 0HE Switchboard: +44 (0) 20 7306 0055 