What s Streaming on Netflix Tonight:  Slasher: Guilty Party  + More | Decider Decider Search Decider Search Please Let There Be a 'Knight Before Christmas' Sequel I Have No Interest In an Un-Horny Holiday Movie 'A Christmas Prince' is Expecting: Netflix Releases 'The Royal Baby' Trailer Stream It or Skip It: 'Klaus' on Netflix Is a Visually Thrilling Holiday Treat Stream It Or Skip It: 'The Irishman' on Netflix, Martin Scorsese's Late-Career Masterpiece ‘Booksmart’ is on Hulu, So Time to Make This Film the Cult Classic It Deserves to Be The Top 13 Mafia Movies on Netflix with the Highest Rotten Tomatoes Scores Stream It Or Skip It: 'Earthquake Bird' on Netflix, a Quasi-Thriller Starring a Very Sad Alicia Vikander Wait, Is 'Liar Liar' REALLY Leaving Hulu On November 30th? Jeff Garlin Wants You To Know That Cancel Culture Is "Not Stopping Good Comedy" Stream It Or Skip It: 'Mike Birbiglia: The New One' On Netflix, Contemplating One Man's Place In Parenthood 'Brittany Runs a Marathon' on Amazon Prime Proves Jillian Bell Needs More Lead Roles Stream It Or Skip It: 'Lorena, Light-Footed Woman' on Netflix, a Breathtaking Short Documentary About a Mexican Ultramarathon Runner The True Story of Bikram Choudhury, The Yoga Instructor Behind the New Netflix Doc ESPN's Richard Jewell '30 For 30' Is Currently Steaming For Free Stream It or Skip It: 'Trixie Mattel: Moving Parts' on VOD Is the Unflinching Drag Doc You Need to See 'Us' on HBO: Lupita Nyong’o Deserves the Oscar and That’s That on That New Movies on Demand: 'IT: Chapter Two,' 'The Goldfinch,' 'Where'd You Go, Bernadette,' and More Is 'The Hole In The Ground' On Netflix? 'The VelociPastor' Aspires To Be The Mel Brooks Movie That Troma Pictures Never Made Smells Like '10s Spirit: How 'The Avengers' Assembled the First Successful Cinematic Universe The Case for 'Spider-Man' As a Thanksgiving Movie Hell Here: 'Batman Returns' Looks More And More Like Sociopolitical Prophecy With Every Passing Day Is 'Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle' on Netflix? Where to Stream the First Film 'Willow' on Disney+ is Extremely Horny Is 'Frozen' on Netflix? How to Stream the First Movie Before 'Frozen 2' While Disney Jumps into Streaming, Netflix's 'Klaus' Reclaims the Soul of Hand-Drawn Feature Animation Stream It Or Skip It: 'Spirit Riding Free: Spirit of Christmas' on Netflix, an Animated Adventure About Some Frontier Girls (and Maybe a Horse?) How Streaming Changed in 2019, From Baby Yoda To The Fight for 'Friends' 'The Mandalorian' Chapter 5 Review: Womp Rats 'The Mandalorian' on Disney+: 5 Things You May Have Missed in Chapter 5 Baby Yoda Is So Lovable Even 'South Park' Won't Touch Him 'The Irishman', 'The Crown' Lead 2020 SAG Award Nominees -- See the Full List Netflix Snags 34 Total Nominations at 2020 Golden Globes Awards 'The Crown' Season 3 Finale Recap: "Cri de Coeur" 'The Crown' Season 3 Episode 9 Recap: "Imbroglio" How Streaming Changed in 2019, From Baby Yoda To The Fight for 'Friends' Golden Globes Snubs and Surprises: 'When They See Us,' 'Game of Thrones' and More When Will ‘The Morning Show’ Episode 9 Be On Apple TV+? When Will ‘The Morning Show’ Episode 8 Be On Apple TV+? The Best TV Episodes Of 2019 'Watchmen' Episode 8 Recap: Rhapsody in Blue Golden Globes Snubs and Surprises: 'When They See Us,' 'Game of Thrones' and More 'Watchmen' on HBO: 5 Things You Might Have Missed in Episode 8 'Below Deck': Kate Jumps Out of a Moving Vehicle After Being Called a Bitch 'Below Deck' Charter Guest Lynn Schuster Has The Time of Her Life Flirting With Captain Lee Tanner Sterback Was So Sick During 'Below Deck' He Almost Threw Up Just Talking About It 'Below Deck' Exclusive: Tanner and Simone Can't Stop Making Out 'The View' Reacts to Articles of Impeachment: "This is Not a Celebratory Moment" Meghan McCain Laments That "P.C. Culture Has Killed What's Fun About Christmas" Meghan McCain Brought to Tears While Discussing Border Patrol Video: "You Can't Leave People to Die" Barron Trump Pun Leaves 'The View' Divided: "I'm the Only One That Sees This as Pretty Sick" Submit Twitter It s been another long Tuesday, and now that the day is over, it s time to enjoy some you time. And by you time, we mean  sit on the couch and not think about anything  time. To assist in your zoning out process, we ve got  Decider s What to Watch recommendations  for Tuesday, plus what s new on streaming tonight. If you re looking for an escape, you re in luck: the entire second season of the horror anthology series  Slasher  is available on  Netflix  today. The second installment of the series, titled  Slasher: Guilty Party , follows a group of former camp counselors who return to the campground to retrieve evidence from a crime they committed years ago. However, it s not long before a Jason Voorhees-inspired killer starts slaughtering people at the campground, creating an every-man-for-himself type vibe among the friends. Not interested in getting in the Halloween spirit quite yet? Netflix also has a brand new stand-up special from funnyman  Patton Oswalt  available today, plus the streaming service is airing the  Paul Rudd Jason Segel  comedy  I Love You, Man  all month long. With options like these, you re sure to find something great to stream on Netflix tonight. Scroll down to learn about these titles and more on today s edition of What s Streaming Tonight. Slasher: Guilty Party  (Season 2) : When a group of former camp counselors return to their old stomping grounds to retrieve evidence of a crime they committed years ago, they re targeted by someone or something out for homicidal revenge. GENRE:  Horror STARS:  Leslie Hope, Paula Bracanti, Jim Watson IMDB SERIES RATING:   6.6/10 Patton Oswalt: Annihilation  (2017) : Well-known comedian Patton Oswalt jokes about living in the Trump era and moving on after personal tragedy. GENRE:  Stand-Up Special STARS:  Patton Oswalt IMDB RATING:  None yet! I Love You, Man - Trailer Subscribe I Love You, Man - Trailer Info Shopping Tap to unmute If playback doesn ' t begin shortly, try restarting your device. More videos Your browser does not currently recognize any of the video formats available.  Click here to visit our frequently asked questions about HTML5 video. More videos on YouTube Share Include playlist An error occurred while retrieving sharing information. Please try again later. Watch later Share Copy link Switch camera 0:00 0:00 0:00  /  2:27 Live An error occurred. Try watching this video on www.youtube.com , or enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser. I Love You, Man  (2009) :  A friendless loser proposes to his girlfriend, only to realize that he doesn t have anyone to be the best man at their wedding. He finally finds a best man, but their tight bond puts a strain on his relationship with his new fiancée, threatening their upcoming nuptials. GENRE:  Comedy STARS:  Paul Rudd, Jason Segel, Rashida Jones IMDB RATING:   7.0/10 Movieclips Classic Trailers 674K subscribers Subscribe Fargo Official Trailer #1 - Steve Buscemi Movie (1996) HD Info Shopping Tap to unmute If playback doesn ' t begin shortly, try restarting your device. Your browser does not currently recognize any of the video formats available.  Click here to visit our frequently asked questions about HTML5 video. More videos on YouTube More videos Share Include playlist An error occurred while retrieving sharing information. Please try again later. Watch later Share Copy link An error occurred. Try watching this video on www.youtube.com , or enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser. Fargo  (1996) :  Jerry Lundegaard plans a poorly thought out crime to improve his financial situation, but things get even worse when the kidnapping plot leads to murder and a local sheriff commits to solving the homicides. GENRE:  Drama, Crime STARS:  William H. Macy, Steve Buscemi, Frances McDormand IMDB RATING:   8.1/10 Pet Sematary  (1989) :  In this Stephen King adaptation, a family moves to a quaint house in the countryside, but they soon learn that there cemetery behind the house isn t quite what it seems. GENRE:  Horror STARS:  Dale Midkiff, Denise Crosby, Fred Gwynne IMDB RATING:   6.6/10 Margot at the Wedding  (2007) :  Family secrets are revealed when sisters Margot and Pauline reunite at Pauline s wedding, causing drama among the family members. GENRE:  Comedy STARS:  Nicole Kidman, Jennifer Jason Leigh, Jack Black IMDB RATING:   6.1/10 Miramax 1.1M subscribers Subscribe Frida | Official Trailer (HD) - Salma Hayek, Antonio Banderas, Alfred Molina | MIRAMAX Info Shopping Tap to unmute If playback doesn ' t begin shortly, try restarting your device. More videos Your browser does not currently recognize any of the video formats available.  Click here to visit our frequently asked questions about HTML5 video. More videos on YouTube Share Include playlist An error occurred while retrieving sharing information. Please try again later. Watch later Share Copy link Switch camera 0:00 0:00 0:00  /  1:46 Live An error occurred. Try watching this video on www.youtube.com , or enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser. Frida  (2002) :  Director Julie Taymor reveals the inner turmoil and emotionally-charged marriage of artist Frida Kahlo in this moving biography. GENRE:  Drama, Biography STARS:  Salma Hayek, Alfred Molina IMDB RATING: 7.4/10 Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs  (2009) :  When a local scientist is hailed as a hero when he invents a machine that can make food rain from the sky, but it s not long before things start to go wrong. GENRE:  Comedy VOICED BY:  Bill Hader, Anna Faris, Bruce Campbell IMDB RATING: 7.0/10 None of these look appealing to you? Don’t forget about Decider’s  What To Watch  recommendations, which are sortable by  genre ,  streaming service  and  even mood ! Or check out what’s new on streaming for the entire month of October on the following services: Where to Stream: Slasher Share Selection Facebook Twitter Twitter Facebook This story has been shared 3,503 times. 3,503 This story has been shared 2,522 times. 2,522 This story has been shared 1,715 times. 1,715 This story has been shared 1,154 times. 1,154 This story has been shared 995 times. 995 This story has been shared 864 times. 864 This story has been shared 834 times. 834 This story has been shared 824 times. 824 This story has been shared 456 times. 456 This story has been shared 367 times. 367 This story has been shared 363 times. 363 This story has been shared 323 times. 323 This story has been shared 322 times. 322 This story has been shared 245 times. 245 This story has been shared 223 times. 223 Facebook Twitter Snapchat  2019 NYP Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved Powered by WordPress.com VIP Get news  &  recommendations for Netflix, Hulu, Amazon, HBO, and more, in your inbox. Email Sign Up By clicking above you agree to our  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy . Close Share This Article 