Key West Bucket List   Beck! What the Heck?! Female solo traveler looking for the adventure in every day. Female solo traveler looking for the adventure in every day. You may be wondering what the heck my blog is about.  I’m a young, solo traveler who loves to break the traditional rules of travel and live to tell the story!  I cover everything from far away solo travel to local, Florida daycations.  Please enjoy my unique perspective on travel, food, and fun! Even if you can only make it to Key West for a one weekend it's worth it. Key West is home to the Southernmost point of the continental US, only 90 miles North of Cuba and the Florida Reef, so if for nothing else, at least come for the Cuban food and the snorkeling and diving! I visited Key West this June for my birthday and with only 3 days in the Keys I wanted to be as productive with my time as possible, here are some of the highlights of my weekend and hopefully a great guide to your weekend itinerary. If you have the time and are prepared to wait around an hour for brunch head over to Blue Heaven. Blue heaven had great Eggs Benedict with a lot of different options and they are famous for their Key Lime Pie. Enjoy live music while you wait to be seated and watch all the roosters run around outside, this place gets #1 for atmosphere by far! All around Key West you will see kiosks for Fury Water Sports where you can book an activity with them, or you can do what I did and book online before you go. Take one of their snorkeling trips where they take you snorkeling at the only living coral barrier reef in the United States, and the third largest in the world, the Florida Reef. Fury offers a ton of different types of trips so read up on them all and choose which one suits you best! Once you get to Key West park your car and forget about it until you leave. Rent a bicycle and you’ll be able to get anywhere you need to. If you’re looking to test the boundaries of your friendship with your travel buddy rent a two person bicycle and see how long it takes before you start arguing! Spend a day relaxing at the beach at Fort Zachary Taylor State Park or Bahia Honda! Bahia Honda is notoriously hard to find parking at so make sure to go early, it’ll be worth it! Fort Zachary Taylor is perfect if you just want to stay in Key West and are looking to lay out all day! Have authentic Cuban Food at El Sibeon. It doesn’t look like much from the outside, but the food is incredible and people line up out the door for a table. They are famous for their Paella, but remember to call a day ahead if you want it, and you’ll need to have at least two people at the table ordering it. Get updates on my travels. Get updates on my travels. Powered by  Squarespace 