AllSouth Appliance Group Inc. - Appliances, Washers, Dryers, Ranges, Refrigerators, Freezers, Electronics, Televisions, Video, Barbeques in Birmingham, Huntsville and Montgomery AL Welcome to our website! As we have the ability to list over one million items on our website (our selection changes all of the time), it is not feasible for a company our size to record and playback the descriptions on every item on our website.However, if you have a disability we are here to help you. Please call our disability services phone line at 205-942-0408 during regular business hours and one of our kind and friendly personal shoppers will help you navigate through our website, help conduct advanced searches, help you choose the item you are looking for with the specifications you are seeking, read you the specifications of any item and consult with you about the products themselves. There is no charge for the help of this personal shopper for anyone with a disability. Finally, your personal shopper will explain our Privacy Policy and Terms of Service, and help you place an order if you so desire. Sign In Your email address and password do not match.  Please try again, or reset your password. Create Account Your Cart There are no items in your shopping cart. Food Preparation View All Contact Us Birmingham AllSouth Birmingham Showroom 345 State Farm Parkway Birmingham, AL 35209 205-942-0408 info@myallsouth.com Huntsville AllSouth Huntsville Showroom 4733 Commercial Drive Huntsville, AL 35816 256-726-0399 info@myallsouth.com Montgomery AllSouth Montgomery Showroom 508 North East Blvd. Montgomery, AL 36117 334-239-3969 info@myallsouth.com Chattanooga AllSouth Chattanooga Showroom 6431 Bonny Oaks Dr. Chattanooga, TN 37416 423-664-4275 info@myallsouth.com Stay Connected Customer Service Welcome to our website! As we have the ability to list over one million items on our website (our selection changes all of the time), it is not feasible for a company our size to record and playback the descriptions on every item on our website.However, if you have a disability we are here to help you. Please call our disability services phone line at 205-942-0408 during regular business hours and one of our kind and friendly personal shoppers will help you navigate through our website, help conduct advanced searches, help you choose the item you are looking for with the specifications you are seeking, read you the specifications of any item and consult with you about the products themselves. There is no charge for the help of this personal shopper for anyone with a disability. Finally, your personal shopper will explain our Privacy Policy and Terms of Service, and help you place an order if you so desire.  2019  Retailer Web Services LLC  All Rights Reserved | Powered by WebFronts Some manufacturers restrict how we may display our online prices. Don\'t worry; you can remove the item from your cart if you decide not to buy it. Sign In Members Always Get More!  Some areas of our site are limited to members only. Your email address and password do not match.  Please try again or  reset your password. Sign in or create an account to view this content and much more!  Take me back. Forgot your password? Welcome,  You are now signed in. Now you can access all the members only content. Continue Shopping Manage Account Create an Account Members Always Get More!  Create an account today to get access to our member only deals! We Recognize Your Email It looks like there is already an account associated with your email address. Please try a different email address or reset your password. An account is required to view this content.  Take me back. Use this email address as your username the next time you log in. Password must be at least 8 characters Welcome,  You're account has been created. Continue Shopping Manage Account Tell Us About Yourself We're proud to be a small, local business and we want to get to know our customers. We Recognize Your Email It looks like there is already an account associated with your email address. Please try a different email address or reset your password. Information is required to view this content.  Take me back. Thank You  We appreciate it!  Please don't hesitate to contact us if you have any questions. Continue Shopping 