Course specification for EDH3258 Examiner:  Melisa Chong People are designed to move and need to move. Current research studies indicate that the general level of movement skills in Australian children has decreased, particularly in the core skills such as catching, throwing and jumping, and that children are not as proficient in movement as in past generations. Provision of opportunities for play and physical activity experiences as part of schooling can be pivotal in teaching children the physical literacies for an active life. At issue is whether our children are learning basic gross motor movements, skipping, hopping, jumping, throwing, catching, etc. HPE is seen as providing significant health and social benefits in the school setting. Well-developed Health and Physical Education (HPE) programs can contribute to improved movement skills and higher levels of participation in physical activities as well as a positive life course towards health. This course will provide an overview of the stages in development of movement from the early years through adolescence to school leaving age, to enable students to gain insights into the full range of movement development to appreciate the importance of particular stages and also a range of creative and fun experiences to support this development. Often there is only a small window of opportunity to develop body awareness, neural pathways and motor skills. Some children have developmental delays and disabilities that need to be understood with regards to movement experiences. Using the medium of 'humans in movement' the course will explore factors in skill learning and skilled performance. Students will investigate and analyse the links between the processes of skill acquisition as they are understood under the different theoretical models of teaching physical activity, from direct to indirect methods. The course will provide information that will allow those involved with children and adolescents to develop programs that provide for healthy, positive and developmentally appropriate ways to engage in movement activities. This course is designed to develop competency, knowledge and skills pertaining to children and adolescents in movement related experiences. The course will provide core information and a variety of movement experiences designed for preservice teachers, child care workers, coaches and others involved with sport and physical activity programs for children and adolescents. This course provides important learning experiences for those completing specialisation or electives in HPE. Students will become familiar with the implementation of pedagogies, strategies and learning experiences that are appropriate to the development of movement skills and game competencies for children for varying ages. Humans in movement is a fundamental state and people are designed to (and need to) move. This course will include participation in a variety of physical activity experiences. Emphasis is also placed on the ability to analyse skill development and movement to identify areas of difficulty for learners and on providing corrective feedback and practice through a range of suitable learning experiences.  The course objectives define the student learning outcomes for a course. The assessment item(s) that may be used to assess student achievement of an objective are shown in parenthesis. On successful completion of this course students should be able to: ALL textbooks and materials available to be purchased can be sourced from  USQ's Online Bookshop  (unless otherwise stated).  (https://bookshop.usq.edu.au/bookweb/subject.cgi?year=2017 & sem=02 & subject1=EDH3258) Please  contact us   for alternative purchase options from USQ Bookshop.  (https://bookshop.usq.edu.au/contact/) 