Testimonials | Amy Haggerty - For All Your Home Buying And Selling Needs "Last year I contacted a work colleague whose opinion I trust without question while looking for an Ottawa realtor. My wife and I were looking for a new home in Ottawa during a very stressful period in our lives. We were on a strict budget and we had several prerequisites for any potential home/ neighbourhood. We were several months looking and reviewed several neighbourhoods all of which Amy patiently provided her expertise on. I was always impressed with her knowledge of the market and the neighbourhoods. When we finally found the "pot of gold" new home we had to move fast and manage a number of very challenging hurdles. Quite frankly I don't know how we could have pulled off our home purchase if Amy wasn't representing us. She is meticulous, punctual and well versed in the latest communication technology but most importantly she is very personable. I have yet to meet someone from the East Coast who wasn't an all round nice person and Amy is no exception. During our purchase she had a list of home buying support professionals (lawyers, inspectors etc) to call on in short notice who were just as capable as she is. She managed all the documentation for us and her follow up was second to none. I have been transferred through my work many times and I have moved all over the province a number of times. The majority of my homes I have sold and purchased privately. Over the years I have had several experiences with realtors none of whom would I ever write a reference for. Amy changed my opinion of realtors and proved to me there are legitimate realtors out there who actually do care about their clients and do provide a valuable service. In a nutshell I am suspicious, pessimistic and I always expect the worst in situations and people but this lady I trust implicitly. This realtor is worth 5% not 2.5%. Keller Williams has a winner in this agent and we will definitely come back!" "We're so happy to have met Amy! Being first time home buyers and owners we had many questions and concerns and Amy was able to answer and guide us every step of the way! She was very prompt with communication and helping us find resources to help us with our purchase as well as furnishing our new home! Thank you so much Amy for making our home buying experience incredible!" “Amy helped us to find a new home when we re-located to Ottawa from Barrie. Amy was very knowledgeable about the Ottawa market and recommended several areas within our price range that suited our needs. Her experience as a police officer was particularly useful as she was well aware of the crime rates in each area. Amy was patient in showing us homes in a variety of communities and ultimately assisted us in finding a beautiful, fully-renovated home in Bridlewood. We intend to use Amy again when we purchase our next home.” "I was amazed at how beautiful my house could be! Amy made sure my house was staged and showed to its full potential. I am very grateful for the support and guidance I received from start to finish leading to an offer above asking price!" "Amy was able to guide us through the process of selling a home for the first time, helped us find and buy our new home. This process can be stressful, however Amy made it fun and stress free. Amy went above and beyond for us." "Amy came recommended to me by a friend to help me find my new home . With a limited budget and a restricted area to search in, Amy was able to provide me with excellent advice and help me focus my search. When the time came to buy, Amy's sharp negotiating skills got me the home I wanted at a price I could afford. Available day and night, Amy was there to work through any issues and helped make the process of buying my home stress-free!" "My family and I moved to Ottawa last summer and only had one week to find the "perfect" home. Amy was up for the challenge! Prior to our house hunting trip, Amy had researched the neighbourhoods we were interested in and had lined up listings in advance based on our very specific requirements and needs. Once we found the right home, Amy's skillful negotiating skills kicked in and she was able to get us the perfect home at a great price. Amy was always available to answer questions or handle any of the remaining issues prior to closing. We highly recommend Amy Haggerty for your real estate needs and would absolutely use her again!" "I knew that the process of selling my home after the passing of my husband was going to be emotional. It would require a patient and understanding realtor to support me throughout the process. My selection of Amy Haggerty was a no brainer. Amy is very dedicated, professional and creative and doesn't leave any stone unturned. She is so positive and easy to get along with. She doesn't just have clients...she makes you feel like a friend. I recall a time when things were busy at work and a last minute viewing came up, Amy offered to roll up her sleeves and help me clean my house. She always had my back!  Amy offers excellent services as well from staging, photography and videography.  My house looked like a model home in all online and print communication.  Thank you Amy for helping me move forward in the next phase of my life. The decision to sell my home was a difficult one, but you helped make the process as stress free as possible.  It was an absolute pleasure to work with you and I would do it again in a heartbeat!” "Amy has helped out a first time homebuyer client of mine. My client was extremely happy with the level of professionalism Amy provided, quick responses and the level of service she offered." "As first-time home buyers, we were very nervous when we started to search for a house that could become our long-term home. Buying a house is the biggest investment we have ever made, so we wanted to do it right the first time round. We hoped and prayed to find an agent who has the knowledge, experience, and patience to guide us through this daunting process. Luckily, we found Amy. From the time of our first meeting, we had a good feeling about enlisting Amy's services because she was extremely knowledgeable and professional, yet personable. Knowing that we lacked any experience on how to navigate the world of real estate, Amy took the extra time to familiarize us with the entire house-purchase process, then patiently guided us along each step. She offered many useful suggestions and tips when we went to look at houses together, pointing out the good and not-so-good aspects of each house, and bringing to our attention many important details that we would otherwise miss. During this entire journey, she was never pushy or rushed, but gave us the time and freedom to make our own informed decisions. She was also extremely resourceful when it came to negotiating the terms of our final offer. We feel that Amy always went above and beyond what a typical real-estate agent would do for their clients at each step of the way. We are extremely happy with the house we ended up buying, and with Amy's help, the process felt much more smooth and enjoyable than we expected. We would highly and unreservedly recommend Amy to anyone who is looking to buy or sell a house, whether a first-time buyer or otherwise." "When we contacted Amy, we were looking for a very specific style of house in a very specific area of Stittsville. That narrowed down our possibilities quite a bit! Amy was very patient with us and was determined to keep scouring the market until she found exactly what we were looking for! Amy made us feel like we had a good friend helping us through the task of finding our home; we trusted her judgment all the way and never felt pressured or that she was leading us 'astray'. Thanks to Amy, we have found our 'forever home' - thanks Amy!" "We met Amy during a casual visit to an open house, and we were impressed by her friendly demeanour. When we made the decision to get the help of a professional agent, she was the one we called. Throughout the entire searching and buying process she was a great help as she listened to our needs and offered useful advice without being even remotely pushy. For us, buying a home was a fun and ultimately rewarding experience without the problems and stresses that can so often be a part of it. Thanks, Amy, for all your help!" I like keeping in touch with my clients!  Please sign up for my newsletter Please enter your email below. © 2014 - All Rights Reserved   amyhaggerty.ca 