Alister Mackie | BoF 500 | The People Shaping the Global Fashion Industry With a nostalgic aesthetic, he leads the fashion team at AnOther Man, and has styled for brands like Louis Vuitton and Topman. The BoF 500 is the definitive professional index of the people shaping the $2.4 trillion fashion industry, hand-selected by the editors of The Business of Fashion, based on hundreds of nominations received from current BoF 500 members, extensive data analysis and research. Alister Mackie is creative director of AnOther Man and a renowned fashion stylist. Mackie began his career at Dazed  &  Confused, following his graduation from Central Saint Martins with an MA in Fashion Design. In a remarkably short time period, Mackie has become one of the most noteworthy fashion editors of his generation. Mackie has styled campaigns for  Louis Vuitton , Prada, Christian Dior, Lanvin, Miu Miu, Dunhill, Missoni,  Hugo Boss , Adidas and Topman, among others. In addition to his campaign work, Mackie creatively consults as a show stylist. He has styled men ' s shows for Louis Vuitton and Lanvin and consulted on both the  Marc Jacobs and Marc by Marc Jacobs menswear shows. Mackie contributes on a freelance basis to a host of international titles, including L ' Uomo Vogue, Visionaire, Arena Homme Plus and Vogue Hommes Japan and AnOther magazine. His styling is often imbued with a romanticism for both male and female forms, and there is a continuing theme of nostalgia in the imagery he creates, presented both subversively and poignantly. Mackie has collaborated with the top fashion photographers working today, including  Nick Knight , Inez and Vinoodh,  Juergen Teller ,  Hedi Slimane ,  David Sims , and  Willy Vanderperre , with whom he continues to produce lasting fashion images. 1996 - Present  London, United Kingdom  United Kingdom  Former Creative Director, Céline Designer, Craig Green Designer Designer, Loverboy 491Followers 3903Likes Stefan Beckman Set Designer  &  Founder, Stefan Beckman Studio Elizabeth Saltzman Stylist François Nars Founder, Nars Cosmetics Ellen von Unwerth Photographer Site Map  2019 The Business of Fashion. All rights reserved. For more information read our  Terms  &  Conditions  and  Privacy Policy . 