My Best Friend | Remembering Jennifer Kovacik Senior Picture 1992/93 Thank You so much Sam ! When I found this Web site I couldn t believe my eyes and ironically was posting back and forth with you and Chad when I found it. I met Jennifer in the summer of 1983. Her father and grandparents lived across the street from me. Jen came on weekends to visit and in the summer time would be there for a week or so at a time. Jen and I hit it off the very first time we met. We looked forward to seeing each other at every visit. So many times Jen would get out of her dads truck and come over, as soon as they pulled in. Buddy would sometimes shout out to Jen,  be home for dinner. I have many memories, a few really stick out to me. I think the reason being how silly they are and that is who we were together. We were at my house, Jen loved music of all sorts. So there we were listening to Poison standing on my bed playing air guitar and dancing. I had on my red and black tiger striped pants with my favorite ripped in the sleeves and across the tummy t-shirt and bandannas tied around our legs. We would just stop and laugh at ourselves but still thought we were the bombs. Jen  &  Raegan 1990 Jen introduced me to Allen Clark who I dated for 2 years. Although things didn t go as expected (at that age you always want  forever ) He is the father of my oldest daughter. Just one of the many things I am forever thankful of that Jen had done in my life. Jen and I always went for walks, we talked and shared stories of boys, friends, family, our future, things we liked, things we didn t like, we always laughed and giggled and ended every visit on a positive note, a hug, a pinky shake and our phrase  Best Friends Forever. I had the privilege of meeting many people through Jen. Her Father, her brother Chad, grandparents, her mother Kitten, her cousin Cory, school friends and most of all her favorite Aunt Sissy. Jen talked very highly of Aunt Sissy. I know without a doubt Jen looked up to, loved and looked forward to spending time with her.  Meeting Aunt Sissy created a new job for me, I got to go and french braid Aunt Sissy s hair anytime she called me!! This was very exciting for me as I knew it made Jen happy. As I could go on and on forever telling of our many moments, I would like to express what Jen meant to me. Jen had a smile that would light up the darkest room, she had a twinkle in her eye that seen all the good in everything and made you forget about the bad, she had the excitement of one hundred small children that could get the laziest of lazy up and motivated, creative, adventurous, willing to try anything and fit in with anyone.  Jen understood my thoughts and feelings without me having to put forth much explanation. She always knew just the right things to say. So many times I couldn t wait to talk to her or see her, she gave me security and cherished our friendship. As years had gone by and our friendship continued to grow, I moved out on my own. Jen and I still made and took time to keep in touch and see each other. One day I got the news that she was moving to Arizona. I was deeply saddened. I felt as if my world split in half. Jen expressed the same feelings. Figuring on the fact that we were young and one of us would make the move to be close again, we found strength to pull ourselves up by the belt loops and never give up. The weekend before Jen moved we had a visit. The time went by so fast and before I knew it, our eyes filled with tears, followed by a hug, a pinky shake and our phrase  Best Friends Forever. We agreed to phone calls, writing and sending pictures. Every Wednesday I called at 8:30pm. Every Friday we wrote a letter or sent a card. The following summer when Jen came home to visit, she stayed with me for 2 days. We shopped at the mall, played games at the arcade and had dinner. Jen really enjoyed spending time with my daughter Jocelynn and insisted she call her Auntie Jen. Again, it came time to say goodbye, but this time was a bit easier as I realized that we were going to see each other. Through out the following months, I noticed a slight change in Jen s letters, the way she worded things. One day I received a card and in closing she simply wrote  Pretty soon we wont be sending letters 2,000 miles away to each other.  I was not sure how to take this, excited that she may be moving home? That week with our very next phone call, Jen gave me the news that she was sick. With deep concern and a quiver in my voice, Jen, with her magic, pulled me right back to her as she always did and stated,  I am fine, I have doctors, I have my family and I have you, this is just something I have to get past.  Each and every phone call and letter there after, Jen spoke with words of courage, bravery, and determination. The summer came, Jen let me know she would be home June 7th and insisted I be there when she got home. I could not be there that day as I was working and attending school. I got to see Jen 3 days after she came home. Despite her treatments and the physical results from them, I still seen Jen, her bright smile, the sparkle in her eye and the amazing person she was. That time we spent together was very special. Jen not once showed fear, she had the drive, determination, courage and bravery I had never seen before. She never let me think for one second she would lose her battle. Again the time came to part. The thought never crossed my mind that this would be the last time I would spend with Jen. I was confident because Jen was confident, I was brave because Jen was brave, that is who we were, one in the same. When I got the call from Kitten I felt as though I was in a nightmare. It couldn t be real. It was Wednesday, I didn t get to make my phone call. I didn t get to say goodbye. Jen touched my life in so many ways, some ever so softly and others as hard as steel. To this day and forever I have all of her letters and cards. I have our Best Friend necklace, I have my #1 friend key chain she had engraved, I have my mug with a telephone on it   the receiver is the handle that reads I am your best friend and always a phone call away. Jen was one of a very rare type of person, one that people spend a lifetime trying to find. I had the privilege of not only knowing her, but I had the truest of friends with a heart of gold. I have never met anyone else who even comes close. My Best Friend Forever, pinky shake  .. you are with me forever and always. Dearly Missed   until we meet again  .. Love, Raegan  Reggie My Little Sister December 12, 2011 In  " All " Thank You To Everyone Who Has Helped Me! December 20, 2011 In  " All " Your Friend Sherry December 13, 2011 In  " All " that is SOOOOOO SO SO SO sweet.  That answered alot of questions I was afraid to ask.  I wondered how she took the news, I wondered how she fought.  I could only assume and was desperately hoping that she responded the way you described. I knew she was a fighter and I knew she was strong. I can t even imagine being faced with that   I am SOOO glad to know that she was optimistic  &  tough and fought as best she could. It was incredibly brave of her to shoulder that type of news without feeling sorry, without bringing those down around her.  Damn it though, I feel soo bad. I felt that I was close to her, but no where as close as you were.  I wanted to be that close, but I met her her when she was 14 and I was 15. At that age its an awkward balancing act of being cool and being sensitive.  Even at the age of 14 she had a wisdom  &  charisma beyond her years. I wish SO SO SO SO SO bad that I could have a re-do on things and really really let her her know how nuts I was about her and how she made me feel.. But when you are 14-15-16, you really don t look that far down the road and don t realize what the simplest and sweetest relationships can mean to you years down the road.  Oh my Raegan.. thank you for sharing this.  This very brave, thoughtful and loving of you.  I am going to print out all of the comments everyone leaves on here and take them with me when I visit and leave them with her.  My heart goes out to you!  Thank you again, SO MUCH for sharing! I was so touched when I seen this site Thank you for whoever created it!!  Jen and I met so very long ago in school.  Became great friends very quickly.  She dated one of my best friends Allen, and from there the bond was made.  I will never forget the hours we spent sitting on her porch talking, laughing and just trying to see what we would get into next!  Then we lost contact for such a long time then out of the blue one day I received a phone call from her telling me she lives in Arizona it took her awhile but she did eventually tell me about the tumor.  I wished so bad I had the money to fly out and see her, but I never did.  She pulled away before I ever got to say goodbye.  She was always known to do that..pull away to keep the pain from hurting someone.  I remember the day I heard she had passed .I looked up and said  Well Jen, now you get to live your love forever, just like you always dreamed of ! Miss her dearly but I know she is up there smiling as always! Sherry Thanks for sharing Sherry.  I met Jen when she was 14 and I was 15. I lived in her dad s neighborhood. We didn t know each other very long and we went to different schools. But the times when she would visit and the times we spent together were very special to me. In the pre-internet / pre-text message / pre-email / pre-skype days it was much more difficult to keep in contact and we eventually lost touch. When I found out she was gone, it was a shock that I never dealt with and have been carrying around with me every since. I m really not sure why these feelings have resurfaced after so long but I just felt a calling and a need top put this site together. After doing so, I m finding out that more people than just me miss her and wish they could have done more and could have been closer in her time of need. Thanks for sharing your memory with us we are all so luck to have been known  &  been touched by her. I was married to a wonderful man, Don 03/10/12. That morning at the hotel where us girls got ready, although my day was fantastic, I thought of you. It would of been a superb day had you been my maid of honor. Instead, it was the most perfect day as you are my angel of honor. I miss you so much. I was doing some spring cleaning today. I decided to go through my closet and weed things out as it is huge and a room all in itself. I knew I had more things I kept, today I found the Christmas Bear ornament you got for my first Christmas tree, it came in a small wooden box and you wrote on the back with metallic marker  . instantly brought tears to my eyes. I know you are here with me as I come across these items it brings back so many memories. Rest easy my dear friend, you will live forever in our hearts and in our memories. Not a day goes by I dont think of you. Miss you much. How sweet Raegan! I think this song says it all Beautiful !!! Perfect song. Brought tears to my eyes. As my daughter Krista embarks on a new journey into the pageant/modeling/acting industry, I feel Jens presence stronger than ever!! some people say I am strange but I think she is an angel here to guide and support for she is a star in the sky lighting the way. Again, I miss her so much yet it feels like she is so close to me but I just cant see her. Thank you again Sam for all you have done. A silly reminder  . today at work, some people were throwing popcorn at each other. It reminded me of one of our trips to the Saxonburgh Carnival  . walking and tossing popcorn at a guy we thought was cute   then pretended we didnt know where it came from  .then giggle. oh how silly we were.  Until I started this website, this was the only picture I had. The contributions that you, Jen's friends and family have made, have been amazing. If you have any more stories, pictures or videos you might like to share, they are always appreciated.   If you have any problems you can also email them to  photos@jenniferkovacik.com . Thank You! 