5 Best Knee Strengthening Exercises to Combat Knee Pain - Exercises For Injuries September 18, 2017 Rick Kaselj Fitness ,  General ,  Knee Pain I wanted to show you the best knee strengthening exercises for knee pain. CLICK HERE  to watch the video. I had Jenna to demonstrate the exercises. Place the foam roller on the floor then lie on your side with the foam roller just above the knee. You can straighten out both legs or put the other one behind or in front. Roll down just below the hip, and then roll back up. Roll up and down into that outer part of the thigh. Foam Rolling Out the IT Band Perform one set of 5 reps. One repetition should be up on the other part of the thigh, and then down at the outer part of the thigh. The intensity will depend on how much weight you put into the full foam roller and how sensitive and tight your  iliotibial (IT) band  is. This is a light exercise and you’re looking for a self-massage on IT band to break up its tension. A lot of times, the outer thigh IT band pulls the outer part of the knee, and this leads to knee pain. You must be a good step away from an uneven surface like wobble or UFO board. Begin in a nice, upright standing position. Take a step forward on the board, gain your balance, and go into a lunge position. Go to the start position and repeat the movement with the opposite leg. Wobble Lunge Perform one set of 5 reps on each side. This intensity will depend on your strength as it can be light to moderate. People may find themselves going deeper into the exercise and bring the knee closer to the ground to make it more challenging. This exercise strengthens the muscles around the knees, hips, glutes and hamstrings. To prevent and overcome knee pain, it is very important to have a strong hip. Lie on your back on the floor with arms on the side, heels resting against the stability ball. Relax the upper body. Tighten the abdominal area and lift your hips up. Curl your heels toward your seat. Hamstring Curl With a Stability Ball Perform one set of 5 reps, then progress to 10 in a smooth, controlled movement with a good contraction at the end position that targets the hamstrings and the glutes. The intensity can be light to moderate, depending on your activation, endurance and strength on the  hamstrings  and glutes. Begin in a nice, upright standing position in front of a plyo box. Go up by stepping onto the plyo box then come back down. Repeat the movement to the opposite side. If a big step with the plyo box is too challenging for you, you can use a small step like a regular stair step and do the step-up exercise. Step Up Perform one set of 5 reps then progress to 10 in a smooth, controlled movement with a good contraction at the top when it relates to the glutes and the hamstring. The intensity will depend on how big the step you take. Doing this exercise in a big step with a plyo box might be challenging for you so that might be moderate. On the other hand, using the low step might be light for you to do. Place the mini band just above the knees. Keep a wide stance with your toes slightly pointed out. Put your arms close to your chest. Squat down with the hips pass the knee, and then come back up to a standing position. Squat with Mini Band Start with one set of 5 reps and then you can progress to 10 repetitions. Do the motions in a smooth, controlled movement with a good stop at the end position. Make sure to utilize your glutes and your hamstrings to get you out of that bottom position. The intensity can be light to moderate. The  resistance band  in this exercise provides muscle-building tension to target your hips. With the squatting movement, you are targeting the muscles around your knees and hips. Give these best five knee-strengthening exercises a go to combat knee pain. If you are looking for a fast, simple, safe and effective program to eliminate your stubborn knee pain and patellofemoral syndrome, then  check out the Patellofemoral Syndrome Solution . Take care! Rick Kaselj, MS . 10 Worst Foods for Weight Loss The Anatomy of Healing  Ask EFI   How Does Low Impact, High Results Work   4 Best Stretches Before Your Treadmill Workout   42 Best Christmas Gifts for Your Wife   40 Best Christmas Gifts for Your Husband   5 Anterior Pelvic Tilt Exercises  © All Rights Reserved. Exercises For Injuries Get  Your  FREE   17  Ways  to  Protect  Your  Body   &   Mind  From  Deadly  Chronic  Inflammation  Report! Just enter your email address below: We hate spam as much as you do, and promise to keep your email address secure. 