MH370 latest: Pilot spoke final words from cockpit, says wife - Telegraph Accessibility links Thursday 19 December 2019  Jonathan Pearlman in Sydney and Tom Phillips in Shanghai  4:00PM BST 24 Jun 2014  The wife of the pilot of the missing Malaysia Airlines plane has broken her silence and revealed that her husband Zaharie Ahmad Shah spoke the final words from the cockpit, not the co-pilot, as the airline has said.   Two New Zealand journalists writing a book about the flight say they spoke by phone to Faizah Khan, who revealed that her eldest son had identified the voice which delivered the final sign-off of as that of his father. The call was made from the cockpit to air traffic controllers in Kuala Lumpur less than an hour after take-off.   The Boeing 777 disappeared on March 8 with 239 passengers aboard; no wreckage has been found despite a continuing international search.   Geoff Taylor, deputy editor of New Zealand's Waikato Times, said he and his co-author Ewan Wilson spoke to Zaharie's brother-in-law Asuad Khan in Penang and then to the 53-year-old pilot's wife. Khan initially claimed the voice from the cockpit was not Zaharie's but then telephoned his sister Faizah, who spoke in the journalists' presence and confirmed the voice belonged to her husband.   "In the three months-plus since the flight went down no-one in the media has been able to get close to Zaharie's widow," Mr Taylor told the Waikato Times.  Something 'untoward' happened on board MH370, says airline chief Flight MH370: What are they hiding? MH370: search for missing Malaysia Airlines plane to shift south MH370 search yet to target most likely crash site: Inmarsat Malaysia vows to keep searching as MH370 missing for 100 days MH370: authorities insist plane 'will be found along search arc' as private search firm hired  "We were lucky to get confirmation from her that it was him who was at the helm. It's a breakthrough, because that was an unknown until now. It puts Zaharie right in the mix."  Co-pilot Fariq Abdul Hamid  In the second week after the plane went missing, Malaysian Airlines chief Ahmad Jauhari Yahya said initial investigations found the final words were spoken by Fariq Abdul Hamid, the co-pilot. He also said the words were "All right, good night" - a message which raised suspicion as it did not follow the protocol of giving the call sign.   Weeks later, Malaysian officials revealed they had not yet confirmed who delivered the final sign-off and that the words were actually "Good night Malaysian 370."   On Sunday it emerged that Zaharie had used a flight simulator at his home to plot a path to a remote island deep in the southern Indian Ocean, where much of the recent search operation has been focused.   That discovery has rekindled suspicious that the pilot may have hijacked the plane and deliberately steered it off course.   But Hishammuddin Hussein, Malaysia's acting transport minister, rejected reports that police now considered the pilot as the "prime suspect". "We should not entertain conspiracy theories," he told Malaysia's The Star newspaper on Monday.   More than three months have now passed since the plane disappeared and no physical trace of it has been found despite a massive multi-national search effort.   Investigators on Tuesday concluded that the missing flight MH370 was most likely not damaged and was still flying a controlled flight path for hours after it lost contact, according to the New York Times .   Studying Malaysian radar data and the electronic "handshakes" recorded by Inmarsat, the British satellite firm, senior officials told the newspaper it was unlikely the plane had descended to 45,000 feet - above its maximum altitiude - before sharply descending, as originally reported.   The comprehensive review found that Malaysian radar was not precisely calibrated to the level required to support earlier conclusions made about the plane's altitude.  &# x201c;There &# x2019;s nothing reliable about height, &# x201d; Martin Dolan, the chief commissioner of the Australian Transport Safety Bureau, told the newspaper.   The new evidence is believed to have been behind the recent decision to shift the search area southwest by hundreds of miles.   On Monday, Malaysia Airlines' British commerical chief admitted that the hunt for the missing plane could take "decades" due to the size and topography of the search area.   Hugh Dunleavy, a former Ministry of Defence employee who became the airline's director of commercial operations in 2012, said he believed something "untoward" had happened to the plane.   "I think it made a turn to come back, then a sequence of events overtook it, and it was unable to return to base," Mr Dunleavy told the Evening Standard.   "I believe it's somewhere in the south Indian Ocean. But when [a plane] hits the ocean it's like hitting concrete. The wreckage could be spread over a big area. And there are mountains and canyons in that ocean. I think it could take a really long time to find. We're talking decades," he added.   Mr Dunleavy, who is originally from Ealing, defended his company's initial response to MH370's disappearance.   "People say, 'Why didn't you work quicker?' But you're calling pilots, explaining the situation, waiting for them to send out pings, doing the same to the next plane, then the next, and it's four in the morning, you don't have 50 people in the office, only a couple. An hour goes by frighteningly quickly  &# x2013; you realise that the missing plane is now another 600 miles somewhere else."   However, he criticised the Malaysian government for taking so long to reveal that the missing plane had turned back over the Malay peninsula towards the Strait of Malacca.   "I only heard about this through the news," Mr Dunleavy said. "I'm thinking, really? You couldn't have told us that directly? Malaysia's air traffic control and military radar are in the same freakin' building. The military saw an aircraft turn and did nothing."   "They didn't know it was MH370, their radar just identifies flying objects, yet a plane had gone down and the information about something in the sky turning around didn't get released by the authorities until after a week. Why? I don't know. I really wish I did."  Related Partners The best way to transfer money overseas In Australia Top news galleries Latest Video Back to top  Copyright of Telegraph Media Group Limited 2019 Terms and Conditions Today's News Archive Style Book Weather Forecast MOST VIEWED IN NEWS 