Natural Law Discussion held at WMU-Cooley Grand Rapids | WMU Cooley Law School Lawyers, law students, professors and clergy gathered on WMU-Cooley Law School’s Grand Rapids campus for the presentation “Natural Law: Why and So What?” by University of Texas, Austin professor J. Budziszewski, Thursday, Nov. 2.    During the event, which was co-sponsored by the WMU-Cooley Grand Rapids chapters of Society for Law and Culture and Christian Legal Society, Budziszewski addressed the relation between law and morality. He argued that moral standards are real and knowable, and that law is necessarily based on morality.    "The natural law event opened discussion for special revelation of moral order and divine law,” said Abi Adjanor, president of Christian Legal Society. “Professor Budziszewski cranked the skeletal framework of what justice is all about; digging deeper into clear and basic laws — ‘don’t cheat, don’t lie and never deliberately take human life’ — viewing morality as a gift and not a construct.” Maxwell Goss, the founder and director of the Society for Law and Culture also helped organize the event.  “Politics is important, but the culture from which politics arises is even more important,” said Goss. “In our current situation, it is more vital than ever that we understand this. Professor Budziszewski hit it out of the park in his forceful defense of natural law theory.”   Budziszewski is a professor of government and philosophy at the University of Texas at Austin. A prominent scholar, speaker and writer, Budziszewski is the author of many books, including “Natural Law for Lawyers,” “On the Meaning of Sex” and “The Revenge of Conscience: Politics and the Fall of Man.”   The event was made possible by the support of the Russell Kirk Center for Cultural Renewal, the Student Bar Association of WMU-Cooley Law School and several private donors.   Pictured (left-right) Sorinna Griffin, Christian Legal Society vice president; J. Budziszewski, professor of government and philosophy at the University of Texas, Austin; Kenyata McGill, Christian Legal Society treasurer; Abi Adjanor, Christian Legal Society president; Maxwell Goss, partner of Rossman Saxe, P.C. and founder and director of the Society for Law and Culture; and WMU-Cooley Law School student Eric Choi. WMU-Cooley Law School 300 South Capitol Avenue Lansing, Michigan 48933  (517) 371-5140 Click here for a full sitemap Click here for Consumer Information (ABA-Required Disclosures) Get Adobe Acrobat Reader Designed By  InVerve Marketing   Western Michigan University Thomas M. Cooley Law School is an independent, private, non-profit educational institution affiliated with  Western Michigan University . As an independent institution, the Law School is solely responsible for its academic program. Accredited by the American Bar Association and the Higher Learning Commission. In corde hominem est anima legis. Read non-discrimination policy   In corde hominem est anima legis. © 2019 WMU Cooley Law School Your browser does not support javascript! 