New House Update! Now with 10 rooms I decided to do something different and chose to make two 5-room houses. : SimsMobile use the following search parameters to narrow your results: e.g. subreddit:aww site:imgur.com dog see the search faq for details. advanced search: by author, subreddit... 33 users here now 1. No off-topic content.  2. No harassment or hate speech.  3. No promotion of hacking/cheating/modding.  What isn ' t allowed? The promotion of hacking, cheating or modding. This includes encouraging fellow players to purchase hacked accounts with SimCash, or directing players via links to third-party application/services that violate TSM User Agreement. What is allowed? Discussion: the bread and butter of Reddit. For example, discussing cheating without advocating them or naming any in particular, or discussing or describing exploits originating from TSM, is permitted. 4. No spamming.  Posting links to your own content is fine as long as you also contribute in other ways. Self-promotion should be thoughtful, limited, and consistently well received by the community. Check recent posts before creating a new post. Reposts about the same issue or bug may be viewed as spam and removed by the mod team. Low-quality posts may be considered spam and removed by the mod team. 5. No selling, buying, gifting, or transferring of accounts or currency.  6. No improper use or absence of tagged posts.  7. Other detrimental content.  OFFICIAL WEBSITE DOWNLOAD FROM PLAYSTORE DOWNLOAD FROM APPSTORE JOIN US ON DISCORD THE SIMS MOBILE WIKI News Question Guide Showcase Mega Discussion Fluff Complaint Rant Bugs the front page of the internet. and subscribe to one of thousands of communities. SHOWCASE New House Update! Now with 10 rooms I decided to do something different and chose to make two 5-room houses. ( i.redd.it ) submitted 10 months ago by FM1091 Post a comment! [–] Thecouchiestpotato [ &# x1F370; ] 3 points 4 points 5 points 10 months ago (0 children) I like it! It ' s very pretty and minimalistic.  [–] Kaths07 1 point 2 points 3 points 10 months ago (0 children) Nice! I ' m a huge fan of making several different house ^^ Posts are automatically archived after 6 months. We are unable to post your link or media unless you can verify to us that you own the rights to it. And if you’re just a small-time creator and not a big media conglomerate, good luck with that. ><br >JUST KIDDING (your post is fine). But we won’t be kidding if the new EU Copyright Directive passes the European Parliament. Learn more about how to contact your MEP and what else you can do to #saveyourinternet. Posts are automatically archived after 6 months. We are unable to post your link or media unless you can verify to us that you own the rights to it. And if you’re just a small-time creator and not a big media conglomerate, good luck with that. ><br >JUST KIDDING (your post is fine). But we won’t be kidding if the new EU Copyright Directive passes the European Parliament. Learn more about how to contact your MEP and what else you can do to #saveyourinternet. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy .   2019 reddit inc. All rights reserved. REDDIT and the ALIEN Logo are registered trademarks of reddit inc. By having a Reddit account, you can subscribe, vote, and comment on all your favorite Reddit content. Sign up in just seconds. Already have an account? Log In Skip for now Reddit is filled with interest based communities, offering something for everyone. Check out some communities and we recommend you subscribe to at least 5. Your username is how other community members will see you. This name will be used to credit you for things you share on Reddit. What should we call you? Having a hard time picking a name? Here are some available suggestions. Rendered by PID 14464 on  r2-app-098c49319349ce2c8  at 2019-05-04 15:22:52.929993+00:00 running 2d7d752 country code: US. 