If America’s signature grape is zinfandel, what is Canada’s? - The Globe and Mail The subject who is truly loyal to the Chief Magistrate will neither advise nor submit to arbitrary measures. This article was published more than 2 years ago. Some information in it may no longer be current. Find your bookmarks by selecting your profile name. The question If America's signature grape is zinfandel, what is Canada's? The answer Story continues below advertisement It's impossible to come up with a precise equivalent because Canada has no strong parallel to zinfandel. The answer in this country is bound to be more subjective and questionable. You're correct in citing zinfandel in the case of the United States. It's often called "America's heritage grape" because it's been grown south of the border for almost 200 years and was a popular source of vino during the California Gold Rush. Although it's of European origin (specifically from Croatia), the vine flourished in California decades before it did so in southern Italy, its other major growing zone today, where it's known as primitivo. In the 19th century, vines that thrived in Canada would have been of the winter-hardy, native North American variety, long before there was much wine drinking going on. Mainly we're talking about members of the  vitis labrusca  species, such as concord, which makes lousy wine (but delicious Welch's juice!) and  vitis riparia . They stand in contrast to the tender species known as  vitis vinifera , which is responsible for almost all of the world's quality wine today and which evolved around the Mediterranean and eastward toward Iran and parts of Asia. So, good Canadian wine is based on  vitis vinifera  grapes that enjoy a much closer association with other countries. Riesling, for example, excels here but its spiritual homeland is Germany and the nearby French region of Alsace. You can't fairly call riesling Canada's signature grape. That said, one could make the case for baco noir. It was developed by a Frenchman, Francois Baco, as a cross between grapes from both  vitis vinifera  and  vitis riparia  – a mutt, basically (or "hybrid" as it's known in ampelography circles). North America has become baco's main stomping ground, and such producers as Henry of Pelham in Niagara and Summerhill Pyramid in British Columbia have done an impressive job of polishing the gutsy variety's rougher edges. A similar case could be made for maréchal foch, another red hybrid from Europe that has found fertile ground here. Another contender: chardonnay musqué, a Niagara specialty. It, too, is French in origin but it's virtually unknown as a wine in France. The sticking point here, though, is that it's not a full-fledged variety but is rather a clone, or genetic mutation, of chardonnay that was propagated with success by Paul Bosc Sr. of Château des Charmes. The flavour is decidedly, and wonderfully, different from standard chardonnay, with a musky, spicy and more exotically aromatic smell. It may not be a variety in its own right, but it sure is a wonderfully Canadian signature in my books. E-mail your wine and spirits questions to Beppi Crosariol. Look for answers to select questions to appear in the Wine  &  Spirits newsletter and on The Globe and Mail website. Welcome to The Globe and Mail’s comment community. This is a space where subscribers can engage with each other and Globe staff. Non-subscribers can read and sort comments but will not be able to engage with them in any way.  Click here to subscribe . If you would like to write a letter to the editor, please forward it to  letters@globeandmail.com . Readers can also interact with The Globe on  Facebook  and  Twitter  . Welcome to The Globe and Mail’s comment community. This is a space where subscribers can engage with each other and Globe staff. Non-subscribers can read and sort comments but will not be able to engage with them in any way.  Click here to subscribe . If you would like to write a letter to the editor, please forward it to  letters@globeandmail.com . Readers can also interact with The Globe on  Facebook  and  Twitter  . Welcome to The Globe and Mail’s comment community. This is a space where subscribers can engage with each other and Globe staff. We aim to create a safe and valuable space for discussion and debate. That means: Comments that violate our community guidelines will be removed. Read our community guidelines here Discussion loading ... Read  most recent letters to the editor . Continue Reading  Copyright 2019 The Globe and Mail Inc. All rights reserved. 351 King Street East, Suite 1600, Toronto,  ON  Canada, M5A 0N1 Phillip Crawley, Publisher 