Advice - Looking to buy a QB78. Need some advice first | AirGunForum Postings on Politics, Religion  &  Controversial Off-Topic Material The majority of users do not want to read about these subjects and people have left the forum as a result of it – this is after all an  ' Airgun '  Forum. It’s all very well to say they don’t have to read it if they don ' t want to, but as most of us use the ‘New Posts’ button there is no easy way to avoid it. All AGF staff members are in favour of people being able to discuss what they want, but we have to draw the line somewhere if it is upsetting other users. We don’t want to read about these topics either. IMPORTANT - The discussion of politics and religion is no longer allowed anywhere on the forum (including the Adult section).  The only exception is if it ' s airgun related - they must be put in the Airgun Related Politics section.. We will   not tolerate bullying or personal attacks, racism or any other offensive  ' isms ' .  we will remove these topics from the forum, we will not give you an area where you can abuse each other. We will not hesitate to ban offenders. To clear this text box, click on the  ' X '  in the top right-hand corner. The  Forum Rules  have undergone some minor changes and updates.  Please take the time to read them; it will only take a couple of minutes of your time. By doing so, you lessen the chance of incurring the wrath of the moderation team or making yourself look foolish to other members. 90% of users posting adverts in the Sales forums need to be reminded to read the rules as their posts are wrong.  This is unnecessarily time-consuming and will no longer happen - if your advert doesn't follow the  Sales Rules  it will be deleted and you'll have to start all over again.  To close this box once you've read it (and the Rules), click on the X in the top right-hand corner. Thank you. AGF Staff A reminder of one of the  Forum Rules : 'Behaviour Do not make inappropriate or offensive posts - including threats, harassment,  swearing,  prejudice, defamation, deliberate insults or name-calling, other negative remarks about this forum, its moderators and administrators or your fellow members. Even if this is just your own personal opinion,  RESPECT YOUR FELLOW MEMBERS .' Dear members, Our membership (like our country) consists of people from all walks of life; different in far more ways than can be listed here and each with a different view based on their experience of life - regardless of their colour, religion or cultural heritage. Every single person in the UK has been born of mixed race – we are a multi-coloured and multi-cultural country. As many of you are aware there are a handful of individuals amongst this membership that persist in making provocative, inflammatory, racist and otherwise offensive comments. This has been happening across the forum to a certain degree but is most especially prevalent in the Adult section.  The moderation team has tried to stay on top of this, however unfortunately because of the ‘offensive’ nature of much of its content we don’t monitor the Adult section quite as much as perhaps we should. As a result much of this behaviour has gone unnoticed unless it has been reported to us. While the team always intended to take a "light touch" approach to the Adult section it would seem that some people aren’t quite adult enough to be left unmonitored after all.   This behaviour is, and always has been against  Forum Rules  as well as  the specific stipulations of the Adults forum  and it will no longer be tolerated. We feel it's time to draw a line in the sand and as such from this point onward offenders will receive an immediate and permanent ban from the forum.  In order for us to achieve our goal of restoring the forum to the friendly and tolerant place it once was, we ask that ALL members be mindful of the content they post and help us to stop  unacceptable behaviour by using the 'Report' tool at the bottom of any offending post - the results of which can be seen only by Admin/Moderators.  You should all receive a copy of this message by PM. To close this message box, click on the 'X' in the top-right-hand corner. Hotmail block emails from us entering your inbox. Unless you can setup a safe sender you will not get activation emails from the forum. Please use an alternative provider or complain to Hotmail. Hotmail addresses include. Postings on Politics, Religion  &  Controversial Off-Topic Material The majority of users do not want to read about these subjects and people have left the forum as a result of it – this is after all an 'Airgun' Forum. It’s all very well to say they don’t have to read it if they don't want to, but as most of us use the ‘New Posts’ button there is no easy way to avoid it. All AGF staff members are in favour of people being able to discuss what they want, but we have to draw the line somewhere if it is upsetting other users. We don’t want to read about these topics either. IMPORTANT - The discussion of politics and religion is no longer allowed anywhere on the forum (including the Adult section).  The only exception is if it's airgun related - they must be put in the Airgun Related Politics section.. We will not tolerate bullying or personal attacks, racism or any other offensive 'isms'. we will remove these topics from the forum, we will not give you an area where you can abuse each other. We will not hesitate to ban offenders. To clear this text box, click on the 'X' in the top right-hand corner. The  Forum Rules  have undergone some minor changes and updates.  Please take the time to read them; it will only take a couple of minutes of your time. By doing so, you lessen the chance of incurring the wrath of the moderation team or making yourself look foolish to other members. 90% of users posting adverts in the Sales forums need to be reminded to read the rules as their posts are wrong.  This is unnecessarily time-consuming and will no longer happen - if your advert doesn ' t follow the  Sales Rules  it will be deleted and you ' ll have to start all over again.  To close this box once you ' ve read it (and the Rules), click on the X in the top right-hand corner. Thank you. AGF Staff Discussion in ' Anything Airgun Related ' started by  Reedy3000 ,  Sep 24, 2014 . 