Environment Archives - The 200 Year Project Enter your email below and receive my 10 Vegan Zerowaste Bathroom Tips Guide with easily clickable Links! When I first heard about Zero Waste, I was definitely intrigued, but also very skeptical.  ZERO WASTE?  How is that even possible in today s world? Well I found out that Zero Waste doesn t actually mean you produce absolutely no waste overnight, it just means A) try not to produce landfill waste, B) use reusables as often as possible instead of single use products, C) compost food scraps and D) recycle everything else like aluminum, metal and glass. If it seems overwhelming at first, remember it is just about working toward zero wasting one thing at a time. Which is where this Zero Waste Guide can come in handy! And if you wanna find out  What Zerowaste Means and why it is Important , click on this article! My journey began when I was told by a friend,  There s a video on Youtube where someone fits their entire trash into a jar!  I was like,  No way! That s crazy!  It sounded like such a daunting task to do something like that, I regrettably didn t dig much further for a few months. I knew that once I started digging and researching, I would delve so deep that it would take up months of my time. But a few months had passed and it popped back into my mind, so I just had to find out more. That was April 2016 and that was also the time when I started my Instagram journey of documenting my steps and tips. Now, fast forward to today. I am still on my Zero Waste journey and am still working my way toward the trash jar, but I am doing the best I can and improving as I go! This journey continues to teach me so much, as I find out about how to reduce waste that I had never considered before. On top of it all, I can share these ideas and successes with you in easy to follow along tips! If you are a beginner, I want to start out with the first few tips you can implement right now and make a tremendous impact on the environment already! Below I highlight the first 5 Tips, but keep a lookout for upcoming videos that will delve deeper into each of these topics and exactly how you can be a Zero Waste champion, one tip at a time!  1. Grocery and Produce Bags This should be one of the easiest switches to make and most consumers are already aware of alternative bags to  plastic or paper . The added tidbit I want to highlight on this topic is to expand it to Produce Bags >  Nobody ever seems to think about bringing their own produce bags, but those small, light weight plastic bags find their way into our environment and wildlife much easier and end up flying around into oceans and rivers.  Instead of relying on those, buy reusable produce bags you can use again and again! We bought some  cotton ones  like these: But there are also great mesh produce bags  available that might work better for some produce like these: The great thing about these produce bags is that the tare weights are attached to the bag tags so when your cashier weighs your produce, make sure you don t forget to tell them to take off the tare weight! Finding a store near you that carries bulk items like beans, rice, nuts, sugar and other products is very helpful if you re trying to avoid everything packaged in plastic. In our region we found Sprouts, Whole Foods and local Co-Ops that have things in bulk so depending on where you live, I am sure you can find at least the staples in bulk! Once your eyes are opened to the amount of waste we produce without even thinking twice, you will want to shop bulk and never go back. Local Farmers Markets are a great place to start shopping since a lot of the food comes unpackaged. In most cases I have asked the farmers if they can use my bags and containers. For instance they have had strawberries in plastic containers, I ask to take the strawberries in my own bag and they can keep the plastic container. The farmers appreciate it since it cuts down on their cost. In some cases you could also take the container home and then return it next week! Either way the environment and the farmers will love you for it! If you re thirsty, stay away from plastic bottled drinks as much as possible! There are abundant health reasons why, which I will delve into deeper in the upcoming videos, but avoid plastic water bottles and other drinks by bringing your own  reusable water bottle . I prefer glass personally since it doesn t stain and a stainless steel bottles sometimes have a certain kind of taste, plus glass is 100% recyclable and after a lot of research I decided to go with this one! Look at the pretty color options they have  Get it on Amazon!   But if you absolutely do not wanna go with glass since I understand it can be dangerous when you re doing exercise and are afraid the glass might break (even tho the sleeves are pretty protective) then I understand that. Also glass is heavier than stainless steel. So if you rather go with stainless steel bottles, check out these amazing Options on  Amazon ! The first bottle is a great one for physical activity! I love  Klean Kanteen  since they are double insulated, it keeps everything hot or cold for days! I own the little  12 oz bottle  and use that for tea or coffee and it keeps things hot for hours on end! They ve also got several different colors to chose from!  Check it out on Amazon! Yes those pesky single-use plastic Starbucks and Coffee Bean cups do a number on the environment! The plastic cups cannot be recycled and just end up in landfills, still rotting away thousands of years from now in the ocean but there is a fix for you the consumer   bring your own reusable to-go cup! Starbucks even offers 10cents on every order when you come in with your own cup! Plus it keeps your drinks hot or cold even longer! I think that s a win win situation!  Corkcicle  is my favorite company for these cups (yes I know they are for wine haha) but they work amazingly with coffee or tea and they look very stylish! They even got copper and wood colors too and different shapes!  Check them out here! This page is only a quick introduction into a few easy starter Tips, please come back in the future so I can explain each of these Tips in detail. In the meantime you can learn more about Zero Waste by checking out our  Zero Waste Hub  that has a tremendous amount of recommendations for books, documentaries, articles and blogs. Please come back to this page in the near future so I can explain each of these Tips in detail and you can gain some further understanding of how you can make a huge impact right away, without having to do too much research or change your habits too extremely all at once, since I know it can be overwhelming at first. ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ IT S VEGANUARY   WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR? ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ There is no better month to help save the planet than now!  ⠀⠀⠀⠀ If you ve never tried out eating plant-based, there    At the beginning of the year we finally made it to The Gentle Barn! An amazing animal sanctuary and protective haven!Anyone who loves animals should visit   there s a Gentle Barn @2018 - The 200 Year Project. All Rights Reserved. 200YearProject.com is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. Earthlings  is a 2005 American documentary film about humankind s total dependence on animals for economic purposes.  Presented in five chapters (pets, food, clothing, entertainment and scientific research) the film is narrated by Joaquin Phoenix, featuring music by Moby, and was written, produced and directed by Shaun Monson. Where to watch? Go to  AMAZON  or head over to their  WEBSITE  for more details! The feature film  Forks Over Knives  examines that most, if not all, of the degenerative diseases that afflict us can be controlled, or even reversed, by rejecting animal-based and processed foods. Where to watch? Check it out on  AMAZON  or go over to their  WEBSITE  for more information and great recipes! Cowspiracy: The Sustainability Secret  is a groundbreaking feature-length environmental documentary following intrepid filmmaker Kip Andersen as he uncovers the most destructive industry facing the planet today – and investigates why the world’s leading environmental organizations are too afraid to talk about it. Animal agriculture is the leading cause of deforestation, water consumption and pollution, is responsible for more greenhouse gases than the transportation industry, and is a primary driver of rainforest destruction, species extinction, habitat loss, topsoil erosion, ocean “dead zones,” and virtually every other environmental ill. Yet it goes on, almost entirely unchallenged. As eye-opening as  Blackfish  and as inspiring as  An Inconvenient Truth , this shocking yet humorous documentary reveals the absolutely devastating environmental impact large-scale factory farming has on our planet, and offers a path to global sustainability for a growing population. Where to watch? Check it out on AMAZON or go over to their  WEBSITE  for more information and a meal planner! In  Food, Inc.,  filmmaker Robert Kenner lifts the veil on our nation s food industry, exposing the highly mechanized underbelly that has been hidden from the American consumer with the consent of our government s regulatory agencies, USDA and FDA. Our nation s food supply is now controlled by a handful of corporations that often put profit ahead of consumer health, the livelihood of the American farmer, the safety of workers and our own environment. We have bigger-breasted chickens, the perfect pork chop, herbicide-resistant soybean seeds, even tomatoes that won t go bad, but we also have new strains of E. coli—the harmful bacteria that causes illness for an estimated 73,000 Americans annually. We are riddled with widespread obesity, particularly among children, and an epidemic level of diabetes among adults. Where to watch? Go to  AMAZON  or head over to their  WEBSITE  for more details! Blackfish tells the story of Tilikum, a performing killer whale that killed several people while in captivity. Along the way, director-producer Gabriela Cowperthwaite compiles shocking footage and emotional interviews to explore the creature’s extraordinary nature, the species’ cruel treatment in captivity, the lives and losses of the trainers and the pressures brought to bear by the multi-billion dollar sea-park industry. This emotionally wrenching, tautly structured story challenges us to consider our relationship to nature and reveals how little we humans have learned from these highly intelligent and enormously sentient fellow mammals. Where to watch? Check it out on AMAZON  or go over to their  Website . Seven years in the making, UNITY is a new documentary that explores humanity’s hopeful transformation from living by killing into living by loving. It is a unique film about compassion for all beings, or all “expressions of life,” and going beyond all “separation based on form,” and beyond perceiving opposites. Writer/Director Shaun Monson, collaborating with an astounding cast of 100 celebrity narrators (never before gathered in the history of film-making), presents a message of love, tragedy and hope, all set against the backdrop of some of the most compelling 20th and 21st Century footage imaginable. Presented in chapters, (like its predecessor EARTHLINGS) UNITY takes an in-depth look at what it truly means to be human, to be mortal, and to be incarnate in this world. The film explores our brief existence among the Cosmos (Chapter I), then moves on to the perceptions of our Mind (Chapter II), the nature of our Body (Chapter III), the infinite capacity of our Heart (Chapter IV), and ultimately to the mysterious energy of the Soul (Chapter V). Initially, these chapters will appear unrelated to each other. But as the film progresses it becomes clear that all life is interconnected, and each chapter represents the totality of our mortal experience, which is only measured in decades. Where  t o  watch? Check this gem out on  AMAZON  for Prime Members even for free! Live and Let Live  is a feature documentary examining our relationship with animals, the history of veganism and the ethical, environmental and health reasons that move people to go vegan.  Food scandals, climate change, lifestyle diseases and ethical concerns move more and more people to reconsider eating animals and animal products. From butcher to vegan chef, from factory farmer to farm sanctuary owner – Live and Let Live tells the stories of six individuals who decided to stop consuming animal products for different reasons and shows the impact the decision has had on their lives. Where to watch?  Check it out on  NETFLIX  or go over to their Website. Join award-winning filmmaker Michal Siewierski on his three-year journey to expose the truth about our food choices. This ground-breaking documentary explores the impact that food choices have on people’s health, the health of our planet and on the lives of other living species. And also discusses several misconceptions about food and diet, offering a unique new perspective on these issues. Featuring interviews with 28 world-renowned experts, including Dr. T Colin Campbell, Joe Cross, Dr. John McDougall, Capitan Paul Watson, Dr. Pam Popper, Dr. Michael Greger, Rich Roll, Dr. Richard Oppenlander, Dr. Toni Bark and several others. This film will certainly change the way you look at the food on your plate. Where to watch? Check it out on  AMAZON or go over to their  Website  for more information. Plant Pure Nation  presents the compelling story of three people on a mission to make a science-based case for the health benefits of eating a plant-based diet. The documentary highlights how corporate lobbies have perpetuated skepticism and supported the dairy, beef and egg industries. Noted biochemist Dr. T. Colin Campbell, co-author of “ The China Study ,” is featured prominently in “ PlantPure Nation ,” which is directed by his son Nelson Campbell.  The film follows their efforts in the Kentucky Legislature to introduce a pilot program that would document the health benefits of a plant-based diet in a state with one of the highest levels of childhood obesity in the nation. Where to watch?  Check it out on  AMAZON  or their  Website  for links to watch. The 21-Day Vegan Kickstart app gives you recipes and resources to improve and regain your health and includes step-by-step recipe photos. Get it now for  FREE  on  iTUNES . Modern farms are struggling to keep a secret. Most of the animals used for food in the United States are raised in giant, bizarre “factory farms,” hidden deep in remote areas of the countryside. The documentary takes viewers on a sometimes funny, sometimes frightening adventure, crawling through the bushes that hide these factories, flying in airplanes above their toxic “manure lagoons,” and coming face-to-face with their owners. Today, a quickly growing number of prominent individuals and political activists are adopting its conclusions. They have termed the assumption of human superiority  speciesism . And, as a result, they rank these animal factories among the greatest evils in our history.  Speciesism the Movie  brings viewers face-to-face with the leaders of this developing movement, and, for the first time ever on film, fully examines the purpose of what they are setting out to do. Where to watch?   Check out their Website for more information. ⠀⠀⠀ Is It Vegan is a tool for anyone interested in eliminating animal products from their diet.  Simply scan the UPC bar code on the package of any food or beverage product, and you ll see: Whether the product is vegan, vegetarian, or neither. ⠀⠀⠀ Get if for  FREE  now on  iTunes  or  Android . This app locates the nearest vegan- and vegetarian-friendly establishments based on your location and then fills you in on all the yummy details. There is a free limited version but you can get the full version for only  $3.99  on  iTunes   and  Android . Check if a company is cruelty-free! Bunny Free lets you search for companies by name and tells you whether or not they test on animals. Get it now for  FREE  on  iTUNES   or  Android . Help animals while on the go with PETA s mobile app. You can participate in urgent action alerts against cruelty to animals and donate to support PETA s lifesaving work. For added fun, every action you take will earn you points and badges, so get started today and become an on-the-go animal rights activist! Get it now for  FREE  on  iTUNES . OFFICIAL WEBSITE Using the app, you can see a nice big visual representation of all the vegan dishes served around you in restaurants which aren t necessarily vegan.   You can view dishes by categories, restaurants and other criterions.  After selecting a dish, you can find out what other users think about it and get directions to the restaurant which serves it .  Unfortunately this app is only available in California, Las Vegas, New York and Israel. But if you are interested in helping them make the app available in your area, please contact the owners. Get it now for  FREE  on  iTUNES   or  Android . Know which companies are cruelty-free!  Use this handy shopping guide to look up cosmetic, personal care, and household product companies while you’re on the go. Get it now for  FREE  on  iTUNES   or  Android . Eat Vegan contains 250+ mouthwatering Vegan diet recipes and images! Inspire your palate and enjoy clean eating, weight loss, increased energy,  &  better health.  Get it now for  FREE  on  iTUNES . OFFICIAL WEBSITE Eating out has never been easier for vegetarians and vegans as the number of restaurants catering to us continues to grow. The Vegman App helps you find vegetarian and vegan, as well as VEG-friendly restaurants   and wherever you are in the world, it tells you how to get to them. Get it now for  FREE  on  iTUNES . ⠀⠀⠀ Thrive  is a long-term eating plan to help all athletes (professional or not) develop a lean body, sharp mind, and everlasting energy. As one of the few professional athletes on a plant-based diet, Brendan Brazier researched and developed this easy-to-follow program to enhance his performance as an elite endurance competitor. Get it now: Amazon: Thrive  Nutrition Amazon: Thrive Fitness Amazon: Thrive Foods American Farmers Markets discovers local Farmers Markets across the United States. Through advanced location-based technology and an extensive Farmers Market database, American Farmers Markets guides users directly to organic, locally-grown, farm-fresh food.  Get it now for  FREE  on  iTUNES   and  Android. OFFICIAL WEBSITE One Green Planet s Food Monster app gives you instant access to 500 FREE vegan, meatless and dairy-free recipes that are sure to satisfy all taste buds! If you want, you can then decide to upgrade to get more recipes. Get it now for  FREE  on  iTUNES   and  Android. OFFICIAL WEBSITE #1 Food  &  Drink App and Featured as  Best New App  by Apple   this is the essential recipe app from the makers of the critically-acclaimed film Forks Over Knives. Discover over 300 hearty and decadent meals from over 20 leading chefs, with new recipes added weekly! Get it now for  $4.99  on  iTUNES   and  Android. I actually had a lot of fun reading this book and was amazed at how much information you could gain from it! It is not short of historical facts and when they talk about  Aspartame  and how it got to be even allowed by the FDA   it will make you question all decisions by the FDA forever. It s not your typical boring diet book, this is a tart-tongued, no-holds-barred wakeup call to all women who want to be healthy. With such blunt advice as,  Soda is liquid Satan  and  You are a total moron if you think the Atkins Diet will make you thin,  it s a rallying cry for all savvy women to start eating healthy and looking radiant. Unlike standard diet books, it actually makes the reader laugh out loud with its truthful, smart-mouthed revelations. Behind all the attitude, however, there s solid guidance.  Skinny Bitch  espouses a healthful lifestyle that promotes whole grains, fruits, and vegetables, and encourages women to get excited about feeling  clean and pure and energized. Get it now on  AMAZON ! In  The China Study , Dr. T. Colin Campbell details the connection between nutrition and heart disease, diabetes, and cancer. The report also examines the source of nutritional confusion produced by powerful lobbies, government entities, and opportunistic scientists.  The New York Times  has recognized the study as the “Grand Prix of epidemiology” and the “most comprehensive large study ever undertaken of the relationship between diet and the risk of developing disease.” The China Study  is not a diet book. Dr. Campbell cuts through the haze of misinformation and delivers an insightful message to anyone living with cancer, diabetes, heart disease, obesity, and those concerned with the effects of aging. Get it now on   AMAZON . ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ OFFICIAL WEBSITE ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ Are you considering going vegan, but you re not sure how to start? Are you already committed to an animal-free diet, but are unclear about how to get proper nutrients?  Vegan for Life  is your comprehensive, go-to guide for optimal plant-based nutrition. Registered dietitians and long-time vegans Jack Norris and Virginia Messina debunk some of the most persistent myths about vegan nutrition and provide essential information about getting enough calcium and protein, finding the best supplements, and understanding the  real deal  about soy. Covering everything from a six-step transition plan to meeting calorie and nutrient needs during pregnancy and breastfeeding,  Vegan for Life  is the guide for aspiring and veteran vegans alike, complete with an easy-to-use food chart, tasty substitutions, sample menus, and expansive resources. Get it now on   AMAZON Like many young Americans, Jonathan Safran Foer spent much of his teenage and college years oscillating between enthusiastic carnivore and occasional vegetarian. As he became a husband, and then a father, the moral dimensions of eating became increasingly important to him. Faced with the prospect of being unable to explain why we eat some animals and not others, Foer set out to explore the origins of many eating traditions and the fictions involved with creating them. Traveling to the darkest corners of our dining habits, Foer raises the unspoken question behind every fish we eat, every chicken we fry, and every burger we grill. Part memoir and part investigative report,  Eating Animals  is a book that, in the words of the  Los Angeles Times , places Jonathan Safran Foer  at the table with our greatest philosophers. Get it now on   AMAZON OFFICIAL WEBSITE ⠀⠀⠀ From the physician behind the wildly popular website  NutritionFacts.org ,  How Not to Die  reveals the groundbreaking scientific evidence behind the only diet that can prevent and reverse many of the causes of disease-related death. ⠀⠀⠀ The vast majority of premature deaths can be prevented through simple changes in diet and lifestyle. In  How Not to Die , Dr. Michael Greger, the internationally-renowned nutrition expert, physician, and founder of NutritionFacts.org, examines the fifteen top causes of premature death in America-heart disease, various cancers, diabetes, Parkinson s, high blood pressure, and more-and explains how nutritional and lifestyle interventions can sometimes trump prescription pills and other pharmaceutical and surgical approaches, freeing us to live healthier lives. The simple truth is that most doctors are good at treating acute illnesses but bad at preventing chronic disease. The fifteen leading causes of death claim the lives of 1.6 million Americans annually. This doesn t have to be the case. By following Dr. Greger s advice, all of it backed up by strong scientific evidence, you will learn which foods to eat and which lifestyle changes to make to live longer. Get it now on  AMAZON ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ Matt Ball and Bruce Friedrich take the plight of the world s animals seriously and have dedicated their lives to ending their suffering.  The Animal Activist s Handbook  argues that meaning in life is to be found, quite simply, in turning away from the futile pursuit of  more,  and focusing instead on leaving the planet a better place than you found it. The critical component of creating a better world for all is thoughtful, deliberate, and dedicated activism that takes suffering seriously. The authors build a ground-up case for reasoned, impassioned, and joyous activism that makes the most difference possible, and suggest a variety of ways to live a meaningful life through effective and efficient advocacy. Get it now on   AMAZON and checkout  Amazon: The Accidental Activist ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ Can’t imagine living without cheese? Convinced that dairy-free baked goods just don’t cut it? Hate the taste of tofu and not a fan of boring salads? EXCUSES, BE GONE! Blogger-author extraordinaire Kristy Turner deliciously refutes every excuse you’ve ever heard with 125 bursting-with-flavor vegan recipes for every meal of the day—including dessert! If you’re a waffling vegan newbie, on-the-fence vegetarian, or veg-curious omnivore, this book will banish your doubts. You’ll find you  can  get enough protein, fit in at a potluck, learn to love cauliflower, and enjoy pizza, nachos, brownies, and more—without any animal products at all. (Even vegan pros will discover some new tricks!) Colorful photographs throughout will have you salivating over Kristy’s inventive, easy-to-follow recipes. So what are you waiting for? Get in the kitchen and leave your excuses at the door! ⠀⠀⠀ Get it now on   AMAZON ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ You could be the world s next vegan. It s easy if you know how, and this uniquely helpful book tells you everything you need to know. Every topic related to vegan living is covered including cooking, nutrition, food shopping, travel, dining out, and much more. You ll get clear and straightforward guidance from Erik Marcus, a vegan of twenty years and counting. Join the thousands of people who ve used this book to easily and successfully transition to a vegan lifestyle. ⠀⠀⠀ Get it now on   AMAZON   or read for free on his  WEBSITE . ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ Hollywood celebrities are doing it. Corporate moguls are doing it. But what about those of us living in the real world—and on a real budget? Author and holistic health practitioner Victoria Moran started eating only plants nearly thirty years ago, raised her daughter, Adair, vegan from birth, and maintains a sixty-pound weight loss. In  Main Street Vegan , Moran offers a complete guide to making this dietary and lifestyle shift with an emphasis on practical  baby steps,  proving that you don’t have to have a personal chef or lifestyle coach on speed dial to experience the physical and spiritual benefits of being a vegan. This book provides practical advice and inspiration for everyone—from Main Street to Wall Street, and everywhere between. Finally, a book that isn t preaching to the vegan choir, but to the people in the pews—and the ones who can’t fit in those pews. This is a book for the Main Street majority who aren’t vegans. Once you read this, you ll know it s possible to get healthy and enjoy doing it—even if you live in Paramus or Peoria. — Michael Moore A great book for anyone who s curious about veganism. It shows that not all vegans are weirdos like me. — Moby Get it now on   AMAZON and check out the  Website  for more information! This eye opening documentary is a must watch! It was one of my first documentaries I saw when investigating plastic and zero waste and the long term impact it has on our environment. Angela Sun visits the Midway Atoll islands, which has become a massive garbage dump in the Pacific. The enormous amount of waste has proved deadly to the large population of albatrosses that are one of the island’s primary residents. Follow her through expert interviews as well as awakening footage of the pacific. Where to watch?  Check out the  Website  for more information or find it on YouTube. What s the problem with plastic?! Would it be worthwhile to try to live without it, and why? This documentary follows the lives of families in Vancouver, Canada as they attempt to live without plastic for one year. As the viewer is gently led through the problems of plastic, they are entertained by the pursuits of the plastic-free challengers the youngest being a mere 4 years old. Witness the positive change that takes place- from some major growing pains to the final conclusions. This documentary does not preach; rather it provides multiple possible avenues of inspiration for everyone to reexamine their own disposable habits. ⠀⠀⠀⠀ See the Film Here ⠀⠀⠀⠀ ⠀⠀⠀⠀ ⠀⠀⠀⠀ Werner Boote presents an up-close and personal view of the controversial and fascinating material that has found its way into every facet of our daily lives: plastic. He takes us on a journey around the globe, showing that plastics have become a threat for both environment and human health. ⠀⠀⠀⠀ Where to watch?  Check out the  Website  for more information. ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ OFFICIAL WEBSITE ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ Like many people, Beth Terry didn t think an individual could have much impact on the environment. But while laid up after surgery, she read an article about the staggering amount of plastic polluting the oceans and decided then and there to kick her plastic habit. Now she wants to teach you how you can too. In her quirky and humorous style well known to the readers of her popular blog,  My Plastic-Free Life Terry provides personal anecdotes, stats about the environmental and health problems related to plastic, and personal solutions and tips on how to limit your plastic footprint. Terry includes handy lists and charts for easy reference, ways to get involved in larger community actions, and profiles of individuals  Plastic-Free Heroes who have gone beyond personal solutions to create a change on a larger scale.  Plastic-Free  also includes chapters on letting go of eco-guilt, strategies for coping with overwhelming problems, and ways to relate to other people who aren t as far along on the plastic-free path. Both a practical guide and the story of a personal journey from helplessness to empowerment,  Plastic-Free  is a must-read for anyone concerned about the ongoing health and happiness of themselves, their children, and the planet. ⠀⠀⠀ Get it now on   Amazon . ⠀⠀⠀⠀ ⠀⠀⠀⠀ ⠀⠀⠀⠀ Filmmakers and food lovers Jen and Grant dive into the issue of waste from farm, through retail, all the way to the back of their own fridge. After catching a glimpse of the billions of dollars of good food that is tossed each year in North America, they pledge to quit grocery shopping cold turkey and survive only on foods that would otherwise be thrown away. In a nation where one in 10 people is food insecure, the images they capture of squandered groceries are both shocking and strangely compelling. But as Grant’s addictive personality turns full tilt towards food rescue, the ‘thrill of the find’ has unexpected consequences. Just Eat It looks at our systemic obsession with expiry dates, perfect produce and portion sizes, and reveals the core of this seemingly insignificant issue that is having devastating consequences around the globe. ⠀⠀⠀⠀ SEE THE FILM HERE ⠀⠀⠀⠀ ⠀⠀ ⠀⠀⠀ ⠀⠀⠀⠀ Americans use 60,000 plastic bags every five minutes-single-use disposable bags that we mindlessly throw away. But where is  away?  Where do the bags and other plastics end up, and at what cost to our environment, marine life and human health?  Bag It  follows  everyman  Jeb Berrier as he navigates our plastic world. Jeb is not a radical environmentalist, but an average American who decides to take a closer look at our cultural love affair with plastics. Jeb s journey in this documentary film starts with simple questions: Are plastic bags really necessary? What are plastic bags made from? What happens to plastic bags after they are discarded? Jeb looks beyond plastic bags and discovers that virtually everything in modern society-from baby bottles, to sports equipment, to dental sealants, to personal care products-is made with plastic or contains potentially harmful chemical additives used in the plastic-making process. When Jeb s journey takes a personal twist, we see how our crazy-for-plastic world has finally caught up with us and what we can do about it. Today. Right now. ⠀⠀⠀⠀ SEE THE FILM  HERE ⠀⠀⠀⠀ ⠀⠀ ⠀⠀⠀ ⠀⠀⠀⠀ What does it really take to live eco-effectively? For one year, Colin Beavan swore off plastic and toxins, turned off his electricity, went organic, became a bicycle nut, and tried to save the planet from environmental catastrophe while dragging his young daughter and his Prada-wearing wife along for the ride. Together they attempted to make zero impact on the environment while living right in the heart of Manhattan, and this is the sensational, funny, and consciousness-raising story of how they did it. With No Impact Man, Beavan found that no-impact living is worthwhile–and richer, fuller, and more satisfying in the bargain. ⠀⠀⠀⠀ SEE THE FILM  HERE ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ OFFICIAL WEBSITE ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ In  Zero Waste Home , Bea Johnson shares the story of how she simplified her life by reducing her waste. Today, Bea, her husband, Scott, and their two young sons produce just one quart of garbage a year, and their overall quality of life has changed  for the better : they now have more time together, they’ve cut their annual spending by a remarkable 40 percent, and they are healthier than they’ve ever been. This book shares essential how-to advice, secrets, and insights based on Bea’s experience. She demystifies the process of going Zero Waste with hundreds of easy tips for sustainable living that even the busiest people can integrate: from making your own mustard, to packing kids’ lunches without plastic, to canceling your junk mail, to enjoying the holidays without the guilt associated with overconsumption.  Zero Waste Home  is a stylish and relatable step-by-step guide that will give you the practical tools to help you improve your health, save money and time, and achieve a brighter future for your family—and the planet. ⠀⠀⠀ Get it now on   Amazon . ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ Trash is a big, dirty problem. The average American tosses out nearly 2,000 pounds of garbage every year that piles up in landfills and threatens our air and water quality. You do your part to reduce, reuse, and recycle, but is it enough? In  The Zero-Waste Lifestyle , Amy Korst shows you how to lead a healthier, happier, and more sustainable life by generating less garbage. Drawing from lessons she learned during a yearlong experiment in zero-waste living, Amy outlines hundreds of easy ideas—from the simple to the radical. ⠀⠀⠀ Get it now on   Amazon . ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ ⠀⠀Learn how to reduce food waste with quick tips and simple solutions in  My Zero-waste Kitchen . Live sustainably and embrace the three R s: reduce, reuse, and recycle. In  My Zero-waste Kitchen , find creative and unexpected ways to eliminate trash, save money, and give leftovers a new life. Plus, learn how to grow your own vegetables and herbs from scraps, and how to nourish your plants with compost. With 15 nutritious and versatile recipes in which nothing goes to waste, this guide shares the secrets to smart shopping, meal planning, and the nutritional value of often-discarded food products. Turn beetroot peelings into delicious falafel, pesto, or a melt-in-your-mouth cake. Revive produce nearing the end of its shelf life with  flexi  recipes—for risotto, stir-fry, smoothies, and more. The tips and tricks in  My Zero-waste Kitchen  show how easy it is to live more sustainably without making a complete lifestyle change. ⠀⠀⠀ Get it now on   Amazon . ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ Waste is something we all make every day but often pay little attention to.  That s changing, and model programs around the globe show the many different ways a community can strive for, and achieve, zero-waste status. Scientist-turned-activist Paul Connett, a leading international figure in decades-long battles to fight pollution, has championed efforts to curtail overconsumption and keep industrial toxins out of our air and drinking water and bodies. But he’s best known around the world for leading efforts to help communities deal with their waste in sustainable ways—in other words, to eliminate and reuse waste rather than burn it or stow it away in landfills. In  The Zero Waste Solution , Connett profiles the most successful zero-waste initiatives around the world, showing activists, planners, and entrepreneurs how to re-envision their community’s waste-handling process—by consuming less, turning organic waste into compost, recycling, reusing other waste,  demanding nonwasteful product design, and creating jobs and bringing community members together in the process. The book also exposes the greenwashing behind renewed efforts to promote waste incinerators as safe, nontoxic energy suppliers, and gives detailed information on how communities can battle incineration projects that, even at their best, emit dangerous particles into the atmosphere, many of which remain unregulated or poorly regulated. An important toolkit for anyone interested in creating sustainable communities, generating secure local jobs, and keeping toxic alternatives at bay. ⠀⠀⠀ Get it now on   Amazon . ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ You’re about to discover how to live life to the fullest without the burden of material possessions! Minimalism is a lifestyle that promotes self-reliance while encouraging individuals to enjoy every moment, indulge their passions, live debt-free and own all the basic necessities of comfortable and content living! In this book, you’ll learn of the first few steps towards a minimalistic lifestyle, eliminating waste in your life and living an intentional existence. ⠀⠀⠀ Get it now on   Amazon . ⠀⠀ ⠀⠀⠀ ⠀⠀⠀⠀ The state of our oceans and seas is the main focus in Sea the Truth. Leading scientists such as Daniel Pauly suggest that if we continue to catch and eat fish at the current rate, the oceans and seas will be empty within 40 years. The hunt for fish is an economic monster on the run: large bottom trawlers are scraping the bottoms of the seas empty, taking with them all living things with destructive force. The massive amount of bycatch is thrown back into the sea, maimed or dead. ⠀⠀⠀⠀ WATCH THE FILM FOR  FREE ON THEIR WEBSITE ⠀⠀⠀⠀ “Every time history repeats itself the price goes up.” Surviving Progress presents the story of human advancement as awe-inspiring and double-edged. It reveals the grave risk of running the 21st century’s software — our know-how — on the ancient hardware of our primate brain which hasn’t been upgraded in 50,000 years. With rich imagery and immersive soundtrack, filmmakers Mathieu Roy and Harold Crooks launch us on journey to contemplate our evolution from cave-dwellers to space explorers. Ronald Wright, whose best-seller, “A Short History Of Progress” inspired this film, reveals how civilizations are repeatedly destroyed by “progress traps” — alluring technologies serve immediate needs, but ransom the future. With intersecting stories from a Chinese car-driving club, a Wall Street insider who exposes an out-of-control, environmentally rapacious financial elite, and eco-cops defending a scorched Amazon, the film lays stark evidence before us. In the past, we could use up a region’s resources and move on. But if today’s global civilization collapses from over-consumption, that’s it. We have no back-up planet. ⠀⠀⠀⠀ WATCH THE FILM  HERE ⠀⠀⠀⠀ Tapped  looks into the bottled water industry and its long-term effects socially, economically and ecologically. The filmmakers focused on industry giants such as PepsiCo and Nestle Waters, visiting a town containing a Nestlé factory as well as running tests on the bottles the company uses for its products. Their results came back showing  several potentially harmful chemicals, some known carcinogens . The documentary also focused on the amount of bottles that are recycled, noting that  Forty percent of bottled water is really just filtered tap water, and every day we throw away 30 million single-served bottles of water as plastic waste. ⠀⠀⠀⠀ WATCH THE FILM ON  AMAZON ⠀⠀ ⠀⠀⠀ ⠀⠀⠀⠀ How to Change the World chronicles the adventures of an eclectic group of young pioneers – Canadian hippie journalists, photographers, musicians, scientists, and American draft dodgers – who set out to stop Richard Nixon’s atomic bomb tests in Amchitka, Alaska, and end up creating the worldwide green movement. The film spans the period from the first expedition to enter the nuclear test zone in 1971 through the first whale and seal campaigns, and ends in 1979, when, victims of their own success, the founders gave away their central role to create Greenpeace International. At its heart is Bob Hunter, a charismatic journalist who somehow managed to bind together the ‘mystics and the mechanics’ into a group with a single purpose, often at huge cost to himself. The story is framed by his first person narrative, drawn from his writings and journals about the group, voiced alongside animations based on his early comics. How To Change The World is an intimate portrait of the group’s original members and of activism itself—idealism vs. pragmatism, principle vs. compromise. They agreed that a handful of people could change the world; they just couldn’t always agree on how to do it. ⠀⠀⠀⠀ WATCH THE FILM ON  NETFLIX  OR  HERE ⠀⠀⠀ ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ OFFICIAL WEBSITE ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ The Story of Stuff has now made several amazing online movies that I would like to share with you here! The Original Video:  The Story of Stuff The Story of Cosmetics The Story of Electronics The Story of Change The Story of Bottled Water The Story of Microbeads The Story of Solutions The Story of Broke The Story of Microfibers ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ The Story of Stuff Project’s journey began with a 20-minute online movie about the way we make, use and throw away all the Stuff in our lives. Five years and 40 million views later, they ve become a Community of more than a million changemakers worldwide, working to build a more healthy and just planet, cuz we have too much stuff. We use too much, too much of it is toxic and we don’t share it very well. But that’s not the way things have to be. Together, we can build a society based on better not more, sharing not selfishness, community not division. We invite you to watch and share our movies, participate in our study programs and join our campaigns. ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ OFFICIAL WEBSITE ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ Moral Ground  brings together the testimony of over 80 visionaries — theologians and religious leaders, scientists, elected officials, business leaders, naturists, activists, and writers — to present a diverse and compelling call to honor our individual and collective moral responsibilities to our planet. In the face of environmental degradation and global climate change, scientific knowledge alone does not tell us what we ought to do. The missing premise of the argument and much-needed centerpiece in the debate to date has been the need for ethical values, moral guidance, and principled reasons for doing the right thing for our planet, its animals, its plants, and its people. This book encourages a newly discovered, or rediscovered, commitment to consensus about our ethical obligation to the future and why it’s wrong to wreck the world. ⠀⠀⠀ Get it now on  Amazon . ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ ⠀⠀⠀Thomas L. Friedman is one of our brave new world s bravest thinkers. Three-time Pulitzer Prize winner, National Book Award winner, foreign affairs columnist for The New York Times and perpetually bestselling author of such paradigm-shifting books as The World Is Flat and Longitudes and Attitudes, Friedman has explored the perils and potential of our increasingly globalized world with a prophet s fervor and insight. In Hot, Flat, and Crowded, he s taking on one of Earth s most pressing problems-the climate crisis-and arguing that in saving the world, America can also save itself. In this illuminating account, Friedman explains how 9/11, Hurricane Katrina and the unprecedented connectivity and commerce enabled by the Internet have brought climate and energy issues to the forefront like never before. But the Green Revolution needed to harness these forces for the good of the planet-and our economy-has yet to ignite. Calling for a World War II-level mobilization to create the clean technology breakthroughs that will power America throughout the rest of the century, Friedman appeals for the birth of  the Greenest Generation -lest this hot, flat, crowded world get hotter still. ⠀⠀⠀ Get it now on  Amazon . ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ OFFICIAL WEBSITE ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ This provocative, visionary book talks about using nature itself as our model. A tree produces thousands of blossoms in order to create another tree, yet we do not consider its abundance wasteful but safe, beautiful, and highly effective; hence,  waste equals food  is the first principle the book sets forth. Products might be designed so that, after their useful life, they provide nourishment for something new-either as  biological nutrients  that safely re-enter the environment or as  technical nutrients  that circulate within closed-loop industrial cycles, without being  downcycled  into low-grade uses (as most  recyclables  now are). Elaborating their principles from experience (re)designing everything from carpeting to corporate campuses, William McDonough and Michael Braungart make an exciting and viable case for change. ⠀⠀⠀ Get it now on  Amazon . ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ OFFICIAL WEBSITE ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ An Inconvenient Truth― Gore s groundbreaking, battle cry of a follow-up to the bestselling Earth in the Balance―is being published to tie in with a documentary film of the same name. Both the book and film were inspired by a series of multimedia presentations on global warming that Gore created and delivers to groups around the world. With this book, Gore, who is one of our environmental heroes―and a leading expert―brings together leading-edge research from top scientists around the world; photographs, charts, and other illustrations; and personal anecdotes and observations to document the fast pace and wide scope of global warming. He presents, with alarming clarity and conclusiveness―and with humor, too―that the fact of global warming is not in question and that its consequences for the world we live in will be disastrous if left unchecked. This riveting new book―written in an accessible, entertaining style―will open the eyes of even the most skeptical. ⠀⠀⠀ Get it now on  Amazon . ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ In  Animal Factory,  bestselling investigative journalist David Kirby exposes the powerful business and political interests behind large-scale factory farms, and tracks the far-reaching fallout that contaminates our air, land, water, and food. Swine flu. Bird flu. Unusual concentrations of cancer and other diseases. Massive fish kills from flesh-eating parasites. Recalls of meats, vegetables, and fruits because of deadly E-coli bacterial contamination. In this thoroughly researched book, Kirby follows three families and communities whose lives are utterly changed by immense neighboring animal farms. These farms (known as “Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations,” or CAFOs), confine thousands of pigs, dairy cattle, and poultry in small spaces, often under horrifying conditions, and generate enormous volumes of fecal and biological waste as well as other toxins. Weaving science, politics, law, big business, and everyday life, Kirby accompanies these families in their struggles against animal factories. A North Carolina fisherman takes on pig farms upstream to preserve his river, his family’s life, and his home. A mother in a small Illinois town pushes back against an outsized dairy  farm and its devastating impact. And a Washington State grandmother becomes an unlikely activist when her home is invaded by foul odors and her water supply is compromised by runoff from leaking lagoons of cattle waste. ⠀⠀⠀ Get it now on  Amazon . ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ During the seventeen years she worked in the US Fish and Wildlife Service, Rachel Carson learned about the problems of pesticides. Undaunted by the chemical companies  hostility and by the public s high enthusiasm for pesticides, she wrote a book called  Silent Spring , which caused a major shift in public consciousness about the environment. It documented the detrimental effects on the environment by the indiscriminate use of pesticides and Carson accused the chemical industry of spreading misinformation. Silent Spring  brought environmental concerns to the American public. It was met with fierce opposition by chemical companies, but it spurred a reversal in national pesticide policy, led to a nationwide ban on DDT for agricultural uses and inspired an environmental movement that led to the creation of the US Environmental Protection Agency. ⠀⠀⠀ Get it now on  Amazon . ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ OFFICIAL WEBSITE ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ Natural Capitalism enables organizations to increase profitability and efficiency while becoming more environmentally and socially responsible. The concept integrates the “triple bottom line,” (a term that refers to the business goals of profitability, environmental awareness, and social responsibility) into a single bottom line, fostering greater levels of operational efficiency within organizations. ⠀⠀⠀ Get it now on  Amazon . OFFICIAL WEBSITE ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ This groundbreaking book cuts through the pessimism and denial that pervade today s discussions of sustainability and invites readers to visualize a verdant and prosperous future for humanity and all the living things that share our planet. As a practical guide, it offers a process for making our current lifestyles more sustainable and inspires us to look beyond the immediate obstacles to nurture the  destination fixation  that stimulates all humanity s greatest achievements. In the lives and accomplishments of farmers, gardeners, inventors and entrepreneurs, Beautiful and Abundant finds a path toward a world vision we can proudly pass on to future generations – a vision that is aesthetically beautiful, economically abundant, ethically fair and irresistibly contagious. Humanity is at a turning point. Only one species in the universe can recognize its own impact on its habitat, so far as we know, and we are that species. In the early years of the 21st Century we face the definitive human challenge – sustaining our quality of life on this miraculous, but finite sphere we call Earth. Tragically, a lot of human energy is being squandered in conflict over short-term environmental obstacles. People debate symptoms and solutions but societies persistently fail to offer positive incentives for change. To harness the full power of human imagination and community initiative we need a positive vision for humanity s future. We need a believable collective vision for the beautiful, abundant planet where our grandchildren will live. ⠀⠀⠀ Get it now on  Amazon . ⠀⠀⠀⠀ ⠀⠀ ⠀⠀⠀⠀ Half of all adults in the U.S. struggle with chronic health conditions including cancer, heart disease, stroke, diabetes, obesity, hypertension, Alzheimer’s, arthritis and erectile dysfunction. Despite countless dollars spent on medical research, new drugs and innovative technology to improve our health, more Americans are disabled and dying from chronic disease than ever before. Featuring leading medical experts and researchers,  Eating You Alive  takes a scientific look at the reasons we’re so sick, who’s responsible for feeding us the wrong information and how we can use whole-food, plant-based nutrition to take control of our health—one bite at a time. ⠀⠀⠀⠀ AT A THEATER NEAR YOU SOON! WATCH THE  TRAILER CHECK  HERE  FOR UPDATES ⠀⠀⠀⠀ What the Health is a ground breaking feature length documentary from the award-winning filmmakers of  Cowspiracy , that follows the exciting journey of intrepid filmmaker, Kip Andersen, as he uncovers the impacts of highly processed industrial animal foods on our personal health and greater community, and explores why leading health organizations continue to promote the industry despite countless medical studies and research showing deleterious effects of these products on our health. Utilizing state-of-the-art equipment, Oscar-winner Louie Psihoyos (The Cove) assembles a team of artists and activists intent on showing the world never-before-seen images that expose issues of endangered species and mass extinction. Whether infiltrating notorious black markets with guerrilla-style tactics or exploring the scientific causes affecting changes to the environment,  RACING EXTINCTION  will change the way we see the world and our role within it. Where to watch?  Go to  AMAZON  or head over to their  WEBSITE  for more details! ⠀⠀⠀⠀ ⠀⠀Blind Spot is a documentary film that illustrates the current oil and energy crisis that our world is facing. Whatever measures of ignorance, greed, wishful thinking, we have put ourselves at a crossroad, which offers two paths with dire consequences. If we continue to burn fossil fuels we will choke the life out of the planet and if we don t our way of life will collapse. ⠀⠀⠀⠀ WATCH THE FILM  HERE ⠀⠀ ⠀⠀⠀ ⠀⠀⠀⠀ I AM  is an utterly engaging and entertaining non-fiction film that poses two practical and provocative questions: what’s wrong with our world, and what can we do to make it better?   The filmmaker behind the inquiry is Tom Shadyac, one of Hollywood’s leading comedy practitioners and the creative force behind such blockbusters as “Ace Ventura,” “Liar Liar,” “The Nutty Professor,” and “Bruce Almighty.”   However, in I AM, Shadyac steps in front of the camera to recount what happened to him after a cycling accident left him incapacitated, possibly for good. Though he ultimately recovered, he emerged with a new sense of purpose, determined to share his own awakening to his prior life of excess and greed, and to investigate how he as an individual, and we as a race, could improve the way we live and walk in the world. Armed with nothing but his innate curiosity and a small crew to film his adventures, Shadyac set out on a twenty-first century quest for enlightenment.  Meeting with a variety of thinkers and doers–remarkable men and women from the worlds of science, philosophy, academia, and faith–including such luminaries as David Suzuki, Noam Chomsky, Howard Zinn, Archbishop Desmond Tutu, Lynne McTaggart, Ray Anderson, John Francis, Coleman Barks, and Marc Ian Barasch –  Shadyac appears on-screen as character, commentator, guide, and even, at times, guinea pig. An irrepressible “Everyman” who asks tough questions, but offers no easy answers, he takes the audience to places it has never been before, and presents even familiar phenomena in completely new and different ways.  The result is a fresh, energetic, and life-affirming film that challenges our preconceptions about human behavior while simultaneously celebrating the indomitable human spirit. ⠀⠀⠀⠀ WATCH THE FILM ON  AMAZON ⠀⠀ ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ An audience and critical favorite,  An Inconvenient Truth  makes the compelling case that global warming is real, man-made, and its effects will be cataclysmic if we don’t act now. Gore presents a wide array of facts and information in a thoughtful and compelling way: often humorous, frequently emotional, and always fascinating. In the end,  An Inconvenient Truth  accomplishes what all great films should: it leaves the viewer shaken, involved and inspired. ⠀⠀⠀⠀ WATCH THE FILM  ON THEIR WEBSITE ⠀⠀⠀ ⠀⠀⠀⠀ In the spring of 2005, acclaimed environmental photographer James Balog headed to the Arctic on a tricky assignment for  National Geographic : to capture images to help tell the story of the Earth’s changing climate. Even with a scientific upbringing, Balog had been a skeptic about climate change. But that first trip north opened his eyes to the biggest story in human history and sparked a challenge within him that would put his career and his very well-being at risk. Chasing Ice  is the story of one man’s mission to change the tide of history by gathering undeniable evidence of our changing planet. Within months of that first trip to Iceland, the photographer conceived the boldest expedition of his life: The Extreme Ice Survey. With a band of young adventurers in tow, Balog began deploying revolutionary time-lapse cameras across the brutal Arctic to capture a multi-year record of the world’s changing glaciers. As the debate polarizes America and the intensity of natural disasters ramps up globally, Balog finds himself at the end of his tether. Battling untested technology in subzero conditions, he comes face to face with his own mortality. It takes years for Balog to see the fruits of his labor. His hauntingly beautiful videos compress years into seconds and capture ancient mountains of ice in motion as they disappear at a breathtaking rate.  Chasing Ice  depicts a photographer trying to deliver evidence and hope to our carbon-powered planet. ⠀⠀⠀⠀ WATCH THE FILM ON  NETFLIX  OR  AMAZON ⠀⠀⠀⠀ ⠀⠀ ⠀⠀⠀ ⠀⠀⠀⠀ If you could know the truth about the threat of climate change — would you want to know?  Before the Flood , presented by National Geographic, features Leonardo DiCaprio on a journey as a United Nations Messenger of Peace, traveling to five continents and the Arctic to witness climate change firsthand. He goes on expeditions with scientists uncovering the reality of climate change and meets with political leaders fighting against inaction. He also discovers a calculated disinformation campaign orchestrated by powerful special interests working to confuse the public about the urgency of the growing climate crisis. With unprecedented access to thought leaders around the world, DiCaprio searches for hope in a rising tide of catastrophic news. ⠀⠀⠀⠀ SEE THE FILM  HERE ⠀⠀⠀⠀ ⠀⠀ ⠀⠀⠀ ⠀⠀⠀⠀ Is it possible to live completely waste free? In this multi-award winning, festival favourite, partners Jen and Grant go head to head in a competition to see who can swear off consumerism and produce the least garbage Their light-hearted competition is set against a darker examination of the problem waste.  Even as Grant and Jen start to garner interest in their project, they struggle to find meaning in their minuscule influence on the large-scale environmental impacts of our “throw-away society”. Described as An Inconvenient Truth meets Super Size Me, The Clean Bin Project features laugh out loud moments, stop motion animations, and unforgettable imagery. Captivating interviews with renowned artist, Chris Jordan and TED Lecturer Captain Charles Moore, make this film a fun and inspiring call to individual action that speaks to crowds of all ages. ⠀⠀⠀⠀ SEE THE FILM  HERE ⠀⠀⠀⠀ ⠀⠀ ⠀⠀⠀ ⠀⠀⠀⠀ How might your life be better with less? Minimalism: A Documentary About the Important Things examines the many flavors of minimalism by taking the audience inside the lives of minimalists from all walks of life   families, entrepreneurs, architects, artists, journalists, scientists, and even a former Wall Street broker   all of whom are striving to live a meaningful life with less. ⠀⠀⠀⠀ SEE THE FILM ON NETFLIX OR  CLICK HERE   ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ OFFICIAL WEBSITE ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ Do you know how to turn ordinary water into a billion-dollar business? In Switzerland there s a company which has developed the art to perfection   Nestlé. This company dominates the global business in bottled water. Swiss journalist Res Gehringer has investigated this money-making phenomena. Nestlé refused to cooperate, on the pretext that it was  the wrong film at the wrong time . So Gehringer went on a journey of exploration, researching the story in the USA, Nigeria and Pakistan. His journey into the world of bottled water reveals the schemes and strategies of the most powerful food and beverage company on our planet. See the Film Here ⠀⠀⠀⠀ ⠀⠀ ⠀⠀⠀ ⠀⠀⠀⠀ “Trashed” is a provocative investigation of one of the fastest growing industries in North America. The garbage business. The film examines a fundamental element of modern American culture…the disposal of what our society defines as “waste.” It is an issue influenced by every American, most of whom never consider the consequences. Nor, it seems, the implications to our biosphere. At times humorous, but deeply poignant, “Trashed” examines the American waste stream fast approaching a half billion tons annually. What are the effects all this waste will have on already strained natural resources? Why is so much of it produced? While every American creates almost 5 pounds of it every day, who is affected most? And who wants America to make more? The film analyzes the causes and effects of the seemingly innocuous act of “taking out the garbage” while showcasing the individuals, activists,corporate and advocacy groups working to affect change and reform the current model. “Trashed” is an informative and thought-provoking film everyone interested in the future of sustainability should see. ⠀⠀⠀⠀ SEE THE FILM  HERE 