Jeff Hatton :: Portfolio :: LEGO The Lord Of The Rings Formats:  PC, PS3, 360, WiiU, Wii Website: http://videogames.lego.com/en-us/lego-lord-of-the-rings/about/features My Role:  Junior LEGO Models Artist  Software used:  Autodesk Maya, Adobe Photoshop, Xnormal, Inhouse tools and engine  Description of roles and tasks: With each game we release the quality and amount of content we produce goes up. Many of our models, techniques and practices became used more frequently throughout the game.  Most notably, were the two large towers Barad-Dur and Orthanc built entirely out of LEGO. My responsibilities on these were taking the LEGO model design built by the LEGO designer and then creating a useable ingame version produced by modelling a low poly mesh and baking out the LEGO brick details as a normal map and diffuse map. Over this time, more new staff had begun to join the team so more mentoring and collaboration with them to produce LEGO assets and large LEGO model designs. This was the last project that I would see in a junior role, as I was promoted to be 'LEGO Model Technical Artist' shortly afterwards.  Main Responsibilities: - LEGO vehicles, weapons and props modelled, optimised and set-up ingame - Modelling, optimisation, texture baking for LEGO Barad-dur Tower  LEGO Model Design by Carl Greatrix - Modelling, optimisation, texture baking for LEGO Orthanc Tower  LEGO Model Design by Tom Coleman - Decal and texture creation - Cutscene LEGO prop creation - Bugfixing LEGO 8.1M subscribers Subscribe LEGO® The Lord of the Rings™ - Video Game Trailer Watch later Share Copy link Info Shopping Tap to unmute If playback doesn ' t begin shortly, try restarting your device. More videos Your browser does not currently recognize any of the video formats available.  Click here to visit our frequently asked questions about HTML5 video. More videos on YouTube Share Include playlist An error occurred while retrieving sharing information. Please try again later. Switch camera 0:00 0:00 0:00  /  1:33 Live An error occurred. Try watching this video on www.youtube.com , or enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser. Examples of my work: LEGO Barad-dur Tower  LEGO Model Design by Carl Greatrix  The Barad-Dur tower from Tolkein's Lord Of The Rings, built in a LEGO style.   I was responsible for the modelling and texturing for this model.  - Modelling  - Texturing LEGO Orthanc Tower  LEGO Model Design by Tom Coleman  The Orthanc tower from Tolkein's Lord Of The Rings, built in a LEGO style.   I was responsible for the modelling and texturing for this model.  - Modelling  - Texturing E:  jeff@jeffhatton.co.uk © All Content Jeff Hatton 2019 Lego Lord Of The Rings - © 2016 The LEGO Group and the relevant IP holder. 