Equestrian events begin on Johns Island | Multimedia | postandcourier.com Generally clear. Low 46F. Winds light and variable.. Generally clear. Low 46F. Winds light and variable.  Updated: November 29, 2019 @ 6:00 pm The Charleston Summer Classic, a two week equestrian event with Hunter, Jumper and Grand Prix competition held at Mullet Hall Equestrian Center on Johns Island.  Andrew Lustig, from Jacksonville, Florida warms up on the opening day of the Charleston Summer Classic at Mullet Hall Equestrian Center Tuesday, July 11, 2017, on Johns Island. Grace Beahm Alford/Staff Emily Rapach, of Awendaw competes with her horse, It’s All A Game, on the opening day of the Charleston Summer Classic at Mullet Hall Equestrian Center last summer. Andrew Lustig, from Jacksonville, Florida competes in jumping on the opening day of the Charleston Summer Classic at Mullet Hall Equestrian Center Tuesday, July 11, 2017, on Johns Island. Lustig has been riding competitively since he was 6. Grace Beahm Alford/Staff Cassino enjoys the long grass at the Mullet Hall Equestrian Center Tuesday, July 11, 2017, on Johns Island. Grace Beahm Alford/Staff Jessica Clinton, of Mount Pleasant, grooms her horse Parker as she is watched closely by her dogs Hunley, left and Frosty, at Mullet Hall Equestrian Center in July on Johns Island.  Trainer Stefanie Mazer, of Wellington, Florida watches the competition at the Charleston Summer Classic at Mullet Hall Equestrian Center Tuesday, July 11, 2017, on Johns Island. Grace Beahm Alford/Staff Lexie Sendro, of High Brass Farms in Pittstown, New Jersey, washes Clooney on the opening day of the Charleston Summer Classic at Mullet Hall Equestrian Center Tuesday, July 11, 2017, on Johns Island. Grace Beahm Alford/Staff Finishing touches are being made to stalls on the opening day of the Charleston Summer Classic at Mullet Hall Equestrian Center Tuesday, July 11, 2017, on Johns Island. Grace Beahm Alford/Staff Annie Jackson, from Atlanta, Georgia, competes with Centro, in jumps on the opening day of the Charleston Summer Classic at Mullet Hall Equestrian Center Tuesday, July 11, 2017, on Johns Island. Grace Beahm Alford/Staff Isabella Baldock, from Tennessee, tugs to get her horse Coronado back in line as he stretches his neck out to eat hay stacked in the stalls at Mullet Hall Equestrian Center Tuesday, July 11, 2017, on Johns Island. Grace Beahm Alford/Staff Virgina Senter, from Bristol, Tennessee, rides Heavenly Hill over jumps on the opening day of the Charleston Summer Classic at Mullet Hall Equestrian Center Tuesday, July 11, 2017, on Johns Island. Grace Beahm Alford/Staff Jason Berry from Virginia strolls the grounds with his horse Cassino at Mullet Hall Equestrian Center on Johns Island. Grace Beahm Alford/Staff Thomas Gobble, from Raleigh, North Carolina scrubs his horse, Miles to Cruise, that he will compete with on the opening day of the Charleston Summer Classic at Mullet Hall Equestrian Center Tuesday, July 11, 2017, on Johns Island. Grace Beahm Alford/Staff The opening day of the Charleston Summer Classic at Mullet Hall Equestrian Center Tuesday, July 11, 2017, on Johns Island. Grace Beahm Alford/Staff Conner Durocher, from Tennessee, prepares to take Cashmore out from his stall to ride on the opening day of the Charleston Summer Classic at Mullet Hall Equestrian Center Tuesday, July 11, 2017, on Johns Island. Grace Beahm Alford/Staff The Charleston Summer Classic will be home for equestrian action and competition for two wees at Mullet Hall Equestrian Center Tuesday, July 11, 2017, on Johns Island. Grace Beahm Alford/Staff Competitors are in the warm up before jumping rounds on the opening day of the Charleston Summer Classic at Mullet Hall Equestrian Center Tuesday, July 11, 2017, on Johns Island. Classes start on Wednesday. Grace Beahm Alford/Staff Courtney Goldstein, rides Take Flight, as she competes in jumping on the opening day of the Charleston Summer Classic at Mullet Hall Equestrian Center Tuesday, July 11, 2017, on Johns Island. Grace Beahm Alford/Staff Competitors warm up before competing in jumping on the opening day of the Charleston Summer Classic at Mullet Hall Equestrian Center Tuesday, July 11, 2017, on Johns Island. Grace Beahm Alford/Staff Andrew Lustig, from Jacksonville, Florida warms up on the opening day of the Charleston Summer Classic at Mullet Hall Equestrian Center Tuesday, July 11, 2017, on Johns Island. Grace Beahm Alford/Staff Emily Rapach, of Awendaw competes with her horse, It’s All A Game, on the opening day of the Charleston Summer Classic at Mullet Hall Equestrian Center last summer. Andrew Lustig, from Jacksonville, Florida competes in jumping on the opening day of the Charleston Summer Classic at Mullet Hall Equestrian Center Tuesday, July 11, 2017, on Johns Island. Lustig has been riding competitively since he was 6. Grace Beahm Alford/Staff Cassino enjoys the long grass at the Mullet Hall Equestrian Center Tuesday, July 11, 2017, on Johns Island. Grace Beahm Alford/Staff Jessica Clinton, of Mount Pleasant, grooms her horse Parker as she is watched closely by her dogs Hunley, left and Frosty, at Mullet Hall Equestrian Center in July on Johns Island.  Trainer Stefanie Mazer, of Wellington, Florida watches the competition at the Charleston Summer Classic at Mullet Hall Equestrian Center Tuesday, July 11, 2017, on Johns Island. Grace Beahm Alford/Staff Lexie Sendro, of High Brass Farms in Pittstown, New Jersey, washes Clooney on the opening day of the Charleston Summer Classic at Mullet Hall Equestrian Center Tuesday, July 11, 2017, on Johns Island. Grace Beahm Alford/Staff Finishing touches are being made to stalls on the opening day of the Charleston Summer Classic at Mullet Hall Equestrian Center Tuesday, July 11, 2017, on Johns Island. Grace Beahm Alford/Staff Annie Jackson, from Atlanta, Georgia, competes with Centro, in jumps on the opening day of the Charleston Summer Classic at Mullet Hall Equestrian Center Tuesday, July 11, 2017, on Johns Island. Grace Beahm Alford/Staff Isabella Baldock, from Tennessee, tugs to get her horse Coronado back in line as he stretches his neck out to eat hay stacked in the stalls at Mullet Hall Equestrian Center Tuesday, July 11, 2017, on Johns Island. Grace Beahm Alford/Staff Virgina Senter, from Bristol, Tennessee, rides Heavenly Hill over jumps on the opening day of the Charleston Summer Classic at Mullet Hall Equestrian Center Tuesday, July 11, 2017, on Johns Island. Grace Beahm Alford/Staff Jason Berry from Virginia strolls the grounds with his horse Cassino at Mullet Hall Equestrian Center on Johns Island. Grace Beahm Alford/Staff Thomas Gobble, from Raleigh, North Carolina scrubs his horse, Miles to Cruise, that he will compete with on the opening day of the Charleston Summer Classic at Mullet Hall Equestrian Center Tuesday, July 11, 2017, on Johns Island. Grace Beahm Alford/Staff The opening day of the Charleston Summer Classic at Mullet Hall Equestrian Center Tuesday, July 11, 2017, on Johns Island. Grace Beahm Alford/Staff Conner Durocher, from Tennessee, prepares to take Cashmore out from his stall to ride on the opening day of the Charleston Summer Classic at Mullet Hall Equestrian Center Tuesday, July 11, 2017, on Johns Island. Grace Beahm Alford/Staff The Charleston Summer Classic will be home for equestrian action and competition for two wees at Mullet Hall Equestrian Center Tuesday, July 11, 2017, on Johns Island. Grace Beahm Alford/Staff Competitors are in the warm up before jumping rounds on the opening day of the Charleston Summer Classic at Mullet Hall Equestrian Center Tuesday, July 11, 2017, on Johns Island. Classes start on Wednesday. Grace Beahm Alford/Staff Courtney Goldstein, rides Take Flight, as she competes in jumping on the opening day of the Charleston Summer Classic at Mullet Hall Equestrian Center Tuesday, July 11, 2017, on Johns Island. Grace Beahm Alford/Staff Competitors warm up before competing in jumping on the opening day of the Charleston Summer Classic at Mullet Hall Equestrian Center Tuesday, July 11, 2017, on Johns Island. Grace Beahm Alford/Staff Post and Courier 134 Columbus Street Charleston, SC 29403 Phone:  843-577-7111 News tips/online questions: webteam@postandcourier.com Delivery/subscription questions: subserve@postandcourier.com 