Lion King 2019 Trailer Release Date Prediction: This THURSDAY The first trailer for Disney's upcoming live-action remake of The Lion King, which is being directed by Jon Favreau, could release on Thanksgiving. UPDATE:  WATCH THE LION KING TRAILER RIGHT HERE . The Lion King  remake trailer is confirmed to release today by young Simba actor, JD McCrary (via  Instagram ). The Lion King  trailer could arrive this Thursday on Thanksgiving. Disney' live-action remake of the 1994 classic is quickly approaching its July 2019 release date and fans of the animated classic are eager to see the first trailer. Jon Favreau was selected to direct  The Lion King  after turning  The Jungle Book  into a near billion dollar movie for the Mouse House. The studio has breathed new life into several animated features in recent years, such as  Beauty and the Beast , and has repeatedly found an impressive collection of talent to do so. One of the biggest announcements for the live-action remake of  Lion King  was the  return of James Earl Jones as Mufasa . The entirely CGI created film will see Donald Glover voice the lead role of Simba, while  Beyoncé is set to play Nala . The award-winning singer is also going to  collaborate with Elton John on a new song  for the remake.  The Lion King 's production schedule wasn't as easy to track due to its VFX heavy nature and only requiring voice work from its cast members, but Favreau and his cast have  been working on  Lion King  for months . However, no trailer for  The Lion King  has been released online, but we may be able to predict when that will change. Related:  Disney's Upcoming Movie Releases - From 2018 to 2023 Thanks to the film's summer 2019 release date, it has been expected that  The Lion King  trailer would arrive before the end of the year at least. Disney has  Mary Poppins Returns  hitting theaters right around Christmas and would no doubt love to have a trailer for a highly anticipated film attached to it.  The Lion King  fits this bill, but Disney also likes to release trailers online a few days (at the very least) before they are shown in theaters. But, since Disney appears to be clearing the way of any other trailer that isn't  Avengers 4 , it's possible that  The Lion King  trailer arrives as soon as Thanksgiving . It would make sense for the trailer to arrive in the next few days, allowing for it to gain traction online during the holiday weekend, and then be available to be attached to the entire slate of December releases. Disney's most recent live-action remake trailers belong to the  second trailer for  Dumbo  and the  teaser trailer for  Aladdin .  Dumbo  received its first teaser in the middle of June, roughly nine months before the movie will hit theaters (next March). The teaser for  Aladdin  came in October, which is just seven months away from its May 2019 release. We are currently right in the middle of that window with eight months to go before  Lion King  is available in cinemas. This is why anytime from now till a week or so before  Mary Poppins Returns  is released appears to be the realistic window for the first  Lion King  trailer to arrive, with our prediction leaning on it coming sooner rather than later. Since Disney already showed the recreated  Circle of Life opening to crowds at D23  last summer, it wouldn't be too surprising if this was the entire trailer. That scene is one of the original film's most iconic moments and recreating it would allow the movie to show how it is sticking close to the source material while still highlighting the impressive visuals. The one reason they could go in a different direction with the  Lion King  trailer would be to utilize the voice talent. The cast also includes  Chiwetel Ejiofor , Seth Rogen, Billy Eichner, and more, so it'd be understandable if Disney wants to sell the movie on a mixture of nostalgia, visuals, and the all-star cast. Whether the trailer arrives in a matter of days or a few weeks from now, the first trailer for  The Lion King  is surely on the way. Cooper Hood is a news and feature writer for Screen Rant. He joined Screen Rant in late 2016 following a year-long stint with MCU Exchange, which came after first developing an MCU blog of his own. He graduated college in 2016 with a Bachelor's degree in Media  &  Public Communication, with a minor in Media Production. Cooper’s love for movies began by watching Toy Story and Lion King on repeat as a child, but it wasn't until The Avengers that he took an invested interest in movies and the filmmaking process, leading him to discover the world of film journalism. Every year Cooper looks forward to seeing the latest blockbusters from the likes of Marvel, DC, and Star Wars, but also loves the rush to catch up on Oscar films near the end of the year. When he isn’t writing about or watching new releases, Cooper is a fantasy football obsessive and looking to expand his Blu-Ray collection – because physical media is still king! Follow Cooper on Twitter @MovieCooper. 