Studentized range - Wikipedia In  statistics , the  studentized range  is the difference between the largest and smallest data in a  sample  measured in units of  sample standard deviations . The  studentized range ,  q , is named for   William Sealy Gosset  (who wrote under the pseudonym " Student "), and was introduced by him (1927). [ 1 ]  The concept was later presented by a number of actual  students , Newman (1939) [ 2 ]  and Keuls (1952) [ 3 ]   and  John Tukey  in some unpublished notes.  q is the basic statistic for the  studentized range distribution , which is used for  multiple comparison  procedures, such as the single step procedure  Tukey's range test , the  Newman–Keuls method , and the Duncan's step down procedure, and establishing  confidence intervals  that are still valid after  data snooping  has occurred. [ 4 ] The value of the  studentized range  is most often represented by the variable  q . The  studentized range  can be defined based on a random sample  x 1 , ..., x n  from the  N (0, 1) distribution of numbers, and another random variable  s  that is independent of all the  x i , and  νs 2  has a  χ 2  distribution with  ν  degrees of freedom. Then has the Studentized range distribution for  n  groups and  ν  degrees of freedom. In applications, the  x i  are typically the means of samples each of size  m ,  s 2  is the  pooled variance , and the degrees of freedom are ν = n ( m − 1). The critical value of  q  is based on three factors: If  X 1 , ...,  X n  are  independent identically distributed random variables  that are  normally distributed , the probability distribution of their studentized range is what is usually called the  studentized range distribution . Note that the definition of  q  does not depend on the  expected value  or the  standard deviation  of the distribution from which the sample is drawn, and therefore its probability distribution is the same regardless of those parameters. tables of the distribution quantiles are available  here . The Studentized range distribution has applications to  hypothesis testing  and  multiple comparisons  procedures. For example,  Tukey's range test  and  Duncan's new multiple range test  (MRT), in  which the sample  x 1 , ..., x n  is a sample of  means  and  q  is the basic test-statistic, can be used as  post-hoc analysis  to test between which two groups means there is a significant difference (pairwise comparisons) after rejecting the  null hypothesis  that all groups are from the same population (i.e. all means are equal) by the standard  analysis of variance . [ 5 ] When only the equality of the  two  groups means is in question (i.e. whether  μ 1  =  μ 2 ), the  studentized range distribution  is similar to the  Student's t distribution , differing only in that the first  takes into account the number of means under consideration, and the critical value is adjusted accordingly. The more means under consideration, the larger the critical value is. This makes sense since the more means there are, the greater the probability that at least some differences between pairs of means will be significantly large due to chance alone. Generally, the term  studentized  means that the variable's scale was adjusted by dividing by an  estimate  of a population  standard deviation  (see also  studentized residual ). The fact that the standard deviation is a  sample  standard deviation rather than the  population  standard deviation, and thus something that differs from one random sample to the next, is essential to the definition and the distribution of the  Studentized  data. The variability in the value of the  sample  standard deviation contributes additional uncertainty into the values calculated. This complicates the problem of finding the probability distribution of any statistic that is  studentized . 