What ' s the most plausible Trump-Russia conspiracy theory? - Quora a ygHtc d ySV WlZcY b L y fKA e D geShH u w c BrbMu k zNAx D vFtO u FFxme c yoMwX k dQb G PPo o ekqIt As Donald Jr. has said in the past, a lot of the Trump family fortunes are tied up in Russia. Trump will never release his taxes or a clear statement of his business ties in Russia, but there is evidence that, ever since he wrecked his fortunes due to his stupidity, carelessness and lack of business acumen, and had few prospects of recovering since our banks would no longer lend to him because he doesn’t pay his debts anymore than he pays people who sign a contract and work for him … ever since then, the Trump family has been kept afloat by Russian mobster money. The ruble was strong relati... As Donald Jr. has said in the past, a lot of the Trump family fortunes are tied up in Russia. Trump will never release his taxes or a clear statement of his business ties in Russia, but there is evidence that, ever since he wrecked his fortunes due to his stupidity, carelessness and lack of business acumen, and had few prospects of recovering since our banks would no longer lend to him because he doesn’t pay his debts anymore than he pays people who sign a contract and work for him … ever since then, the Trump family has been kept afloat by Russian mobster money. The ruble was strong relative to the dollar, the oligarchs in Russia have connections to organized crime as well as to the Kremlin, Trump has some mobster ties in his past here in the US, and the continuing wealth of the Trump family may owe as much to shady deals in Russia and with Deutsche Bank as to the promotion of Trump’s “brand” due to his status as a reality show star. Trump ' s business network reached alleged Russian mobsters Putin (like Trump, Comey, etc) hates Hillary as a strong woman who says what she thinks — but Putin hates her especially because she called Putin on his suppression of dissent in 2011 when he was formally taking power back from Mevedev, and she also called him on the not-so-democratic aspects of the subsequent election. Putin as a former KGB guy has an interest in psyops and the manipulation of people through media — not just his own people but people around the world. In the wake of 2011–2012, Putin and his people have become adept at using and manipulating social media as well. Putin hates NATO and liberal democracies with built-in safeguards for free media and transparency, and he has had success in Europe, not just next door in Ukraine with people like Paul Manafort involved but in Western Europe, in creating disinformation and making elections and referendums go the way he wants. It was logical for him to apply what he had learned to the recent US election. Whether or not Trump does what Putin tells him because Trump owes huge amounts of money to Russia, and whether or not Putin can blackmail Trump with a golden showers video, etc, they had a shared goal of putting Trump in the White House. Questions of the Trump campaign’s ties to Russia were around all during the election. Manafort was not the only person on Trump’s team who seemed to have funny Russian connections. Trump was saying odd things to the press, such as that Russia is not meddling in Ukraine and won’t go into Ukraine, and we don’t have to honor our NATO commitments. The White House confirmed that Russia was behind the DNC hack and leak. But Putin found, probably to his surprise and delight, that US media never bothered to cover the Russia-Trump connection properly during the campaign, and obligingly aired whatever disinformation they were given. Putin also made good use of fake news sites, some of them created in Russia, and candidate Trump either got his “news” and talking points off those sites or from Putin’s people more directly: Dear Mr. Trump, I am not Sidney Blumenthal At times, Russia pulled back from leaking stuff. When Trump was running down the Khans, Gold Star parents who had lost a heroic child who served our country, the Kremlin decided Trump was just crazy and could never win, and so they stopped leaking for a while: Trump, Putin and the hidden history of how Russia interfered in the U.S. presidential election But, again, probably to Putin’s surprise and delight, the American public are so crass and stupid that even that disgusting behavior by Donald Trump did not do long-term damage to his candidacy! So, the Russians went back to leaking, aided by Julian Assange who also really, really hates Hillary. Assange attacked Edward Snowden, when Snowden criticized Assange for exposing names of people who might be hurt by things posted on WikLeaks, and Assange said oh, Snowden is probably hoping Hillary will win and will pardon him! But — it is also possible that after nine years of living in that embassy, Assange wouldn’t mind a pardon himself, or to be extradited to the US or Russia to “stand trial” except the trial never comes … Anyhow, Assange, who may well be a sexual predator though there are fewer allegations against him than against Donald Trump, said Russia did not leak the stuff to WikiLeaks, and the world is full of wide-eyed, credulous guys saying: Oh! If Assange says it, well, that settles it! Assange could never lie … So. Russia were our nation’s Watergate burglars — except the burglary this time was successful, and virtual, and (since it was Russia) the Dirty Tricks Committee behind it was a hostile foreign power, which aids the Taliban which kills our soldiers. Republicans don’t seem to mind. The leaking campaign complemented the fake news disinformation campaign and the many Russian cyber-trolls who claimed to be US citizens, born and bred, on Facebook and Twitter and, yes, even on Quora, who somehow had heavy accents like Boris and Natasha from Rocky and Bullwinkle and would write things like: “Bernie honest! Hillary no good, she steal nomination, I vote for Trump, he like Bernie! Honest man!” (Ain’t it odd how most of those people have disappeared since the election? Where do you suppose they went?) Here is my song “Disinformation”: Trump has stocked his administration with people like Flynn (well, he’s gone now) and Jeff Sessions and others who had secret meetings with Russians during the campaign and some, like Flynn and Attorney General Sessions, lied to Congress about it. And again — the Republicans seem fine with it! They’re fine with the antics of Nunes and how he is making a mockery of the committee that he heads. They’re fine with treason and a foreign takeover of our country. We are learning more and more about the Republican Party, through all of this … 1,422 Views 225,728 Views 553,126 Views 5,451 Views 1,244 Views Trump met some very rich Russian oligarchs. They looked cool to Trump because they were rich and masculine. He wanted to be like them and he especially wanted to be like Putin because he is the richest and most masculine one of all. Putin didn’t want Clinton as President of the US. She is a tough woman who wasn’t always nice to him and he didn’t like that. He had some of his computer guys work on hurting her campaign. It could help him and there wasn’t much of a down side so why not? Then Trump was doing well in his campaign. Putin saw that as a gift. He mentioned to his buddies that here was... Trump met some very rich Russian oligarchs. They looked cool to Trump because they were rich and masculine. He wanted to be like them and he especially wanted to be like Putin because he is the richest and most masculine one of all. Putin didn’t want Clinton as President of the US. She is a tough woman who wasn’t always nice to him and he didn’t like that. He had some of his computer guys work on hurting her campaign. It could help him and there wasn’t much of a down side so why not? Then Trump was doing well in his campaign. Putin saw that as a gift. He mentioned to his buddies that here was a useful idiot that could be President of the US. That would be good for Putin and his fascist government. Some of Putin’s oligarchs sent their people to help Trump. Manafort would have been one of those guys. It was a natural fit anyway. Trump’s ideology is closer to fascism than conservatism so the people who wanted to work for him liked Putin and Russia. Since Trump and his boys were in that circle, the people they knew also had ties to Russian oligarchs. The closer Trump came to being president, the more Putin wanted to “help” him. It is great for Russia when the US is weak. With Trump in office, we are pro-fascism, pro- Russia, and the weakest we have been on foreign policy since before the 20th century. It is the best possible scenario that Putin could have dreamed up. s V p wY o Ayl n wAd s E o F r UqVU e vY d XfuHb YwH b DeS y f QC T ec h RvoPC e IZCq sA C xit h n u ahU r nsqkY c DKzM h D hwCj o Ini f H aJeh J Hgev e dKR s HPrjD u hpS s XIhf AY C DyDsh h QBY r IMdJ i HGXC s pPYTh t waRhl I have seen and read a lot of intervievs about Trump over the last couple of decades. To my frustration, some of the earlier tapes and aricles has  not  been released on YouTube, or anywhere else that I have been able to find. There were some gems in the aftermath of him sending his company belly, leaving primary people (shareholders) to pay his bills for him. One of the things that made me sit up and listen back then, was him talking on camera about “some interesting businees prospects” in Russia. At that time, the oligarchs were the aristocrats of what is known as the Russian mafia. They wer... I have seen and read a lot of intervievs about Trump over the last couple of decades. To my frustration, some of the earlier tapes and aricles has  not  been released on YouTube, or anywhere else that I have been able to find. There were some gems in the aftermath of him sending his company belly, leaving primary people (shareholders) to pay his bills for him. One of the things that made me sit up and listen back then, was him talking on camera about “some interesting businees prospects” in Russia. At that time, the oligarchs were the aristocrats of what is known as the Russian mafia. They were - and still are - Putin ' s very profitable friends. At the time of this interview they were the only people in Russia that could be of any busines interest to Trump. Trump had already at that time had a long standing, shady reputation among smaller contracting businesses is New York, and had richly earned himself the nickname “Don the Con.” So when I heard Trump talk about this Russian opportunity, I remember thinking that he’d better be prepared to pay for the rest of his life (if not with his life) if he ever tried his con man tricks on them. As soon as you ' re in with these guys, they will find something bad to hold over your head. They will let you know what they have on you, and you will know that they can destroy you if you don ' t comply. In Europe at that time, “troublesome” people seemed to drop dead around Putin and this particular group of his friends all the time. It seems everyone(?) who saw this interview back then, suffers from amnesia these days. The same goes for all the later interviews on camera, too, with Trump talking about his dealings with the very top of Russian society. I now feel somewhat vindicated, because they have at least found tapes of Trump - including one with his son - from 6–10 years ago. They there talk about how a very substantial the Trump organization’s investments and business operations with the Russian oligarchy really is. I think Jr. used the words “most of” their investments. If these interviews are not on YouTube by now, they should emerge soon. The rediscovery of these old video’s is still a very new thing from what I understand. I write this from my recollection only, just to make that clear. My very first sniff of the Russian connections to Trump’s campaign and transition team, triggered my memory of all the old, known Trump-Russia connections. “Oh! Here we go then. Now,  this  is going to be quite a spectacle for the world to see!” I assumed then, that Trump and his crew had colluded with the Russians to secure Trumps win by any means necessary: We will help you win for our common cause, white supremacy, if you work to weaken NATO for us. Putin must be quite aggravated with Trump now. Trump is a loose cannon who famously avoids thinking before he speaks, unless he has a teleprompter to read from and is strongly urged not to stray from the text. He says damming, revealing things quite frequently when answering questions impromtu answers without ever realizing that he has done so. This of course has made the whole Russia thing to the farse it is for the US. Trump ' s white supremacy White House Tweedledee and Tweedledumb flailing about, doing their best to deflect, control, explain and rationalize the irrational. It ' s all fire control all day, and the President signs his “autographs” on papers that just happens to be executive orders that he has not even read yet. And that ' s no big deal to him. He does not comprehend that signing an executive order is something far more serious than signing a book or a napkin. He is a child who wants to  play  president, and only play the  fun  part. The elections in Europe this year probably would have gone more according to plan for Putin and the white supremacy candidates if Trump and his White House, white supremacy muppet show had lost the US election. Europe is really what Putin wants. He just needed Trump to a) weaken NATO by pulling the plug, filibuster all things NATO for as long as possible, and let it slowly leak dry of its current power, and b) be an inspirational white supremacy leader who would help recrute European voters to their common cause. “Look to America!” Well, it seems like a lot of people in Europe, frustraded with immigration to the point that they would concider voting for the Right Wing party, has done just that: They have looked to America and concluded that they don ' t want their country descending into the all inclusive, overwhelming mess that you struggle with now. Trump is doing a fine job ruining himself one impromptu statement at a time. When Russia desides it ' s time to do some after the fact damage control and speed things along the path Trump himself is going, I think Trump will decide to resign “for health reasons”. He is too heavily invested in Russia, and has too much to lose. He is Putin ' s gofer, and will be stopped in his tracks when Putin says when. If he is not impeached first This would be plausible for a lot of people who are aware of Trump ' s early and long lasting business dealings with the Russian oligarchy, and the serious financial extent of these dealings - and who knows Putin ' s modus operandi. I ' m not saying that this is empirically proven to be the only possible version of the truth. That would be just stupid. But it is the most plausible theory about the conspiracy that has been going on  in my opinion . Well we know that Trump has underperformed the stock market in terms of investment returns.  Trump Worth $10 Billion Less Than If He’d Simply Invested in Index Funds And that was even as he had the good fortune to work during a period of rising real estate prices. It seems like Trump’s one superlative skill is salesmanship. Specifically, selling a gaudy, superficial image of success that a lot of people bought into from a distance. Closing the deal doesn ' t ensure success though, and he ' s not exactly reported to be detail oriented. So times when things went badly, he shortchanged contractors tha... Well we know that Trump has underperformed the stock market in terms of investment returns.  Trump Worth $10 Billion Less Than If He’d Simply Invested in Index Funds And that was even as he had the good fortune to work during a period of rising real estate prices. It seems like Trump’s one superlative skill is salesmanship. Specifically, selling a gaudy, superficial image of success that a lot of people bought into from a distance. Closing the deal doesn ' t ensure success though, and he ' s not exactly reported to be detail oriented. So times when things went badly, he shortchanged contractors that didn ' t have money to sue and even declared bankruptcy (again and again and again and again) . But there ' s only so many times you can burn other people ' s money before they cut you off. I think US banks will tell you Trump passed that point a long time ago. Once he couldn ' t get money from reputable sources, what was left? Deep pocketed autocrats with dirty money. I expect this will eventually be shown as why he always refused to release his tax returns. Of course, the Russians in particular play hardball, so they probably do have additional leverage on him, even if the most lurid kompromat accusations aren ' t accurate. It would explain why he always, always praises Putin. Is there literally anyone else he speaks about like that? He may well admire Putin’s style and cult of personality, but I think it all started with the money. Also the rapidly elongating string of ‘mysterious’ deaths of high profile Russians is probably not coincidental to ongoing investigations of Trump’s Russian connections. s f p KmHal o Atq n BPzkH s tp o orO r YgE e QD d EIPu ih b S y Y ZkmY W BjX o ihKb r qnS l XM d KvZ L Wti i DOe f lxO e Oyhgh s KKxM t Cjj y tEW l k e Njg 1,244 Views 1,731,287 Views 4,051 Views 120,581 Views 26,867 Views Trump worked with many Russians before becoming president. All was good, and like a good Russian Secret Service, the FSB took videos of Trump and tapped his rooms and phones when he was in-country. You never know when the information will be useful. Then Trump was running for president and doing better than expected. Putin knew that Hillary is on top of foreign policy and has many friends in high-places who she could call on to assist the U.S. and our interests. He also knew that she wouldn’t be intimidated by him and would hold his feet to the fire on Syria, the Ukraine, and more. Trump love... Trump worked with many Russians before becoming president. All was good, and like a good Russian Secret Service, the FSB took videos of Trump and tapped his rooms and phones when he was in-country. You never know when the information will be useful. Then Trump was running for president and doing better than expected. Putin knew that Hillary is on top of foreign policy and has many friends in high-places who she could call on to assist the U.S. and our interests. He also knew that she wouldn’t be intimidated by him and would hold his feet to the fire on Syria, the Ukraine, and more. Trump loved Putin and how powerful he was. Trump wanted to be like Putin and more importantly he was completely clueless on foreign policy. Putin could have his way in the world if he could just get Trump to be president. So Putin got his tech folks to hack the DNC and more. Meanwhile he collaborated with Manafort, Kushner, Flynn, and likely Donald himself. He let him know that he has information on Trump that should never be shown to the public and he never wants it to. He just wants to help Trump get into office and make America great again - by creating a great relationship with Putin. It was an offer that Trump couldn’t refuse. Of course that’s all speculation and nothing more, but certainly not out of the realm of possibility. This is based what we think we know so far about the Trump Org and its surrogates (TO). Some of this may be proven to be untrue but at the moment it is supported by several credible sources: This is based what we think we know so far about the Trump Org and its surrogates (TO). Some of this may be proven to be untrue but at the moment it is supported by several credible sources: At this stage there are few plausible conspiracy theories but there are strong indications of coordination. My theory is that no conspiracy will ever be proven but there will be circumstantial evidence that Putin and the TO used each other to achieve their respective goals. When a conspiracy theory is mentioned, the most plausible answer is that it did not happen at all. After all, the only embarrassments suffered by both campaigns concerned things that Trump and Clinton did actually do out of their own volition, like pottymouthing about women and using a non-conventional email management system. Furthermore both candidates have been involved in international deals for a good part of the last few years, so links with Russia are expected anyway. Finally, the internal and international situation of Putin’s Russia including the status of its flagship aircraft carrie... When a conspiracy theory is mentioned, the most plausible answer is that it did not happen at all. After all, the only embarrassments suffered by both campaigns concerned things that Trump and Clinton did actually do out of their own volition, like pottymouthing about women and using a non-conventional email management system. Furthermore both candidates have been involved in international deals for a good part of the last few years, so links with Russia are expected anyway. Finally, the internal and international situation of Putin’s Russia including the status of its flagship aircraft carrier suggest that Moscow has neither the ability nor the wherewithal to influence the multi-billion-dollar US election industry. As has been revealed over the last few days with … … The most plausible theory it was made-up all along being pushed by someone who wanted to undermine T... As has been revealed over the last few days with … … The most plausible theory it was made-up all along being pushed by someone who wanted to undermine Trump. Trump appears to be a paper billionaire, only before his $4–10B loans from Russian banks. After which he is bankrupt. He is surprisingly quiet on Russia compared to everyone else, including allies. Putin knows he has Trump personally by the balls. You can ' t think of a true billionaire that needs to talk a d parade himself around like Trump. That is the biggest giveaway he is a phoney conman. There is no plausible Trump / Russia collusion anywhere but in the minds of the deluded. If there is actual  evidence,  what do these people think the authorities and Congress are waiting for. Believe me, if they had the smoking gun, it would be all but over. President Pence. Nothing of the sort has happened, nor will it. I get a huge kick out of the defeated when they talk about things being on the cusp of breaking, or that everything ' s on the table, and the end will come any day now. Or, great revelations are coming any day now. As if. Listen to this.  http://traffic.libsyn.com/waking... Anne applebaum gives a very plausible response to why we should be worried and she doesn ' t need nor want to use the conspiracy theories. Trump has seen/learnt that the oligarchical system in Russia is a way to great power and riches. He wants to emulate his Russian counterparts and they are only too happy to help a fellow authoritarian kelptocrat 1,731,287 Views 1,422 Views 5,451 Views 553,126 Views 911 Views 1,244 Views 384 Views 4,051 Views 1,694 Views 26,867 Views 1,240 Views 2,575 Views 1,676 Views 930 Views 3,593 Views 