9998 in 2019 | Cool lava lamps, Lava lamp, Lava Les meilleures offres pour Lampe paillettes bleu CRESTWORTH  " Décoverre "  COSMOS vintage 60 &# x27;s 70 &# x27;s rare sont sur eBay ✓ Comparez les prix et les spécificités des produits neufs et d &# x27;occasion ✓ Pleins d &# x27;articles en livraison gratuite! Add a touch of retro style to your home with this color-changing vortex lamp by LAVA, featuring a swirling glitter action that creates a sparkling effect. From unicorn folders to popcorn erasers, these cool school supplies will make all of your homework, studying and note-taking way more fun this year. Buy Lava® lamp Marble Table Lamp, Turquoise from our Desk  &  Table Lamps range at John Lewis  &  Partners. Free Delivery on orders over £50. *shipping will be for 2-9 day domestic shipping only in US* if you need a package rushed please ask if I can rush it before purchasing or if you want priority shipping I will make a custom listing for the price difference* THANKS! Beautiful cloud lamp with raindrops and a silhouette of a little These lamps are the coolest! They are beautiful, spacey and suuuuper unique. ;-) We even have some in our own house! They are made out of a high quality LED light, an ABS plastic 3D Printed base and PLA plastic 3D Printed Shade. Light turns on with button on base. Great for dorm rooms, hang out spaces, end tables or anywhere your heart desires! Lamp shade is unattached to easily change the bulb. Place it on top and you are good to go! :::::LED Lightbulbs only!!::::: SIZING: Lamps measure… Description 2pcs artificial jellyfish, made from a special polymer, move as if they were alive on the micro currents created by the aquarium. LED lights gently change color with different lighting effects, adding to the soothing ambiance. Watch in amazement as 2 life-like jellyfish gently float and sway through the tan 14.5 "  Lava Lamp - Schylling Color: MultiColored. Lavalamp galaxy met multicolor lava en glitters van Fisura ✔ Voor 22:45 besteld, morgen in huis ✔ Betaal achteraf ✔ 365 dagen gratis retour Introducing the new Lava Brand Electro Plasma Lamp, the next generation of Lava Brand Plasma Lamps. The Electro Plasma skillfully combines plasma technology with the unmistakable Lava Lamp shape. Watch the different sized blobs collide, flow and split apart as they ooze their way up and around the glass globe of this Lava lamp. A hand-spun base and cap make this lamp truly unique. Enjoy the colorful motion of this classic version of the timeless Lava lamp. Color: Black. Jellyfish Lamp: Realistic jellyfish in a calming and colorful tank. See related links to what you are looking for. Bring back the groovy Original Lava Lamp to your home &# x27;s decor. Popular in the late 60s and 70s, these funky lamps are mesmerizing with their magic dance moves. Glowing Jellyfish Sculptures: Glass jellyfish sculpture that glows in the dark. Glass Ball Diameter - 2.4 inch / 60mm, made of clear crystal with amazing power of a lase Nice addition to your globes, great gift for anyone who interested in crystal statue, come with package box Exquisite galaxy inside, demonstrate how galaxies appear differently depending upon the angle at which you observe them One of the most beloved and recognizable icons from the 1960s and 1970s. LAVA Lite resurrects the groovy gizmo, bringing it back to the forefront of trendy home decor. This 14.5 "  lamp features pink wax in a purple liquid sitting in a silver base. Adult collectible, not a toy. 