Compare Income Protection Insurance | Compare the Market Help protect what's most important to you. Help protect what's most important to you. Help protect what's most important to you. Help protect what's most important to you. Help protect what's most important to you. Need a little help?  Give the friendly team at Assured Futures a call. Mon   Thurs: 9.00am   8pm Fri: 9.00am   5pm Sat: 10.00am   2pm Worried about what might happen if you become ill or lose your job? Income protection insurance could offer you and your family security. This is our guide on what you need to know. There are several types of income protection policy: Permanent Health Insurance (PHI)  not to be confused with private health insurance that covers medical costs. PHI means you can protect a portion of your income   often 50% of your gross salary   in the event of illness or an accident. It can pay out until you reach retirement age, providing you with greater financial security. Find out more about Permanent Health Insurance . Accident and sickness cover  if you find yourself unable to work, through sickness or injury, this cover provides an alternative income for you to pay your monthly outgoings until you can return to work. See more information about sickness and injury cover . Unemployment cover  should you lose your job, this provides you with a steady replacement income. After a deferred period upon leaving work (which can be adjusted in your policy), you ll begin to receive a tax-free monthly income to replace your lost earnings. Find further details about Unemployment Insurance . Accident, Sickness and Unemployment (ASU) cover  a combination of the above, in the event of illness, an accident or job loss, this allows you to protect the payments on your mortgage or rent, plus any other debts. You can also access some extra income.  Get more information about ASU . Depending on your needs, you may choose either short term or long-term income protection cover. Short-term income protection typically covers any lost earnings through illness or injury that leave you unable to work. It can also cover unemployment, so that, in the event of redundancy for example, your earnings are replaced with an alternative income until you are back in work. This type of cover typically lasts for one or two years. Long-term income protection is more suitable for more serious circumstances, which leave you unable to work for a much longer period, usually owing to sickness or injury. Long-term protection tends to start from five years of cover and can cover you all the way to retirement age. Find out more about both types of cover . Sickness, injury and redundancy are just a few of the things that can suddenly impact your income. It s not a nice thing to think about, but it is important, especially if you have a family or additional financial commitments. These circumstances can quickly burn through any savings you have managed to build, with everything from your mortgage/rent, utilities, food and travel to consider. Income protection insurance gives you the security and peace of mind, so that, should something happen, your monthly outgoings are covered. There are a few differences: PHI: ASU: You can, but it probably won t be the most cost-effective way of getting protection. It s also important to remember the maximum limits, which may be 50% of your monthly salary, no matter how many policies you have. One way to get full protection is to have  both an ASU and a PHI policy . The first covers you after 30 days in the event of illness or an accident, and then (after 90 days) for redundancy for the first 12 months. After that PHI will replace your income for as long as necessary until you retire. Having ASU cover in place for the first 12 months means you can have a 12-month deferred period on your PHI. This will make your premium cheaper. Not at all. The idea is that the  insurance takes over when your sick pay ends . If you fall ill, some employers will still pay your salary for a set period   sometimes for up to 12 months. Check how much your employer will give you and for how long. The longer you receive a salary, the longer you can make your deferment period. Many policies won t pay out if you re still receiving a salary. If you re self-employed, you won t have employee benefits, so income protection is something you should consider. If you fall ill, some employers will still pay your salary for a set period   sometimes for up to 12 months. Check how much your employer will give you and for how long.  The longer you receive a salary, the longer you can make your deferment period. Many policies won t pay out if you re still receiving a salary. If you re  self-employed , you won t have employee benefits, so income protection is something you should consider. It s easy to compare prices and the different levels of cover with Compare the Market. Just use our income protection comparison service and fill in your details and what cover you re interested in. It only takes a few minutes to see what quotes are available to you. Make sure you check the details of the policy, not just the price, as they will all offer slightly different cover. The income protection cover that we offer isn t the only option available to you. Here are a couple of alternatives for you to consider: Life insurance Critical illness cover What age should I take out life insurance? 2019 compare the market .com. All rights reserved. compare the market .com and comparethemeerkat.com are trading names of Compare The Market Limited. Compare The Market Limited is an insurance intermediary, which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (Firm Reference Number 778488). This website uses cookies. Continuing to use this website gives consent to cookies being used. For information on how to disable them see our cookie policy . *Qualifying purchases.  Participating restaurants/cinemas. Cheapest free. 1 membership per 12 months. T & Cs apply Rewards T & Cs apply . Meerkat Meals : 2 for 1 on selected food. A la carte only. Sun-Thurs. Max 6 people. Exc certain days  &  kid s meals. App only. Meerkat Movies : Tues or Weds. 2 standard tickets only. Please note your claim may take up to 48 hours to validate. Average Rewards saving of  589 based on two people going to a participating cinema once a month, and four people going to a participating restaurant once a month, for a whole year. Meals saving calculated from Frankie  &  Benny s online menu on 25.09.2019 using costs for garlic bread and mozzarella, fish and chips and warm apple pie for four adults. Movies saving based on UKCA Average cinema ticket price on 25.09.2019. Apple and the Apple logo are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries and regions. App Store is a service mark of Apple Inc.Google Play and the Google Play logo are trademarks of Google LLC. ^For the period 1st June 2019 to 31st August 2019, 17.584 people responded to the recommend question, 16,638 responded with a score of 6 or above, therefore 94.6% are likely to recommend compare the market .com uses cookies to offer you the best experience online. By continuing to use our website, you agree to the use of cookies. If you would like to know more about cookies and how to manage them please view our  privacy  &  cookie policy .             