Cherry Tree Gardens, Pennycross Close, Plymouth, PL2, 2 bed, Apartment, PL2 3NX, £140,000, For Sale - Mouseprice SUMMARY This first floor 2 bedroom apartment with a parking space is ideal for first time buyers and investors. The living room/dining area has French doors making it a great space for entertaining and there is a separate kitchen. One of the bedrooms is double and both are served by the master bathroom. DESCRIPTION Cherry Tree Gardens is a stunning development of 2, 3  &  4 bedroom homes set in Plymouth  with Help To Buy Available! Windsor House Apartments are superb 2 bedroom homes with all you need for modern living and more. The kitchen flows seamlessly into the living room which is made bright and airy by the French doors. The master bedroom is a double and both of the bedrooms are served by the master bathroom. The hallway storage cupboard is a practical finishing touch. It's not just the homes that make Cherry Tree Gardens so special, but the location. With a dramatic position on the Devon coastline, Plymouth offers the best of both worlds – all the conveniences of city living and close proximity to some stunning beaches and open countryside.  Plymouth is home to the UK’s ninth-largest university, whose students bring a real buzz to the city, and mean there’s never a shortage of places to eat, drink and be entertained. There are also all of the big-name shops you’d expect from a large city, plus a multi-screen cinema, theatres and plenty of attractions, including the National Marine Aquarium. The beautiful Cornish and Devon coastlines offers some of the finest beaches in the country, while inland, the rugged landscape of Dartmoor National Park is just waiting to be explored. For commuters, Plymouth’s railway station provides services to Truro, Exeter and London Paddington, while ferries depart from the city to France and northern Spain. Hallway The hallway storage cupboard is a practical finishing touch. Kitchen 11' 4" x 9' 1" ( 3.45m x 2.77m ) Living/ Dining Room 16' 8" max x 12' 8" max ( 5.08m max x 3.86m max ) The kitchen flows seamlessly into the living room which is made bright and airy by the French doors. Master Bedroom 11' 10" min x 9' 7" min ( 3.61m min x 2.92m min ) The master bedroom is a double and both of the bedrooms are served by the master bathroom. Bedroom Two 9' 7" x 8' 7" ( 2.92m x 2.62m ) Bathroom Agents Note: Please note, the images show a typical home of this type, but there are, however variances from property to property. Lease details are currently being compiled.  For further information please contact the branch.  Please note additional fees could be incurred for items such as leasehold packs. 1. MONEY LAUNDERING REGULATIONS - Intending purchasers will be asked to produce identification documentation at a later stage and we would ask for your co-operation in order that there will be no delay in agreeing the sale. 2: These particulars do not constitute part or all of an offer or contract. 3: The measurements indicated are supplied for guidance only and as such must be considered incorrect. 4: Potential buyers are advised to recheck the measurements before committing to any expense. 5: Connells has not tested any apparatus, equipment, fixtures, fittings or services and it is the buyers interests to check the working condition of any appliances. 6: Connells has not sought to verify the legal title of the property and the buyers must obtain verification from their solicitor. The list below shows offers which were accepted on similar properties. We can't suggest the same ratio will apply to this property as each property is different, but hopefully they will be informative nevertheless Most recent sales The table below lists nearby recent sales of the same type of properties with the same number of bedrooms.  Alternatively, have a look at the  full list of all sales in PL2 3NX  since 1995. Marketed by: Connells First Time Buyers Centre Plymouth PL4 7AA Track property: Tick all that apply: Send me more details Arrange a viewing Value my property Help me find a mortgage Crown copyright material reproduced with permission of Land Registry and Registers of Scotland. Copyright Landmark Analytics Limited             