Does host discovery plugins impact port scanning plugins? Brent Barnett  (Customer) asked a question. I am wondering if Security Center uses the info gathered from host discovery to run other plugins during the same scan. Example is if I do an advanced policy and turn off some or all of the ping methods will it impact the port scanning section of the policy.  I don't believe it will or should, but wanted to verify.     Here is answer I got from a few of the plugin developers. Port scanning is absolutely used by other plugins, disabling the port scanning will cause several plugins not to fire.   I assumed port scanning was used by the plugins.  I asked in the question above if the 'host discovery plugins' I.E. ping methods (ARP, TCP, ICMP, UDP) will affect the port scanning plugins. The more plugins you enable, the better picture you will have.   I am asking what the programming logic is behind the ping methods (ARP, TCP, ICMP, UDP).  What plugins relies on a successful TCP ping?   I understand what you are saying, but it still didn't really answer the question.  The reason I am asking is because we have an IP range or two that goes through a router and when I turn on TCP ping it causes SC to falsely count the IP's against our license.  I opened a ticket and their fix was to install a scanner on every sub-net.  I am trying to find proof one way or the other that disabling TCP ping will cause Security Center to ignore settings in other sections of the policy.  An example would be if TCP ping is disabled 'Probe all ports to find services' will or will not work because of it.   Well I going to agree with Customer Support, scanning through a firewall is never recommended.  A good firewall, even if the scanner IP is whitelisted, will begin to block the scanner's traffic.  And as you send more data you will get more false positives.  the best option is to put scanners local to the subnets, and not scan through a firewall.   Agreed the best option is to put a scanner local to each of the subnets.  Best implies there are other options.  The first being the way I am doing it now and having 100's of wasted licenses.  The second is to disable TCP ping.  I thought this was a simple question, but it doesn't look like I am going to get an answer to 'What plugins relies on a successful TCP ping?' Here is answer I got from a few of the plugin developers. That was exactly what I was looking for.  I just wanted to verify and thank you very much for digging into it for me.   