The Oxford Handbook of Organizational Well-Being - Susan Cartwright; Cary L. Cooper - Oxford University Press $ 200.00 Hardcover Published: 15 January 2009  656 Pages | Figures  &  tables  ISBN: 9780199211913 Ebook This title is available as an ebook. To purchase, visit your preferred ebook provider. Oxford Handbooks Online Available in  Oxford Handbooks Online  Access may be available through your institution, or you can buy or rent chapters Bookseller Code (06) In today's changing business environment, the financial health of an organization is increasingly dependent on the extent to which it and its members are able to transform and adapt to these changing internal and external circumstances more effectively than their competitors. Health has been identified as a key driver of socio-economic progress internationally, emphasizing the link between the health of individual workers and the overall performance of an organization. Equally, decades of research has highlighted the major role that work plays in determining physical health and psychological well being.  This handbook focuses on organizational well being in its widest sense, and is concerned with reviewing the factors which are associated with ill health, as well as those which promote positive health and well being. In it, leading international scholars focus on the key issues:  * Absenteeism and presenteeism  * Health and safety,  * Models, measures, and methodologies for measuring well being,  * Individual factors associated with well being such as leadership, emotion, stress, and risk and rewards,  * Organizational factors associated with well being such as working hours, emotional labour, technology, and job insecurity,  * Organizational strategies for improving individual well being.  The handbook ends with two chapters setting out new perspectives - the link between well being and geography and climate, and the importance of corporate social responsibility in creating a sustainable and healthy work environment. About the Series Oxford Handbooks in Business  &  Management bring together the world's leading scholars on the subject to discuss current research and the latest thinking in a range of interrelated topics including Strategy, Organizational Behavior, Public Management, International Business, and many others. Containing completely new essays with extensive referencing to further reading and key ideas, the volumes, in hardback or paperback, serve as both a thorough introduction to a topic and a useful desk reference for scholars and advanced students alike. 1. Introduction: Perspectives on Organizational Health,  Susan Cartwright and Cary L. Cooper Section I: The Costs and Indicators of Well Being in the Work Place  2. Absenteeism or Presenteeism? Attendance Dynamics and Employee Well-Being,  Gary Johns 3. Accidents and Safety in the Workplace,  Sharon Clarke Section II: Models, Measures, and Methodologies for Assessing Well Being  4. Environmental 'Vitamins', Personal Judgments, Work Values, and Happiness,  Peter Warr 5. Measuring Burnout,  Christina Maslach, Michael P. Leiter, and Wilmar Schaufeli 6. Job Control and Reward: Effects on Well Being,  Johannes Siegrist 7. Organizational Screening: The ASSET Model,  Sheena Johnson Section III: Individual Factors and Well Being  8. Leadership, Psychological Well-Being, and Organizational Outcomes,  Ivan T. Robertson and Jill Flint-Taylor 9. Work-Life Balance: Individual and Organizational Strategies and Practices,  Steven Poelmans, Heather Odle-Dusseau, and Barbara Beham 10. Positive Emotions, Attitudes, and Health: Motivated, Engaged, Focused,  James Campbell Quick, Laura M. Little, and Debra L. Nelson 11. Stress and Coping,  Michael P. O'Driscoll, Paula A. Brough, and Thomas J. Kalliath 12. Work Hours, Work Intensity and Work Addiction: Risks and Rewards,  Ronald J. Burke and Lisa Fiksenbaum Section IV: Job/Organizational Factors and Well Being  13. The Impact of Working Hours and Working Patterns on Physical and Psychological Health,  Bruce Kirkcaldy, Adrian Furnham, and Roy Shephard 14. Emotional Labour, Well-Being, and Performance,  David Holman, David Martinez-Iñigo, and Peter Totterdell 15. Technology and Health,  Michael D. Coovert, Ashley A. Gray, Frederick R. B. Stilson, and Matthew S. Prewett 16. Job Insecurity, Unemployment, and Organizational Well-Being: Oxymoron or Possibility?,  Tahira M. Probst 17. Building Employee Engagement, Job Satisfaction, Health, and Retention,  Victor Callan and Sandra A. Lawrence Section V: Organizational Interventions to Promote Health and Well Being  18. Mediators and Moderators of Organizational Interventions to Prevent Occupational Stress,  Caroline Biron, Cary L. Cooper, and Frank W. Bond 19. The Challenges of Developing, Implementing and Evaluating Interventions,  Andrew J. Noblet and Anthony D. LaMontagne 20. Organizational Coaching and Mentoring,  Jonathan Passmore and Jodie Anagnos Section VI: New Perspectives  21. Climato-economic Niches of Employee Well Being,  Evert Van de Vliert 22. Creating a Healthy Work Environment Through Sustainable Practices - Future Challenges,  Erik Bichard Susan Cartwright is a Chartered Psychologist and Fellow of the British Psychological Society. She is Professor of Organizational Psychology in the Manchester Business School at The University of Manchester, UK. Susan is currently the President of the British Academy of Management and a Fellow of the British Academy of Management. She is a past Editor of the  Leadership and Organization Development Journal  and a current Associate Editor of the  British Journal of Management .  Susan has authored 13 books, over 40 scholarly articles and 30 book chapters. Her main research interests lie in the area of occupational stress and well being, human aspects of mergers and acquisitions and emotional intelligence. She was Editor of the Volume V of the  Blackwell Encyclopedia of Management on Human Resource Management  (Blackwell, 2005) and Co-Editor, with Cary L. Cooper and Christopher Early, of  The International Handbook of Organizational Culture and Climate  (Wiley, 2001). Cary L. Cooper is Professor of Organizational Psychology and Health in Lancaster University Management School and Pro Vice Chancellor (External Relations) at Lancaster University. He is a Fellow of the British Psychological Society, the Royal Society of Medicine, and the Royal Society of Health.  Cary was the founding Editor of the  Journal of Organizational Behaviour  and is Co-Editor of Stress and Health. In 1998, he was the recipient of the Distinguished Service Award for his contribution to management science from the US Academy of Management.  Cary is the author of over 100 books on occupational stress, women at work, and industrial and organizational psychology and has written over 400 scholarly articles.  Jodie Anagnos, Psychology Department, University of East London,  Barbara Beham, University of Hamburg, Germany, Erik Bichard, School of the Built Environment, University of Salford,  Caroline Biron, Lancaster University Management School, University of Lancaster,  Frank W. Bond, Department of Psychology, Goldsmith College, University of London,  Paula Brough, School of Psychology, Griffith University,  Ronald J. Burke, School of Business, York University,  Victor J. Callan, UQ Business School, University of Queensland,  Susan Cartwright, Manchester Business School, University of Manchester,  Sharon Clarke, Manchester Business School, University of Manchester Cary L. Cooper, Vice Chancellor's Office, University House, Lancaster University,  Michael D. Coovert, Department of Psychology, University of South Florida,  Lisa Fiksenbaum, School of Business, York University,  Jill Flint-Taylor, Robertson Cooper Ltd.,  Adrian F. Furnham, Department of Psychology, University College London,  Ashley A.G. Walvoord, Psychology Department, University of South Florida,  David Holman, Institute of Work Psychology, University of Sheffield,  Gary Johns, Department of Management, John Molson School of Business, Concordia University,  Sheena Johnson, Manchester Business School, University of Manchester,  Thomas Kalliath, School of Business and Information Management,  Bruce D. Kirkcaldy, International Centre for the Study of Occupational and Mental Health,  Anthony D. LaMontagne, School of Population Health, University of Melbourne,  Sandra Lawrence, Griffith Business School, Griffith University,  Michael Leiter, Centre for Organizational Research and Development, Acadia University,  Laura Little, College of Business Administration, Oklahoma State University,  David Martinez-Iñigo, Department of Social Science, University Rey Juan Carlos, Madrid, Spain, Christina Maslach, University of California, Berkeley, Debra Nelson, College of Business Administration, Oklahoma State University,  Andrew Noblet, Deakin Business School, Deakin University,  Heather Odle-Dusseau, Clemson University, USA, Michael O'Driscoll, Department of Psychology, University of Waikato, Jonathan Passmore, Psychology Department, University of East London,  Steven Poelmans, IESE Business School, University of Navara, Spain, Matthew Prewett, Department of Psychology, University of South Florida,  Tahira M. Probst, Department of Psychology, Washington State University Vancouver, Canada, James Campbell Quick, Goolsby Leadership Academy, The University of Texas at Arlington, USA, Ivan T. Robertson, Robertson Cooper Ltd., UK, Wilmar Schaufeli, Utrecht University, The Netherlands, Roy J. Shephard, Institute of Sport and Health Sciences, University of Toronto, Canada, Johannes Siegrist, Department of Medical Sociology, University of Dusseldorf, Germany, Fredrick R.B. Stilson, Department of Psychology, University of South Florida, USA, Peter Totterdell, Institute of Work Psychology, University of Sheffield, UK, Evert Van de Vliert, School of Organizational Psychology, University of Groningen, The Netherlands, Peter Warr, Institute of Work Psychology, University of Sheffield, UK. Facebook Twitter Email App Pinterest WhatsApp AddThis  Susan Cartwright and Cary L. Cooper   Anne Orford and Florian Hoffmann   Majken Schultz, Steve Maguire, Ann Langley...   Denise M. Rousseau   Alan D. Castel   Susan Cartwright and Cary L. Cooper   Cinnamon P. Carlarne, Kevin R. Gray, and Richard Tarasofsky   Davide Nicolini   Jerry W. Hedge and Gary W. Carter  Second Edition  Shane J. Lopez and C. R. Snyder   Amrita Narlikar, Martin Daunton, and Robert M. Stern   Davide Nicolini   Matthias Ziegler, Carolyn MacCann, and Richard Roberts   Veronica Benet-Martinez and Ying-Yi Hong   Jacob Katz Cogan, Ian Hurd, and Ian Johnstone   Arkebe Oqubay and Kenichi Ohno  Social Sciences > Business  &  Management > Industry Studies Social Sciences > Business  &  Management > Human Resource Management Science  &  Mathematics > Psychology > Social Psychology Oxford University Press is a department of the University of Oxford. It furthers the University's objective of excellence in research, scholarship, and education by publishing worldwide. 