New bar to open at The Langham London Hotels Insight Inside information on London hotels by  Laura  on  May 9, 2017 A new bar, called The Wigmore, will soon open at  The Langham , headed up by Michel Roux Jr. The Langham London already has one venue overseen by Roux Jr, the Roux at The Landau restaurant. The bar will open this summer 2017, with a design inspired by traditional British pubs and taverns. However, it will also be influenced by continental luxury for a high-class touch. The design is by the Martin Brudnizki Design Studio. On the menu at the bar/pub will be some traditional offerings, like a raised veal and ham pie and devilled lamb s kidneys. The team behind Artesian, the award-winning  cocktail bar  at The Langham, will be in charge of drinks. They will also be assisted by food and drink advisors The Gorgeous Group. A selection of wines on tap, cask ales and craft beers will be available. The bar is named after Robert Harley, Baron of Wigmore and Hertfordshire, 1st Earl of Oxford and Earl Mortimor. Check rates at The Langham London The design of the bar will feature his coat of arms in recognition of his  literary  influence in London. The Wigmore will be attached to the hotel, but it will have its own entrance on Regent Street to make it more accessible to the public, as well as hotel guests. The bar will be in a former banking hall, the high ceilings of which will help to form the grand  art deco  look, along with a chandelier and an emerald-green bar. Roux at The Landau is 10 years old this year. It houses the Palm Court bar, which is also run by the Roux family. They also own the two-Michelin-starred London restaurant, Le Gavroche, where Roux Jr is chef-owner. The Wigmore will be a relaxing space for both drinking and eating, ideal for a warm winter hideout, as well as somewhere to go when it opens this  summer . Search for a London hotel   Book Now, Pay When you Stay Photo credits: The Langham. Tagged as: Langham Hotel Leave a Comment Name  * E-mail  * Website Notify me of follow-up comments by email. Notify me of new posts by email. Previous post:  This London hotel has just one room. Next post:  Save 10% at Tune Hotels with their new app. London Hotels Insight  offers up-to-date, independent advice for your ideal stay in London.  We research guest feedback, meet management and identify hotels at the top of their game. Search Hotels Ace Hotel London Andaz Hotel Athenaeum Hotel Baglioni Hotel Base2stay Kensington Brown's Hotel Cavendish Hotel Chesterfield Mayfair Hotel Claridge's Connaught Hotel Corinthia London Covent Garden Hotel Dukes Hotel Egerton House Hotel Firmdale Hotels Goring Hotel Ham Yard Hotel Hotel 41 Hoxton Hotel Landmark London Hotel Langham Hotel Mandarin Oriental London May Fair Hotel Milestone Hotel Montague on the Gardens One Aldwych Red Carnation Hotel Collection Rubens at the Palace Sofitel St James Stafford Hotel The Arch Hotel The Beaufort The Berkeley The Dorchester The Lanesborough The Ritz Hotel The Savoy The Soho Hotel Travelodge Tune Hotel Kings Cross Tune Hotel Liverpool Street Tune Hotels Tune Hotel Westminster W London Zetter Hotel WP Cumulus Flash tag cloud by  Roy Tanck  and  Luke Morton  requires  Flash Player  9 or better. Get smart with the  Thesis WordPress Theme  from DIYthemes. © 2015 Positive Partnerships Ltd - All rights reserved.  No content on this website may be reused in any fashion without written permission from Positive Partnerships Ltd. 