The 10 best villas in Sant Lluis, Spain | Booking.com Loading Choose your preferred language. We speak English and 42 other languages. Sant Lluis Boasting an outdoor pool and sea views,  Villa  ARIES is set in Sant Lluis. This  villa  has a  private pool , a garden and free private parking. ><br >The  villa  is fitted with 5 bedrooms, a TV and a fully equipped kitchen that provides guests with a dishwasher, a microwave, a washing machine, a fridge and an oven. Sant Lluis Son Set  Villa  is located in Sant Lluis. This  villa  provides free WiFi, a seasonal outdoor swimming pool, as well as barbecue facilities. ><br >The  villa  has a terrace, 6 bedrooms, a living room and a well-equipped kitchen with a dishwasher. A flat-screen TV with satellite channels and a DVD player are featured. location was good for us (6 adults, 2 children) very private no one overlooking you. close to beach 5 mins by car. 15 mins from airport. lovely enclosed pool which was also good as we had a 2 and 4 year old so this gave us peace of mind. the villa itself was excellent very well presented with every thing you need including a welcome pack. would highly recommend. Sant Lluis Boasting air-conditioned accommodation with a  private pool , pool view and a terrace,  Villa  Aquamarina is situated in Sant Lluis. It features barbecue facilities, garden views and free WiFi throughout the property. Sant Lluis Set in Sant Lluis, within less than 1 km of Punta Prima Beach,  Villa  Amalur offers accommodation with free WiFi, air conditioning and an outdoor swimming pool. This  villa  features a  private pool , a garden and barbecue facilities. Sant Lluis Set in Sant Lluis, Arena Blanca offers accommodation with a  private pool  and free WiFi. The  villa  is 1 km from Punta Prima Beach. ><br >Arena Blanca has 5 bedrooms with air conditioning and a fully equipped kitchen with a dishwasher. Sant Lluis Boasting water sports facilities,  VILLA  TURQUESA - Stylish large, bright  villa  near the beach, stunning sea views offers accommodation in Sant Lluis with free WiFi and sea views. The  villa  is 2 km from Punta Prima Beach. Sant Lluis Featuring water sports facilities,  VILLA  ATALAYA - Lovely  modern  villa  near the beach, stunning sea views provides accommodation in Sant Lluis with free WiFi and sea views. ><br >Punta Prima Beach is 2 km from the  villa . The nearest airport is Menorca Airport, 15 km from  VILLA  ATALAYA - Lovely  modern  villa  near the beach, stunning sea views. Sant Lluis The  villa  features 3 bedrooms, a TV, an equipped kitchen with a dishwasher and a microwave, a washing machine, and 2 bathrooms with a shower. ><br >Cala Galdana is 44 km from the  villa , while Mahón is 9 km away. The nearest airport is Menorca Airport, 13 km from Bini Rachel. Sant Lluis Boasting air-conditioned accommodation with a  private pool ,  Villa  Nora is set in Sant Lluis. Guests staying at this  villa  have access to a fully equipped kitchen. ><br >Punta Prima Beach is 800 metres from the  villa . The nearest airport is Menorca Airport, 14 km from  Villa  Nora. Sant Lluis San Andrea is set in Sant Lluis. This  holiday home  offers free private parking and free WiFi. ><br >The  holiday home  provides an outdoor swimming pool, a barbecue and a sun terrace. ><br >Cala Galdana is 42 km from San Andrea, while Mahón is 7 km away. The nearest airport is Menorca Airport, 6 km from the accommodation. Boasting an outdoor pool and sea views, Villa ARIES is set in Sant Lluis. This villa has a private pool, a garden and free private parking.  Son Set Villa is located in Sant Lluis. This villa provides free WiFi, a seasonal outdoor swimming pool, as well as barbecue facilities.  location was good for us (6 adults, 2 children) very private no one overlooking you. Boasting air-conditioned accommodation with a private pool, pool view and a terrace, Villa Aquamarina is situated in Sant Lluis.  Set in Sant Lluis, within less than 1 km of Punta Prima Beach, Villa Amalur offers accommodation with free WiFi, air conditioning and an outdoor swimming pool.  Set in Sant Lluis, Arena Blanca offers accommodation with a private pool and free WiFi. The villa is 1 km from Punta Prima Beach.  Boasting water sports facilities, VILLA TURQUESA - Stylish large, bright villa near the beach, stunning sea views offers accommodation in Sant Lluis with free WiFi and sea views.  Featuring water sports facilities, VILLA ATALAYA - Lovely modern villa near the beach, stunning sea views provides accommodation in Sant Lluis with free WiFi and sea views.  Featuring air-conditioned accommodation with a private pool, Bini Rachel is located in Sant Lluis. Free WiFi is provided throughout the property.  Set in Sant Lluis, this air-conditioned apartment features a barbecue. Guests benefit from terrace. The kitchen features a dishwasher and an oven, as well as a coffee machine. A TV is provided.  Located in Sant Lluis, Villa Biniparrell provides accommodation with a private pool and free WiFi. The accommodation is 8 km from Mahón.  Set in Sant Lluis, Son Blanc offers accommodation with a seasonal outdoor pool, a garden and a terrace. Cala Galdana is 43 km from the holiday home, while Mahón is 8 km from the property.  San Andrea is set in Sant Lluis. This holiday home offers free private parking and free WiFi. The holiday home provides an outdoor swimming pool, a barbecue and a sun terrace.  Situated in Sant Lluis, Casa Antonio provides accommodation with a private pool, a terrace and pool views. This holiday home features free private parking, a shared kitchen and free WiFi.  Boasting a garden, private pool and garden views, Casa LA MARTINA is set in Sant Lluis. The holiday home features pool views and is 6 km from Mahón.  Featuring a private pool and a large terrace with barbecue facilities, Casa Sabarraca is located in Sant Lluís. The holiday home is set in gardens and provides sea views.  Villa Tres Pinos in Sant Lluis features accommodation with free WiFi, 2.6 km from Punta Prima Beach. This villa has a private pool and a garden.  Boasting air-conditioned accommodation with a private pool, Villa Tamarells is situated in Sant Lluis. Located 1.3 km from Punta Prima Beach, the property features barbecue facilities and free WiFi.  Boasting air-conditioned accommodation with a private pool, Villa Ullastres is situated in Sant Lluis.  Situated in Sant Lluis, just less than 1 km from Punta Prima Beach, Villa Sagitario features accommodation with free WiFi. The villa also comes with 2 bathrooms.  Boasting an outdoor pool and sea views, Villa Thalassa is situated in Sant Lluis. This villa has a private pool, a garden and free private parking.  The average price per night for a villa in Sant Lluis for this weekend is £209 (based on Booking.com prices). Many families visiting Sant Lluis enjoyed staying at  Villa Biniparrell ,  Villa Ullastres  and  Villa Zapa . On average, a villa in Sant Lluis costs £94 per night (based on Booking.com prices). 7.7 Good 268 reviews The proximity to the main street in the village and cleanliness 7.7 Good 268 reviews Thet accepted me for an early check in. Sant Lluis is a very quite village. Refer a property List your property Booking.com is part of Booking Holdings Inc., the world leader in online travel and related services. We have more than 70 million property reviews, and they're all from  real, verified guests . 1 The only way to leave a review is to first make a booking. That's how we know our reviews come from real guests who have stayed at the property. 2 When guests stay at the property they check out how quiet the room is, how friendly the staff are and more. 3 After their trip, guests tell us about their stay. We check for naughty words and verify the authenticity of all guest reviews before adding them to our site. If you booked through us and want to leave a review, please sign in first. Check-in date Check-out date By clicking anywhere on our website or "Accept", you agree to the use of cookies and other technologies to process personal data.  Manage your privacy settings here . Cookies are used by us and our trusted partners to enhance, analyse and personalize your experience across Booking.com. Additionally these cookies are used for advertising tailored to you, both on and off our site. 