Pelican 1080 Hardback Case No products Check out Display all pictures Pelican 1080 Hardback Case The Pelican  1080 Hardback Case  for the personel that require their computer protected at all costs. It is an excellent device for military, police and other members that constantly use their laptops outside the normal office environment. If your looking for one of our best selling Pelican cases in Australia, then the Pelican 1080 Hardback waterproof laptop case is what you need for your laptop. Recipient : Name of your friend  *  : E-mail address of your friend  *  : *  Required fields Cancel or Add to cart Quantity: Reference:   This product is not sold individually. You must select at least  1  quantity for this product. Availability: The Pelican  1080 Hardback Case  for the personel that require their computer protected at all costs. It is an excellent device for military, police and other members that constantly use their laptops outside the normal office environment. If your looking for one of our best selling Pelican cases in Australia, then the Pelican 1080 Hardback waterproof laptop case is what you need for your laptop. More details A great Pelican 1080 Hardback Case for the personnel that require their computer protected at all costs. It is an excellent device for military, police and other members that constantly use their laptops outside the normal office environment. Pelican 1080 Hardback Cases are black in color and include pick and pluck foam to customize and protect your note book from shocks and scratches. This way you can completley customise the way your laptop sits within the Pelican pick and pluck foam to ensure your laptop stands up to the most ruggered environments. Not only do we sell cheap camping gear at Action Gear, but we have great quality professional pelican cases for computers and sensitive gear to protect your valuable equipment as well. No products Check out All Brands 3M 5.11 Accusharp Action Gear Altama Attwood Blackhawk Boss Audio Brera Orologi Camlebak Casio Coleman Columbia Sportswear Company Condor CRKT Dewalt Firesteel Fisher Fobus Frederique Constant Garmin Gerber Gerber Hoppe ' s 9 Hoppes Inova ITW Military Products Jetboil Leatherman Maglite Magpul McNett Mechanix Mossimo Oakley Orion Otis Parkers Pelican Peltor Petzl Pioneer Princeton Tec Rite in Rain Rite in the Rain Safariland Scosche Silva Skil SOG Streamlight Surefire Swiss Tech Tool Logic Under Armour Vibra-Tite Victorinox Voodoo Tactical Wiley X Zippo  Copyright   2019 ActionGear.Com.Au. All Rights Reserved. ABN 77 304 005 240  