The Nets get awesome new jerseys inspired by the Brooklyn Bridge - Curbed NY clock menu more-arrow no yes Follow Curbed NY on Twitter Follow Curbed NY on Facebook Follow Curbed NY on Youtube Follow Curbed NY on Instagram RSS feed (all stories on Curbed NY) Search Filed under: It’s part of the NBA’s new “City” collaboration with Nike The NBA has just released a batch of new uniforms for all of its 30 teams that would fall squarely at the intersection of a Venn diagram where “sports fans” and “urbanists” are on either side.  As part of a larger NBA collaboration with Nike—they’ve unveiled three other uniform styles thus far, with the themes of “Association,” “Icon,” and “Statement”—the latest batch has the theme of “City,” with each team’s jerseys somehow paying homage to their great cities.  In some cases, the execution is clear and excellent; see the Milwaukee Bucks’s  “Cream City” edition , with plenty of visual cues that nod to the Wisconsin-based team. Others are … less successful; The Ringer  does a good job  of summing up why, say, the Dallas Mavericks one is so very  meh.  So how do New York City’s teams fare? Let’s start with the Nets, since the team’s uniforms were inspired by one of the city’s great architectural/engineering marvels: the Brooklyn Bridge.  Inspired by our most iconic landmark #WeGoHard #NikeXNBA pic.twitter.com/HLeU28eGhS The black-and-white jersey features subtle cues to John Roebling’s masterpiece, namely the suspension cables that hold the whole thing up, and the Gothic arches that have become one of the city’s most popular selfie spots. The homage is understated—perhaps too much so—but very cool nonetheless. (There’s also a small shoutout to the Barclays Center subway stop on the uniform—nice, nice.)  As for the Knicks, Nike hasn’t officially released the team’s City jerseys yet, but one was floating around Twitter (and is apparently :  How do you feel about the Knicks’ “The City” jersey?  pic.twitter.com/Anh4asjgYO It’s a mash-up of the FDNY logo and the Knicks colors—which are also the city’s official colors—and fonts, and it’s fine. It’s not as creative as the Nets one, though, so we’re giving this one to Brooklyn.  You can see all of the City edition jerseys  over at SB Nation .  As the decade comes to a close, the rent in NYC is still too damn high. All expensive, but all stunning. Plus, NYCHA tops worst landlord for second year—and more intel in today’s New York Minute news roundup. Filed under:  Read this before buying or renting your next New York City home. ‘Tis the season New Yorkers unfurl their wallets in the spirit of giving—be it to donate or buy gifts for their loved ones—and while they may be sure-footed in that spending, they stumble when it comes to how much to tip the building staff. It’s filled with classic and colorful details. Vox Media 