2019 Cannondale Quick CX 3 | BicyclesMcW Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Pinterest " A bike for all-weather commuting or simply finding some off-road shortcuts through the park " - Bicycle Times RIDE WITHOUT LIMITS This is where it all begins. When you decide to work out, not in. When you trade in four walls for two wheels. And you become the one who s taking you places. Your journey starts here, with the comfort, confidence and speed of the all-new Quick. Start the cycle. BETTER FIT The all-new Quick CX has a fit much better suited to multi-surface riding and high-performance commuting, with consistent lower stack and longer reach measurements. ALL-CONDITIONS HANDLING 50mm travel front suspension absorbs washboard and bumps, while our 1-1/2 "  to 1-1/8 "  tapered headtube keeps steering precise and confident. COMFORT COMES STANDARD SAVE Micro-Suspension seat stays and chain stays work with a smaller 27.2mm seatpost, heads-up riding position and an ergonomic saddle and grips to increase comfort and control in any terrain. MAXIMUM VERSATILITY Big 38c multi-surface tires are fast and grippy on dirt and pavement, and full rack and fender mounts let you customize your Quick CX for the type of riding you ' re into. LIGHTER = MORE FUN Thanks to Cannondale ' s unmatched aluminum expertise, Quick CX is super light but offers heavyweight performance, on-road or off. SPECIFICATION: Wheelset: Maddux Frame: New Quick CX, SmartForm C2 Alloy, SAVE, 1-1/2 "  to 1-1/8 "  tapered head tube Fork: SR Suntour NCX, 1-1/2 " - 1-1/8 "  tapered, Lockout, 50mm Rims: Maddux DC 3.0, double wall w/eyelet, 32-hole Hubs: Alloy Disc, sealed, loose ball bearings, QR, 32h Spokes: Stainless, 15g Tires: Panaracer Comet Hardpack, 700x38c Pedals: Cannondale Reinforced Composite Crank: Shimano Acera 48/36/26 Bottom Bracket: FSA Cartridge Chain: KMC Z99, 9-speed Rear Cogs: Shimano Alivio 11-32, 9-speed Front Derailleur: Shimano Acera 31.8 clamp Rear Derailleur: Shimano Deore Shifters: Shimano Alivio Handlebar: Cannondale C3, 6061 double-butted, 12mm rise, 680mm Grips: Cannondale Ergo Performance, Lock-on Stem: Cannondale C3, 6061 alloy, 31.8, 12 deg Headset: VP Si 1-1/2 " - 1-1/8 " Brakes: Shimano M315 hydraulic disc, 160/160mm Saddle: Cannondale Quick CX Ergo Seatpost: Cannondale C3, 6061 Alloy, 27.2x350mm Sizes: S, M,L,XL,J Get all information about the latest events, specials and offers of the day. Register Today!  2019 Bicycle McW. All rights reserved Terms and Conditions Acceptance of the conditions The term  you  applies to the user of the Site and the confirmation of an Order on the Site (as such terms are hereinafter defined). The present general conditions of sale are applicable to all the orders placed on Bicycles McW Inc. ( MCW ) s internet website www.bicyclesmcw.com (the  Site ). Your use of the Site and confirmation of your order for a product offered on the Site (an  Order ) implies your express acceptance of these general conditions of sale. The present general conditions of sale govern the contractual relationship between MCW and you, which you accept without reserve. These general conditions of sale will prevail over any other conditions appearing in any other document, except as otherwise expressly confirmed in writing by MCW and you. MCW reserves the right to modify the present general conditions of sale from time to time, at its sole discretion. Order An Order is effective as of receipt by MCW of payment. When you save your Order you are considered to have read, understood and accepted the present General Terms and Conditions without restriction as well as the prices, volumes and quantities of the products offered for sale and ordered by you. Once you have chosen your method of payment, you must pay for your order, which legally finalises the purchase agreement made with MCW. MCW reserves the right to cancel any order made by a customer with whom there exists a legal dispute relating to the payment of a past order. Price The product prices are indicated in $CAN before applicable taxes and are the prices valid at the time of the placement of the Order. The product prices do not include shipping and handling costs, which will be charged in addition to the price of the products ordered. The amount of shipping and handling costs charged are determined at the sole discretion of MCW. The product prices can be modified by MCW at any time. The price indicated in the confirmation of an Order is the definitive price. In-store prices may differ from prices indicated on the Site. FREE Shipping Promo :  This PROMO cannot be combined with any other PROMO and applies to items shipped within Canada only with the expection of Yukon, Northwest Territories and Nunavut (e.g. FREE financing, FREE accessories, etc.). We are unable to ship to P.O. Boxes, and reserve the right to ship some items via Canada Post.  Product The Site will attempt to provide accurate pictures of the products presented, however this cannot be guaranteed. Photographs, texts, styles of drawing, and technical data are given for information purposes but do not represent binding contractual obligations between MCW and you. Availability Your Order will be processed no later than 5 (five) business days following the day the Order was confirmed and paid for on the Site. In case of unavailability of the product ordered, including due to our suppliers  stock shortage, you will be informed as soon as possible and you will be able to cancel the Order. You will then have the option of requesting either a refund of amounts paid within 30 (thirty) days of their payment, or choosing another product (subject to payment/reimbursement of the price difference, as the case may be). Delivery MCW shall not be responsible in case of delay in delivery. No shipments will be initiated between Friday afternoon and Sunday evening, as well as Canadian Statutory Holidays. Ownership of and risk to the goods is transferred from MCW to you when goods are received by the carrier. Goods travel at your own risk. You must check the state of the package when delivered, and you must report any damages to the carrier on the delivery sheet as well as to MCW within 5 (five) business days from receipt. You have the right to return at your expense the product you ordered within 14 (fourteen) days from date of receipt. The products must be returned to MCW in perfect condition for reselling, in their original condition, appropriately sealed in its original packaging and accompanied by the invoice for the Order. Any incomplete, used or damaged product and any product with damaged original packaging can neither be refunded nor exchanged. If you use and comply with this right of return, a refund will be payable within 30 (thirty) days. Please note that the following items cannot be returned: Bicycles; Items on sale or liquidation; Custom ordered items (i.e. items not regularly stocked by MCW); and Bicycle shorts and underwear. [NOTE: MCW has the sole discretion to accept returns of any non-defective items. A 25% restocking fee shall apply.] Shipping charges are non-refundable, except if you are returning an item because of an error on our part or if we have determined that the product is defective. On purchases made with a credit card, the same card used to make the purchase will be credited with the refund. Your credit card will be credited within several days after we receive and verify the condition of the returned merchandise. Returns MCW will take care of any shipping charges if the customer receives the wrong item or the item is broken upon receipt. The customer is responsible for shipping charges if the item ordered was the wrong one or wishes to exchange it for something else. Partial non-validity If one or more stipulations of the present General Terms and Conditions (or any parts thereof) are invalid by operation of law, or by final order of a court of competent jurisdiction, all other stipulations (or remaining parts thereof) shall remain valid. Disputes The applicable law for the products sold by MCW is the law of the Province of Quebec, Canada. MCW shall not be liable for damages of any kind, whether direct or indirect, material or immaterial, or bodily harm (to the extent limitation of such liability is permitted by applicable law), resulting from its negligence, or from malfunctioning, improperly assembled, abused or misused products. The liability of MCW will be limited, in any case, to the amount of the Order but MCW will not be liable for simple errors or omissions which could arise despite the precautions taken in the presentation, sale and delivery of the products. In case of dispute in the application of the present contract, the parties shall make reasonable efforts, before instituting any legal action, to reach an amicable settlement. Possible taxes For articles delivered outside Canada, possible taxes and customs duties can be imposed when your parcel reaches its destination. These customs duties and these possible taxes are at your expense and your responsibility. MCW cannot verify or inform you about customs duties and applicable taxes. MCW advises you to inquire with the proper authorities of your country. Purchasing by minors For the protection of our shoppers, it is our policy to not sell to minors. If you are under the legal age of majority and wish to purchase from our Site, please have a parent or legal guardian make the purchase for you. ***** The French version of the present Terms and Conditions take priority over the English version. Privacy Policy We know how important it is to protect your personal information. That s why we take great care in following these privacy policies: Usage of personal information Personal information includes your name, address, phone number, and e-mail address. We may use your personal information for a number of different purposes, such as fulfilling requests for products, services or information; providing customer services; administering contests or promotions; offering new products and services; measuring and improving the effectiveness of our Site or our marketing strategies; and adapting our offers to your preferences. We may also collect and summarize customer information in a format that no longer identifies the individual for statistical purposes. Usage of non-personal information Like many other Web sites, we automatically collect certain non-personal information regarding Site users that does not identify you. Examples include the Internet Protocol (IP) address of your computer, the IP address of your Internet Service Provider, the date and time you access the Site, the Internet address of the Web site from which you linked directly to the Site, the operating system you are using, the sections of the Site you visit, the Site pages read and images viewed, and the content you download from the Site. This non-personal information is used for Site and system administration purposes and to improve the Site. We may also use non-personal information to compile tracking information reports regarding Site user demographics, Site traffic patterns, and Site purchases, and then provide those reports to advertisers and others. None of the tracking information in the reports can be connected to the identities or other personal information of individual users. We may also link tracking information with personal information voluntarily provided by Site users. Once such a link is made, all of the linked information is treated as personal information and will be used and disclosed only in accordance with this Policy. Implied Consent In some cases, your consent is implied if we ask you to provide personal information with a stated purpose. For example, we can only deliver the product you have purchased if you provide us with your address and phone number. We will never sell your personal information. However we may share your information with third parties acting on our behalf, for example to a delivery services, a product repair services, etc., or as permitted or required by law. Express Consent In other cases, we will ask you to give us your express consent to use your personal information to advise you of products or services that may be of interest to you. You can always refuse to have your information used for this purpose. For example, when you subscribe to our newsletter, we consider that you gave us your express consent to send you promotional information. You can always decide to unsubscribe. Each e-mail we send you will tell you how to decline further e-mail. To accommodate changes in our service, the technology, and legal developments, this Policy might change over time. Do not hesitate to contact us if you have any question about this policy. ***** The French version of the present Privacy Policy has priority over the English version. 