Books by J. Langland | eReaderIQ If you like J. Langland, you may also like  these authors . If you like J. Langland, you may also like  these authors . eReaderIQ is a free service which depends on user donations to stay open. You can  visit our 'changes' page  if you want to know more. If you would like to help keep eReaderIQ open, you can  donate via PayPal  or  become a patron  at Patreon. Thank you for your support! To save your current filters for later, enter a name below (or use the default provided) and click "Add  ." You will be able to access your saved bookmarks from any computer as long as you are logged in. Log In to track J. Langland on eReaderIQ. by  J. Langland  (118  reviews ) The dishonorable, cheating Forces of Good have been defeated!Tom Perkinje, the reluctant Greater Demon and recent transplant from Harding NJ to the Abyss has defeated and captured the not-so-valiant Sir Talarius, Knight... See More  by  J. Langland  (114  reviews ) The Restoration of GloryAfter 4,000 years of waiting, Prophecy has been fulfilled!The Dark Lord Tommus, heir to the Throne of Orcus, has relit Mount Doom in the Abyss! It is time for the Orcs to reclaim their rightful... See More  by  J. Langland  (207  reviews ) Turns Out: The "Demon Weed" actually IS a gateway!A gateway to hell! Literally. Not a metaphor. Now, technically, the place was called "The Abyss" but it was, unequivocally, a street preacher's vision of hell.And Tom... See More  eReaderIQ will send you a daily email alerting you of the best deals on the books that interest you. Prices  &  availability are accurate for customers who live in the United States as of the date and time indicated on each item, and are subject to change. Prices and availability may differ for countries or regions outside of the United States. The price displayed on the Amazon.com website at the time of purchase is always the price you will pay. We use cookies to give you a fabulous customer experience and to remember some of your browsing preferences between sessions. By continuing to use our site we will assume you are happy to receive all cookies. To see more,  click here  and scroll to the "Cookies" section. 