Eternit Fibre Cement Slates Fibre Cement Slates | Specification Building Product Directory | Specification Online Rivendale Fibre Cement Slate Available in three natural colours, the Rivendale slate features a riven surface and dressed edge, combining the benefit of modern slate technology with the look of natural slate. Ideal for use on projects where a natural look is sought, the Rivendale has been used on a number of projects, where sustainability is high priority, including Hawkshaw Lodge by Cambrian Homes, in a green belt conservation area near Bury and the Altrieswood Development by Churchill Homes in Scotland. Marley Eternit's fibre cement slates are the only product of its kind that can achieve and A+ as defined in the BRE's Green Guide to Specification*. Birkdale Fibre Cement Slate Featuring a smooth surface and dressed edges Birkdale fibre cement slates offer a traditional and pleasing look at an affordable price. The combination of colour, edge finish and design flexibility that the Birkdale offers means it is ideal as both a roofing and cladding solution, used on numerous projects including the Tally Ho training centre in Birmingham and the Holcombe Moor Army base near Bury. Garsdale Fibre Cement Slate Garsdale slates feature a detailed textured surface and crisp square edge. Versatile and easy to install making them a favourite with both architects and contractors alike. Garsdales have been chosen on numerous projects to satisfy both facade and roofing requirements, such as Broxden Dental Centre in Perth and Methven social housing scheme in Scotland. Marley Eternit's fibre cement slates are the only fibre cement slate tiles manufactured in the UK Thrutone Fibre Cement Slate A smooth surface and square cut edges give a low profile slate at an economical price, particularly suitable to complex roof geometries down to 20°. This market leading fibre cement slate offers superb aesthetics and with their light weight, low wastage, design flexibility and ease of installation, it's easy to see why they are the choice for all types of new build and refurbishment projects. Used on a variety of applications, Thrutones provide the flexibility to create inspirational roofs and facades, examples include Canon Popham School in Sheffield and the stunning curved roof of the Cavell Centre in Peterborough. Marley Eternit's fibre cement slates are the only such slates manufactured in the UK and can achieve an A+ (the lowest environmental impact) in the BRE's Green Guide to Specification*. For further information and to request samples please  click here Eternit Fibre Cement Slates BUILDING PRODUCT LIBRARY -  LATEST BROCHURES  FIBRE CEMENT SLATES... By  Eternit Fibre Cement... Download Now >> Lets Talk Specification will be hosting a number of Workshops at Futurebuild on Tuesday 5th March, Click here to reserve your seat now. 