9 Independent Online Sellers You Should Follow Now - eCompareMo Get to know some of online shopping s best-kept secrets. There has never been a better time to shop (and window shop) than now, when you can hunt for rare, budget-friendly finds right on your computer or mobile phone screen. Here are some of the best independent sellers the internet has to offer, should you want to take your bargain hunting to the next level. Up your shoe game with Chups Shop  wide array of limited edition Nike, adidas, and Air Jordan kicks for men and women alike. They also have a few exclusive apparel in store for added swag. Follow: Instagram  |  Web Payment method:  Paypal and bank to bank Delivery:  Same day, 4 p.m. cutoff PBK Jewelry is your go-to place for handcrafted jewelry and sticker tattoos. You can also have your necklaces, braces, silver rings, and tats custom-made. Follow: Instagram  | Web Payment method:  Bank to bank, LBC, and Paypal Delivery:  Friday to Monday payment, Wednesday shipping; Tuesday to Thursday payment, Saturday shipping; pickups at SM North Edsa also offered If you want quality, locally made footwear, choose from Tutum Shop s virtual shelves of flats, high heels, and bags of different textures and colors. Should you want to check the items in person, they are also available at Pop Culture, The Ramp, and Empire Fashion Caf . Follow: Facebook  |  Instagram Payment method:  Bank transfer, LBC, Paypal Delivery:  Metro Manila, 1 to 2 working days package arrival; Luzon, Visayas, Mindanao, 2 to 4 working days package arrival As low as  1.26%  monthly interest Wondering where to get hair dyes to achieve a head-turning galaxy hair? Rainbow Head offers a large variety of colors from renowned brands like Manic Panic, Arctic Fox, Bleach London, Sparks, Schwarzkopf, Wella, and other hair care products. Follow: Facebook  | Web Payment method:  Bank deposit Delivery:  Pay today, dispatch tomorrow; Metro Manila, 1 to 3 working days package arrival; provincial areas, 2 to 4 working days package arrival Take your Game of Thrones or Marvel Cinematic Universe fanaticism to the streets with Culture Chic s hip threads. There s a host of bands, movies, and TV series you can proudly wear on your sleeve, and all over. Follow: Facebook Payment method:  Cash deposit, Tuesday, 5 p.m. cutoff Delivery:  Every Monday, 3 to 5 business days package arrival The Showroom Co. is a collaboration among several Instagram sellers who offer footwear, bags, makeup, clothing, accessories, and other items for men and women. They also have a physical store where you can view their entire collection. Follow: Facebook  |  Instagram Payment and delivery:  Call or text 0905-2364949 Address: Unit 9  &  10 Ushio Plaza I, 67 Timog Avenue cor. Scout Torillo, Quezon City Band Feels Manila offers awesome collectibles like guitar pick and lyric stickers featuring various bands and artists. As an added bonus, they also post music suggestions on their Instagram profile. Follow: Instagram Payment method:  BPI, LBC, and Paypal Like the items you see on Pinterest? Home Edited is where to get your crafty and DIY items. They have quaint papers and journals, as well as colorful materials like washi tapes and vintage stamps for home d cor, for your arts and crafts projects. Follow: Instagram Payment method and delivery:  Call or text 0917-6806516 for more information If you enjoy having summer fun 365 days a year, suit up with the stylish swimsuits from Eighth Mermaid. You can choose from different styles of swimwear with eye-catching prints and shades. Follow: Instagram  Payment method:  Bank transfer Delivery:  Monday to Friday, 2 p.m. cutoff; Metro Manila, 1 to 2 business days; provincial areas, 3 to 5 business days; international, 7 to 15 days  Diana Lyn Balbalosa Diana Lyn Balbalosa  Before joining eCompareMo as content writer, Diana wrote a lot of academic research, as well as articles on home improvement, lifestyle, and financial management. She's currently working on expanding her book and hair dye collection. Get free wealth-building tips and banking promo alerts when you subscribe to our newsletter Get to know some of online shopping's best-kept secrets. There has never been a better time to shop (and window shop) than no... Access your account and fill out forms with required information in an instant. Please type your email address and we will reset your password for you. Instructions will be emailed to your email account. Please fill in your contact details and eCompareMo's customer service will get back to you, at your preferred appointment time. Consent for storing personal data: Please answer our call so we can help you find the right product for you. 