[TECH] Type 004 Aircraft Carrier : worldpowers In order to update our aging carrier fleet, the Empire will be making a new class of aircraft carriers. The Type 004 will mark a new generation of top-of-the-line aircraft carrier, being powered with nuclear energy, in comparison to previous expensive convential methods, and will use a combination of EMALS (electromagnetic) and ski-jump propulsions to allow jets to take off.The Type 004 is also expected to be among the largest supercarriers ever developed, comparable to the United States Navy and their numerous supercarriers. The first Type 004 will start production at Dalian Shipbuilding this Spring, but is expected to take 10-12 years to finish, with the other 4 expected to begin production at other major shipyards in this country sometime in the next couple of years. While the carrier itself is fine, the costs for it are not. The development cost is fine, but the individual construction cost should be around $10-12B, with maintenance cost being around ten times that. Jordan is working VERY hard on modernizing many aspects of its engineering prowess, its engineering university curriculum and its military.  There have been many discussions internally on how we would be able to accomplish all this in a timely and organized manner on all the proposed fronts. As such, we would be very interested in sending a delegation comprised of military engineers, engineering students and their requisite entourage to work with you on this. In specific, we are aiming to achieve: leveling up our military engineering leveling up our university engineering curricula hands on experience in working on such large scale projects and in particular from a logistical point of view insights in to RADAR and Communications systems Jordan is willing to send a delegation of 350 across the board, to augment our embassy with two other consular offices, an appeasement of visas for Chinese nationals and a willingness to discuss favorable customs for imports from China as well as front row seats to various infrastructure projects planned in Jordan. /u/globalwp /u/rollme  [[1d20  /u/el_stew ]] I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please  contact the moderators of this subreddit  if you have any questions or concerns. 1d20  /u/el_stew :  15 (15) Hey there! I &# x27;m a bot that can roll dice if you mention me in your comments. Check out  r/rollme  for more info. The PFLA would like to send a few industrial observers to watch the construction of non-classified aspects of the type 004. That &# x27;s cool, a friend is always welcome. [M] Edited. Lebanon would like to invest in the program (to acquire the technology) as well as send a few engineers from CWI to see how it &# x27;s built. The Lebanese government Ministry of Defence and AUB would also like to use this as an opportunity to train our future military engineers and get insights into managing such large scale projects, and the technology behind them. Our proposed total investment is: 8 Billion USD. [M]Yeah about having a carrier, I don &# x27;t think so. Lebanon or any small country for that matter shouldn &# x27;t have a nuclear powered carrier. While you can invest, Lebanon cannot in any way operate or maintain a  super carrier . Invalid, please edit the part about ordering one out. The $18 billion will be a huge help. As a bonus, we will produce one free Type 004 for Lebanon. Gran Colombia would be interested in helping our great ally, the Chinese. Welcome aboard! How would Gran Colombia like to help in this great project? The President of the Sunda Federation comes to China to ask about purchasing the license for the Type 004. It is Vital that Asia stands together to ensure its continued independence from imperialism. We &# x27;d be interested in selling a license for the Type 004 aircraft carrier, we could also offer to sell one if you wish. The UWF has been invited by the UGI to set up the Ukraine Wrestling Union, the Ukranian national branch of the UWF. Its first task would be to set up several wrestling schools in Ukraine. Not everyone is meant for a traditional education, and the wrestling school could provide a very good alternative to  those who’d prefer a different educational path. Ukraine is already a great wrestling country, providing the world with WWE legends such as  Rusev . Who knows how much more raw, unexplored talent lies in the ruins of war? Last year, we tried to ban fascism.  That didn &# x27;t work, due to a surprisingly large fascist community in Germany. However, we have successfully basically driven fascism into the ground since then, so we shall try again to pass these laws. A quick recap of them is underneath this post. The previous post goes into more detail about them, so if in doubt, go to that post. The essentials are here If we haven &# x27;t already done so, boot Italy from the Schengen area until they go democratic again. Revoke freedom of movement with Italy, apart from Italian refugees trying to escape Italy, Italians already living in Germany and people with specific privileges given by the German government (reporters, diplomats, German spies, etc.). End all economic interactions with Italy until they become democratic again. Ban fascism in Germany through methods in the last post, and charge those caught actively supporting the banned fascist activities with treason, and actually enforcing it with an anti-fascist German intelligence and police division that has $400 million every year to play about with to avoid getting Italy &# x27;d. [m]  u/anycent , if this goes through, Adolf Himmler &# x27;s going to prison. [/m] Again, Germany encourages countries to take similar actions against the Italian government, particularly border nations (more detail in previous post). However, Germany will not take action against nations that do not instate these policies, instead pointing out the danger of a coup d &# x27;état in their country. Germany restates that these are directed against the Italian  government , not the Italian  people , and as such will be removed once democracy returns to Italy. This is no excuse to be racist against Italians. As such, pizza will not be taken off the menu! Pizza for everybody! [m] Because of lower fascist support, this only needs a 3 to go through. Again, this is the support for this initiative. |  THE WAR ZONE MOTORCYCLES REVIEWS BY JOSEPH TREVITHICK JANUARY 21, 2039 After decades in development, Raytheon has unveiled its long-awaited  AIM-261 CorkSCREW® , the primary deliverable of the classified  Long-Range Engagement Weapon (LREW)  Programme announced in 2017. Focused on maintaining air supremacy, the  Cork Standoff Combat Range Engagement Weapon (CorkSCREW®)  long-range air-to-air missile is designed as the definitive successor for the  AIM-120 AMRAAM . The company has announced the American Republic Aerial States Defence Force and various state Air National Guard outfits as exclusive operators for the weapon &# x27;s initial run, with the CorkSCREW® set to enter service in early 2039. With all elements of the sole-sourced missile &# x27;s supply chain produced locally within the autonomous states, Raytheon claims the AIM-261 offers a superior,  " home-brewed "  alternative to the AIM-260 JATM currently in service with American Republic air forces.   Contact the author: joe[at]thedrive.com To maximize weight for propellant, the AIM-261 CorkSCREW® features a unique two-stage missile design, consisting of an intermediate-range air-to-air missile married to a modular rocket booster. The primary stage is derived from Raytheon’s smaller  Peregrine  air-to-air missile, but is instead powered by a  variable flow ducted rocket . The missile’s hybrid air-augmented rocket engine allows the booster-less missile to achieve ranges in excess of 160 km and a terminal intercept velocity as high as Mach 5 under its own power. The AIM-261 also marks the debut of the company’s  fluidic thrust vectoring  technologies on a missile platform, allowing the  supermaneuverable  weapon to quickly adjust its flight path even during its terminal navigation phase. While operated primarily as a  hit-to-kill missile , the CorkSCREW® payload doubles as a high-explosive directional blast fragmentation warhead, with the missile’s internal software responsible for autonomously selecting a 3D detonation vector against hostile targets. The Peregrine’s seeker head has also been replaced by a more-advanced  multi-mode seeker , combining a Raytheon-developed 4k-resolution heat-seeking optical  imaging infrared focal plane array  with a proprietary  X-band ARH monopulse antenna  and  8x8 MIMO Millimeter-wave Radar . Targeting via helmet-mounted sights also allows the missile to perform  high-off-boresight launches  against targets within visual range. Additionally, the CorkSCREW® features advanced passive homing capabilities for the intercept of active radar-emitting targets, allowing it to serve as a frontline  air-to-air anti-radiation missile , and can also operate autonomously via the use of  inertial  and  satellite  navigation. The seeker includes GDLS BAMS encrypted data links to facilitate high-speed secured communications between each CorkSCREW®, its launch platform, and other assets within the local engagement theatre.  To offset high temperatures while operating at near-hypersonic/hypersonic speeds, the AIM-261 mounts a  drag-reducing aerospike  onto a  frangible nose cone . As a highly-modular weapons system, the weapon’s secondary stage consists of a replaceable booster unit that can vary the AIM-261’s range without impacting core missile systems (such as the warhead, datalink, seeker, or autopilot). Thus, the CorkSCREW® can be easily reconfigured into an intermediate, long, or very-long range missile by the installation of a different booster section. Likewise, each missile’s booster can also be sized up or down depending on the limitations of its delivery platform, circumventing restrictions on sizing caused by the limited dimensions of 5th-generation internal weapons bays. This also would allow aircraft without these restrictions to carry extremely long-range versions of the same basic missile. Each AIM-261 booster is built around a scaleable  multiple pulse solid-fuel rocket motor  that is used to extend the weapon’s speed and range. This two-stage approach enhances end-game kinematic performance of the payload weapon, while the booster’s rocket engine dynamically optimizes thrust and velocity based on trajectory while in flight. For the largest booster module, the CorkSCREW® climbs to a height in the upper atmosphere where friction and drag are minimized, allowing it to achieve longer ranges, higher speeds, and steeper trajectories against hostile targets. The AIM-261 CorkSCREW® is designed for air-launch in the following modes: Intermediate-range =   Stock stage 1 missile without booster module, 160 km range. Dimensions comparable to Peregrine missile, can also replace AIM-9 Sidewinder in AAW applications. Long-range =  Lightweight multi-pulse rocket booster, 250 km range at Mach 4 supercruise, with Mach 5 terminal intercept against targets operating at altitudes between 0 to 25-27 km. Dimensions comparable to AIM-120 AMRAAM missile, compatible with F-22, F-35, and F-15Z/EZ internal weapons bays. Very-long-range =  Heavyweight multi-pulse rocket booster, 400 km range, conducts  top-attack  intercept of hostile aircraft. Sized for F-15E/Z/EZ and F-35 outboard pylons, compatible with the internal bays of strategic bombers, including the B-21 Raider, B-2 Spirit, and B-52 Stratofortress. Given its high-altitude operation and supermaneuverability, this variant can also be used for terminal  ABM  defence, with capabilities comparable to the  RIM-174 Standard ERAM . The AIM-261 CorkSCREW® is set to enter service exclusively with the American Republic’s state Air National Guard units and the Aerial States Defence Force, and is expected to eventually supplant the competing AIM-260 JATM and the aging AIM-120 AMRAAM after stockpiles of these missiles have been depleted. [M] Permission was granted by  /u/_irk  to complete this Project in RP. |  NIEUWS  | SPORT | ENTERTAINMENT | FINANCIEEL | VROUW | LIFESTYLE | WAT U ZEGT Uploaded: July 4th 2038 ANTWERPEN - With the ambitious project of the Minister-President, Mark Rutte, to  unite the region  now complete, observers had debated the direction that the confederation might strike in foreign affairs, particularly, as it comes at a time of division in other regions - the near total collapse of American unity and the rise of neo-fascism in southern Europe - that the stronger union might create self-sufficiency.   However, at a press conference in Antwerpen, the co-leader of the Forum voor Democratie, Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister, raised the prospect of something quite different. He specifically proposed that the government offers refuge to two American citizens - Ayaan Hirsi Ali and Edward Snowden - in an announcement that stunned the press corps accompanying him on his visit to the city.   Thierry Baudet 🗹  -  @thierrybaudet  ·  1h Carefully watching horrible situation in #UnitedStates, >concerned for the people. Freedom-loving Americans<br >always welcome. Please come! @Snowden @Ayaan IMAGE 💬32.4k  🔁12.3k  ❤ 59.1k   The proposal has been immediately criticized as politically risky for the country by foreign policy experts, the act of providing shelter to a fugitive from American justice as the American state struggles to assert itself against rebellious politicians might be seen negatively by our American allies, as is the idea of flying Dutch government jets to retrieve them. As usual however, Baudet has dismissed the criticism as  " fake news, "  and urged citizens to  " ignore the oikophobic experts. "   © 2038 TMG Landelijke Media B.V., Amsterdam.  All rights reserved.   Gebruiksvoorwaarden - Privacy - Cookies Operating at a tier between the massive offshore patrol vessels of the Hatsuse and Kōzu class PLs and the numerous, small, near-shore PSs, the Japan Coast Guard has commissioned a new class of patrol vessels designated as the Tokara-class PM. The Tokara class will be derived from the same HSMVO prototype as the MSDF &# x27;s Tone-class destroyer escort. With the end of production on the Tone class, the JCG will leverage the existing production infrastructure to immediately launch production of the Tokara class. The Tokara class will be a heavily modified derivative of the  Tone class . The twin 20mm RWSs will be retained, and the main 57mm cannon will be replaced with a 40mm RWS. The laser mount will be removed and replaced with a long-range acoustic device. The ships will be fitted for but not with the eight Mk56 launch cells of the Tone class. To improve endurance and range to around 10000km, most of the space reserved the below-deck support equipment for the old main gun will be replaced with fuel storage, with the remainder becoming an ammunition locker for the 40mm.  Assorted water cannons and .50 caliber guns will make up the remainder of the onboard weaponry. Primary sensors will include an OPR-10A electro-optical surveillance system and an OPS-14D radar. The helicopter hangar will be retained, but not all ships will deploy with an onboard helicopter. Standard complements will consist of a pair of Fuji SROS drones. The mission bay, currently used for UUV operations, will instead be used to support RHIB operations. The JCG has commissioned 18 of the ships for around 3.6 billion dollars. All deliveries are expected to be completed by 2043. Exactly what it says on the tin. There &# x27;s the US, some stuff over by Venezuela, maybe something else in Ukraine? Anything that needs a battle, drop here. Don &# x27;t forget that  holiday activity rules  are still in effect. Listening one @RealDonaldTrump:  The SQUAD of LIBCUCKS is coming! Hide your wives! Hide your children! The Pedophiles are a coming! @RealDonaldTrump:  This will mark the last CRUSADE of the EMPIRE! We face a foe that will tear us limb from limb without mercy! It is time to FIGHT! SECURE IT NOW! California The End is Nigh, if we fail to secure a coastal section of California the end would be almost assured. Therefore the full might of the Empire will focus on taking California, specifically  Naval Air Station North Island  but in general the entire state of California. The forces from Brazil, along with King Solomon and the Silver Fox will work to achieve this goal. Furthermore  North Korean forces  will make a combat landing in an area with less Coalition control in California. These North Koreans will then be free to run wild and begin launching raids with dogs and stolen vehicles throughout California. This should take the attention off of our true goal which is capturing and securing a lane for the transportation of important items (reaching from wherever it is originating in, to a Californian Port-preferably North Island). The North Koreans who will most likely be starving and  very angry  will act as good shock troops as they fight for survival literally cause they need food and then because we promised them disneyland. Therefore the North Korean force will proceed to Disneyland in Anaheim and secure it after they land, this will become the future base of operations of the Trumpian Empire. All other forces are being tasked in securing the lane, no lane, mission fails. Washington/Oregon Melania Trump and General Huckabee will be tasked to work alongside US federal forces in securing the states of Washington and Oregon, they will operate within the plans of the US Feds however note they ultimately remain loyal to Trump, and so their primary goal will be securing the Oregon state building and placing a statue of Trump on the top (replacing the existing statue). Agent Pai has a secret mission, he and his Freedom to Care organization (made up of people who previously worked for the NSA etc) and other based Americans are being tasked to work directly under the US Federal Government and secure a certain  " valuable items "  for transportation to the West. They will work closely with US special forces in transporting valuable items across the continental USA and to the secured zones in California or Washington (whichever is safest) from here these items will be laid directly in the hands of the US Feds. They will be using speedy vehicles painted red or yellow (it increases speed) and any talkers will have their mouths sown shut. (basically nobody is talking, like they &# x27;re all mutes to ensure secrecy). M: Tion is doing this apparently, so i &# x27;m just giving him guys to use. @EricTrump:  To Battle, to battle! Sons of the God Emperor! The most loyal of soldiers they have been, the last Imperial Army (DJT.jr now the war boys) will ride to battle to buy time for the Holy American Empire to prepare for the coming onslaught. They in their shining armor and strong stallion Toyotas will ride their last ride on the Trump Train which never stops winning. These patriotic and based Americans are all that stand between the Holy American Empire and the Squad, between Victory and Defeat, Life and Death. No soldiers have fought more loyally or more bravely, they are the chosen and they are the enlightened. They are the first generation of Imperial Citizens but if they are successful, they will not be the last. The devilish, fiendish, and gruesome warriors of the Squad must be stopped. And so it is left to Eric Trump and his men of honor, to do what they can, what they must. The Imperial Army will divide into two main groups and will charge head on, full speed, full-force towards the enemy. Group A led by Eric Trump will be the largest group sent directly to deal with the advance on Montana. This two pronged advance towards Great Falls  as seen here  and  here  must be halted. Therefore (due to being closer) the force will reach Billings and leave a group of guerrilla defenders. From here the force will divide and one shall head to the Minnesota-North Dakota-Montana route and the other to the South Dakota-Wyoming route. Group B led by  " Captain Mr. White the-whites-still-support-the-president  which is primarily made up of Praetorians will head to Texas/Arkansas to assist the  Based Texan Cultists  and to halt the advance of the North-South Strike on Texas. The Praetorians made up of the most elite and loyal soldiers will be highly mobile and prepared for war. This is a one way trip, none of these fanatical, loyal, and brave soldiers expect to survive. They will buy time and act as a diversion for the secret operation. They will fight and die for the God Emperor and do whatever it takes to ensure the safety of their families who remain in the Cascades. Their sole purpose is to halt the advance of the Hellish Horde, if that does not succeed then to buy whatever time they can. For in the Emperor they Trust, Praise to the God Emperor. Note: If the American Republic gets within range of our controlled territory, operations will continue but forces will be diverted to defend the immediate borders as we work to secure a landing zone. the uh, the map, sir???? luxembourg - >  benelux whatever February 19 | 11:15AM JST | 18 Comments By Asako Obuchi Japan Coast Guard commandant Kenji Eda has announced that two JCG patrol cutters will be conducting freedom of navigation operations in the South China Sea, following the beginning of patrols across Asia. " The Japan Coast Guard has been given the mission of securing freedom of the seas and promoting maritime law in Asia, and a key part of this task is rejecting illegal territorial claims and military occupations "  Eda noted. The Kōzu-class large patrol vessel JCG  Kōzu  will be conducting a transit off of Fiery Cross Reef, while its sister ship JCG  Izu Ōshima  conducts a transit off of Mischief Reef. Both reefs were illegally seized by Chinese military forces in the 2010s and have been built up as large military bases. This move comes after Chinese bombers intruded into Indian airspace and overflew a large city, and marks the end of an extended detente between Tokyo and Beijing. Some analysts have proposed a connection between the two events, suggesting that the freedom of navigation operations are intended to signal that Japan will not take allow China to aggressively throw its weight around in Asia without imposing consequences. We have decided to send 2  Xian H-6  strategic bombers over  Joshimath , India to drop toilet paper and propaganda leaflets that say “China will shit in your streets.” across the entire city. We plan on dropping a total of 40,000 pounds of toilet paper and propaganda leaflets over the city as a diplomatic insult to the Indian government for not yet installing proper sewage systems across their entire nation. No weapons will be on the Xian H-6 bombers. The only weapon we plan on dropping over India is sub-par toilet paper. The goal is to blanket the town with toilet paper. Our planes come in peace, our nation has no weapons on such aircraft and  highly  encourages your nation not to shoot these planes down. They come in peace and aim only to give humanitarian aid to the people of Joshimath sense your government refuses to do so. Have a good day 印度人渣. Accompanying Song Internal CCP Message | January 1st  | Beijing With our  One China, One Culture  programs  re-invigorated  and  operating as expected , we have found ourselves in an odd situation. The Indians have decided to wage  verbal , and physical cold war against our nation. We  have responded  in kind to no response however. More dramatic measures must be taken if we are to ensure  radical East Asian Feng Shui . As far as we are concerned,  diplomacy has broken down  and we must take action to get our point across. Our nation stands ready to defend against Indian aggression with any means necessary. To do this, the original  Feng Shui Docterine  along with it’s  worldwide expansion  must be adhered to. At the same time, we must take a more aggressive stance against the neighbors so long as India seeks to work with them. Vietnam, Laos, Myanmar, Burma, and Nepal are the building blocks of fascism in East Asia as far as we understand. Just as fascism is being allowed to rise in Europe again under Germany and Italy, we must take action and stamp out such horrific ideologies before they get too powerful. We believe that a war before India empowered itself is necessary. We aren’t necessary worried at the new regime’s initiatives, they are rushing technology that took us decades to build up in less than 5 years; such equipment cannot be nearly of the same quality as ours. Even our nation’s  old military comprehensive readiness  white paper is capable of defeating the  Indian’s current military.  China stands ready to go to war at a moments notice. Radical Feng Shui  will  prevail so long as Zhang Yong Chang is at the helm of the Chinese Communist Party and is head of state. Our nation’s military is the strongest it has been in decades. Our nuclear stockpile has grown considerably, our naval power has dramatically expanded, our airforce rivals that of the United States and Union State and our ground forces stand ready to invade anyone around us. With the prospect of our new  power armor , we are ready to take our military to the next level. This comes after the news of our  drone program  to reuse old military equipment has nearly completed. We plan on overwhelming Indian air defenses with old equipment to show them who truly dominates the skies. Before a war is to be started, we must continue  military drills  and put in place  Nuclear submarines  so we can swiftly wipe out the Indian scum from the face of the planet. Allies are not necessary, but they would be beneficial. We have decided to reach out to nation states around India to ensure that we can beat up India on multiple angles. Our nation feels firmly that a war in Tibet would be the best thing possible for a war against India. The Indian government is not at all prepared for all out war with our nation, let alone a war of attrition. We don’t need to run a war of attrition, but it would be good and beneficial to us to kill as many Indian scum as possible to ensure that the nation is crippled once the war is over. We have no intention of taking land away from India. Such land would not be hospitable to the Beijing government and would lead to a Hong Kong moment. However, if we kill Indians in the hundreds of thousands into the millions, we can cause enough instability within India to cripple their economy and throw them out of the running for a world power tm  . As our nuclear stockpile stands ready to strike at the Indian civilian centers, our nation is prepared for all out war against the Indian government. Whilst the world is distracted with the United State’s second civil war, we must take action now when no one is looking outside of maybe Japan. 5.9k Members 28 Online Mar 15, 2014 Cake Day 