Chromebook For Dummies (For Dummies Series): Mark LaFay: 0783324898897: Amazon.com: Books Get the most out of your Google Chromebook Are you the proud new owner of a Google Chromebook and a little—or a lot—intimidated by the technology? You've come to the right place!  Chromebook For Dummies  walks you through setting up the device, transitioning from traditional computers and working in the cloud, customizing Chromebook to suit your needs, navigating the apps and their uses, and applying advanced settings and features. Fear not: with the step-by-step guidance and helpful information inside, there's no reason to break a sweat. Chromebooks are affordable, fast, and sleek—and with Google driving the initiative, they're impossible to ignore. So it's no wonder they're gaining popularity and enticing people from all walks of life to make the switch from a traditional PC or laptop. If you're one of those people and want to make the most of your experience, this book is a practical user's guide to all things Chromebook. If you're a new or inexperienced user who wants to maximize the performance of your Google Chromebook, you'll turn to this friendly guide time and again. Learn to: A practical user’s guide to the ultra-cool Chromebook Are you the proud owner of a Google Chromebook and a little—or a lot—overwhelmed by its capabilities? Don’t sweat it!  Chromebook For Dummies  takes the intimidation out of the technology and explains in plain English how to maximize the performance of your Chromebook—so you can leave the headaches behind and focus on having fun with your new device. Open the book and find: Mark LaFay  is a graduate of the Purdue School of Engineering and Technology. His professional career, however, didn’t start in engineering and technology. LaFay started two successful businesses in the music industry before making the leap back to tech. Mark LaFay is the co-founder of DCODIA, co-founder and product engineer of Conversion In A Box and the co-founder of Roust. He is also an adjunct professor at Indiana University - Purdue University Indianapolis. 