Statement Appeared From Makeup Artist Of Sridevi’s Dead Body - UrduPoint Chand Sahkeel  2 years ago   Fri 02nd March 2018 | 03:05 PM  Mumbai (Urdu Point Updated Newspaper, 2nd March 2018) : A statement  from  the makeup artist of actress Sridevi s  dead  body came publically.  Sridevi died  in a private  hotel  in  Dubai , stated by the sources.  In the initial investigation, it appeared that the cause of death was drowning of late  Sridevi  in the bathroom tub. She was buried in  India  in a bridal costume.  Noor Jahan Ansari, who did the makeup of last  Bollywood  Star  Sridevi  told that Rani Mukherji accompanied her along during her makeup and preparation like a bridal.  She further explored that late  Sridevi  liked the South  Indian  Jewellery they wore her own bought  jewelry  at the funeral. She expressed her condolences by saying that normally it takes an hour to get makeup done but it only took five minutes to prepare late  Sridevi  as a bride because she did not point anything.  The  sari  which late  Sridevi  wore was purchased by  Bollywood  actors  Anil Kapoor  and Rani Mukherjee. She  died  at the age of 55. Abdullah bin Zayed attends Bahrain Embassy recepti .. Abdullah bin Zayed receives Minister of Foreign Af .. US House Proceeds With Debates on Trump Impeachmen .. Nearly 700,000 displaced by east DR Congo violence .. PSA, Fiat Chrysler join to create world's fourth-l .. Punishment to be given to aiders of Gen Musharraf .. Selena Gomez on why Taylor Swift cried over her songs about her abusive relationship Abrar-ul-Haq's Chamkeeli' challenged in court  Star Wars': 42 years of box office gold Comedy night to be held on Dec 21 Noor Bukhari rules out rumors about her fifth marriage Versatile actor, writer Kamal Ahmed Rizvi remembered Justin Timberlake, Jessica Biel on the road to progress after cheating scandal Superman's cape sells for nearly $200,000 in Hollywood auction Decade-ender in entertainment: binge TV, Disney and music moguls The 2010s in entertainment: binge TV, Disney and music moguls Actress Payal Rohatgi arrested, sent to jail for posting content against Nehru-Gandhi family Swedish singer Zara Larsson turns 22 today Education  -  Urdu News  -  Car Prices  -  Breaking News  -  English News  -  Live Tv Channels  -  Urdu Horoscope  -  Horoscope in Urdu  -  Muslim Names in Urdu  -  Urdu Poetry  -  Love Poetry  -  Sad Poetry  -  Prize Bond  -  Mobile Prices in Pakistan  -  PTV Sports  -  English to Urdu  -  Big Ticket  -  Translate English to Urdu  -  Ramadan Calendar  -  Prayer Times  -  DDF Raffle  -  Islamic Calendar  -  Events  -  Today Islamic Date  -  Travel  -  UAE Raffles  -  Travel Guide  -  Arabic  -  Urdu Cooking Recipes  -  Directory  -  Pakistan Results  -  Past Papers  -  BISE  -  Schools in Pakistan  -  Academies  &  Tuition Centers UrduPoint Network is the largest independent digital media house from Pakistan, catering the needs of its users since year 1997. We provide breaking news, Pakistani news, International news, Business news, Sports news, Urdu news and Live Urdu News   1997-2019, UrduPoint Network All rights of the publication are reserved by UrduPoint.com. Reproduction without proper consent is not allowed. '+bn_news_title+' WhatsApp Messenger Facebook Twitter AddThis 