If I get my misdemeanor expunged, will I have to report it to a non-governmental employer for the background check? - Q & A - Avvo Avvo Logo Avvo Logo It was for petty theft, and sometimes the background check asks you to list if you ' ve ever been convicted, even including any expunged convictions. Do I have to disclose it and are they allowed to use it against me? Does it matter if...  More If you are not applying for a job with the government or a job that requires a license issued by the government (other than a driver ' s license), then they are not legally allowed to ask you about expunged convictions and you don ' t have to tell...  will hr tell my manager or does it just vary by the company? and you said they ' re not allowed to but so many companies do. is that illegal? California Code of Regulations, Title 2, Section 7287.4 provides:  " (a) Selection and Testing. Any policy or practice of an employer or other covered entity which has an adverse impact on employment opportunities of individuals on a basis enumerated in the Act is unlawful unless the policy or practice is job-related, as defined in Section 7287.4(e). The Commission herein adopts the Uniform Guidelines on Employee Selection Procedures promulgated by various federal agencies, including the EEOC and Department of Labor. [29 CFR 1607 (1978)]....(d) Specific Practices. (1) Criminal Records. Except as otherwise provided by law (e.g., 12 U.S.C. 1829; Labor Code Section 432.7), it is unlawful for an employer or other covered entity to inquire or seek information regarding any applicant concerning: (A) Any arrest or detention which did not result in conviction; (B) Any conviction for which the record has been judicially ordered sealed, expunged, or statutorily eradicated (e.g., juvenile offense records sealed pursuant to Welfare and Institutions Code Section 389 and Penal Code Sections 851.7 or 1203.45); any misdemeanor conviction for which probation has been successfully completed or otherwise discharged and the case has been judicially dismissed pursuant to Penal Code Section 1203.4; or (C) Any arrest for which a pretrial diversion program has been successfully completed pursuant to Penal Code Sections 1000.5 and 1001.5. " The law in PC 1203.4 states that your conviction is set aside and the complaining/charging document is dismissed. It goes on to say that you are protected when being asked by a private entity. However, when a public agency, like when...  why would I be convicted if I was fingerprinted? and what if they fingerprint me at a later stage? what if they ask about arrest? You haven ' t explained how I ' m protected. i ' m actually more confused now. convicted means you plead guilty or were found guilty. When I refer to fingerprinting, that usually occurs when you ' re arrested. If you submitted to fingerprinting because the court ordered you to go book  &  release, then that ' s same as getting arrested. If they ask about an arrest, I don ' t think they will, but you would have to disclose that you were arrested.You are protected because the code says you can tell a non-gov ' t agency that you aren ' t convicted anymore.If you ' re still confused, call me. so jf they ask for this information during the interview, they can still find out about any convictions by changing the language of their questions and deny my employment? this seems to contradict what the other two counsel are saying. The questions are in the application. Since I ' ve confused you, please just call me when its convenient. Generally, You do not have to disclose a conviction that has been dismissed under penal code 1203.4 on an application for employment with a private employer. However, there are some exceptions. If the employer is a government...  ok so they are allowed to ask about it, I ' m just not required to disclose it? and commercial background companies aren ' t allowed to disclose expunged records? Actually, I am not sure whether they are allowed to ask, but it I think that if they are a typical private employer who is not allowed to consider that information then it follows that they have to business asking. And, yes, if there the position is not with a gov. Agency and doesn ' t require a gov issued professional license then you are not required to disclose any expunged records. Lastly, that ' s correct, background investigators are allowed to disclose only as much of your record as can lawfully be considered by the employer. However, Some companies may not train their employees well enough to know of their duty to protect your privacy, and many employers just rely on the background investigators report without knowledge of what they can or cannot consider.Bottom line is: know who you need to disclose this info to and do not disclose it to anyone who isn ' t entitled to know. If they call you out for not disclosing your record you can tell them that you were under no obligation to do so and they have no right to know or consider that information. If you think they decide not to hire you talk to an employment attorney to see whether you have a legal remedy. I agree with my colleagues above except if the position was finance related.  Please also be aware that if you have an offense of petty theft, you may fall under Section 19 of...  Post a free question on our public forum. - or - Search for lawyers by reviews and ratings. Our Rating is calculated using information the lawyer has included ontheir profile in addition to the information we collect from statebar associations and other organizations that license legalprofessionals. Attorneys who claim their profiles and provide Avvowith more information tend to have a higher rating than those who donot. Years licensed, work experience, education Peer endorsements, associations, awards Publications, speaking engagements 