Stasis dermatitis and ulcers: Causes, symptoms, and treatment Stasis dermatitis is a long-term condition that causes inflammation, ulcers, and itchy skin on the lower legs. It often occurs in people who have underlying conditions that affect blood flow in the legs, such as chronic venous insufficiency, varicose veins, deep vein thrombosis (DVT), and congestive heart failure. Stasis dermatitis  is sometimes called gravitational dermatitis, venous stasis dermatitis, venous  eczema , or varicose eczema. According to the  National Eczema Association , stasis dermatitis occurs mostly in people aged 50 years or older and is more common in women than men. In this article, we look at the causes, risk factors, and symptoms of stasis dermatitis. We also cover the diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of this condition. Stasis dermatitis tends to develop in people with conditions that cause poor blood circulation in the legs, such as chronic venous insufficiency. Chronic venous insufficiency is a condition in which the valves in the leg veins do not work correctly. As a result of the malfunctioning valves, blood can flow backward and pool in the lower legs. This pooling blood causes increased pressure and swelling in the veins, which can lead to the symptoms of stasis dermatitis. Other conditions that can affect blood flow in the legs and feet and lead to stasis dermatitis include: Several known factors can increase a person ' s risk of developing stasis dermatitis, including: The early symptoms of stasis dermatitis primarily affect the lower legs and may include: As stasis dermatitis progresses, these earlier symptoms can worsen. In addition, new symptoms can appear, including: In severe cases of stasis dermatitis, some areas of the lower leg may become intensely itchy, hardened, scaly, and prone to infection. In some people, the calves may shrink. Expect in-depth, science-backed toplines of our best stories every day. Tap in and keep your curiosity satisfied. Your  privacy  is important to us A doctor will diagnose stasis dermatitis by asking about the person ' s symptoms and medical history. Previous or current conditions that they should be aware of include: The doctor may then examine the skin on the lower legs to check for visual signs of stasis dermatitis. They may also order a Doppler  ultrasound , which is a noninvasive test that uses sound waves to check the blood flow through blood vessels. Additional tests that check for heart function,  blood pressure , and allergies may also be necessary. The goal of treatment for stasis dermatitis is to relieve symptoms, improve circulation, and prevent the condition from progressing. Treatment can include: A doctor will also evaluate a person for any underlying conditions that may be contributing to their stasis dermatitis. This might include reviewing any medications that the person is taking. For people who are overweight, a doctor will often provide advice on weight loss techniques. Without treatment, stasis dermatitis can worsen and lead to complications that include: Stasis dermatitis is not always preventable. However, making the following lifestyle changes can reduce the risk of developing stasis dermatitis or making it worse: The diagnosis and treatment of any underlying conditions that can cause stasis dermatitis will also help reduce a person ' s risk. Stasis dermatitis is a long-term condition that can cause a range of skin and circulation problems in the lower legs. Treatment can help keep a person ' s symptoms under control and prevent the condition from progressing. Stasis dermatitis can lead to severe complications if the individual does not receive treatment. Anyone with symptoms of stasis dermatitis should see a doctor.  4 sources collapsed Varicose eczema, or stasis dermatitis, is a skin disorder common in older people with varicose veins. It occurs when valves in the veins weaken… Varicose veins occur when blood pools in the veins as it tries to return to the heart to pick up fresh oxygen. They are common in people &# x27;s legs as… A look at varicose vein pain, a condition where swollen veins become painful. Included is detail on prevention, potential causes, and when to see a… Doctors often recommend compression stockings to improve circulation, prevent varicose veins from becoming worse, and reduce pain and discomfort. They… Varicose veins are enlarged, swollen, twisted veins often caused by damaged or faulty valves that allow blood to travel in the wrong direction. They… Health tips, wellness advice and more. Your  privacy  is important to us 