Women - Supernova | adidas Canada adidas collects minimum date of birth confirmation in order to comply with the privacy policy. Same Day Delivery Shipping Returns &# xA0; Please read these terms and conditions ( &# x201C;Terms and Conditions &# x201D;) carefully before using this website and any adidas content on social media sites (including without limit Facebook and Twitter) (together, the  &# x201C;Site &# x201D;). These Terms and Conditions apply to all visits and use of the Site, as well as to the Content (as defined below), information, recommendations, products and/or services provided to you on or through the Site. By accessing and using the Site, you signify your consent to these Terms and Conditions in their entirety in addition to any other law or regulation that applies to the Site and the Internet. If you do not agree to these Terms and Conditions in their entirety, please leave the Site. You may not without the prior written permission of adidas, use any computer code, data mining software,  &# x201C;robot &# x201D;,  &# x201C;bot &# x201D;,  &# x201C;spider &# x201D;,  &# x201C;scraper &# x201D; or other automatic device, or program, algorithm or methodology having similar processes or functionality, or any manual process to: (i) monitor or copy any of the Software, web pages, data or Content found on this Site or accessed through this Site; (ii) gain access to or participate in any promotion, contest or sale; or (iii) place orders for or purchase any adidas product(s). You may not engage in the mass downloading of files from this Site; use the computer processing power of this Site for purposes other than those permitted; or flood this Site with electronic traffic designed to slow or stop its operation. You may not establish links to or from other websites to this Site without the prior written consent of adidas. adidas reserves the right, &# x200B;in &# x200B; its sole discretion, &# x200B; to cancel orders placed by and/or block you or other users of the Site who engage in any activity which adidas believes is not in accordance with these Terms and Conditions. The Site is operated by adidas Canada Limited, 8100, Highway #27, Woodbridge, Ontario, L4H 3N2, Canada ( &# x201C;adidas &# x201D;). &# xA0; All of the content featured or displayed on or through the Site, including, but not limited to, logos, icons, trade marks, text, graphics, photographs, images, moving images, sound, illustrations, software, and other information ( &# x201C;Content &# x201D;) is owned by adidas, its affiliated companies, its licensors or its content providers, as applicable. All elements of the Site including, but not limited to, the general design and the Content, may be protected by copyright, moral rights, database rights, trade mark and other laws relating to intellectual property or other rights. Except as explicitly permitted under these Terms and Conditions or another agreement with adidas, no portion or element of the Site or its Content may be copied or retransmitted via any means. The Site, its Content and all related rights shall remain the exclusive property of adidas, its affiliated companies, its licensors, or its content providers, as applicable, unless otherwise expressly agreed. All such rights are reserved. Please be aware that we are not familiar with your individual physical characteristics and health. Before you begin an exercise program, you should get a medical checkup. It is important that you warm up and stretch before engaging in physical activity and that you use common sense while engaging in physical activity. If you experience any pain, feel weak, dizzy or exhausted or become short of breath, immediately stop your workout. When you engage in physical activity, you assume all inherent risks. &# xA0; All rights in the Content, including copyright, are and remain owned by adidas, its affiliated companies, its licensors, or content providers, as applicable. Except as may be otherwise indicated within the Site, you are authorised to view, play, print and download Content found on the Site for personal, informational, and non-commercial purposes only. You may not modify any of the Content and you may not copy, distribute, transmit, display, perform, reproduce, publish, license, create derivative works from, transfer or sell any Content. You may not re-use any Content without first obtaining the written consent of adidas. The use of any Content on any other website or networked computer environment is prohibited. You may not remove any copyright, trademark or other proprietary notices from Content found on the Site. In the event you download software (including but not limited to screensavers, smart phone applications, icons, videos and wallpapers) from the Site, the software, including but not limited to any files, images incorporated in or generated by the software, and data accompanying the software (collectively, the  &# x201C;Software &# x201D;) are licensed to you by adidas. adidas does not transfer title to the Software to you. You own the medium on which the Software is recorded, but adidas retains full and complete title to the Software, and all intellectual property rights therein. You may not redistribute, sell, de-compile, reverse engineer, disassemble, or otherwise reduce the Software to a human-readable form. &# xA0; Your use of the Software may be subject to additional terms and conditions. &# xA0; All trade marks, service marks, logos and trade names that appear on products of adidas Group, product packaging, or on the Site, whether registered or not (including but not limited to: the word mark  " adidas " ,  " the 3-Bars logo " ,  " the Trefoil &# xA0; logo " ,  " the Globe " , and  " the 3-Stripes mark " ) (the  &# x201C;Trade Marks &# x201D;) remain the exclusive property of adidas AG, its affiliated companies, its licensors or content providers (as applicable) and are protected by applicable trade mark laws and treaties. You may not use, copy, reproduce, republish, upload, post, transmit, distribute, or modify any of the Trade Marks in any way, including in advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of materials on the Site, without adidas '  prior written consent. The use of any of the Trade Marks on any other website or network computer environment, including for example, the storage or reproduction of any part of the Site in any internal or external intranet or Internet site, or the creation of links, hypertext, or deeplinks between the Site and any other Internet site, is prohibited without the express written consent of adidas. &# xA0; The Site and the Content are provided  &# x201C;as is &# x201D; and without any warranties of any kind. The Content on the Site is for general information purposes only, and does not constitute advice. adidas does not represent or warrant that the Content and/or facilities contained on the Site are accurate, complete or current, or that the Site or the server that makes the Site available are free of viruses or any other harmful components. Further, adidas will not provide for specific IT infrastructure or connectivity. Thus, adidas does not represent or warrant that the Site will be uninterrupted or error free. adidas does not make any warranties or representations regarding the use of the Content on the Site in terms of its correctness, accuracy, adequacy, usefulness, timeliness, reliability or otherwise, in each case to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law. Your use of the Site is entirely at your own risk. adidas, its affiliated companies, licensors and content providers, &# xA0; and any of their respective employees, officers, directors or agents, and any other party involved in creating, producing or delivering the Site or any Content shall not be liable for any direct, indirect, special, consequential or other damages that result from the use of, or the inability to use, the Content or the Site, including damages caused by viruses or any incorrectness or incompleteness of the Content on the Site, or the performance of the products or otherwise arising out of or in connection with these Terms and Conditions, even if adidas has been advised of the possibility of any such damages. &# xA0; Please note that some jurisdictions may not allow the exclusion of certain damages under mandatory law, so some of the above exclusions and limitations may not apply to you. &# xA0; For your convenience and to improve the usage of the Site, links to sites that are owned and controlled by third parties may be provided from time to time. These links take you outside adidas &# x2019; service and off the Site and are beyond adidas &# x2019; control. This includes links to our partners, who may use the Trade Marks. The sites you can link to may have their own separate terms and conditions as well as a privacy policy. adidas is not responsible and cannot be held liable for the content and activities of these sites, or your use of them. You therefore visit, access and use these sites entirely at your own risk. &# xA0; Please note that these other sites may send their own cookies to users, collect data or solicit personal information, and you are therefore advised to check the terms of use, privacy policies, or any other terms and conditions on those sites prior to using them. Misuse of the Site &# xA0; You are prohibited from using the Site to post or transmit any User Generated Content (as defined below) which infringes or may infringe third party intellectual property or other rights or which is threatening, false, misleading, inflammatory, defamatory, invasive of privacy, obscene, pornographic, abusive, discriminating, illegal or which could constitute or encourage conduct that would be considered a criminal offence, violate the rights of any party or which may otherwise give rise to civil liability or violate any law. adidas may deny you access to the Site at any time in its sole discretion, and which shall include situations where adidas believes that your use of the Site is or may be in breach of any of these Terms and Conditions and/or applicable laws. You are also prohibited from using the Site to advertise or perform any commercial solicitation. All opinions, remarks, comments, artwork, graphics, photographs, links, questions, suggestions, information, videos and other materials that you or other users of the Site post to the Site or transmit using the Site ( &# x201C;User Generated Content &# x201D;) will be deemed non-confidential and non-proprietary. Accordingly, adidas shall have the non-exclusive, royalty-free, right to use, copy, distribute and disclose to third parties any User Generated Content for any purpose, in any medium and throughout the world ( &# x201C;License &# x201D;). &# xA0; You acknowledge and agree that adidas only acts as a passive conduit for the distribution of the User Generated Content and is not responsible or liable to you or to any third party for the content or accuracy of the User Generated Content. adidas does not continuously monitor User Generated Content published by you or moderating between users, nor shall adidas be under an obligation to do so. However, adidas reserves the right to do so from time to time, in its sole discretion. Without limit to the generality of the foregoing, you acknowledge and agree that any remarks, opinions, comments, suggestions and other information expressed or included in the User Generated Content do not necessarily represent those of adidas. Any use by you of the User Generated Content is entirely at your own risk. You represent and warrant that any User Generated Content posted or transmitted by you is original to you and does not copy the work of any third party or otherwise infringe any third party intellectual property rights, rights of privacy or personal, or other rights of third parties, does not contain any defamatory or disparaging statements and does not otherwise violate the Terms and Conditions. Furthermore, you represent and warrant that you have the capacity to grant the License as stipulated in this paragraph. You agree to indemnify and keep adidas, its affiliated companies, licensors and content providers harmless against all costs, expenses, damages, losses and liabilities incurred or suffered by adidas, &# xA0; its affiliated companies, licensors and content providers related to any User Generated Content posted or transmitted by you, or otherwise through your use of the Site. &# xA0; adidas reserves the right at its sole discretion to block or remove (in whole or part) any User Generated Content posted or transmitted by you and which adidas believes is not in accordance with these Terms and Conditions (including User Generated Content which infringes or may infringe third party intellectual property rights, rights of privacy or personality or other rights), or is otherwise unacceptable to adidas. &# xA0; You agree to promptly notify adidas in writing (see How to Contact Us below for contact details) of any User Generated Content (or other Content) which you believe breaches or might breach these Terms and Conditions. You agree to provide to adidas sufficient information to enable adidas to investigate whether such User Generated Content (or other Content) breaches these Terms and Conditions. adidas agrees to make good faith efforts to investigate such report and shall take such action as adidas in its sole discretion decides. However, adidas does not warrant or represent that it will block or remove (in whole or part) such User Generated Content or other Content. &# xA0; adidas maintains the policy of not reviewing or accepting any unsolicited submissions of ideas, inventions, designs and/or other materials related to adidas business (including without limit footwear, apparel, sporting goods and services) whether consisting of texts, images, sounds, software, information or otherwise (the  &# x201C;Materials &# x201D;) from persons external to adidas. You should therefore not post any Materials on the Site or send these to adidas by e-mail or otherwise. If you have any questions or comments about the Site or these Terms and Conditions or in the event that you wish to make a complaint or report regarding the Site (or its Content), then please  click here. adidas reserves the right, at its sole discretion, to change, modify, add, or remove portions of these Terms and Conditions at any time. Please check these Terms and Conditions periodically for changes. Your continued use of the Site following the posting of changes to these Terms and Conditions will mean you accept those changes. &# xA0; Each provision of these Terms and Conditions shall be construed separately and independently of each other. If any provision is deemed invalid, void or otherwise unenforceable, that provision shall be deemed severable from and shall not affect the enforceability of any of the other provisions of these Terms and Conditions. &# xA0; If you want to order products via the Site, you must also read and agree to the  Delivery Terms . You may only purchase or order items for personal, non-commercial and legal purposes. No other uses are permitted. Items purchased on this website will not be delivered to an address outside of Canada. adidas &# xA0;reserves the right to limit the quantities of items which you, your family, household, delivery address, payment method, or any group can purchase, to reject, correct, cancel or refuse orders, and to determine accounts in its discretion including, without limitation, if adidas believes that your conduct contravenes any applicable law or is harmful to the interests of adidas or its representatives, agents, contractors, suppliers or licensees, or other website users. In order to help protect you and adidas &# xA0;from fraudulent transactions, adidas &# xA0;may provide your transaction-related information to third party organizations to perform an address verification. This address verification is to help ensure that the  " bill to "  address provided matches your credit card address. adidas &# xA0;also reserves the right, at its discretion, not to ship items ordered or purchased on this Website to certain addresses or areas. In the event that adidas &# xA0;chooses not to ship an item or is not able to ship an item, you will be notified by email and any amount charged to your credit card will be refunded. These Terms and Conditions shall be governed by the laws in force in the Province of Ontario and you and adidas hereby submit to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the Ontario Courts. Shipping Please see below for shipping times based on your location. Same Day Delivery Greater Toronto area only. Orders must be placed before 10 am EST. ONLY AVAILABLE MONDAY-FRIDAY. All same day orders in the GTA will be delivered between 5 pm - 9 pm Eastern Time Zone. Please review the applicable postal codes  here  that are eligible for Same Day Delivery. Title Not the right size or colour? No problem! Your order is picked up when  &  where you like. &# xA0; Customised products are made just for you and therefore cannot be returned. &# xA0; Check out our  Return Policy  for more details. I agree that adidas Canada ltd. &# xA0;8100, Highway 27, Woodbridge, Ontario, L4H 3N2, www.adidas.ca may contact me by regular mail, e-mail, by SMS, by telephone or any other electronic means for marketing, advertising and opinion research purposes of the adidas Group. In order to be able to contact me with information which is of special interest to me, I agree that my overall interaction with &# xA0;adidas Canada ltd. &# xA0;and with adidas AG, Herzogenaurach (D) will be combined, analysed and used. I further agree that adidas Canada ltd. &# xA0;may provide my contact data to adidas AG for marketing, advertising and opinion research purposes of the adidas Group. Please read the  Privacy Policy  for further information. I understand that I can revoke my consent any time as indicated in the messages sent by adidas. INTRODUCTION AND SCOPE OF THIS PRIVACY STATEMENT We, adidas Canada Ltd., 8100, Highway #27, Woodbridge, Ontario, L4N 3N2 and our parent company adidas International B.V. (Hoogoorddreef 9A, 1101 BA Amsterdam, Netherlands) and its affiliates, including adidas AG (Adi-Dassler-Strasse 1, 91074 Herzogenaurach, Germany) want to give you the best adidas experience possible. We use the personal information you share with us to make our products and services and your experience even better. This privacy statement aims to give you a clear view of how we use personal information that you provide, our dedication to protecting it, your rights and the options you have to control your personal information and protect your privacy. It also outlines what personal information we collect about you when you visit our websites, stores or when you use our mobile apps, how we use your personal information and the third parties we will share it with. We use personal information for various purposes, as described in detail below. PERSONAL INFORMATION WE COLLECT FROM YOU &# x201C;Personal information &# x201D; is any information that relates to you and identifies you personally, either alone or in combination with other information. adidas will collect various types of personal information and special categories of personal information (such as health and other sensitive data) about you, including the following (as applicable): Complete information about opting out and unsubscribing from marketing messages appears later in this privacy statement. If you sign up for an adidas account, which allows you to use the same sign in details anywhere in the world, we will ask for your name, e-mail address, date of birth (optional) and password. &# xA0; YOUR ADIDAS ACCOUNT adidas will also collect the following information when you sign up for an account if you choose to provide it: telephone number, gender, personal preferences, social identifier if you choose to log in to your account via social media and age or date of birth. &# xA0; USE OF OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES When you use our products and services we will ask for personal information (at the moment of collection we will explain what information is required and what information you may choose to provide), such as: ADIDAS APPS We offer a number of apps which allow you to upload and/or store certain information. Depending on the app, we will ask for personal information (we will explain what information is needed to offer the service and what information you may choose to provide so that we may understand your preferences), such as your: &# xA0; ADIDAS COMMUNITIES If you become a member of an adidas Community ( " Member " ), such as Front Row, we will ask for basic personal information (we will explain what information is required and what information you may choose to provide), such as: Once you are a Member, you may choose to provide us with additional personal information, such as: If you are a winner of any Prize Giveaways, we will ask for additional personal information, such as: If we would like to promote the adidas Communities and Prize Giveaways and you are a winner of a Prize Giveaway, we will ask for additional personal information, such as: &# xA0; SOCIAL SIGN-ON If you choose to create an adidas account through your social network account (such as Facebook), your sign-on credentials will be imported via your social network account. Please note that when you use this  " social sign-on "  option, we will use the following personal information: We will often also receive certain personal information (which you have agreed to be accessible on your public profile) via the social network, such as: This information is not requested by adidas, but is provided by the social network through the use of the social sign-on option if you have a public profile, in line with the social network ' s terms of use. adidas will only use such information without your consent (as implied by your choice to use social sign on) and for the purposes described in this Statement. &# xA0; WIFI HOTSPOT SERVICES Some adidas store locations offer free guest WiFi to visitors ( &# x201C;Guest WiFi &# x201D;). adidas uses third party service providers of WiFi hotspots ( &# x201C;WiFi Hotspot Provider &# x201D;) to offer Guest WiFi. The provision of Guest WiFi is subject to the WiFi Hotspot Provider &# x2019;s Terms and Privacy Policy. Use of your Personal Information by the WiFi Hotspot Provider is not subject to adidas &# x2019; control and we are not responsible for the privacy practices of the WiFi Hotspot Provider. In order to use Guest Wifi, the WiFi Hotspot Provider will ask you to engage in an identification activity, which may include authorizing the WiFi Hotspot Provider to access your Facebook or other social media account or to provide Personal Information about yourself such as first and last name, user name, gender, mailing address, email address, telephone number or date of birth. Some information may be voluntary and other information is mandatory to access the service. The WiFi Hotspot Provider may also automatically obtain your device identifier, the URLs of websites visited before and after sign-on, your IP address, and other information as described by the WiFi Hotspot Provider. The WiFi Hotspot Provider shares certain information with adidas in aggregate and identifiable format. Specifically, adidas receives aggregate data regarding total number of visitors, new and returning visitors, gender and age of visitors, and duration of visits. For users of Guest WiFi, adidas obtains identifiable information which may include name, gender, telephone number, date of visit, age, email address, and social media account information if you have provided this information. adidas uses and discloses this information for the purposes stated within this Privacy Policy. adidas may also use this information for social media re-marketing. You can opt out of or delete location data and stop any further data from being collected for your device by following the instructions given by the WiFi Hotspot Provider in its Terms and/or Privacy Policy. You can opt out of social media re-marketing by setting preferences offered in your social media account, including at: &# xA0; INFORMATION WE COLLECT AUTOMATICALLY We will also collect personal information about you when you interact with our brand, websites and apps and how you use them, as follows: We will also use various technologies to determine location, such as sensor data from your device that may, for example, provide information on nearby Wi-Fi access points, Near Field Communication ( " NFC " ) points and mobile network cell towers. You can generally disable sending your location through settings in your device, and we will inform you when we make use of location information. &# xA0; SOURCES OF INFORMATION Most of the information we collect about you will be personal information that you have voluntarily provided to us, for example, through our websites, e-shops, mobile apps, in-store etc. Other sources from whom we may obtain your personal information include: &# xA0; HOW WE USE YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION The personal information we collect when you create first sign in will be used for identification and authentication purposes across adidas services, so you can use the same account details to log in from any location and on any device. The global single sign on will allow adidas systems to identify you wherever you are in the world, meaning you will not need to register with us again if you are signing in from a different country. In addition, adidas will create a profile for you with the information needed to provide you with our products or services. The personal information we collect from the above other sources listed above will be used in the format that it is received, or, where appropriate, will be combined with personal information we obtain from other internal or external sources. We use and analyse this personal information for the various other purposes detailed below: HOW WE SHARE YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION We treat your personal information with care and confidentiality and do not share it with third parties other than as set out below: With other adidas Group entities We will share limited personal information which you provide when you sign up (your name, email address, password and date of birth) with other adidas Group entities to enable the global single sign-on and for authentication purposes, so that you can use the same sign in information anywhere in the world and our systems will recognize your details. We may share information we keep in your profile with other adidas Group entities if both entities are responsible for your personal information, or if the other entities are acting as our service providers and processing your personal information on our instructions or on our behalf. &# xA0; We will also share your other personal information, as well as anonymised and aggregated information, with other adidas Group entities (such as adidas A.G., the parent company of the group, and/or other adidas entities as necessary). They will use this personal information for trend analysis. With service providers We will share limited the personal information you provide when you sign up for an adidas single sign-on (your name, email address, password and date of birth) with our cloud service providers for the purposes of identification and authentication, so that you can log on to your adidas account quickly and with the ease and speed you expect from us from anywhere in the world. We will also share your personal information as necessary and only for the purposes described above with various third parties who process your personal information on our behalf, such as third parties that run our loyalty program and/or Prize Giveaways/competitions, hosting, delivery, payment and fraud management providers, credit scoring agencies and analytics platform providers. We require that these service providers and other third parties adhere to strict rules when processing your personal information, including to only use your personal information in accordance with adidas '  instructions and the applicable laws. &# xA0; WITH SOCIAL NETWORKS Our website and apps will, in certain circumstances, provide you with social plug-ins from various social networks. If you choose to interact with a social network such as Facebook or Twitter (for example by registering an account), your activity on our website or via our apps will also be made available to that social network. If you are logged in on one of these social networks during your visit to one of our websites or apps or are interacting with one of the social plug-ins, the social network might add this information to your respective profile on this network based on your privacy settings. If you would like to prevent this type of data transfer, please log out of your social network account before you enter one of our websites or apps, or change the app ' s privacy settings, where possible. Please read the privacy policies of those social networks for detailed information about the collection and transfer of personal information, what rights you have and how you can maintain suitable privacy settings for your needs. &# xA0; WITH LEGAL AND LAW ENFORCEMENT adidas will disclose personal information where required by law or legal process, for the administration of justice, to protect your vital interest, for investigations by law enforcement or regulatory bodies, to protect and defend adidas '  property and legal rights, to protect the personal safety of adidas website or (mobile) app users or by order of a valid injunction from a court or law enforcement agency. WITH YOUR CONSENT We will share your personal information with other third parties (different from those described above, for example, sports or fitness centres or when you decide to connect our devices with third party devices) in other limited circumstances. In these instances we will, where required by applicable law, obtain your consent to share your personal information in this way. HOW WE PROTECT YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION We are committed to protecting your personal information and implement appropriate technical and organisational security measures to protect it against any unauthorised or unlawful processing and against any accidental loss, destruction, or damage. &# xA0; RETAINING YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION We will keep your personal information for two years from your last interaction with us, such as the date your account was deleted, your last purchase, the last time you used one of our apps or in some other way contacted or interacted, unless a longer or shorter retention period is required by law, is necessary in the course of legal proceedings or is otherwise needed for a particular purpose under applicable law. The following are examples to illustrate how adidas keeps your personal information for as long as necessary for a particular purpose: &# xA0; INTERNATIONAL TRANSFERS OF YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION We may store and process your personal information in Canada and in the European Union. There may also be occasions when we need to transfer your personal information outside of Canada and the European Economic Area ( " EEA " ) to a country which does not provide the same level of data protection as these countries. For example, the personal information you provide when you sign up for an adidas account will be stored in Canada and the European Union, and also by other adidas group entities and our cloud services providers located outside Canada and the EEA for the purposes of authenticating your account and signing you in. In these circumstances we will take appropriate steps to ensure that your personal information is adequately protected. Typically, such steps include carrying out data security reviews of any recipients and putting in place contracts with such recipients to ensure they employ the same or similar appropriate technical and organisational measures as adidas, so your data is adequately protected. However, where personal information is stored or processed outside of Canada (whether by the adidas group or a service provider), it is subject to the laws of that foreign jurisdiction, and be accessible to that jurisdiction &# x2019;s governments, courts, or law enforcement or regulatory agencies. &# xA0; INFORMATION ABOUT CHILDREN As a general rule, we do not intentionally collect personal information about children under the age of 16. If we become aware that we have inadvertently collected personal information about children under the age of 16, we will take steps to delete the information as soon as possible, except where we are required by applicable law to keep it. If a child under the age of 16 attempts to sign up for an adidas account, he or she is initially asked to provide the information as described above. In addition, the data submitted by and collected about the child during the course of his or her visit (e.g. via cookies) may be used as described in this Statement. However, if a child under the age of 16 attempts to complete the sign up, this will be rejected with the notification that accounts for child under the age of 16 cannot be created. For that reason, we ask parents and guardians to check on and monitor their children &# x2019;s Internet usage in order to protect them. &# xA0; LINKS TO OTHER WEBSITES AND SERVICES Our websites may contain links to third party websites, and some of our services provide you with access to third party services (such as social networks). We have no control over how third party websites and services process your personal information. We do not review third party websites and services, and we are not responsible for such third party websites and services or their privacy practices. Please read the privacy statements of any third party websites or services that you access from our websites or services. YOUR RIGHTS IN RELATION TO YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION Fair play and transparency are important to us. We are open about the personal information we collect and have implemented &# xA0;mechanisms &# xA0;to enable you to &# xA0;exercise any &# xA0;rights you might have with respect to your personal information. &# xA0; ACCESS AND CORRECTION OF PERSONAL INFORMATION If you have ordered products or services or registered an account with us, you can access a significant amount of your personal information through one of our websites. Our websites generally present you with the option to add, update or remove information we have about you If any personal information we have about you is not accessible through our website, you can send us a request for access to this information at no cost using the  contact details  set out at the end of this privacy statement. After receiving your request and sufficient information to verify your identity we will provide you with a copy of the personal information we have about you which you are entitled to have under applicable law. We will also confirm the purposes for which such personal information is being used, its recipients and the origin of the information You may write to us at any time requesting amendments to certain personal information that you consider to be incorrect or irrelevant or to request that we block, erase or otherwise remove your personal information (i.e. withdraw your consent). We will update, block, erase or remove your personal information upon request in line with applicable law. &# xA0; OPTING OUT AND UNSUBSCRIBING FROM MARKETING MESSAGES All our marketing communications contain an easy way to opt out from receiving future messages, such as a link through which you can unsubscribe. You may also opt out for particular channels (for example email or SMS) as indicated in the message received in such channel or through your adidas account settings. If you would like to opt out of receiving adidas marketing messages you may use the unsubscribe link contained in the messages you have received, or alternatively you could contact: adidas Canada Ltd., Digital Marketing, 8100, Highway #27, Woodbridge, Ontario &# xA0; LN4 3N2, or customer service at 1-855-823-4327. Note that if you choose to opt out of receiving marketing messages in the manner explained above, we will continue to process your personal information, in particular to allow us to understand your interests and preferences, but we will stop using your personal information to send you personalised or non-personalised marketing messages. If you would like us to stop such processing in part or in full, we have explained how to do this in the above paragraph. Please note that some of our mobile apps might also send you messages, including (if you have given your permission to do so) push messages, for instance about new products or services. In this case, the particular mobile app will provide just in time notices before we send you push notifications. &# xA0; You can disable these messages through the settings in your phone or the app, or choose to uninstall the app to stop receiving the messages. &# xA0; DELETION OF INFORMATION/WITHDRAWAL OF CONSENT You may at any time ask adidas to delete your personal information. &# xA0; We will consider and where necessary comply with your request in accordance with applicable law, as explained above. CHANGES TO THIS POLICY adidas has pledged to adhere to the fundamental principles of privacy and data protection. We therefore regularly review our online privacy statement in order to ensure that it is free of errors and clearly visible on websites, that it contains appropriate information about your rights and our processing activities, and that it is implemented and is compliant with applicable law. We may update this privacy statement from time to time to keep it up to date, to keep pace with new developments and opportunities relating to the Internet and to stay in line with applicable law. If we make significant changes to this privacy statement, we will inform you by posting a notification on our websites and/or mobile apps along with an updated version of the privacy statement. COMPLAINTS AND CONTACTS If you have any questions or complaints about our use of your personal information, or require information on how to exercise your rights or about our privacy statement you are welcome to contact us at: adidas Canada Ltd., Digital Marketing, 8100, Highway #27, Woodbridge, Ontario &# xA0; LN4 3N2, or customer service at 1-855-823-4327. We will explain the complaint procedure to you and investigate all complaints. If a complaint is justified, we will take all appropriate steps to correct the situation. We will also let you know what other complaint procedures may be available to you. &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; COOKIE STATEMENT &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; &# xA0; WHAT YOU SHOULD KNOW ABOUT COOKIES FIRST OF ALL &# x2026; WHAT ARE COOKIES? Cookies are small text files that are stored on your computer or mobile device when you visit a website. For this section, we conveniently use  " cookies "  as an umbrella term for techniques such as cookies, Flash cookies and web beacons. They don &# x2019;t take much space and they will be removed automatically when expired. Some cookies expire at the end of your internet session, while others will be saved for a limited amount of time. SECONDLY &# x2026; WHAT ARE THE DIFFERENT COOKIE TYPES WE USE? There are different types of cookies with different uses. Some are there just to allow you to browse the website and see certain features. Some give us an idea on your browsing experience, i.e. when you have trouble finding what you are looking for, so we can improve and make your future visit as pleasant as possible. &# xA0; Cookies set by adidas are called  " first party cookies " . &# xA0; Cookies set by parties other than us are called  " third party cookies " . &# xA0; Third party cookies enable third party features or functionality to be provided on or through the website (e.g. like advertising, interactive content and analytics). &# xA0; The parties that set these third party cookies can recognise your computer or mobile both when it visits the website in question and also when it visits certain other websites. &# xA0; We use first party and third party cookies for several reasons. The most important cookies are the required cookies. They are essential and help you to navigate on the website and to use basic features, such as media plugins. Then there are functionality cookies that enable you to save your shopping bag, create a wish list and to save your shipping details for a quicker checkout. The performance and analytics cookies we use to improve our website. We also like to show you relevant offers. To manage this we collect browsing data, which may be linked to a unique identifier to allow us to understand how you interact with adidas across different platforms as described in our privacy statement (click  here  for our privacy statement). Interaction cookies are used for you to interact with social media or to submit reviews.  &# xA0;Targeting cookies, advertising cookies and social media cookies capture your preferences in order to show you relevant ads outside adidas sites. In addition, social media cookies may be used to track your activity over social media platforms. NEXT &# x2026; WHY DO WE USE COOKIES? adidas uses cookies primarily to ensure your visit to our website is as pleasant as possible, as well as for advertising-related purposes during your future visits to other websites. Below you see a more elaborate overview of the types of cookies we are using and why: The web analytic services on our website and (mobile) applications are provided by Adobe Site Catalyst (www.adobe.com). This means that when you visit our website or (mobile) applications, a cookie by Adobe Site Catalyst will be stored on your computer or mobile device, except when your browser settings don &# x2019;t allow for such cookies. &# xA0; This further means that when you visit our website or (mobile) application, various web analytics data (e.g. click-stream data, data from web beacons and tracking links and information stored in Adobe Site Catalyst cookies) will be sent to Adobe Site Catalyst for analysis for and on behalf of adidas. Please note that if you have created an online profile at our website or (mobile) application and if you are logged on in this profile, a unique number identifying this profile is also being sent to Adobe Site Catalyst in order to be able to match the web analytics data to this profile. &# xA0;Adobe Site Catalyst acts as an agent to adidas, which means that adidas solely determines the purposes for which the data is being used and that Adobe Site Catalyst will not disclose the information to any third parties (except when required to do so by law or court order). In privacy terms, this means that adidas is the  &# x201C;controller &# x201D; and Adobe Site Catalyst the  &# x201C;processor &# x201D;. You can find out more about the relationships between adidas and Adobe Site Catalyst in the Adobe &# x2019;s privacy policy under  &# x201C;Adobe Hosted Services &# x201D; at http://www.adobe.com/privacy/policy.html. WHAT IF YOU DON &# x2019;T LIKE COOKIES? You can change your browser settings to delete or prevent certain cookies from being stored on your computer or mobile device without your explicit consent. The  &# x2018;help &# x2019; section in your browser should provide information on how to manage your cookie settings. Find out how this works for your browser here: &# xA0; Internet Explorer: &# xA0; https://support.microsoft.com/help/17442/windows-internet-explorer-delete-manage-cookies Mozilla Firefox: &# xA0; http://support.mozilla.com/en-US/kb/Cookies Google Chrome: &# xA0; http://www.google.com/support/chrome/bin/answer.py?hl=en & answer=95647 Safari: &# xA0; http://support.apple.com/kb/PH5042 Opera: &# xA0; http://www.opera.com/browser/tutorials/security/privacy/ Adobe (flash cookies): &# xA0; http://www.adobe.com/privacy/policies/flash-player.html If you do not wish information about your behaviour at our website or (mobile) application being collected and assessed by Adobe Site Catalyst, you can apply for a visitor opt-out. This means that Adobe Site Catalyst will, depending on the type of opt-out you choose, either anonymise the information it collects (but keeps collecting the data) or stop collecting information about your visit at all. This visitor opt-out requires you to accept a cookie being stored on your computer by Adobe Site Catalyst. You can apply for the visitor opt-out on the link in the privacy policy section of the Adobe Site Catalyst website ( http://www.adobe.com/privacy/policy.html ). If you would like to opt out of the service of ads based on the use of re-targeting technologies (currently served by GDN), you can visit:  http://optout.networkadvertising.org/#/ . You can always contact us for further information if your opt-out options are unclear. HOW OFTEN WILL YOU UPDATE THIS COOKIE STATEMENT? We may update this Cookie Statement from time to time in order to reflect, for example, changes to the cookies we use or for other operational, legal or regulatory reasons. &# xA0; Please therefore re-visit this Cookie Statement regularly to stay informed about our use of cookies and related technologies. &# xA0; The date at the top of this Cookie Statement indicates when it was last updated. &# xA0; FINALLY &# x2026;WHERE CAN I GET FURTHER INFORMATION? If you have any questions about our use of cookies or other technologies, contact our Customer Service team LAST UPDATED: 3 .27.2018 _________________________ I agree to receiving personalised marketing messages about adidas products, events and promotions (including offers and discounts). adidas may contact me through the channels I select, such as email, SMS or post. I agree to receive personalised email marketing messages from adidas Canada Ltd. (“adidas”) and runtastic GmbH (“runtastic”). Track your order by entering the details below. For security reasons, it must be the email associated with the order. - View full order details and current status - Track your shipment - Initiate a Return - Track your Return shipment Add a little something to your VRCT jacket (free of charge) and make it your own. While stocks last, you can express yourself using one of our five predefined patches. Calling all creators! Why not create an extra personalised patch to add to your jacket? Making it personal means adding a message of up to 6 characters. Add your name, a word, your dog’s name, or well, basically anything (appropriate!) to your patch. Do: Don't: The predefined patch is free of charge! Selecting a personalised patch for your VRCT jacket is an additional price to the standard price. If you select any of the predefined patch please add 1-2 business days to delivery timings. Personalising a patch will take around 5 days. This means that when adding a personalised patch to your bag, your full order will arrive 5-7 days later than the delivery timings you are used to. Personalised patches are created just for you. That means we cannot accept returns, except for manufacturing defects. temp- temp temp- temp- temp- temp- temp- temp- temp temp-2- temp- temp- usp-store2 tem-3 Icons/Social/Google We strive to serve you better and appreciate your feedback 