Gundam Thunderbolt Season 2 Anime's New Mecha, Character Designs Revealed - News - Anime News Network The  Gundam.info  portal site  unveiled  new visuals of mechanical designs and characters for the second  season  of the anime based on  Yasuo Ohtagaki 's  Mobile Suit Gundam Thunderbolt  manga on Wednesday. While none of the characters have any confirmed cast, Cornelius Kaka also appeared in the first season voiced by  Daisuke Hirakawa . RGM-79/GH Assault Carrier "Spartan" Sebastian Mors Fisher Nes Cornelius Kaka Monica Humphrey The anime's official website previously  streamed  a promotional video for the anime in January. Previously announced cast members and mobile suits include: Yūichi Nakamura  as Io Fleming Atlas Gundam RX-78AL Ryohei Kimura  as Daryl Lorenz Acguy MSM-04 Yurina Furukawa  as Bianca Carlisle Tomokazu Sugita  as Vincent Pike Ryota Ohsaka  as Billy Hickham The second season of the net anime will debut with the fifth episode on March 24. The sixth, seventh, and eighth episodes will premiere on April 28, May 31, and June 30, respectively. Episodes will again be available via an EST (Electronic Sell Through) service that allows purchasers to download the episode or through a TVOD (Transactional  Video on Demand ) service that allows rental viewing for a set period. The story of the fifth episode begins on Earth seven months after the One Year War ended. The remnants of the Principality of Zeon reform as the Republic of Zeon and continue to battle. Daryl had piloted the mobile suit Psycho Zaku in the end of the war at the "Thunderbolt Sector," where the Moore Brotherhood's fleet was annihilated. After losing the Psycho Zaku, Daryl descends to Earth and takes up an intelligence position to gain information about the South Seas Alliance, a military group within the Earth Federation. Io, who faced off against Daryl, is selected to pilot the prototype mobile suit Atlas Gundam and heads toward Earth. The first season of the net anime began streaming in December 2015, and the fourth and final episode began streaming last April. The first season received a director's cut compilation titled  Mobile Suit Gundam Thunderbolt: December Sky , which includes additional scenes.  Right Stuf  released an import edition Blu-Ray Disc of the director's cut with both English and Japanese audio tracks last July. Ohtagaki  launched  the manga in  Shogakukan 's  Big Comic Superior  magazine in March 2012, and  Shogakukan  published the ninth compiled book volume on January 30.  Viz Media publishes  the manga in English, and shipped the manga's second volume on February 21. News homepage  /  archives 