15 Best First Christmas Ornaments Available Now (2019) | Heavy.com Finding the perfect Christmas ornament to commemorate the first Christmas with a new baby, new house, or new spouse can be a wonderful holiday gift idea. Luckily, we re here to help you find the perfect one. Here are the best first Christmas ornaments available right now. And you might want to check out the  best baby s first Christmas stockings  too. Our Review Christmas is such a special time to celebrate, especially when there s a new baby in the house.  This beautiful Lenox Christmas 2019 fine china rattle ornament  celebrates a baby s first year of life and will be a treasure to be kept and cherished every year when decorating the Christmas Tree. The cream and gold china rattle is adorned with hearts and stars, perfect for a baby boy or girl. If you re searching for a small gift for new parents, this would make the perfect present. Lenox also has a lifetime guarantee against breakage, so consider this gift that will last a lifetime. Since this ornament is more for the parents at first, you might want to get the baby some real  rattles  of its own. There s nothing a soft and sweet as a new baby, and their first teddy bear, especially if that bear is Winnie the Pooh. This first Christmas ornament features little Pooh in a bright red wagon, bearing a little wrapped package with a label reading  baby s first Christmas.  On the back of the red wagon, the year 2019 is printed. This Hallmark Keepsake ornament is much more than an ordinary Christmas ornament. It s a little work of art that tells a big story. We also love  this Keepsake ornament  that allows you to put the baby s picture inside. If you re looking for baby gift ideas, this would make the perfect present for a new mom or one that s expecting soon. A  memory book  to chronicle baby s first year, including this special first Christmas, would be a lovely present too. A tiny child, held by a smiling moon  it s the stuff dreams are made of. This lovely ornament celebrates dreams like yours, having your new baby as the perfect Christmas present. This precious Christmas decoration would be a wonderful gift idea for anyone celebrating their first Christmas with a new bundle of joy. The peaceful scene is a quiet reminder of that very first Christmas and the celestial presences that were all around Bethlehem. It would be super sweet, if you re buying it as a Christmas gift for new parents, to include  a special blanket  and a happy little stuffed moon pillow  in the package. Imagine your precious baby boy, swaddled in a cozy quilted Christmas stocking. That s what  this darling baby boy s first Christmas ornament  depicts. What makes it special is that it s customizable, so you can actually put anything you want on the cuff of the hat and stocking, as long as it fits within the character limits. You can also put the year on the heel of the stocking, so if you re planning ahead even to next year, you can get this ordered for your baby or a friend who is due after the first of the year. Looking for a customizable baby girl s first Christmas ornament? No worries, we ve found the perfect option in  this ornament  that also lets you personalize the name and the year. The sweet Snowbabies ornament seems to say  wake up, sleepy head, it s Christmas morning.  This adorable porcelain bisque ornament was designed by Kristi Jensen Pierro, who for 30 years has designed the  Snowbabies figurines  and  collectible Snowbabies ornaments  for Department 56. This would be the perfect present to begin a new baby s nursery collection of Snowbabies, and it s something you could add to year after year. This Christmas ornament features the sleepy-eyed Snowbaby and has a porcelain  Baby s 1st  sentiment tag along with the cutest darned tiny huggable teddy bear. This vintage ornament looks like hand-painted barn wood, featuring three stockings   two large and one small. It celebrates the first Christmas with a new little one in the house. While this looks like wood, it s actually handmade porcelain that s been fused with an impermeable design, so it will last for all your Christmases to come. Another vintage wood-look ornament  features happy strings of lights and a similar sentiment,  Our first Christmas as Mommy and Daddy.  Sweet. The anticipation of becoming a grandma for the first time is nearly unbearable, and once that baby is born, you can t fight the urge to hug them up close and envelope them with love. This beautiful Grandma s First Christmas ornament will be an annual reminder for your mom of the day her grandson or granddaughter made their debut. The beautiful little ceramic frame holds a two-inch photo perfectly, and whether you fill it with a newborn picture or one of grandma holding that precious little bundle, this lovely Christmas ornament will bring tears to her eyes every year when she hangs it on the tree. Because you know she ll be reading books to her new grandchild constantly, grab her a copy of  Just Grandma and Me  by Mercer Mayer. And to give your mom the hint that you could use a night out, give her a  book of bedtime stories  to read to your little one on those rare occasions you get one. Hallmark has captured all the passion of new love in this beautiful ornament that celebrates a couples  first Christmas together. Beautiful love birds come together amidst leaves, fines and a snowflake flower all on a white porcelain bell with a real ringer. It hangs from a tiny sheer ribbon as a reminder that this Christmas is one not to be forgotten. Another great remembrance of your first year as husband and wife is  the Hallmark Keepsake Wedding Cake Ornament.  The two-tier cake features gold accents and flowers, along with 2019. Another fun Christmas gift idea would be to get a  picture frame ornament,  in which you could keep a special photo of cutting your first tree. If you really want to make your first Christmas special, there are lots of  books on how to make lasting Christmas memories . Master craftsman, Wendell August, has hand-hammered this memory making ornament that s perfect for any couple s first Christmas together.  The beautiful hand hammered ornament  hangs from a delicate red ribbon, and the sentiment is surrounded doves, poinsettias, luscious holly leaves, and vines. Perhaps some  Waterford toasting flutes  would be another perfect present to give along with this lovely Christmas ornament. Whether you decide to buy this for your sweetheart or as a gift from newly in love friends, it will be a treasured reminder of this year and all of those to come. You ll always remember that first Christmas you spent together with the love of your life. When you give this beautiful Christmas ornament to your sweetheart, you re letting them know that this is a year and a season you never want to forget. This beautiful heart-shaped metal ornament is filled with bronze toned leaves and white berries, reminiscent of mistletoe. Intertwined vines remind you of how your lives are intertwined as well. This elegant Hallmark Christmas ornament hangs by a delicate ribbon. While the ribbon is inscribed with  Our First Christmas 2016 , you can simply change the ribbon hanger. Each year when you hang this little beauty, you can harken back to the year when you were first together and in love. Add to the holiday spirit with matching  mantel decorations  and  Christmas linens . As memorable as your wedding day was, there s nothing quite like your first Christmas as a married couple.  The lovely white porcelain bride and groom ornament  hang with a tiny charm etched with 2019 to mark your first Christmas together. This pretty first Christmas ornament is one you ll cherish each time you hang it on your tree. The Lenox Christmas Ball ornament  also marks the year and the season in a beautiful way. Make your first Christmas in your new home one to remember with  this beautiful customized ornament  that makes it one of a kind. Handcrafted from rustic looking wood, this house shaped decoration is imprinted with your names and the year to make it uniquely yours. This ornament would also make a perfect stocking stuffer or small gift for family members or friends who are celebrating the holidays in their new homes as well. Don t worry that the photo says 2018. You can put any year you d like, and that means if you forgot to get it in time for the first year in your place, you can still order it with the right date. Open the door to Christmas memories with  this beautiful holiday celebration of a new home . Your first Christmas in your new space is an unforgettable event, and this beautiful Christmas ornament, depicting a welcoming front door, and Christmas holly wreaths is a warm and wonderful embodiment of that holiday spirit. Personalize it with your name and your address to mark the occasion in a perfect way. When it comes to beautiful and colorful Christmas ornaments, few are as lovely and the glass blown ornaments from Old World Christmas.  This unique ornament  features  Our new home  above the front door, which is decked out with a sparkling Christmas wreath. Brilliant red birds are singing outside, and the perfect sprinkling of snow is on the ground. These ornaments are hand painted and glittered, making each one totally unique and irreplaceable. The Old World Christmas First Christmas Heart  is another lovely ornament for your tree or as a small gift for someone you love. The design is in classic red, green, gold and silver with the words and date in hand applied glitter. These tiny treasures can add to your  Christmas decor  and each year, as you and your loved ones unwrap and hang them on your Christmas tree, you'll be flooded with memories of your special occasion. As you prepare for the onslaught of holiday shopping, Christmas ornaments are an easy and beautiful  Christmas gift  to mark this season of love, generosity and peace. And, if this year is a special one, and you're celebrating a "first" of any kind, it's likely there's an ornament to commemorate it. See also: Disclaimer: Heavy Inc. is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program and other affiliate advertising programs and may receive a commission if you purchase a product via a link on this page.  Stay Connected 