Love, Loss  &  Family Chapter 81, a jag fanfic | FanFiction A/N: You guys ROCK!!! THANK YOU!!!!! for all of the AWESOME reviews! Guess we're gonna take this epic to a hundred! I hope I'm up to the challenge! Keep reviewing~ it keeps me motivated!! Again, special thanks to marksteelejr for the ideas for Harm's awards and promotion! I have no idea how this ceremony would go in real life, so creative liberties have been taken... please don't write to tell me it's wrong, beause I am well aware that it probably is! Enjoy... 16:24 EST White House Washington, D.C. March 31st All of the Rabb family, and most of their friends, were in attendance of the awards ceremony for Harm. Mac and Harriet, even though they were retired, were both dressed in their dress uniforms, as were the rest of the officers in attendance. Since they were allowed to wear their uniforms up to three times a year, the two women felt this was a good reason to do so. Trish and Deanne were holding Mandy and Chris, respectively, trying to keep the children quiet during the ceremony for their father. Mac had been one of the few officers asked to stand on the stage, as she was Harm's wife, and she stood at attention, waiting for Harm's name to be called. She didn't know why she was so nervous; she wasn't the one receiving the award. The President stepped forward and waited for the SecNav to call Harm forward. As soon as he did, Harm moved in front of him, standing rigidly at attention. The President smiled when he heard Admiral Rabb's daughter say loudly, "Daddy!", and didn't rebuke him when the Admiral let a small smile of his own slip. Moving to the podium with the microphone, he began his speech. "As you are all aware, we are here today to honor Admiral Harmon Rabb, Jr. for his selfless acts of bravery, and for going above and beyond the call of duty, to save millions of lives and prevent a global nuclear catastrophe," he said. He went on to detail the events of that day in October, and then introduced the Ambassador from Japan. "Admiral Rabb, for your act of bravery, which has brought much honor on you, your family, and your country, you are hereby awarded the Grand Cross of the Order of the Rising Sun," he announced. Placing the sash over Harm's head, he made sure it was adjusted properly before pinning the large medal that accompanied it to Harm's uniform. Then he saluted Harm, who returned the salute, and stepped back. The President then stepped forward and opened the case he held. "Admiral Rabb, for your willingness to sacrifice your own life to save others, and for your selfless act of heroism, I am proud to award you today with the Congressional Medal of Honor," he said, lifting the medal from the case and placing the ribbon around Harm's neck and then saluting him, which Harm again returned, and then shook his hand. Looking at Mac, the President smiled. "Mrs. Rabb? Would you do the honors, please?" Mac stepped forward and leaned up to kiss Harm on the cheek, carefully wiping the lipstick off and giving him a tender smile. When the master-at-arms called everyone to salute, she joined them. The President and the Ambassador to Japan, along with the other higher-up officials, were moved back inside the White House, and the assembly was dismissed. Harm let out a loud whoosh of air and finally relaxed. Mac smiled at him and took his hand in hers, giving it a gentle squeeze. "You okay, there, Sailor?" "Just glad that's over with," he said, returning her grin as they made their way to their gathered friends and family, grateful that the press was being held at bay. "Let's get to the limos quickly, shall we?" Frank suggested, nodding towards where a Marine security garrison was holding back a throng of reporters, all yelling to try and get their attention. "We can better relax once we get to the reception hall." Frank had arranged for limousines to take the Rabb family and their closest friends to the reception that had been arranged at the Hyatt Regency Hotel. The party was not only to celebrate Harm's awards, but would also be where he formally announced his retirement from the Navy. Admiral Chegwidden's retirement party had been the month prior and Sturgis Turner had been placed as the interim JAG, until a permanent JAG could be confirmed and sworn in. Mac paused a moment when they reached the steps of the Rose Garden, smiling. "You okay?" Harm asked, as he watched her look around them. "It was eleven years ago, almost to the day, that we met here in this garden," she said softly. Harm paused briefly, as the memory of that day flashed through his mind. Returning her smile, he leaned forward and kissed her. "And it was two years ago that we were married here," he said, caressing her face tenderly. "Let's go, Colonel; everyone's waiting for us." Mac nodded and they moved to climb into the waiting limousine. "You do realize that you're going to have to give at least one formal interview, don't you?" AJ asked Harm pointedly, as the limo pulled away to the flash of several cameras. Harm winced. "I hate being in the spotlight," he muttered. AJ just grinned at him. "It could be fun, Dad," Mattie said, bumping his shoulder with her own and smiling. "You just have to be creative and play with their heads." Harm looked at her incredulously. "Mattie!" Everyone chuckled, then came up with ideas he could use for his interview answers, as the limos drove the streets of DC towards the hotel. When they finally pulled up in front of the Hyatt Regency, the driver got out and opened the door for them. Once inside, Harm and Mac waited until they were sure that the majority of their guests had arrived, before they began making their way through the crowd to welcome them personally. Bud, who had been asked to be the formal Master of Ceremonies, called for everyone's attention and asked them to take their seats, as dinner would be served in just a few moments."Guess we better bite the bullet and get this show on the road," Harm murmured to Mac. "Suck it up, Sailor," she grinned at him. "If you're a good boy, I'll give you a special reward tonight," she murmured in his ear. Harm's eyes darkened and he smiled seductively. "In that case, I'll do whatever you want me to, Marine." "You can start by putting your six into your seat, so the caterers will serve dinner," Mac whispered. "I'm starving!" Harm laughed, as he escorted her to their seats at the head table, holding her chair for her before he sat down in his own. 20:54 EST Hyatt Regency Hotel Harm and Mac's Room Washington, DC Harm stepped out of the bathroom and nearly passed out on the bed with a contented sigh. He listened as Mac turned on the hairdryer in the bathroom, smiling to himself. The reception had been a success, and Harm's formal announcement that he was retiring from the Navy was met with a great deal of surprise from those that hadn't known it beforehand. SecNav had tried to talk him out of it once again, telling him that he was practically a shoe-in for the new JAG, but Harm had graciously, and respectfully, declined. Shaking his head sadly, the SecNav, and the CNO, had signed Harm's retirement papers on the spot, shaking Harm's hand and then saluting him. As of Monday morning, Harm was no longer in the Navy. Harm smiled as he realized that he was perfectly happy with that. "You okay in there?" he called, when the hairdryer had been silent for several moments and Mac had yet to come out of there, wondering if Mac's legs felt as much like rubber as his did. Probably not, as hers had been wrapped around his waist while he held her against the shower wall. "I'm fine; be right out," Mac called back. Smiling, Harm went back to his thoughts, wondering how the grandparents were faring with the grandkids. Trish, Frank, Grammy and Deanne were watching the kids for the weekend, so that Harm and Mac could celebrate their wedding anniversary, though it was a week early. With both of the babies' birthdays coming up, and the plans they needed to make for their family vacation that summer, they knew this may be their only chance to have time alone for awhile. Deanne would be heading home to Seattle again, having only come for the weekend, but she would be packing her belongings in preparation to move into the Rabb home for the summer. She would be seeing Commander McCool as her new therapist, and had a job lined up at a local law firm as a filing clerk, so she assured them she would be fine while they were away. Lily had, reluctantly, given her notice that she would be leaving the Rabb family, though she would remain a consistent part of their lives. The tenant that had rented out Harm's loft had given notice, so Lily had moved in there two weekends earlier. She had gotten a job at Georgetown University Hospital, and was going to be attending Georgetown U to get her Master's Degree in nursing, while she and Jack made wedding plans. They had set a mid-September wedding date. Mac came out of the bathroom, flipping the light off, and leaned against the doorjamb, watching her husband as he stared up at the ceiling. Moving to lie beside him on the bed, she looked up, too. "What's so interesting up there?" she asked with a grin. "Huh?" Harm asked, then realized her joke and chuckled. "Mmm… just thinking." "Uh-oh," Mac quipped. "That's never good. Usually  your  thinking gets  us  into trouble." Giving her an 'oh really?' look and rolling to his side, Harm grabbed her by the waist and pulled her to him. "Actually, I was remembering the past couple of months." "Ooohhh… so I'm safe, after all?" she grinned. "You're in a feisty mood," he said, nuzzling her neck. "Why don't we put that energy to good use?" "Okay, but first I have to call and check on the kids," Mac said, pulling away from him enough to grab the bedside phone. "Maaac," he groaned. "I'm sure they're fine. My parents, Grammy and your mom all know how to get a hold of us in an emergency." "Humor me," Mac told him as she dialed the number for their house. After she spoke to whomever answered the phone, she hung up and smiled at him. "Dad showed up to offer his help, but I think he's really there because of my mom. Other than that, everything is fine." "Just as I said it would be," Harm nodded, grinning when Mac hit him with a pillow. "Oh-ho, so that's how you want to play?" he asked, grabbing his own pillow and smacking her back. Their pillow fight turned into a tickling session when their pillows ended up on the floor. Harm got the upper hand and pinned Mac to the bed, smiling down at her. "Surrender?" he asked, grinning. "Marines never surrender," Mac said, also grinning. "Okay, okay, truce?" he suggested, leaning forward to kiss her. "A truce is acceptable," she nodded, moving her lower body and smiling at his reaction. "You don't fight fair," he breathed. "Are you complaining?" she asked, lifting up to nibble at his neck. "Not at all," Harm replied, rolling them so that she was on top of him and putting his hands above his head. "I have no qualms with unconditional surrender." Mac smiled at him, leaning forward to kiss him deeply. "I can work with that." 07:34 EST Rabb Home Clifton, VA Following Monday Harm blinked as he opened his eyes, frowning at how bright it was, glancing at his watch. Sitting bolt upright, he moved to get out of bed quickly, moving to the bathroom. "Harm?" Mac asked, having been awakened by his sudden movements. "Yeah?" he called from the bathroom. "What are you doing?" Mac asked, sitting up. "It's after seven; I'm going to be late for work!" he called, turning on the shower. Mac started laughing, as the shower turned off and Harm came out of the bathroom with a sheepish look on his face. "Forgot, huh?" she giggled. "This is going to take some getting used to," he smiled, nodding and crawling back into the bed, pulling her to him with a sigh. Mac nodded, kissing his chest. "It gets easier." "That's good to hear," he said. "I nearly had a heart attack." "Poor baby," she said sympathetically, lifting up to kiss his jaw. "I'm surprised the kids are still sleeping," Harm said, glancing at his watch again. "The babies were awake at four this morning. I fed Mandy some cereal and a banana while I nursed Chris. Mattie got up at five-thirty, got ready for school and caught her bus. I got Chris to go back to sleep by six thirty-eight and managed to get Mandy to go back to sleep shortly after that, then came back to bed myself," she told him. "You've already had a full morning," he said, turning them so that he could look into her eyes. "Why didn't you wake me?" "I thought it might be nice to let you sleep in on your first official day of retirement," Mac smiled. "Besides, your parents are leaving this evening, so I wanted you to be well rested for our last day with them." "I love you, do you know that?" Harm asked, kissing her tenderly. "Mmm, I love you, too," Mac smiled. "What time do you think the babies will be up again?" he asked, nibbling on her neck. "Probably around eight-thirty, nine o'clock," she said. "Why?" "Do you need to sleep some more?" he asked, pulling back to look into her eyes. Mac brushed the hair from his forehead and smiled tenderly at him. "No; I'm fine." Harm leaned forward and kissed her deeply for several long moments, before pulling back enough to kiss her forehead, down the side of her face to her neck, and then back up her jaw, before capturing her lips with his again. When he finally pulled away, he looked into her eyes and then rubbed his nose against hers. "I love just being able to hold you, and kiss you," he said softly. "Me too," she said, caressing his face with her palms. "Mind if we just lie here and kiss each other, and hold each other, and talk?" he asked, rubbing her cheek with the back of his palm. "Not at all," she sighed. Wrapping himself around her, Harm kissed her forehead and then tilted her face up so that he could kiss her again. They stayed that way for nearly an hour, taking pleasure in the simple joy of being together, when there was a soft knock on the door. "It's open," Mac called, just loud enough to be heard, as Harm rolled them so that he was on his back and she was partially lying on top of him, her head on his chest. Trish poked her head around the door, smiling at them. It always warmed her heart to see them in these more tender moments. It reinforced how very much they loved each other. "Frank and I wondered if you and the children would like to join us for breakfast this morning?" she asked. "I think he's thinking someplace like Denny's or IHOP." Harm looked down at Mac with raised eyebrows, and she smiled and nodded. "We'd love to," he told his mother. "Give us about, oh, forty-five minutes to an hour?" "That's fine, darling," she smiled. "Oh, Mandy is already awake, so I changed and dressed her. Should I give her something to tide her over?" "She ate about four hours ago, so unless she becomes insistent, she can wait," Mac told her. "Thank you for taking care of her for us." "My pleasure," Trish said. "I'll keep an eye on her while you two get ready." "Thanks, Mom," Harm said. Trish winked at them and closed the door again. "Guess we better get moving, Flyboy," Mac said, leaning over to kiss him before turning over and climbing out of bed. Harm watched her as she stretched the kinks from her muscles and then moved to the bathroom, then he climbed out of bed and started making it. Once he'd finished with that, he stripped off his boxers and t-shirt, carrying them to the bathroom and placing them into the hamper. "Almost done in there?" Harm asked Mac, who was in the shower. "Just about," she replied. "Just rinsing my hair. You ready to get in here?" "Yep," he said. "Well, come on in," she told him. Harm slipped into the shower, wrapping his arms around her and kissing the side of her neck. Trading places with her, he winked as he stuck his head under the shower head while she opened the glass door and grabbed her towel, stepping out onto the bath mat. Drying quickly and getting dressed, she stepped into the bedroom and smiled when she saw that Harm had already made up the bed. Sitting down at the vanity, she began brushing her hair and putting on her makeup. Harm came out of the bathroom and sat in a chair to put his socks on. "Thanks for making up the bed," Mac smiled at him as she stood to slip her shoes on. "No problem," he said, chuckling quietly. "What?" Mac asked, curious as to what he found so funny. "Nothing," he grinned. "I can see it's something," Mac said, raising an eyebrow. "I'll tell you about it, later," he promised. "Ready to go?" "I am," she said. "I'll get Chris ready, if you'll go help your mom with Mandy." "That's fine with me," he said They stepped out of their bedroom, Mac heading across the hall to Chris' room while Harm went down the stairs. 