Review: Spokesman Ghost Jacket | road.cc The Ghost Jacket from new British brand Spokesman is a good three-seasons jacket. It's windproof and water-resistant, nicely cut and smart looking, with generous reflective details – a good alternative to the many popular choices in this price range. As well as being water resistant and windproof, the Stormshield fabric used in the construction of the Ghost has a '4-way stretch' that helps with the fit, providing flexibility around the shoulders and arms. >  Find your nearest dealer here  (link is external) Although the Stormshield fabric is water resistant, rated up to 10,000mm, the seams aren't taped and this can lead to water leaking in around the shoulders during very prolonged periods of rain. For short showers, even quite intense ones, the jacket does cope well, but spend a good few hours in the pouring rain and the limits of its ability to cope with the conditions will become felt. Insulation is good when the temperature drops, and when it's dry and windy the windproof performance of the jacket is right up there with the best. The collar is tall and lined with a soft material that adds to the feeling of luxury when you want to wrap up warm and head out for an early morning ride or commute. The fabric is reasonably breathable, too – I certainly found it within an acceptable range. This does to an extent depend on the level of intensity you're riding at and your layers underneath, but choose both carefully and the Ghost provides a comfortable warmth without excessive heat buildup. To help you out when it does get warm, there are two zipped vents on the chest panel, and of course the main full-length zipper, which has a large ring puller to make operation with gloves easier. The fit is on the close side, aerodynamic and slim rather than loose and baggy, but it's not just one for racing snakes. There's no restriction of movement in any of the key places and the close fit makes you feel faster, even if it's only a psychological thing. A silicone band around the hem helps stop the jacket from riding up. It's a very well appointed design. You get a dropped tail and it's long enough to ensure a good overlap with the back of your shorts or tights. The cuffs are elasticated and perform a close seal around wrists, eradicating airflow up the sleeves. The two large pockets provide enough capacity to transport all the essentials you might need on a ride, and there's a zipped pocket for safe storage of the house/car keys. Personally, I prefer the traditional three pocket layout so I can store a pump and tube centrally positioned in the middle one. Aptly for a British company, Spokesman pays particular attention to reflective details, and there's a good smattering of these to help you stand out in the dark, despite the black colour of the jacket. I especially like the big panel of reflective material along the bottom of the pockets. >  Spokesman's Nathan Gibbons on starting a British clothing brand + 4 highlights from the range Styling is understated, it's simple with coloured logos, and it all works well. It's not a jacket for those who like to make a fashion statement. The Ghost, then, is a good jacket for British conditions and works well as a three-seasons choice, with the breathability of the fabric providing a bigger window of operation. A comfortable, well-appointed and smart jacket for three-seasons riding If you ' re thinking of buying this product using a cashback deal why not use the  road.cc Top Cashback page  (link is external)  and get some top cashback while helping to support your favourite independent cycling website All the deals displayed on our review pages are pulled from a constantly updating database feed of the best affiliate deals available. The criteria for deciding on what are the best deals is who is offering the lowest, delivered price. In most cases we will be showing the very best deal available online, but sometimes you may be able to find an item cheaper. If you can please feel free to post a link in the comments box below. To find out more about affiliate links on  road.cc  click  here . road.cc  test report Make and model:  Spokesman Ghost Jacket Size tested:  Small Tell us what the jacket is for, and who it's aimed at. What do the manufacturers say about it? How does that compare to your own feelings about it?  Spokesman says: "The Ghost jacket has a race cut and is made from our Stormshield fabric which is both windproof and water resistant. The ultra-light 4-way stretch jersey creates a lightweight second skin which is completely aero and gives great protection from the elements." Tell us some more about the technical aspects of the jacket?  From Spokesman: Ultra-lightweight 4-way stretch jersey will withstand a water column of 10,000mm YKK D-Ring zips for easy access with gloves 2 front facing zip up ventilation panels Reflective piping irrigation panels using highly reflective glass particle fabric Ultra-dense polyester on back pocket entry to protect fabric against wear from tools and bottles Spokestape dense polyester bonded cuff stops wind entering through the cuffs 3 pocket and and zipped valuable pocket It's classed as water resistant and that's what it is; lack of taped seams does impact ultimate waterproofness... ...though lack of taped seams does help breathability. Good sizing and shape. Sizing is pretty much spot on. How easy is the jacket to care for? How did it respond to being washed?  Very easy to care for and goes through a regular washing machine cycle just fine. Tell us how the jacket performed overall when used for its designed purpose  Provides good three-season protection, but you can get jackets that perform better in prolonged heavy rain. Tell us what you particularly liked about the jacket  Nice fit, style and good features, especially the reflective details. Tell us what you particularly disliked about the jacket  That it's not more waterproof. Did you enjoy using the jacket?  Yes Would you consider buying the jacket?  Maybe Would you recommend the jacket to a friend?  Maybe Use this box to explain your score  It's a good and versatile three-season jacket that's windproof and water-resistant with good breathability, but the lack of taped seams prevents it performing as well as others in heavy, prolonged rain. Overall rating:  7 /10 About the tester Age:  31   Height: 180cm   Weight:  67kg I usually ride:     My best bike is: I've been riding for:  10-20 years   I ride:  Every day   I would class myself as:  Expert I regularly do the following types of riding:  road racing, time trialling, cyclo-cross, commuting, touring, mountain biking David has worked on the  road.cc  tech team since July 2012. Previously he was editor of  Bikemagic.com  and before that staff writer at RCUK. He ' s a seasoned cyclist of all disciplines, from road to mountain biking, touring to cyclo-cross, he only wishes he had time to ride them all. He ' s mildly competitive, though he ' ll never admit it, and is a frequent road racer but is too lazy to do really well. He currently resides in the Cotswolds. Looks good but does every new company think will rapha can charge it so I will? Plenty of quality, very well appointed training or soft shell jackets available for £90. I mightn't be the target market being, a London based, semi serious cyclist with disposable income thou.   They have the price right. If you want to mark yourself out as a prestigious brand, you mark up your tags. What they don't have right is the styling. It takes more than 5 mins eyeing up Strava's website and 5 mins on Photoshop to put out decent design. Hire. Someone. Good. See: Rapha. Anyway, I like this jacket. Looks a bit baggy. I'm too fast and need something to slow me down. Sick of all this fitted gear, going fast is scary. What ' s Hot ' So, Rohan, let ' s take a look at what you could have ridden '  - Merida unveils Bahrain-McLaren ' s new TT bike As seen in the Tour de France: Seven affordable* pro race bikes from Cannondale, Giant, Pinarello, Canyon, Specialized and Trek Win! An Orro Bikes Terra C 105 Hydro gravel and adventure bike worth £2,099! Best road bikes of the decade: The 15 most innovative bikes from 2010 to now Cyclist recalls moment her brakes failed on Hardknott Pass descent during Fred Whitton Challenge Castelli Alpha RoS Jacket Rapha Pro Team Lightweight Gore-Tex Jacket Howies Herald Waterproof Jacket Assos Mille GT Ultraz Winter Jacket Endura Pro SL Thermal Windproof II  Rapha Women ' s Pro Team Lightweight Gore-Tex Jacket Proviz Nightrider Men ' s Cycling Jacket 2.0 Sportful Fiandre Pro Jacket Gore R3 Women Gore-Tex Active Hooded Jacket 7Mesh Cypress Hybrid Jacket Resolute Bay Reflective Cycling Jacket Sportful Bodyfit Pro Jacket Assos Mille GT Jacket Spring/Fall Kalf Club Men ' s Softshell Jersey Lusso Aqua Pro Extreme Jacket Every product is thoroughly tested for as long as it takes to get a real insight into whether it works or not. Our reviewers are experienced cyclists that we trust to be objective, and we strive to ensure that all opinions expressed are backed up by facts, but reviews are always a reviewer's informed opinion, not a definitive verdict. We don't intentionally try to break anything (except locks) but we do try to look for weak points in any design. The overall score is not just an average of the other scores. It reflects both a product's function and value. Good scores are more common than bad, because fortunately good products are more common than bad. Here's what they mean: Recent comments   Closer to silent and stealthy? I'm already a fan of this cool trainer.   A replacement BB won't do much if the frame BB shell isn't bored square and in line....   But what do you plug the cable into unless you purchase an adaptor?   What a cock    I was captivated by this book. Highly recommended. Here's the review that I wrote on Ride Far: https://ridefar.info/2019/11/book-review-where...   This thread would be much shorter if they sent out a sample to all job applicants.   You could maybe undo the top and get a bendy straw in?   If you can't process that you need to stop for a red light, then best to stick to the bus.   Got it Phil. 3rd sentence has it all. This election, leaving Europe, Scotland. Petty children.  There was none of thi when labour last came to...   I have a CF Grail, comes with the leaf spring seatpost.  I find it very comfy.  A lot will depend on the tires and the pressure you ride at, more... New forum topics Best Cycling Website, BikeBiz Awards 2018  Sections Social  &  other Getting in touch Editorial, general:  info@road.cc Tech, reviews:  tech@road.cc Fantasy Cycling:  game@road.cc Advertising, commercial: sales@road.cc View our media pack  (link is external) Report an advert on road.cc Our sister site for Mountain Biking, bikepacking, gravel riding and more… off.road.cc Our sister site for e-bikes... ebiketips Find great cycling deals at deals.road.cc Privacy Settings All material © Farrelly Atkinson (F-At) Limited, Unit 7b Green Park Station BA11JB. Tel 01225 588855. © 2008–present unless otherwise stated.  Terms and conditions of use . 