Superflat – Official Minecraft Wiki Superflat  ( Flat  in  Bedrock Edition ) is a  world type  replacing the normal varied terrain of the  Overworld , with customizable layers in  Java  and  Legacy Console  editions. In a classic (default) Superflat world, the terrain consists of one layer of  bedrock , two layers of dirt, and one layer of  grass . Because the entire world is a  plains  biome by default,  villages  generate relatively frequently.‌ [ Java Edition  only ]  In  Bedrock Edition  and  New Nintendo 3DS Edition , however, villages do  not  generate in Flat worlds. The surface of the world is completely flat and at  height y=4 , with the exception of villages and other  structures  if they are enabled. Since the height limit (256) is unchanged, there is almost one-third more vertical height available to build above-ground structures as compared to a normal world.  Mobs  still spawn normally. Because of the low altitude of the world,  slimes  spawn frequently. When making a Superflat world, the  player  spawns on the topmost solid layer, within a 20x20 cube, and may spawn under  water  or  lava  if there are layers of those above the topmost solid layer. Superflat worlds allow the player to access  the Nether  by building a  nether portal  in the usual way. In  Java  and  Bedrock  editions, the Nether generates normally; in  Legacy Console Edition , the Nether is flat like the  Overworld . Superflat worlds also allow the player to access  the End , which generates as a normal dimension of floating islands. In order to create a Superflat world in a  multiplayer server , the  level-type  flag in  server.properties  must be  FLAT , instead of  DEFAULT . Once a multiplayer world is created, the server.properties fields have no effect on chunk generation. Instead, just like in  singleplayer , the level.dat fields for  generatorName ,  generatorVersion , and  generatorOptions  are used instead. If you want to alter a world after initial creation, these are the settings to change. In  Java  and  Legacy Console Editions , the structure and content of a Superflat world can be customized. Flat world customization is not available for  Bedrock Edition ; it always consists of a layer of  bedrock , two layers of  dirt , and a layer of  grass block  (even when the Seed Picker is used). Upon selecting "Superflat" in the World Type box, a new button appears underneath labeled "Customize". The customize menu starts out with the "Classic Flat" preset of one layer of grass, two dirt layers, and then bedrock underneath. There are two buttons available to customize Superflat worlds, which include the "Remove Layer" button, used for removing unwanted types of layers, and the "Presets" button, used for selecting any of eight  currently available presets . If the player can understand the  preset code syntax , they can create presets of their own by entering valid information into the preset code box, where these changes can be previewed and applied. (Direct Customization is not available.) In addition, superflat worlds can have certain terrain features, besides villages, such as  tall grass ,  lakes , and  strongholds , which can additionally be customized using the same code box for block layers. These changes also made tweaks to previous world codes, to include the new generation features. Presets are shareable. As a preset is selected, a box on top of the screen has a code that is highlightable and copyable. Similar to how new worlds are shared through seeds, presets can be entered into this box to recreate someone else's preset. In  Bedrock Edition  it is not possible to customize flat worlds ingame. However, it is possible to customize flat world layers using external editors by modifying the level.dat's  FlatWorldLayers . Neutral N/A 0.5 Cobblestone Stone dec:  127  hex:  7F  bin:  1111111 The Void  is a completely empty biome that generates only a single structure: a 33×33 stone platform with a single block of cobblestone in the center. No mobs (passive or hostile) can spawn without  spawn eggs ,  monster spawners  or  commands . It can be accessed only through The Void superflat preset or  Buffet  world selection. If generated using Buffet, it is a completely barren and featureless world consisting of  stone ,  void air , and maybe  water  and  bedrock . The preset code is a string of numbers, semicolons(;), colons(:), commas(,), and asterisks(*). Each code has three main parts, divided by semicolons. They are: Note that there are several criteria that must be satisfied before some features can appear: For example, to have an 'End' superflat world with obsidian pillars, the biome ID must be  the_end , the superflat string must contain 'decoration', and the top surface block must be End Stone. In this particular case 'Structures' does not need to be turned on in the world options. Attempting to use an incorrectly formatted preset code causes the game to default to the Classic preset. Consider the following preset code:  It consists of the following elements: This table applies to the original preset.The resources below can always be found, regardless of the "Generate Structures" option. The resources below can be found only if the "Generate Structures" option is enabled. These do not include resources that can be obtained via  trading  with  villagers ,  hero of the village  gift,  fishing , and  chest loot  from structures. Issues relating to "Superflat" are maintained on the  bug tracker . Report issues  there . Slimes  spawning in a superflat world. An image tweeted by  Jeb  of a village spawned in a superflat world. [4] A village spawned in the original superflat world type. A  map  of a superflat world. Some of the new preset world types. Overview of the new options. New world generation options let you add plants, ores and various structures. One of many things possible with the superflat generator options. Mineshafts  generated above the ground in Superflat. A glitch that causes 2 different generations on the same world. A grassland village naturally generated in a 1-block-deep  bedrock  superflat world. A desert village under similar conditions. An example of rare ores generating above ground, when all of the stone layers in The Overworld preset are removed. Super Flat version The End Super Flat version Nether Part of the usual world that was not properly deleted staying in a superflat world. 