Nandivardhan Sivanta Panch Pakhdi Thane by Nandivardhan Group OR Banacha Pada, Panch Pakhdi, Thane  |  Pincode:  400602  Interested  Available Deals NOTE :  The information provided herein have been collected from publicly available sources, and is yet to be verified as per RERA guidelines.* Unit Details : 3 BHK Homes : Area : Carpet 1421 Sq.ft  &  1430 Sq.ft 4 BHK Homes : Area : Carpet 1920 Sq.ft Building Details : 1 Towers \ 29 Floors \ 143 Units \ Total Project Area: 3.03 Acres Nandivardhan Sivanta , developed by Nandivardhan Group which offers you 3 BHK  &  4 BHK Homes worth an Carpet Area Range from 1421 Sq.ft. to 1920 Sq.ft. The Project provides you 29 Floors built up on 3.03 Acres of Land with 1 Iconic Tower and 143 Units. The development provides you various facilities like Lift, Landscaped Garden, Children's Play Area, Gymnasium, Car Parking, Rain Water Harvesting, CCTV Camera Security, Power Backup, Intercom Facility, Security Personnel and etc. The Complex specifications are done with Vitrified flooring, Anti Skid Tiles, Kitchen Granite Platform with Stainless Sink, Aluminum sliding windows with Good quality, Concealed Copper Wirings with Modular Switches, Concealed plumbing C.P and sanitary fittings, Weather Proof Paints and etc. Located at Thane, Banacha Pada, Panch Pakhdi. The complex has an well settled community with few famous landmarks like Sai Baba Mandir, Janseva Sahakari Bank, Axis Bank, Siddheshwar Lake, Shree Dutt Mandir and Oriental Bank Of Commerce. The complex has a well road network like Nirankari Bhavan Road, Dharam Veer Marg, Hazuri Dargah Road, Vasudev Balwant Phadke Road and Govind Bachaji Road. For Further Details, Assistance, RERA Number, Price Plans, Architectural Details Kindly Call Us Or Mail Us. More Amenities :  One glance at the Thane real estate market report will give you an insight into the tremendous progress that Thane real estate has made in the past couple of decades. The phenomenal growth of Thane property market and the rapid development as a residential and commercial real estate hub has astounded everyone.If you are planning to buy a property in Thane west today you will be flooded with multiple new projects in Thane and a lot of quality under construction projects in Thane being developed b...  Read more Address :  Banacha Pada, Panch Pakhdi, Thane  Nandivardhan Group is a recognized and admired brand which has moved from strength to strength over the years of experience in real estate. The Group stands firm on commitments, not only to upkeep its tradition but to strive to improve its offering and service in providing "A Home for Every Indian". we have done several projects in India. Traditionally, our core business has been Construction ever since inception.The Group ' s strength is deli...  View more Thank you,  for your valuable review !! Your review is under moderation... Visit again to view your comment and further discussion on  Nandivardhan Sivanta  Eastern Express Hwy, Panchpakhadi, Thane  2 BHK and 3 BHK Flats  On Request  New Launch  On Request  Eastern Express Hwy, Panchpakhadi, Thane  2 BHK, 3 BHK  &  4 BHK Apartment  On Request  Under Construction - Poss. in  2019  On Request  Eastern Express Hwy, Panchpakhadi, Thane  2 BHK Apartment  Carpet 680 Sq.ft  New Launch  On Request  Eastern Express Hwy, Panchpakhadi, Thane  1 BHK Homes  652 Sq.ft  Ready To Move  On Request  Eastern Express Hwy, Panchpakhadi, Thane  2 BHK  &  3 BHK Homes  1115 Sq.ft To 1774 Sq.ft  Under Construction - Poss. in  2019  On Request I am interested in  Thank you, for showing your Interest !! Our Team member shall get in touch with you very shortly.. Call :  Please share your details to the   to contact you. Thank you, for showing your Interest !! Our member shall get in touch with you very shortly.. Call :  Please share your details for the   to contact you. Thank you, for requesting photos !! Our member shall share with you very shortly.. Dear Property Owner,  Advantages of joining 99sqft.com: 1. Get the best buy / sell / rent property deals here. 2. Get discount deals from 99sqft.com vendors in your area and beyond. 3. Get the best Home loans  &  Loan against Property 4. Get Electrical, Plumbing, AC Repair, Painting, Masonary, Carpentary - essential services from pre-screened professionals - immediately - at a fair price. Thank you, For Joining !! Our Team member shall get in touch with you very shortly.. Thank you, For Reporting !! Our Team member shall get in touch with you very shortly.. Join 99sqft.com's free real estate blog  &  never miss a thing on real estate - ever. Thank you,  for signing up to our newsletter !! Please  confirm your email address  by clicking on the link in the email we have just sent you. Post your property for Free  with us and get   the best property price. Welcome to  99sqft.com Register Yourself to Start Your Journey Error occured please try again! You will receive an OTP on your Mobile Number. Error occured please try again! Thank you  for registering on 99sqft.com. Now you are ready to Post your property and get deals done. Click to Login Now! Already have an account  Login Here! Welcome to  99sqft.com Login Now Invalid Email / Password. Don't have an account  Register Now! Forgot Your Password? Don't worry! Just enter your email id and we'll help you to reset your password. Error occured please try again! Kindly check your Email for new password... Then Click here to Login DISCLAIMER Thank you for visiting the Site. We are in compliance of the newly introduced housing laws i.e. the Maha Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016 and the rules and regulations notified thereunder. We are in process of providing information in this website as required under Real Estate (Development and Regulation) Act, 2016 and the Rules and Regulations thereunder. Viewers are advised not to rely upon the contents hereof. The contents of this website are not intended and are not to be regarded as an advertisement, marketing, invitation to book or purchase or offer for sale or solicitation of any real estate project or any phases thereof. The Company in no circumstance shall be liable for any expense, loss or damage including, without limitation, indirect or consequential loss or damage, or any expense, loss or damage whatsoever arising from use of any data, arising out of or in connection with the use of this website or any action taken by the viewer relying on such material / information on this website. Copyright   2019. All Rights Reserved. www.99sqft.com. Web Design by Zybeq Media Solutions. 