Food  &  Drink Archives - London Lamppost Ingredients 6 ripe pears   peeled but with stalks left onCinnamon stick2 star anise3-4 cardamon pods 1 vanilla pod   cut lengthwise seeds scraped out, keep seeds and podPeel of 1 lemon200g caster sugar400ml white wine400ml Water Method Place all the ingredients into a sauce pan and bring to the boil. When boiling turn it So you fancy a trip to the middle of nowhere, where all there is to do is sit, read and be mesmerised by the view, but you still want the luxury of central heating, good food and a booze list it ll take you a year to go through (if you re not bankrupted in the attempt). Every nation on earth has its own street food or some version of it. Mexico has Tacos, New York it’s Pretzels and Hot Dogs, the UK Cornish Pasties and Pork Pies. The Middle East has falafel, the Far East has everything from Pho to bbq crickets, while India has samosa and Pav Bhaji. But India 2017 was unquestionably the year of the Negroni; it was hard to walk past a bar in London last summer and not see it listed as one of the cocktails on offer. Invented, as the story goes, for Count Negroni in 1919 when he asked the barman to make him a stronger version of his Thankfully, pizza has been undergoing a regeneration, and a global level one at that, for the last few years. London and New York are awash with new or newish pizza parlours, each with their own trademark style –Homeslice with its 20 inches of out-there imaginative flavour toppings is, for me, the best pizza to be What’s the best breakfast dish in the world? Is it the UK’s full English? America’s waffles and pancakes? France’s croissants and jams? China’s dim sum and dumplings? Or Japan’s rice, fish and miso soup? No, it’s an Indian dish by way of Portugal – Pav Bhaji. Pav, Portuguese in origin (a literal translation being bread), All things cultural in London with some political comment along the way.  Food Drink Theatre  Travel Films  Art  Reviews, Articles, Comment on- London Lamppost is your guide to all things London, be it food, drink, culture, life, travel, and with a smattering of politics and comment along the way. All by and for Millennials 