Korova Chocolate Chip Dipped Cookie Review By  Stoner Stuff Korova edibles and their cool cow logo are everywhere in California. You’ll find their billboard in Oakland, San Francisco, San Jose, Sacramento,and Los Angeles and you’ll find the many a  Korova bar  and Korova cookies in dispensaries up and down the state. And you know that korova products are some of the strongest on the market when unrivaled potency is stamped on each and every item. Plus you know each and every Korova bar tastes just as unrivaled when the ingredients are full of stuff you can pronounce—flour, brown sugar, chocolate chips, eggs, chocolate pudding. And of course  cannabutter . If you’re wondering why the hell the Korova company chose a cow with a 3rd eye for their logo and why the Korova bar sounds so vaguely familiar will tell ya. First of all Korova is Russian for  cow.  And a few years ago a cow was born in India that had a 3rd eye. So the local Hindus of course  worshiped it  as reincarnation of the Hindu god Shiva regarded is one of the primary gods and patron of yoga and arts. And the Korova Bar is the infamous Milk Bar that appeared in the movie A Clockwork Orange by Anthony Burgess. In the film the Korova Bar bar served milk laced with drugs ( moloko plus ). In the film, the bar has furniture in the shape of naked women and the milk is served from their nipples. Anyhow that’s why Korova sold those really odd-looking shirts not long ago. The Korova bar, especially their black bar and their mint black, and Korova cookies are some of the strongest on the market. In fact both the Korova Black Bar and Mint Black Bar clock in at a whopping 1,000 mg of THC. Looking for something less seismic The Korova Blondie and Fifty One Fifty bar both clock in at half that amount with 500 mg of THC. If you’re not feeling a bar or cookies these guys also have white cheddar popcorn available with 300 mg of THC as well as a gluten-free bar as well. The Korova chocolate chip dipped cookie is something special. Not only does it look amazing, it tastes pretty damn amazing as well. Plus it’s potent as fuck. Each cookie contains 5 grams of weed. An eight of weed is 3.5, man. So eating one of these cookies is like the equivalent of smoking five joints! One cookie contains 250mg of THC and 3mg of CBD. And they’re made from a balanced hybrid of Sativa and Indica weed. Because it was made with fresh ingredients what we could pronounce, like we said, it was tasty as fuck. It didn’t have the familiar weed flavor like most homemade weed cookies have plus it was covered in chocolate, man. That alone upped the flavor level at least 420 percent. And it was super potent as well. The smoke from this tasty Chocolate Chunk delivers a full draw of creamy puffy goodness Weed that smells like chocolate? Now that's definitely stuff stoners like. This Chocolate Chunk sample Marijuana Cookies from the Purple Lotus Patient Center in San Jose We think marijuana should be reviewed by the people who enjoy it the most; STONERS! Click here to cancel reply. Sign me up for the newsletter! ABOUT PRIVACY LEGAL T.O.S. DISCLAIMER Disclosure: Stuff Stoners Like is maintained by Erik Sinclair with help from a select group of cannabis connoisseurs. The goal is to provide high quality content to our readers. Some of the links herein are affiliate links—meaning, at no cost to you, we earn a commission if you click through and purchase. We are a professional review site and may receive compensation from certain companies whose products we review. We test them ourselves and write honest reports. We are independently owned and operated. And opinions expressed here are our own.  2019 STUFF STONERS LIKE | All Rights Reserved  