Brighstone Village - VisitIsleOfWight.co.uk The Island's Official Tourism Website Isle of Wight Steam Railway The Needles Landmark Attraction Isle of Wight Pearl Sandham Gardens Luccombe Manor Luccombe Hall Hotel Wight Holiday Lettings Ferries  &  Accommodation Step outside this festive season and experience the thrill of a Christmas dream come true… Through frosty woodlands, twinkling lights and discovery, join us on an enchanting winter journey with a breath-taking FINALE like no other! Santa is making Havenstreet his special Christmas home again this year and is really looking forward to meeting you! Watch your little ones make their Christmas wishes by visiting one of the Island’s most authentic Santa in his beautiful ‘Star of Wonder’ themed Grotto here at The Needles: Landmark Attraction! Tapland Christmas Experience Dog friendly Competitions Over half of the Isle of Wight is designated as an Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty Family Holidays Information on all the ferry options available to the Isle of Wight from mainland UK Slow Travel Guide Red Squirrel Electric Bike Hire Walking  You are here >  Home > Explore > Villages > Brighstone Brighstone is situated on the South West coast of the  Isle of Wight  and about half way along the coastal route between Ventnor and Freshwater. It is a pretty village with an old church, traditional farmhouses and thatched cottages built from local  " clunch "  stone. At the village centre stands the iconic ‘North Street’, a row of attractive traditional cottages owned by the National Trust which now house Brighstone Library and a small Village Museum. Brighstone is a lively and interesting place to visit with shops and eating places, free parking and public toilets. An extensive network of footpaths and bridleways enable  walkers ,  cyclists  and riders to quickly access open downs, field and streamside paths, or coastal cliffs and beaches. There is great choice of views and panoramas. St. Mary ' s Church, more than 800 years old with lovely exposed stonework, is open daily to visitors. Brighstone Village Museum is free to visit, and just outside the village along the Military Road is the Dinosaur Expeditions Centre. Drive, walk, ride, cycle and swim in this tranquil  Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty . Even paraglide above it if you are feeling adventurous! Roam the extensive ... …  Read More Brighstone is situated on the South West coast of the  Isle of Wight  and about half way along the coastal route between Ventnor and Freshwater. It is a pretty village with an old church, traditional farmhouses and thatched cottages built from local  " clunch "  stone. At the village centre stands the iconic  North Street , a row of attractive traditional cottages owned by the National Trust which now house Brighstone Library and a small Village Museum. Brighstone is a lively and interesting place to visit with shops and eating places, free parking and public toilets. An extensive network of footpaths and bridleways enable  walkers ,  cyclists  and riders to quickly access open downs, field and streamside paths, or coastal cliffs and beaches. There is great choice of views and panoramas. St. Mary ' s Church, more than 800 years old with lovely exposed stonework, is open daily to visitors. Brighstone Village Museum is free to visit, and just outside the village along the Military Road is the Dinosaur Expeditions Centre. Drive, walk, ride, cycle and swim in this tranquil  Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty . Even paraglide above it if you are feeling adventurous! Roam the extensive network of footpaths and bridleways. Climb rolling chalk downland behind a string of pretty villages and hamlets for a panoramic view of the whole area. Wander gentle leafy lanes or investigate the adjacent coastline of soft cliffs and sandy beaches. Bronze Age barrows and ancient hollow ways feature here, also beautiful churches and traditional thatched cottages of chalk  clunch . Local wildlife includes red squirrels and rare butterflies, Dinosaur and other fossils may be found on the beaches. There are a variety of  places you can eat  in and around Brighstone Village. There is a traditional family friendly  pub  and village bistro both offering food, or you can choose fresh local produce or prepared sandwiches and rolls from the two village shops. This part of this Isle of Wight is a popular  place to stay  and there is a good choice of bed and breakfast accommodation and a number of holiday cottages available to rent in Brighstone and the surrounding area. There are also caravan  &  campsites nearby on the coast with breathtaking sea views. Among numerous local  events , the annual Brighstone Christmas Tree Festival, in early December, brings many visitors to view 150 decorated Christmas trees displayed at different locations in the village and in nearby Mottistone. Entry is free with donations given to local and national charities. If you are looking for more information about the village and local area, or want to see what else there is to do on the Isle of Wight, call in at the Brighstone Tourist Information Point at  Seven  in the centre of the village. Here you will find a range of brochures and guides to help you during your stay. There is also an  " Explore Brighstone "  leaflet containing a map, local points of interest and recommended walks, available both in the Tourist Information Point and our Online Brochure Library. Walkers and riders have a wide choice of terrain with many scenic roads and country lanes to be explored by motorists. No.12 buses depart from Newport bus station every 2-3 hours in each direction during daytime. Evening buses are weekends only. The pleasant 20 minute journey offers pretty views including glimpses of Carisbrooke Castle. thanks. thanks again. Welcome to the Itinerary Planner. Use this tool to build your own journey or choose from an exciting range of specially selected tours. To build your own Itinerary, click   to add an item to your Itinerary basket. Copyright   2019 Visit Isle of Wight Ltd. All Rights Reserved With loads of great attractions and family-friendly places to stay the Isle of Wight is the perfect place to bring the family The Island packs in a whole load of adventure, with lots of exciting activities to pack into your break! Breathtaking scenery and a slower pace of life make this one of the most romantic places in the UK Wellness Breaks 