10 Words to Better Golf! | Jess Frank Golf Academy Jess Frank Golf Academy Posted on  February 23, 2017 Hello Passionate Golfers! Jess Frank here again talking to you about my favorite subject. The Golf Swing! Playing golf is so much more fun when you are playing well. I think we can all agree on that fact:) Over the past 20 years teaching golf to the average player, beginner golfer and low handicap we continuously see the same issues happening over and over again. Some golf swing issues are more obvious than others. My goal for you the golfer is to get you to make solid contact over and over again. Striking the ball crisply so you learn to the love the game or fall in love all over again. Golf is a challenging game but there is a system I have found that creates the best opportunity to play your best golf. Andy Plummer and Mike Bennett of Stack and Tilt found 5 traits the best players do over and over again. Breaking these 5 actions into 10 words to simplify the golf swing into bite size informational pieces even the novice golfer can accomplish. My golf lessons almost always contain one or more of these swing corrections. No matter if you are a high handicap golfer, beginner golfer, mid-level player, junior golfer or lady golfer you can do these 10 words. You do not need to be a PGA Tour player or LPGA Tour Player because if you can walk you can do these 10 words. These 10 words will help you accomplish the 3 FUNDAMENTALS in Golf! #1 Hitting the ground with the club in the same spot every time. #2 A predictable curve to you golf ball and #3 hitting the ball a distance needed to play golf on most any golf course. The video below will give you 10 simple words to make these 3 fundamentals possible. You will always hear about grip, stance, posture, club face position, head down, etc. as the fundamentals. The only issue is that the best players in the world all demonstrate different grips, alignments, postures, club face positions and over all swinging motions. However, all high level ball strikers demonstrate the following 10 words! Are you ready?!! In the video below you will find the following 10 Words explained! Jess Frank Golf Academy 263 subscribers Subscribe 10 Words to Better Golf! Info Shopping Tap to unmute If playback doesn ' t begin shortly, try restarting your device. Your browser does not currently recognize any of the video formats available.  Click here to visit our frequently asked questions about HTML5 video. More videos on YouTube More videos Share Include playlist An error occurred while retrieving sharing information. Please try again later. Watch later Share Copy link An error occurred. Try watching this video on www.youtube.com , or enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser. 10 Words! Hope you found this video helpful and will apply these 10 words the next time you head to the driving range or golf course! These true fundamentals and body motions will give you the greatest opportunity to hit the ball farther, straighter and with more consistency. I love giving golf lessons and helping golfers play better golf! These video s give me a chance to reach more golfers across the world and share my passion and enthusiasm for our wonderful game. Playing golf in South Florida, Boca Raton, Ft. Lauderdale, California or any where in the world these 10 words apply! Thank you very much for watching and if you truly received value from this video please go ahead and share it out with all of your friends! The exact systems, tips and techniques I teach my golf clients to break 100, 90 and even 80 delivered to your inbox every other week! Copyright   2019   Jess Frank Golf Academy   All Rights Reserved 