' Mario '  flooding shuts down Philippine capital | ABS-CBN News Home > Nation Posted at  Sep 19 2014 02:27 PM  | Updated as of  Sep 19 2014 10:27 PM Share MANILA - Heavy rains brought by the outer bands of Tropical Storm Mario (Fung-Wong) shut down the Philippine capital Manila on Friday, stranding motorists and forcing tens of thousands to flee their flooded homes, officials said. A major river burst its banks on Manila's heavily populated eastern districts, while other parts of the sprawling metropolis and the region north of the capital also suffered widespread flooding, though no casualties were reported. Although Mario's winds were relatively light, with maximum speeds of 65 kilometers (40 miles) an hour, the storm brought heavy downpours, dumping some 268 millimeters (10.5 inches) of rain on the capital overnight, state weather forecaster Gener Quitlong told AFP. That represented 76 percent of the average rainfall for the entire month, and more heavy rain was expected on the mountainous northeast as Fung-Wong swept westwards, brushing along the coast, Quitlong said. Flooding had forced at least 50,000 people to flee their homes in and around Manila, Social Welfare Secretary Corazon Soliman told a news conference. The government declared a school holiday and sent home government employees not involved in rescue operations and medical emergencies, while financial markets closed down. Manila airport authorities cancelled 21 domestic flights, with six international flights also diverted elsewhere in the country due to bad weather, they said in a statement. " I am angry that I have to do this each time it rains hard, "  Manila lawyer Ghelynne del Rosario told AFP, whose northern Manila bungalow was swamped by chest-deep floods. Cradling her dog, she said she, her mother and grandmother -- who is in her eighties -- waded through the water at daybreak to reach safety on the second floor of a neighbor's house, with her two other dogs swimming alongside her. An average of 20 typhoons hit the Philippines each year, killing hundreds and bringing misery to millions. Super Typhoon Yolanda (Haiyan), the strongest ever to hit land, left 7,300 people dead or missing across the central Philippines in November last year. A thoroughly drenched office clerk Alyssa Aldea, 22, decided to return home after finding the street outside her Manila office blocked by knee-deep floods. " I'd rather not get paid than get sick "  by wading through the floodwaters, she told AFP as she contemplated a long bus commute back home. Share A call to defend press freedom about 2 hours ago Members of Ampatuan clan arrive for Maguindanao massacre verdict about 2 hours ago In historic moment, US House impeaches Donald Trump for abuse of power about 2 hours ago Maguindanao massacre kin pray for '100 percent' guilty verdict about 2 hours ago Anticipating the Maguindanao massacre verdict about an hour ago Brewing Christmas storm creeps closer to Philippines: PAGASA about an hour ago Ampatuan verdict 'important' for journalists in Philippines, UP professor says about an hour ago 8-year-old is highest paid YouTuber, earns $26 million in year about an hour ago Ancient seawall shows how ancestors tried to cope with rising seas about an hour ago Christmas turkey: latest 'Star Wars' gets worst reviews in decades about an hour ago ALAMIN: Mga pagkaing dagdag-suwerte sa pagsalubong ng Pasko, Bagong Taon about an hour ago US plans to import drugs from northern neighbor, Canada objects about an hour ago WHO moves step closer to cheaper breast cancer treatment 44 minutes ago LOOK BACK: Duterte helped search for Maguindanao massacre site 41 minutes ago Fight for justice continues beyond Maguindanao verdict, says massacre widower 30 minutes ago PSA, Fiat Chrysler join to create world's fourth-largest carmaker 7 minutes ago Camp Bagong Diwa, naka-lockdown bago ibaba ang hatol sa Maguindanao massacre about an hour ago Hatol sa Maguindanao massacre, inaasahang ilabas na ngayong araw about an hour ago Maguindanao massacre ruling out today about an hour ago 101 akusado sa Maguindanao massacre case, hahatulan ngayong araw about 2 hours ago © 2019 ABS-CBN Corporation. All Rights Reserved. About Careers Privacy Terms Contact Us Advertise With Us "+t.replace(" | ABS-CBN News", "")+" With your Kapamilya Name, you now have one login to your favorite Kapamilya sites. Now, managing your accounts has never been this easy! Welcome, Kapamilya! We use cookies to improve your browsing experience. Continuing to use this site means you agree to our use of cookies. 