29 Expedia Coupons and Promo Codes You Can Use in December 2019 Code has been copied to clipboard Something went wrong, try again. Save 15% off your next weekend Thrifty rental with this Expedia promo code applied.  Qualifying locations only. Code has been copied to clipboard Something went wrong, try again. With this Expedia coupon code enjoy an additional 5% off select weekly car rentals at participating Dollar locations. Code has been copied to clipboard Something went wrong, try again. Enter this Expedia coupon code to take advantage of 25% off select Budget rentals. Code has been copied to clipboard Something went wrong, try again. Enter this Expedia coupon code to discover up to 30% off select Avis car rentals.   See terms of this offer. Code has been copied to clipboard Something went wrong, try again. With this Expedia promo code save $15 off of the base rate of your next weekend Hertz car rental.  See details of this offer. Find last minute travel deals here at Expedia. Book a flight + hotel together with Expedia and enjoy savings so big, it's like getting a flight, hotel, or 1 night's stay for free. Join Expedia as a member to receive updates and unlock an extra 10% or more on select hotels. Expiring Soon Enjoy up to $100 to spend onboard on select cruises at Expedia. Find savings across the world when you check these deals that last 48-hours at Expedia. Check out the latest travel deals to Cancun at Expedia.com. Discover Expedia Free Extras and get more with your stay. Check out these exclusive deals on hotels and packages in Hawaii with Expedia. Find flight and hotel package deals to Latin America with Expedia. Check out these changing daily deals with Expedia that are valid for 24-hours. Expedia offers a variety of promotions every day. If you use Expedia's Add On Advantage listed on the homepage, you have even more opportunities to save on flights, hotels, and car rentals.  Expedia has a price match promise. A “Price Check” determines if there is an exact Expedia Itinerary match on flights available for all listed travelers based upon: base fare, taxes, and any mandatory fees charged by airports or airlines. Any additional fees or costs (such as booking fees, if any, or purchases of checked baggage and seat selection) are not considered. Expedia reserves the right to impose reasonable limits.  Expedia helps travellers save on flights, hotels, car rentals, cruises, vacation rentals, and event tickets.  Expedia works with all major airlines, hotels, and car rental companies including Best Western, Virgin Hotels, La Quinta Inn, Days Inn, Frontier, Spirit Airlines, American Airlines, United, Delta, Alamo, Avis, Hertz and many more. Expedia Rewards allow travellers to earn points to use towards future hotel stays, flights, and car rentals. The more you book with Expedia, the more points you will earn. Upon payment, click "Use My Points" to redeem your discount. If you need to cancel your travel plans, contact Expedia TD at 1-877-222-6492 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, and they will work with you on a refund. There's a real-life human behind every post on Brad's Deals. We're proud consumer advocates, scouring the internet every day for best-of-web prices on just about everything. Brad's Deals isn't a store - instead, we're here to help you find the  best deals online , no matter where they are.  2019 Brad's Deals, LLC. All Rights Reserved.  Terms of Use  |  Privacy Policy  |  Ad Choices . Uh-oh, your browser is out of date. We recommend this safe site for a quick update. 