Harvard Vs. Yale: Crimson s Convincing Win Marred By Serious QB Injury | College Football | NESN.com BOSTON   Harvard won the 135th edition of the  The Game  on Saturday   but at a great cost. The Crimson, thanks to a 17-point fourth quarter, dominated Ivy League rival Yale for a  convincing 45-27 win  at Fenway Park. It was the highest-scoring game in the history of the storied rivalry, as well as the first time since 1894 that Harvard and Yale squared off somewhere other than their respective campuses. Late in the fourth, with the game well in hand, Harvard senior quarterback Tom Stewart went down with what appeared to be a serious injury. Stewart eventually was carted off the field to an apprehensive ovation from the sellout crowd. After the game, Crimson head coach Tim Murphy provided an update on Stewart, who was doubtful all week because of other injuries. I don t know what the injury is yet,  Murphy said after the game.  I ve talked to our sports medicine people   and they said it could be a hip dislocation which, if it is, would be a very significant injury. Heartbreaking for that to happen that late in the game, that late in his career.  It s just heartbreaking to see his season have to end that way. The Crimson later offered another update on Stewart. Update on  #Harvard  QB Tom Stewart: Indeed suffered right hip injury, but has been released from hospital and is expected to make full recovery, per Crimson staffer #HarvardYale #TheGame  Dakota Randall (@dakrandall)  November 17, 2018 Stewart understandably will rue the play   a quarterback keeper   that forced him to exit his final game in such agonizing fashion. However, the Dallas native can hold his head high knowing he capped his collegiate career with an excellent performance, one that helped Harvard end Yale s two-game winning streak in  The Game. Stewart completed 18 of 27 pass attempts for 312 yards and three touchdowns to go along with an interception. He connected on plays of 38, 43, 22, 31 yards   just to name a few. Stewart also helped Harvard put up the most points (45) and total yards (578) it ever has in a game against Yale. Jack Cook from 15-yards out and we lead again!  #BeatYale #GoCrimson :  https://t.co/r2Mh8tr26W pic.twitter.com/rDgPbezATO  Harvard Football (@HarvardFootball)  November 17, 2018 Jack Cook again on a deep ball! He now has 116 yards today!  #BeatYale #GoCrimson :  https://t.co/r2Mh8tr26W pic.twitter.com/Nc0rEorsrL  Harvard Football (@HarvardFootball)  November 17, 2018 Two-minute drill to perfection! Four plays, 77 yards and a Henry Taylor exclamation point to finish the drive!  #BeatYale #GoCrimson :  https://t.co/r2Mh8tr26W pic.twitter.com/15ZX6K7lL9  Harvard Football (@HarvardFootball)  November 17, 2018 Stewart s injury aside, the first Harvard-Yale game at Fenway Park should be considered a huge success. The park largely was full, and the crowd was engaged throughout what  truly was an entertaining  football game. Harvard finished its season 6-4 overall and 4-3 in Ivy League play, while Yale finished 5-5 overall and 3-4 in conference play. As for the rivalry, Yale still holds the all-time edge with 67 wins to Harvard s 60. There have been eight ties. Thumbnail photo via Winslow Townson/USA TODAY Sports Images This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Serena Williams Gets Boxing Lesson From Mike Tyson WWE ' s Jimmy Uso Found Not Guilty In DUI Case Despite Swerving Video UFC ' s Alistair Overeem Shows Stitched Up Face After Violent TKO ' Remember the Titans '  Coach Herman Boone Dead at 84 Ex-NFL Star Deltha O ' Neal Charged With DUI After Insane, Fiery Crash Diamond Dallas Page Divorcing Wife Brenda, Claims  ' No Infidelity! ' Hank Haney Sues PGA Tour, Claims It Had Him Fired Over Beef W/ Tiger Woods  2019 NESN Powered by  WordPress.com VIP 