55 Easy Healthy Breakfast Ideas - Recipes for Quick and Healthy Breakfasts Artboard 1 We may earn money from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. Why trust us? Because your eggs are the only thing that should be scrambling. By now, you know just how important  breakfast  is, which means there are  no excuses  for running out the door before grabbing a bite to eat. Start your day off right with one of these fast and healthy recipes.  These mini loaves are packed with greens, which means you'll get one serving out of the way before the day gets going.  SHOP MINI LOAF PANS Get the recipe for Mini Sesame Zucchini Loaves  The name says it all: This is the best granola to pair with yogurt, fruit, and more.   Get the recipe for Best-Ever Granola  Spend time prepping these burritos on Sunday and then reheat them during the work week.  Get the recipe for Make-Ahead Breakfast Burritos  Pretend your work commute is a beach vacay by sipping on one of these mango, strawberry, raspberry, or green  smoothies .  SHOP BLENDERS Get the recipe for Summer Smoothies  When all you have time to do is fry  an egg  but you still want your breakfast to be cute. Get the recipe for Flower Power Sunny-Side Eggs  Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Okay, once you drown French Toast in maple syrup and butter, they aren't exactly healthy. But on their own? They're not so bad.  Follow this recipe  to make the best French toast ever.  If you want to celebrate  Taco Tuesday  from morning 'til night ... Get the recipe from Woman's Day  There are so many good-for-you ingredients hidden in these chocolatey treats. Get the recipe for Choco-Cherry Supercarb Bars  These savory little pockets filled with eggs, spinach, cheese, and sun-dried tomatoes will take you back to your childhood self. Hot Pockets, anyone?!  Get the recipe for Spinach Cheese Breakfast Pockets  Nothing says "good morning" like a fried egg drizzled with curry oil.  Get the recipe for Curry-Avocado Crispy Egg Toast  The chocolate drizzle is recommended but not necessary (okay, that's up for debate). SHOP MUFFIN PANS Get the recipe for Spiced Banana-Chocolate Muffins  Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Your  blender  isn't just for smoothies anymore. You can also use it to whip up this gluten-free batter in no time! Get the recipe for Chocolate Banana Blender Muffins  Paprika and roasted red pepper hummus make this egg toast a real morning kicker.  Get the recipe for Smoky Red Pepper Crispy Egg Toast  Make a big sheet pan of this almond and oat granola bark and you'll be set for breakfast (and snacks!) throughout the week. Get the recipe for Sweet and Salty Maple Granola Bark  The easiest way to mix up your breakfast routine: This book, which features 180 easy healthy recipes that feel like a treat. Add a swirl of pesto and healthy dose of greens to liven up your standard egg sandwich. Get the recipe for Green Eggs and Ham 'Wiches Who said a bowl of oatmeal can't whisk your tastebuds away to the tropics? Get the recipe for Pineapple, Ginger, and Walnut Oatmeal  Make em' on a Sunday, then heat and eat all week. SHOP MUFFIN PANS Get the recipe for Spinach and Prosciutto Frittata Muffins  You're just 15 minutes away from the ultimate breakfast sandwich. Get the recipe for Fully Loaded Fried-Egg BLT  Go ahead and sleep in, because these creamy oats literally cook themselves overnight in the fridge. Choose between PB & J, Brownie Batter, or Lemon-Coconut.  SHOP MASON JARS Get the recipe for Chilled Overnight Chia  These protein-packed muffins come together in just 20 minutes. Pop 'em in the oven on Sunday night and breakfast is set for the week ahead. Get the recipe for Spiced Plum and Quinoa Muffins  This bowl is begging to be Instagrammed and takes all of 10 seconds in the blender. Get the recipe for Tropical Smoothie Bowl  Do we really need to persuade you to eat cookies for breakfast? Get the recipe for Pumpkin-Cherry Breakfast Cookies  We ditched the crust for this low-carb skillet, but don't worry   we kept  the bacon . Make it ahead of time and eat it all week. Get the recipe for Crustless Quiche Lorraine  Is there any better way to start your morning than with nachos? We think not. Get the recipe for Mexican Breakfast Chilaquiles  This spinach- and cheddar-packed quiche only takes five minutes to make in the microwave   perfect for those mornings when you really just can't be bothered.  Get the recipe from Bowl of Delicious  This hot cereal recipe has got it all, packed with grains, raisins, and nuts. It only takes five minutes to make and will leave you feeling full until lunchtime. Get the recipe for 5-Minute Multigrain Cereal  Combine bananas and berries for an energizing morning smoothie, with ginger and pineapple juice for an extra kick.  Get the recipe for Banana-Berry Smoothie  If you only have ten minutes, but you're craving a good-as-dessert breakfast, this dish has your number. Get the recipe from Delish  Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Get your protein mix in two minutes flat by following  this quick and easy recipe.  