Orlando Regional Healthcare: Mental Health Technician- Behavioral Health | WayUp Mental Health Tech- Behavioral Health- South Seminole Hospital- Full Time, First and Second Shifts Orlando Health South Seminole Hospital is a comprehensive community hospital serving the residents of Seminole County for more than 30 years. Our dedicated physicians, nurses, clinicians and support team are committed to delivering quality, compassionate care. Equipped with the latest technology and expertise to perform advanced diagnostic, medical and surgical procedures, we also offer many community-based prevention, wellness and outreach services. Job Summary: The mental health technician performs general care to patients in a manner that considers safety, comfort, and the therapeutic environment under the direction and supervision of the Registered Nurse (RN). Education/Training: High school diploma or equivalent. Licensure/Certification: -Maintains current Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) certification -Must obtain and maintain current Non Violent Crisis Intervention (NCI) Certification within 90 days of effective hire date. Experience: Three (3) years experience as Mental Health Technician, Psychology Technician, Nursing Assistant, Certified Nursing Assistant or Corpsman is required. Associates degree in psychology, education, child development or healthcare field may substitute for up to two (2) years of experience. Essential Functions: -Documents observations on assigned patients in legible, accurate and appropriate format following hospital and unit procedures. -Communicates appropriate information regarding the patients condition to the RN and other members of the healthcare team. -Demonstrates competency in unit specific tasks and skills as defined by unit specific competency list. -Participates and organizes group sessions. -Transports and delivers items, equipment, and medications (excluding controlled substances and IV chemotherapy drugs) throughout the facility. -May have limited access to areas storing medications. -Maintains reasonably regular, punctual attendance consistent with Orlando Health policies, the ADA, FMLA and other federal, state and local standards. -Maintains compliance with all Orlando Health policies and procedures. Mental Health Technician- Behavioral Health Mental Health Tech- Behavioral Health- South Seminole Hospital- Full Time, First and Second Shifts Orlando Health South Seminole Hospital is a comprehensive community hospital serving the residents of Seminole County for more than 30 years. Our dedicated physicians, nurses, clinicians and support team are committed to delivering quality, compassionate care. Equipped with the latest technology and expertise to perform advanced diagnostic, medical and surgical procedures, we also offer many community-based prevention, wellness and outreach services. Job Summary: The mental health technician performs general care to patients in a manner that considers safety, comfort, and the therapeutic environment under the direction and supervision of the Registered Nurse (RN). Education/Training: High school diploma or equivalent. Licensure/Certification: -Maintains current Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) certification -Must obtain and maintain current Non Violent Crisis Intervention (NCI) Certification within 90 days of effective hire date. Experience: Three (3) years experience as Mental Health Technician, Psychology Technician, Nursing Assistant, Certified Nursing Assistant or Corpsman is required. Associates degree in psychology, education, child development or healthcare field may substitute for up to two (2) years of experience. Essential Functions: -Documents observations on assigned patients in legible, accurate and appropriate format following hospital and unit procedures. -Communicates appropriate information regarding the patients condition to the RN and other members of the healthcare team. -Demonstrates competency in unit specific tasks and skills as defined by unit specific competency list. -Participates and organizes group sessions. -Transports and delivers items, equipment, and medications (excluding controlled substances and IV chemotherapy drugs) throughout the facility. -May have limited access to areas storing medications. -Maintains reasonably regular, punctual attendance consistent with Orlando Health policies, the ADA, FMLA and other federal, state and local standards. -Maintains compliance with all Orlando Health policies and procedures. 