Tenterfield Historic Walk - Tenterfield Tourism Tenterfield was gazetted as a town in 1851, and the Tenterfield Historic Walk includes a large number of landmark buildings in the town. The walk takes about an hour. Pick up a brochure from the Tenterfield Visitor Information Centre (157 Rouse Street). Some key landmarks on the historic walk include: Post Office ~ 1881 Built by the McGauran Bros this classic building features Italianate facade, clock tower and mansard roof. Sandstone Obelisk ~ 1894 Built by the residents of Tenterfield in memory of Edward Reeves Whereat, who gave up his seat for Sir Henry Parkes Sir Henry Parkes Memorial School of Arts ~ 1876 The first building in NSW acquired by the NAtional Trust, it was here Sir Henry Parkes made his famous Federation Speech (1889). Originally built as a 'reading room', the building was completely restored in 2001 and now houses the Henry Parks Musuem, a library and cinema. St Stephen's Presbyterian Church ~ 1884 Mr Walker, manager of Tenterfield Station, donated the land for the Church and Manse. The wedding of his daughter Miss Alice Walker and A.B. "Banjo" Paterson occured in this church in 1903. Uniting Church and Manse ~ 1867 The building was destroyed by fire in 1928 and the bell was sold when the new church was built. The manse is a beautiful single storey red brick building featuring double timber columns, cast iron balustrades and exquisite wooden fretwork on the gable. Centenary Cottage and Museum ~ 1871 The land was purchased at the first land sales held in Tenterfield in 1854 and the cottage is a superb example of the colonial method of adding extra rooms to the near of the dwelling as they were needed. The building now houses an interesting collection of Tenterfield memorabilia. Tenterfield Saddler ~ 1860 The saddlery has been immoratlised in the song "Tenterfield Saddler" by Peter Allen, as a tribute to his grandfather, George Woolnough. Listed in the National Trust, the Saddler is currently closed. Royal Hotel ~ 1851 Originally the George Inn, holder of the first liquour licence for Tenterfield. Old Tenterfield Star Building ~ 1913 The Star newspaper was founded in 1870. This building was built by Major J.F. Thomas (defended Harry "the Breaker" Morant during Boer War Court martial) so he could have his solictors chambers and newspaper office in the same building. Police Station and Gaol ~ 1870 Built by McGauran, the original "lock up" cost two pounds Court House ~ 1870 Built by the McGauran Bros and listed with the National Trust. The first case tried by a Magistrate was for the crime of stealing a building tape measure. Tenterfield High School ~ 1866 Mr Eramus Styles erected a slab school with a shingle roof on this site in 1866 and it was used as the first High School in Tenterfield. The old brick building at the front of the present school was built in 1887. Commercial Hotel ~ 1856 The original hotel burnt to the ground in 1877, the present building was built in 1940 and is an excellent example of the art deco style of construction. St Mary's Hall ~ 1867 The oldest building still in use in the Armidale Diocese. Situated behind the present church (1940), St Mary's is the original church built by the McGauran Bros. The stone is from nearby Stony Creek Claremont House ~ c1875 Built by parliamentarian Hon. Mr Charles Lee and named for his wife Clare. The house was used as officer's quarters for nursing staff during World War II. Stannum House ~ 1888 Built for John Holmes Reid, a wealthy tin mining magnate. The building was used as a military hospital in 1942-1944 and the Bunya Pine at the rear of the house is believed to be the tallest in town. Stannum House is open for tours. Deloraine ~ 1874 Built by William Patrick. Deloraine has been used as an Inn and a school in days gone by. The Cork Tree ~ 1861 The tree was brought from England by Edward Parker in a jam tin. It is believed to be one fo the largest in Australia. Memorial Hall ~ 1924 Once known as the Military Hall, this was the home of the Tenterfield based Light Horse Regiment. Initial training was given to a large number of men during three wars. 7 Days Click for larger photo 