Top 10 Amazing Stereo Images - Listverse When you view 3d images in a viewer or with 3D glasses the optics of the viewer (or glasses) allow the left eye to see only the image intended for the left eye and the right only the image intended for it. With freeviewing both left and right images are always visible so you need to learn to point each eye at the correct image. There are two methods of viewing for these images   the first is called Parallel viewing: In parallel viewing the image for the left eye is on the left and the image for the right eye is on the right. You stare into the screen so that your eyes are aimed (more or less) parallel. As you stare into the screen you will get double vision as each eye sees the L  &  R images separately. When you are staring in at the right distance the middle two images will overlap and become 3d. The outer two images will remain and will still be 2d. The second method is cross-viewing: In cross eye viewing the image for the left eye is on the right and the image for the right eye is on the left. You stare at a point about 1/2 way to the screen so that your eye s gaze is crossing at the half way point. Thus the left eye sees the correct image which is on the right. As you cross your eyes the image will go double. When your eyes are crossed the correct amount the middle images will overlap and be in 3d. The two outer images will remain and will be in 2d. [ Source  go here for additional help viewing these images.] On to the images!  Click each image for a full size view and be sure to tell us what you think in the comments.  Finally, many thanks to Denashi who suggested this list in the  forums . 10. Fluorite Photo by Terry Wilson 9. Mountains Photo by Chip Stephan 7. Lake Palanskoye Photo by Liceo Piovesan 5. Mount St Helens Photo by Terry Wilson 3. Lisbon, Portugal Photo by Vasco Pires 2. Aerial View Photo by Volkan Yuksel 1. Boston, USA Photo by Wei O Connell All images are copyright (c) their respective owners Jamie is the owner and chief-editor of Listverse.  He spends his time working on the site, doing research for new lists, and collecting oddities. He is fascinated with all things historic, creepy, and bizarre. Read More: Twitter Facebook Instagram Email 