' Reflections from Uyuni ' , A Breathtaking Time-Lapse of a Mirror-Like Lake on the Salar de Uyuni Salt Flat in Bolivia Laughing Squid A daily dose of unique art, culture and technology. by  E.D.W. Lynch  on  May 1, 2015 from  Enrique Pacheco LIVE 0 00:00 03:12 Like Add to Watch Later Share Tap to Unmute This opens in a new window. Enrique Pacheco s short time-lapse film  Reflections from Uyuni  records the breathtaking beauty of  Salar de Uyuni , a Bolivian salt flat that, at 4,000 square miles, is the world s largest salt flat. Pacheco shot the film during the rainy season, when the flat becomes a mirror-like lake. His time-lapses capture the beautiful symmetry of the sky perfectly mirrored against the water. We preivously posted about Pacheco s desert time-lapse,  Shaped by Time. photo via  Enrique Pacheco via  Fstoppers ,  PetaPixel Follow Laughing Squid on  Facebook ,  Twitter  and  Flipboard Please check your inbox for the confirmation email. Receive a daily email with all of the blog posts we publish. French musician FKJ performed a beautiful live set upon the stunning Salar de Uyuni in southwest Bolivia, the largest salt flat in the world. The event, produced by the livestreaming media channel Cercle, was half-planned, half-improvised according to the artist. WoopLive at Salar de Uyuni for Cercle now on YThttps://t.co/4N06tXnZz3?half… The Hotel Luna Salada is a Bolivian tourist hotel in which much of the structure, interior, and even the furniture is made of solid blocks of salt. The thoroughly unique hotel is located in the world ' s largest salt flat, the 4,000-square-mile Salar de Uyuni in southwest Bolivia. Visitors to the… " Shaped by Time” is a time-lapse short by Spanish filmmaker Enrique Pacheco that explores the beauty of desert landscapes sculpted by natural phenomena. During thousands of years, the wind, the eruptions, the rain, the frost and the water of the rivers, have shaped this wonderful landscap[e], going beyond the natural… The short film  " NORWAY - A Time-Lapse Adventure "  showcases the breathtaking natural beauty of Norway in time-lapses that cover the length and breadth of the country. Norwegian photographer Morten Rustad created the film over the course of a five-month, 9,300-mile road trip to all 19 of Norway ' s counties. The aim… While filming New York City ' s iconic skyline, Boston photographer Julian Tryba had the unique opportunity to capture the city during different times of the day, which allowed him to create “NYC Layer-Lapse”, a short timelapse film made from footage that doesn ' t follow chronological time, but rather splits and layers it… Photographer Rob Whitworth has created this breathtaking time-lapse video of the 2013 Danang International Fireworks Competition. Teams from the USA, Russia, Japan, Italy, and Da Nang competed in the beautiful fireworks competition, and the USA team from Melrose Pyrotechnics won the grand prize. via Epic Fireworks, PetaPixel Follow Laughing Squid:  Facebook  |  Twitter  |  RSS Managed WordPress Hosting Use promo code  HOLIDAY2019  for  two free months of Managed WordPress  at  Laughing Squid Hosting . Includes website migration. Powered by  Laughing Squid Hosting  and  WordPress VIP  |  Affiliate Disclosure  |  Privacy Policy  | © 1995-2019 Laughing Squid LLC, all rights reserved 