Do You Remember The Enterprise? The Ultimate TNG Quiz! | TheQuiz Star Trek: The Next Generation was a major step forward in the franchise. In fact, one might say that it was the  first  step forward. Before Star Trek: The Next Generation, there was only the original series. It took real bravery to try a new take on something as venerated as Star Trek. Think about it. There was an entire army of Star Trek fans who did not want to see their beloved series changed in any way shape or form. Any mistake would be pounced upon by these loyal "Trekkies," and the show would be denounced. But with Gene Roddenberry's blessing and help, they created something that even the most closed-minded Star Trek fan could enjoy. They made a lot of changes, but they kept the winning formula the same. The result was an enjoyable series that had been adequately modernized. With some amazing actors involved, it was always going to be a great show, and even when the episodes fell short of the mark, you knew that the high caliber of acting performances would make the show worth watching. But what about you? Were you a true fan of this series? Why don't you take the quiz and find out for yourself... Star Trek: The Next Generation revolves around a very special starship. This ship bears the same name as the ship in the original Star Trek series, although clearly it ' s undergone some serious upgrades. This starship is pretty much the flagship of the Federation ' s fleet, and it ' s a prime example of what humans are able to accomplish in our future. This starship is the home of the crew who we get to know so well during the series. But do you know its name? Besides the ship itself, the most important part of any Starfleet crew is the captain. The captain can be the difference between life and death in so many situation, as we saw throughout the episodes of Star Trek: The Next Generation. This captain was very different from James Kirk, although he was every bit as competent - perhaps even more. This captain is one of the finest officers in starfleet, and many people look up to him. But do you remember his name? Star Trek: The Next Generation marked a very different kind of TV show than the original. Many things changed, and the show was thoroughly modernized. The ship itself looked much more futuristic, as did the uniforms worn by the starfleet crew. But some things never change, and were kept intentionally by the show ' s producers. This included the quotes at the beginning of the show, that really got people pumped up for the newest episode. But can you complete this quote? Of course, a captain of a Federation starship would be nothing without his first officer. Otherwise known as an  " XO "  or commanding officer, the first officer is the second in command of the entire ship. This is a huge responsibility, and the choice of picking one is important. Jean-Luc decided to pick a very interesting character that we get to know very well over the episodes of The Next Generation. Many fans loved him. But do you remember his name? The Federation is a very advanced organization. If only we could create something that amazing! This organization had evolved past petty wars, and only wants to explore and communicate with new life forms and learn new things. They seem to be above things like greed and racism, things that still plague our society. But how do humans view other species of alien? Do they trust them enough to serve on their spaceships? Is it true that only humans are allowed on board the Enterprise? Perhaps the coolest part about the ships of the Federation is the fact that they can travel at faster-than-light speeds. If you think about it, this is the only thing holding humanity back from colonizing and exploring our galaxy. It ' s the last hurdle we must tackle in order to fully claim our spot as an advanced species. Although many people today claim that it ' s impossible, the people of the Federation have figured it out. But what piece of technology facilitates this? As well as being able to travel at incredibly high speeds, the Enterprise is equipped with some impressive defensive capabilities. This is pretty much a must when you ' re traveling at high speeds through space, because you never know what you ' re going to run into. It could be waves of dangerous radiation from an unknown source, or it might even be a hostile alien species with advanced weaponry. Whatever it is, the Enterprise has got it covered. But what technology allows the ship to protect itself? Sometimes, merely defending yourself is not enough. Although the Enterprise is a primarily a scientific research and exploration vessel, there are times when fighting is necessary. Although the Federation tries to avoid this at all costs, it does equip its starships with some pretty powerful weaponry. There is one weapon which is photon-based, and it ' s used when the captain of the Enterprise really wants to get his point across. But do you remember what type of photon weapon this is? When people first heard Patrick Stewart say these lines, reactions were mixed. On the one hand, this was William Shatner ' s iconic line! Hearing it come out of another actor ' s mouth seemed... Well, weird. But you have to admit, Patrick Stewart did it with style. And even though these two actors were different, they way they both delivered this line was enough to send shivers down your spine. It was in the beginning of each episode. But can you finish this quote? Photon torpedoes were probably the most powerful option when it came to Enterprise ' s attack measures, but they weren ' t the only one. Apparently the Enterprise had a few hundred photon torpedoes, which meant that they had to conserve them whenever possible. In most situations, their  " main weapon "  was enough to show their enemies that they weren ' t playing around. With this weapon, you didn ' t have to worry about running out of ammo in the same way as photon torpedoes. But what were these other weapons? In the original Star Trek series, the Klingons were the classic villains. James Kirk and his crew were constantly getting into fights and altercations with this aggressive species, and they didn ' t always come out on top. Klingons are an advanced species with impressive starships, known as  " Birds Of Prey. "  They were also very distinct visually, with grooves in their foreheads and long, warrior-like hair. One of these people served on the Enterprise. But is it true that the Klingons were actually allied with the Federation when The Next Generation started? Every captain in every Star Trek series has a catchphrase. Kirk had the line  " Beam me up, Scotty, "  (although he never actually said that exactly), Janeway had the simple line of  " Do it, "  (which was pretty lame actually), and even Spock had his line,  " Live long and prosper. "  But what about Picard? The captain of the Enterprise in The Next Generation did indeed have a catchphrase, and it has been turned into memes and even songs. But do you remember it? When it comes to running a starship, security is key. Even though you ' re surrounded by people you know and trust, there is always the possibility of violence breaking out among its crew, or traitorous acts happening. Additionally, there is the possibility of being boarded by an enemy ship during battle. It makes sense to appoint an extremely able head of security. And in the Enterprise, they have a very competent one. He is also Klingon. But do you remember his name? Another interesting member of the Enterprise ' s crew is Geordi La Forge. He ' s another very competent and critical member of the team, and his duties involve the engineering segments of the ship. He ' s also often involved in the various storylines of the episodes, and is a deeply thought out character. He ' s immediately recognizable because of his futuristic visor that he wears. This image became synonymous with the 90 ' s and people thought it was pretty cool. But is it true that he wears it as a fashion statement? Data is another key member of the crew. He ' s definitely an extremely able member of the crew, and is incredibly intelligent. He is also very strong, and can do things that no ordinary human can. Throughout the series, he takes the role of  " outsider, "  a role that was previously taken by Spock. We see through him a very objective view of humanity, and he points out several flaws and illogical actions taken by humans. But do you know what kind of being he is? There is another member of the Enterprise ' s crew that is somewhat useful, although he ' s seen a lot less than the rest of the crew, and is considered sort of a minor character. He is actually the youngest member of the crew, and when you first see him, you feel like he has no business being on a starship or wearing a federation uniform due to his young age. Regardless, he serves as the ship ' s helmsman. But do you know his name? The actor Geordi La Forge admitted later in an interview that the visor his character wears was a total pain. He said it was uncomfortable, and regardless of the space lore, it made it very hard to see. This is especially important when you consider the fact that as an actor, it ' s very important to connect to your scene partner by locking eyes and feeling each other ' s emotions. The lack of eye contact must have been as frustrating to other actors as it was for him. But is it true that the visor was later replaces with smaller, contact lens type devices? Data is a very unique character. He is an android, which brings up a whole debate that has been raging in the science fiction community for decades. Do androids dream of electric sheep? That ' s actually a book by Philip K. Dick, but the question he ' s really asking is are Androids capable of human emotion. Many people would say that it ' s impossible, since Androids are just machines with no  " soul "  (whatever that is). But what about Data? Does he never have human emotion? As we ' ve already established, the Klingons are no longer a threat to the Federation, having offered their alliance to the organization. With the the primary villains gone, Star Trek: The Next Generation had replace them with another set of bad guys. This wasn ' t too hard, as the original series had already come up with a few other villains. There was one in particular that was related to the Vulcans - essentially their evil cousins. But what is the name of this race? The ship ' s counselor is another interesting position that made an appearance on Star Trek: The Next Generation. Although this position was not filled in the original series, the inclusion of this character was pretty awesome and it really helped explore that dynamics of living in close quarters with people, and the relationships and conflicts that form as a result. This counselor had a gift with people, and she was a valuable member of the crew. But what was her name? But the Romulans weren ' t the only enemy in Star Trek: The Next Generation. Nor were they the most dangerous. That honor fell to an all new enemy species that was introduced in Star Trek: The Next Generation. This species is actually a collection of other species, all having been absorbed into a collective hive mind. Their catch phrase is  " Resistance Is Futile. "  Well actually, that ' s pretty much all they say. But do you remember the name of this alien species? The original series was Gene Roddenberry ' s baby. He put his heart and soul into it, and we owe so much to this man ' s mind. He envisioned a complete world full of character, danger, and immense depth. All of the quirky things we love about Star Trek are thanks to the foundations laid by this man. So when Star Trek: The Next Generation was announced, everyone wanted to know whether or not Gene Roddenberry was going to be a part of it. But is it true that he wasn ' t involved at all? Star Trek: The Next Generation was also instrumental in introducing several new races, picking up where Gene Roddenberry had left off and building more into the world of Star Trek. One of these new creations was a new species that everyone will recognize. This species was famously greedy and mischievous, with an inextinguishable thirst for money. They are also readily identifiable by their large ears, which are the most sensitive part of their body. But do you know the name of this species? Deanna Troi is an amazing character. This woman is able to help even the most inconsolable people both on and of the Enterprise, and she makes it her goal to heal people ' s sorrow, pain and anguish. Her skill in this area also makes her a valuable diplomat and negotiator, and she ' s managed to get the Enterprise out of some pretty sticky situations in the past. But these abilities aren ' t strictly human. Do you know what other species she is half mixed with? In the very first episode of The Next Generation, the audience is introduced to an interesting an bizarre alien species, but this species goes well beyond the limits of most known entities. This being or group of beings is a throwback to the original series, where episodes were strange and challenged our perception of reality. The species that is often in contact with Picard can control space and time, often tricking Federation officers. But what is the name of this species? There has been some debate as to what  " the Picard Maneuver actually means. Some say it ' s a reference to a starship battle tactic that Picard pioneered back when he was in control of another vessel. Others claim that it ' s actually a reference to a hilarious thing that Picard is seen constantly doing in almost all of his scenes. Whatever the case, the words  " Picard Maneuver "  will live forever on the internet. But do you know the origin of this phrase? There are many hidden tricks in the design of the Enterprise. Loyal trekkies have constructed entire diagrams and blueprints which detail the complex design of the Federation starship, and no detail is left out. This is truly an advanced spaceship, and a lot of thought went into it. It ' s also clearly more advanced than the original Enterprise, which makes sense given the fact that The Next Generation takes place roughly 80 years after the original series. But is it true that the Enterprise can detach its saucer? The Enterprise ' s crew is a really amazing group of people. One thing ' s for sure, Picard really knows how to pick some talented and determined people. There are plenty of times when each member of the crew has their moment to shine, and each member has contributed in some way to the Enterprise ' s success, even saving everyone ' s lives in some situations. Each member is pretty memorable, and fans each have their favorite. But which of these crew members was not part of the Enterprise? The Enterprise is an exploration starship, but that doesn ' t mean it ' s free to do whatever it wants. Each Federation captain, and every one of its crew members, is subject to a set of principles that the Federation considers to be of the utmost importance. Breaking these rules can result in severe punishment and even demotion or expulsion from Starfleet. The principles are designed to protect not only the crew and the people of the Federation, but also other alien species. But what is the name of this set of principles? People were pretty devastated when Star Trek: The Next Generation came to an end after 7 seasons. It was originally intended to go for 8 seasons, so when it stopped abruptly people were both confused and saddened. It later turned out that this was intentional because they didn ' t want to distract from the Star Trek movies that were planned. The first of these movies was Star Trek: First Contact, and it features Picard being abducted by an alien species. Which species abducts Picard? As it turns out, in Star Trek: First Contact, Picard is not just abducted by the Borg. He ' s also assimilated. What this means is that he ' s actually turned into a Borg himself, with his identity and memories stripped away from him. He becomes just a mindless drone, a pawn to be used and controlled by the Borg queen. In a tragic twist of events, Picard even ends up fighting against his own friends. The queen gives him a special designation. What is this? Riker gets a reputation as somewhat of a playboy throughout the whole series. He pretty much fills the void left by Kirk, that space charmer that all the ladies love. Picard certainly wasn ' t going to fill that role, although he did have his romantic moments from time to time. When it came to romantic subplots, it was Riker who was involved 9 times out of 10. And most of the time, his romance revolved around another crew member. Who was this crew member? We ' ve established that the thing that powers faster-than-light travel aboard the Enterprise and ever starfleet vessel for that matter is the warp core. This impressive technology is obviously far beyond our own today, and many scientists would argue that such a thing isn ' t even possible. But you have to give Star Trek credit, they made an effort to explain how it worked or at least confuse us all to the point where we just accepted it. Do you know what powers the Warp Drive? Data is a pretty tragic figure in many respects. He ' s always on the outside looking in, and sometimes it seems like his only friend is his pet cat. But he does have his moments, and although many people are weirded out by his behavior, many want to get close to him, including Captain Picard. But there is one person on board the Enterprise that forms a special bond with Data, and the two actually become very close friends. But who is this person? You probably know by now that the Star Trek stories take place mostly in the Milky Way Galaxy. There ' s a whole world out there for all Federation starships to explore. The depths of space is the last real unknown for the human race, as long as you don ' t count the bottom of the ocean. Can you imagine what it must be like to explore space, and boldly go where no one has gone before? It would be amazing. But do you know the specific quadrant that Enterprise explores? 