Avril Millar - Non-Executive Director - FxPro | LinkedIn I am a highly experienced Non-Executive Director with a  > 10 year portfolio career of driving business growth and profitability for both established leaders and high-growth SMEs across sectors, in addition to 20 years’ experience as founding partner of a wealth management business with £500M AuA. My sector expertise spans financial services, technology, healthcare, consultancy, leisure, oil and professional services. ♦ BUSINESS STRATEGY - SHAREHOLDER VALUE I deliver shareholder value, guiding the development of Board-level strategy across sectors, markets and geographies, and engaging executive teams and investors in ambitious visions. With extensive experience working with both new and established leadership teams, I provide tangible results through keen insight, challenge and assurance across the business, and have wide connections across a range of industries. ♦ BUSINESS TRANSFORMATION I drive business transformation that enhances efficiency, cost control, scalability, regulatory compliance and customer experience. Drawing on a wealth of expertise in sales and business development, financial control, governance, risk and compliance, fundraising and business operations, I have supported large-scale change to systems, process and people. ♦ CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  &  BOARD EFFECTIVENESS I optimise Board governance and effectiveness, underpinned by a strong risk and compliance background, and am well versed at navigating the complex dynamics of diverse teams to build consensus and ensure sound decision-making on major business activity.  ***  Key Expertise: Board-level Leadership, Business Strategy, Transformational Change, Corporate Governance, Risk Management, Financial Control, Sales, Marketing, Business Development, Regulatory Compliance, Technology / Digital Implementation, Fundraising, Venture Capital Investors, Change Management, Start-ups, SMEs. By  Avril Millar February 24, 2017 By  Avril Millar August 22, 2016 By  Avril Millar November 6, 2015 Shared by  Avril Millar Liked by  Avril Millar Liked by  Avril Millar 2010   –  Present 9 years As UK Board member of the world’s number one online forex broker, I have been a guiding force to strategic planning and governance over eight years of substantial industry change. Working closely with Board members and senior management to drive change into the business model, I have additionally led training and coaching at a grass roots level, including the international sales teams. As UK Board member of the world’s number one online forex broker, I have been a guiding force to strategic planning and governance over eight years of substantial industry change. Working closely with Board members and senior management to drive change into the business model, I have additionally led training and coaching at a grass roots level, including the international sales teams. 2018   –  Present 1 year Appointed to regulated functions for a newly established investor advisory firm, I manage best-practice systems and processes for regulatory compliance. Appointed to regulated functions for a newly established investor advisory firm, I manage best-practice systems and processes for regulatory compliance. 2017   –  Present 2 years I built a best-in-class regulatory framework for this international asset management firm, with recent highlights including the establishment of an Irish UCITS and award-winning AIF (Winner, EuroHedge Emerging Fund Management Awards, 2018).  I built a best-in-class regulatory framework for this international asset management firm, with recent highlights including the establishment of an Irish UCITS and award-winning AIF (Winner, EuroHedge Emerging Fund Management Awards, 2018).  2016   –  Present 3 years I advised the management team of this pre-revenue fintech business to revenue stage, supporting the business across the full spectrum of business activity, including VC funding and contract wins with digital banking brands. I advised the management team of this pre-revenue fintech business to revenue stage, supporting the business across the full spectrum of business activity, including VC funding and contract wins with digital banking brands. 2017   –  Present 2 years As Board Advisor for this brand technology start-up, which reached revenue stage in mid-2018, I have provided expertise on business strategy, European market entry and customer experience. As Board Advisor for this brand technology start-up, which reached revenue stage in mid-2018, I have provided expertise on business strategy, European market entry and customer experience. 2017   –   2018 1 year As Chair of the Board, I guided members of this organisation, which monitors and evaluates aid programmes in high-conflict areas. Highlights during this period include entry into international donor markets and a new corporate governance framework. As Chair of the Board, I guided members of this organisation, which monitors and evaluates aid programmes in high-conflict areas. Highlights during this period include entry into international donor markets and a new corporate governance framework. 2015   –   2018 3 years Over the course of three years, I worked closely with the CEO and leadership team to enable major business expansion of this UK provider of emergency resuscitation training. Significant change to IT and Operations grew logistical capability and were key to multiple new contracts for leading private healthcare brands. Over the course of three years, I worked closely with the CEO and leadership team to enable major business expansion of this UK provider of emergency resuscitation training. Significant change to IT and Operations grew logistical capability and were key to multiple new contracts for leading private healthcare brands. 2016   –   2016 less than a year I advised on major product change, coached a new sales team and increased Board effectiveness of this crypto currency business. I advised on major product change, coached a new sales team and increased Board effectiveness of this crypto currency business. 2015   –   2016 1 year I advised the majority partners on strategic direction and organisational structure of this independent advisory and asset raising boutique, facilitating triple-digit revenue and profitability growth. I advised the majority partners on strategic direction and organisational structure of this independent advisory and asset raising boutique, facilitating triple-digit revenue and profitability growth. 2012   –   2016 4 years Advising on global expansion and brand development, I supported the substantial growth of this leading British cycling events brand. Advising on global expansion and brand development, I supported the substantial growth of this leading British cycling events brand. 2012   –   2016 4 years I worked closely with the CEO of this technical latency solution provider in the FX market to implement robust financial controls and establish a strong growth trajectory. I worked closely with the CEO of this technical latency solution provider in the FX market to implement robust financial controls and establish a strong growth trajectory. 2013   –   2014 1 year As Chair of the Advisory Board, I steered development of the long-term strategy of this Swiss-based Oil trading business, including a major business model change and market exit. As Chair of the Advisory Board, I steered development of the long-term strategy of this Swiss-based Oil trading business, including a major business model change and market exit. 2013   –   2013 less than a year I drove change to Board effectiveness, product portfolio and organisational structure of this London-based technology business, over a period of significant new investment, working closely with the senior management team.  I drove change to Board effectiveness, product portfolio and organisational structure of this London-based technology business, over a period of significant new investment, working closely with the senior management team.  2011   –   2013 2 years Established by two world-renowned professors as a natural / mild-assisted IVF clinic, I supported significant business growth, including £MM VC investment and a complete transformation of business operations for improved efficiency and rapid scalability. Established by two world-renowned professors as a natural / mild-assisted IVF clinic, I supported significant business growth, including £MM VC investment and a complete transformation of business operations for improved efficiency and rapid scalability. 2007   –   2012 5 years As CEO of this global recruitment group between 2007 and 2009, I drove commercial and operational excellence, including a substantial transformation to business model amidst the global financial crisis, In 2009, I transitioned to a Board Advisor and oversaw a management buyout process. As CEO of this global recruitment group between 2007 and 2009, I drove commercial and operational excellence, including a substantial transformation to business model amidst the global financial crisis, In 2009, I transitioned to a Board Advisor and oversaw a management buyout process. 2008   –   2009 1 year I was retained by Collins Stewart, who had bought Andersen Charnley, to drive client retention through optimal integration. I was instrumental to the rebranding, and coached business development teams. I was retained by Collins Stewart, who had bought Andersen Charnley, to drive client retention through optimal integration. I was instrumental to the rebranding, and coached business development teams. 1986   –   2007 21 years As Founding Partner, I grew this business from start-up to a multi award-winning Wealth Manager with £500M AuA and a team of  > 60. The business was sold to Collins Stewart in 2007, latterly acquired by Cannacord. As Founding Partner, I grew this business from start-up to a multi award-winning Wealth Manager with £500M AuA and a team of  > 60. The business was sold to Collins Stewart in 2007, latterly acquired by Cannacord. 1969   –   1973 1981   –   1982 Qualified to teach Maths and Physics at Secondary level Qualified to teach Maths and Physics at Secondary level Clever little app to pick you up at work and get you back into your best and most capable self no matter what it throws at you Clever little app to pick you up at work and get you back into your best and most capable self no matter what it throws at you A clarion call to women to recognise what work can be to them and how to make creating your work as fun as (good) sex. Cheeky but not rude, an essential read. Fifteen 5 star reviews. A clarion call to women to recognise what work can be to them and how to make creating your work as fun as (good) sex. Cheeky but not rude, an essential read. Fifteen 5 star reviews. A preview of what LinkedIn members have to say about Avril: Avril encouraged me to bring my style, technique and personality to my work load. Sounds simple because it is. Avril sees the simple matters that her clients cannot see for whatever reason. Her coaching helped me settle into a new role quickly and confidently. Avril ' s technical and academic expertise allows her use different techniques in different circumstances. Her true skill is deciphering what is most appropriate and when. This allows her deal with wide range of clients from all walks of life. Avril encouraged me to bring my style, technique and personality to my work load. Sounds simple because it is. Avril sees the simple matters that her clients cannot see for whatever reason. Her coaching helped me settle into a new role quickly and confidently. Avril ' s technical and academic expertise allows her use different techniques in different circumstances. Her true skill is deciphering what is most appropriate and when. This allows her deal with wide range of clients from all walks... Avril encouraged me to bring my style, technique and personality to my work load. Sounds simple because it is. Avril sees the simple matters that her clients cannot see for whatever reason. Her coaching helped me settle into a new role quickly and confidently. Avril ' s technical and academic expertise allows her use different techniques in different circumstances. Her true skill is deciphering what is most appropriate and when. This allows her deal with wide range of clients from all walks of life. Avril has provided solid advice and support. She has detailed knowledge of what we do and how we do it. She knows our strengths and weaknesses. She combines her knowledge of our business with her wider experience to provide some great and well informed solutions. Avril has provided solid advice and support. She has detailed knowledge of what we do and how we do it. She knows our strengths and weaknesses. She combines her knowledge of our business with her wider experience to provide some great and well informed solutions. 15 people have recommended Avril Join now to view Join to view Avril’s full profile United Kingdom United Kingdom 2 others named Avril Millar are on LinkedIn 