Taylor 44S390 Squeeze Bulb Pressure Calibrator, 0-18 PSIG This website uses Javascript for some features, please enable it to use the full functionality of this website. Order Status Icon Exclusive Icon Free Shipping Icon Customer Rating 3857 REVIEWS Sign In white Quote without number white blue Order Status white Cart no number white Order Status Icon Exclusive Icon Free Shipping Icon Customer Rating 3857 REVIEWS Shop Sign in Quote without number white blue Order Status white Cart no number  Ask an Expert More   Taylor  Products Pressure accurate to  1 is registered on the gauge, and locked in by means of a check-valve thumb screw. Thumb screw can then be used to relieve the pressure, in order to check range span by stopping at precise points on the gauge.  Pressure accurate to ±1 is registered on the gauge, and locked in by means of a check-valve thumb screw. Thumb screw can then be    used to relieve the pressure, in order to check range span by stopping at precise points on the gauge.     Show More... This product has been discontinued .  Contact us  for more information. Features Features More   Taylor  Products To ask our Taylor experts a question please include your contact details. *  Required Fields Call us toll free 1-888-610-7664 To request an official quote for the Taylor 44S390 please include your quantities and contact details. *  Required Fields Don’t worry, we can switch everything over to our Canadian affiliate. Receive updates on when this product will be available for ordering. *We don’t share your email. You can unsubscribe at any time. Be the first to know when we have news, discounts, special offers and promotions. *We don’t share your email. You can unsubscribe at any time. Don’t have a Member Account? >Our Member Store gives you access to the following advantages:< strong> *Where applicable. Some of our pricing is already discounted.  Continue Shopping Be the first to know when we have news, discounts, special offers and promotions. *We don’t share your email. You can unsubscribe at any time. We can help! 