Color Me Positive PLR I answer all my emails personally! So get in touch with any questions, suggestions or even if you just wanna say hiya! I'll get back to you as soon as possible. Quality PLR coloring book kits to help you save time on your coloring book and journal creation projects. Made with   for great people.  Receive email updates, special offers and freebies for PLR Coloring Book and Journal Assets.  Copyright 2018 - ColorMePositive.Club - All rights reserved Terms of Service  |  Privacy Policy  | Contact Below you can request having your personal data collected by this website sent to you in an e-mail. Below you can browse services which collect your personal data on this website. Check services you wish to be forgotten by. This will send a request to website admin. You will be notified by e-mail once this is done. Below you can send a request for website admin to rectify your data. Enter what you would like to be rectified. You will be notified by e-mail once this is done. Color Me Positive  Web Site (the “Site”) is an online information service provided by Color Me Positive, subject to your compliance with the terms and conditions set forth below. PLEASE READ THIS DOCUMENT CAREFULLY BEFORE ACCESSING OR USING THE SITE. BY ACCESSING OR USING THE SITE, YOU AGREE TO BE BOUND BY THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SET FORTH BELOW. IF YOU DO NOT WISH TO BE BOUND BY THESE TERMS AND CONDITIONS, YOU MAY NOT ACCESS OR USE THE SITE. Color Me Positive  MAY MODIFY THIS AGREEMENT AT ANY TIME, AND SUCH MODIFICATIONS SHALL BE EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY UPON POSTING OF THE MODIFIED AGREEMENT ON THE SITE. YOU AGREE TO REVIEW THE AGREEMENT PERIODICALLY TO BE AWARE OF SUCH MODIFICATIONS AND YOUR CONTINUED ACCESS OR USE OF THE SITE SHALL BE DEEMED YOUR CONCLUSIVE ACCEPTANCE OF THE MODIFIED AGREEMENT. 1. Copyright, Licenses and Idea Submissions. The entire contents of the Site are protected by international copyright and trademark laws. The owner of the copyrights and trademarks are Color Me Positive, its affiliates or other third party licensors. YOU MAY NOT MODIFY, COPY, REPRODUCE, REPUBLISH, UPLOAD, POST, TRANSMIT, OR DISTRIBUTE, IN ANY MANNER, THE MATERIAL ON THE SITE, INCLUDING TEXT, GRAPHICS, CODE AND/OR SOFTWARE. You may print and download portions of material from the different areas of the Site solely for your own non-commercial use provided that you agree not to change or delete any copyright or proprietary notices from the materials. You agree to grant to Color Me Positive a non-exclusive, royalty-free, worldwide, perpetual license, with the right to sub-license, to reproduce, distribute, transmit, create derivative works of, publicly display and publicly perform any materials and other information (including, without limitation, ideas contained therein for new or improved products and services) you submit to any public areas of the Site (such as bulletin boards, forums and newsgroups) or by e-mail to Color Me Positive by all means and in any media now known or hereafter developed. You also grant to Color Me Positive the right to use your name in connection with the submitted materials and other information as well as in connection with all advertising, marketing and promotional material related thereto. You agree that you shall have no recourse against Color Me Positive for any alleged or actual infringement or misappropriation of any proprietary right in your communications to Color Me Positive. TRADEMARKS. Publications, products, content or services referenced herein or on the Site are the exclusive trademarks or service marks of Color Me Positive. Other product and company names mentioned in the Site may be the trademarks of their respective owners. 2. Use of the Site. You understand that, except for information, products or services clearly identified as being supplied by Color Me Positive, Color Me Positive does not operate, control or endorse any information, products or services on the Internet in any way. Except for Color Me Positive- identified information, products or services, all information, products and services offered through the Site or on the Internet generally are offered by third parties, that are not affiliated with Color Me Positive . You also understand that Color Me Positive cannot and does not guarantee or warrant that files available for downloading through the Site will be free of infection or viruses, worms, Trojan horses or other code that manifest contaminating or destructive properties. You are responsible for implementing sufficient procedures and checkpoints to satisfy your particular requirements for accuracy of data input and output, and for maintaining a means external to the Site for the reconstruction of any lost data. YOU ASSUME TOTAL RESPONSIBILITY AND RISK FOR YOUR USE OF THE SITE AND THE INTERNET. Color Me Positive PROVIDES THE SITE AND RELATED INFORMATION “AS IS” AND DOES NOT MAKE ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, REPRESENTATIONS OR ENDORSEMENTS WHATSOEVER (INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION WARRANTIES OF TITLE OR NONINFRINGEMENT, OR THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE) WITH REGARD TO THE SERVICE, ANY MERCHANDISE INFORMATION OR SERVICE PROVIDED THROUGH THE SERVICE OR ON THE INTERNET GENERALLY, AND Color Me Positive SHALL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY COST OR DAMAGE ARISING EITHER DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY FROM ANY SUCH TRANSACTION. IT IS SOLELY YOUR RESPONSIBILITY TO EVALUATE THE ACCURACY, COMPLETENESS AND USEFULNESS OF ALL OPINIONS, ADVICE, SERVICES, MERCHANDISE AND OTHER INFORMATION PROVIDED THROUGH THE SERVICE OR ON THE INTERNET GENERALLY. Color Me Positive DOES NOT WARRANT THAT THE SERVICE WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR ERROR-FREE OR THAT DEFECTS IN THE SERVICE WILL BE CORRECTED. YOU UNDERSTAND FURTHER THAT THE PURE NATURE OF THE INTERNET CONTAINS UNEDITED MATERIALS SOME OF WHICH ARE SEXUALLY EXPLICIT OR MAY BE OFFENSIVE TO YOU. YOUR ACCESS TO SUCH MATERIALS IS AT YOUR RISK. Color Me Positive HAS NO CONTROL OVER AND ACCEPTS NO RESPONSIBILITY WHATSOEVER FOR SUCH MATERIALS. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY IN NO EVENT WILL Color Me Positive BE LIABLE FOR (I) ANY INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, OR INDIRECT DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF PROFITS, BUSINESS INTERRUPTION, LOSS OF PROGRAMS OR INFORMATION, AND THE LIKE) ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF OR INABILITY TO USE THE SERVICE, OR ANY INFORMATION, OR TRANSACTIONS PROVIDED ON THE SERVICE, OR DOWNLOADED FROM THE SERVICE, OR ANY DELAY OF SUCH INFORMATION OR SERVICE. EVEN IF Color Me Positive OR ITS AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVES HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES, OR (II) ANY CLAIM ATTRIBUTABLE TO ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR OTHER INACCURACIES IN THE SERVICE AND/OR MATERIALS OR INFORMATION DOWNLOADED THROUGH THE SERVICE. BECAUSE SOME STATES DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF LIABILITY FOR CONSEQUENTIAL OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES, THE ABOVE LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU. IN SUCH STATES, Color Me Positive LIABILITY IS LIMITED TO THE GREATEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW. Color Me Positive makes no representations whatsoever about any other web site which you may access through this one or which may link to this Site. When you access a non-Color Me Positive web site, please understand that it is independent from Color Me Positive, and that Color Me Positive has no control over the content on that web site. In addition, a link to a Color Me Positive web site does not mean that Color Me Positive endorses or accepts any responsibility for the content, or the use, of such web site. 3. Indemnification. You agree to indemnify, defend and hold harmless Color Me Positive, its officers, directors, employees, agents, licensors, suppliers and any third party information providers to the Service from and against all losses, expenses, damages and costs, including reasonable attorneys’ fees, resulting from any violation of this Agreement (including negligent or wrongful conduct) by you or any other person accessing the Service. 4. Third Party Rights. The provisions of paragraphs 2 (Use of the Service), and 3 (Indemnification) are for the benefit of Color Me Positive and its officers, directors, employees, agents, licensors, suppliers, and any third party information providers to the Service. Each of these individuals or entities shall have the right to assert and enforce those provisions directly against you on its own behalf. 5.Term; Termination. This Agreement may be terminated by either party without notice at any time for any reason. The provisions of paragraphs 1 (Copyright, Licenses and Idea Submissions), 2 (Use of the Service), 3 (Indemnification), 4 (Third Party Rights) and 6 (Miscellaneous) shall survive any termination of this Agreement. 6.Miscellaneous. This Agreement shall all be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of United States applicable to agreements made and to be performed in United States. You agree that any legal action or proceeding between Color Me Positive and you for any purpose concerning this Agreement or the parties’ obligations hereunder shall be brought exclusively in a federal or state court of competent jurisdiction sitting in United States . Any cause of action or claim you may have with respect to the Service must be commenced within one (1) year after the claim or cause of action arises or such claim or cause of action is barred. Color Me Positive’s failure to insist upon or enforce strict performance of any provision of this Agreement shall not be construed as a waiver of any provision or right. Neither the course of conduct between the parties nor trade practice shall act to modify any provision of this Agreement. Color Me Positive may assign its rights and duties under this Agreement to any party at any time without notice to you. You are responsible for complying with all applicable laws in all of your actions related to your use of Color Me Positive ’s services, regardless of the purpose of the use. In addition, you must adhere to the terms of this Acceptable Use Policy. Your use of the service is at your sole risk. The service is provided on an “as is” and “as available” basis. Color Me Positive does not warrant that (i) the service will meet your specific requirements, (ii) the service will be uninterrupted, timely, secure, or error-free, (iii) the results that may be obtained from the use of the service will be accurate or reliable, (iv) the quality of any products, services, information, or other material purchased or obtained by you through the service will meet your expectations, and (v) any errors in the Service will be corrected. You expressly understand and agree that Color Me Positive shall not be liable for any direct, indirect, incidental, special, consequential or exemplary damages, including but not limited to, damages for loss of profits, goodwill, use, data or other intangible losses (even if Color Me Positive has been advised of the possibility of such damages), resulting from: (i) the use or the inability to use the service; (ii) the cost of procurement of substitute goods and services resulting from any goods, data, information or services purchased or obtained or messages received or transactions entered into through or from the service; (iii) unauthorized access to or alteration of your transmissions or data; (iv) statements or conduct of any third party on the service; (v) or any other matter relating to the service. The failure of Color Me Positive to exercise or enforce any right or provision of the Terms of Service shall not constitute a waiver of such right or provision. The Terms of Service constitutes the entire agreement between you and Color Me Positive and govern your use of the Service, superceding any prior agreements between you and Color Me Positive (including, but not limited to, any prior versions of the Terms of Service). Your use of the service is at your sole risk. The service is provided on an “as is” and “as Your use of the service is at your sole risk. The service is provided on an “as is” and “as available” basis. Any rights not expressly granted herein are reserved. Contact Information maureen@colormepositive.com (438) 345-6128 4412 Du Chateau Pierrefonds, Pierrefonds, Quebec ​ This Website collects some Personal Data from its Users. Maureen Oliver, 4412 Du Chateau Pierrefonds, Pierrefonds, Quebec, H9K 1L3 Owner contact email:  maureen@colormepositive.com Among the types of Personal Data that this Website collects, by itself or through third parties, there are: first name, email address, Cookies and Usage Data. Complete details on each type of Personal Data collected are provided in the dedicated sections of this privacy policy or by specific explanation texts displayed prior to the Data collection. Personal Data may be freely provided by the User, or, in case of Usage Data, collected automatically when using this Website. Unless specified otherwise, all Data requested by this Website is mandatory and failure to provide this Data may make it impossible for this Website to provide its services. In cases where this Website specifically states that some Data is not mandatory, Users are free not to communicate this Data without consequences to the availability or the functioning of the Service. Users who are uncertain about which Personal Data is mandatory are welcome to contact the Owner. Any use of Cookies – or of other tracking tools – by this Website or by the owners of third-party services used by this Website serves the purpose of providing the Service required by the User, in addition to any other purposes described in the present document and in the Cookie Policy, if available. Users are responsible for any third-party Personal Data obtained, published or shared through this Website and confirm that they have the third party ' s consent to provide the Data to the Owner. The Owner takes appropriate security measures to prevent unauthorized access, disclosure, modification, or unauthorized destruction of the Data. The Data processing is carried out using computers and/or IT enabled tools, following organizational procedures and modes strictly related to the purposes indicated. In addition to the Owner, in some cases, the Data may be accessible to certain types of persons in charge, involved with the operation of this Website (administration, sales, marketing, legal, system administration) or external parties (such as third-party technical service providers, mail carriers, hosting providers, IT companies, communications agencies) appointed, if necessary, as Data Processors by the Owner. The updated list of these parties may be requested from the Owner at any time. The Owner may process Personal Data relating to Users if one of the following applies: In any case, the Owner will gladly help to clarify the specific legal basis that applies to the processing, and in particular whether the provision of Personal Data is a statutory or contractual requirement, or a requirement necessary to enter into a contract. The Data is processed at the Owner ' s operating offices and in any other places where the parties involved in the processing are located. Depending on the User ' s location, data transfers may involve transferring the User ' s Data to a country other than their own. To find out more about the place of processing of such transferred Data, Users can check the section containing details about the processing of Personal Data. Users are also entitled to learn about the legal basis of Data transfers to a country outside the European Union or to any international organization governed by public international law or set up by two or more countries, such as the UN, and about the security measures taken by the Owner to safeguard their Data. If any such transfer takes place, Users can find out more by checking the relevant sections of this document or inquire with the Owner using the information provided in the contact section. Personal Data shall be processed and stored for as long as required by the purpose they have been collected for. Therefore: The Owner may be allowed to retain Personal Data for a longer period whenever the User has given consent to such processing, as long as such consent is not withdrawn. Furthermore, the Owner may be obliged to retain Personal Data for a longer period whenever required to do so for the performance of a legal obligation or upon order of an authority. Once the retention period expires, Personal Data shall be deleted. Therefore, the right to access, the right to erasure, the right to rectification and the right to data portability cannot be enforced after expiration of the retention period. The Data concerning the User is collected to allow the Owner to provide its Services, as well as for the following purposes: Contacting the User, Hosting and backend infrastructure, Managing contacts and sending messages, Advertising, Interaction with data collection platforms and other third parties, Commercial affiliation, Handling payments, Interaction with external social networks and platforms, Analytics and Displaying content from external platforms. Users can find further detailed information about such purposes of processing and about the specific Personal Data used for each purpose in the respective sections of this document. Personal Data is collected for the following purposes and using the following services: This type of service allows User Data to be utilized for advertising communication purposes displayed in the form of banners and other advertisements on this Website, possibly based on User interests. This does not mean that all Personal Data are used for this purpose. Information and conditions of use are shown below. Some of the services listed below may use Cookies to identify Users or they may use the behavioral retargeting technique, i.e. displaying ads tailored to the User’s interests and behavior, including those detected outside this Website. For more information, please check the privacy policies of the relevant services. In addition to any opt out offered by any of the services below, the User may opt out of a third-party service ' s use of cookies by visiting the  Network Advertising Initiative opt-out page . This Website uses the User Data to propose services and products provided by third parties or unrelated to the product or service provided by this Website. Personal Data collected: email address. The services contained in this section enable the Owner to monitor and analyze web traffic and can be used to keep track of User behavior. Wordpress Stats is an analytics service provided by Automattic Inc. Personal Data collected: Cookies and Usage Data. Place of processing: United States –  Privacy Policy . This type of service allows this Website to display advertisements for third-party products or services. Ads can be displayed either as advertising links or as banners using various kinds of graphics. Clicks on the icon or banner posted on the Application are tracked by the third-party services listed below, and are shared with this Website. For details of which data are collected, please refer to the privacy policy of each service. JVZoo is a banner commercial affiliation service provided by BBC Systems Inc. Personal Data collected: Cookies and Usage Data. Place of processing: United States –  Privacy Policy . By filling in the contact form with their Data, the User authorizes this Website to use these details to reply to requests for information, quotes or any other kind of request as indicated by the form’s header. Personal Data collected: email address and first name. By registering on the mailing list or for the newsletter, the User’s email address will be added to the contact list of those who may receive email messages containing information of commercial or promotional nature concerning this Website. Your email address might also be added to this list as a result of signing up to this Website or after making a purchase. Personal Data collected: email address and first name. This type of service allows you to view content hosted on external platforms directly from the pages of this Website and interact with them. This type of service might still collect web traffic data for the pages where the service is installed, even when Users do not use it. YouTube is a video content visualization service provided by Google Inc. that allows this Website to incorporate content of this kind on its pages. Personal Data collected: Cookies and Usage Data. Place of processing: United States –  Privacy Policy . Privacy Shield participant. YouTube is a video content visualization service provided by Google Inc. that allows this Website to incorporate content of this kind on its pages. This widget is set up in a way that ensures that YouTube won ' t store information and cookies about Users on this Website unless they play the video. Personal Data collected: Usage Data. Place of processing: United States –  Privacy Policy . Privacy Shield participant. Payment processing services enable this Website to process payments by credit card, bank transfer or other means. To ensure greater security, this Website shares only the information necessary to execute the transaction with the financial intermediaries handling the transaction. Some of these services may also enable the sending of timed messages to the User, such as emails containing invoices or notifications concerning the payment. PayPal is a payment service provided by PayPal Inc., which allows Users to make online payments. Personal Data collected: various types of Data as specified in the privacy policy of the service. Place of processing: See the PayPal privacy policy –  Privacy Policy . This type of service has the purpose of hosting Data and files that enable this Website to run and be distributed as well as to provide a ready-made infrastructure to run specific features or parts of this Website. Some of these services work through geographically distributed servers, making it difficult to determine the actual location where the Personal Data are stored. Amazon Web Services is a hosting and backend service provided by Amazon.com Inc. Personal Data collected: various types of Data as specified in the privacy policy of the service. Place of processing: Canada –  Privacy Policy . Privacy Shield participant. This type of service allows Users to interact with data collection platforms or other services directly from the pages of this Website for the purpose of saving and reusing data. If one of these services is installed, it may collect browsing and Usage Data in the pages where it is installed, even if the Users do not actively use the service. The GetResponse widget is a service for interacting with the GetResponse email address management and message sending service provided by Implix Sp. z o.o. Personal Data collected: Cookies, email address, first name and Usage Data. Place of processing: Poland –  Privacy Policy . This type of service allows interaction with social networks or other external platforms directly from the pages of this Website. The interaction and information obtained through this Website are always subject to the User’s privacy settings for each social network. This type of service might still collect traffic data for the pages where the service is installed, even when Users do not use it. The PayPal button and widgets are services allowing interaction with the PayPal platform provided by PayPal Inc. Personal Data collected: Cookies and Usage Data. Place of processing: See the PayPal privacy policy –  Privacy Policy . This type of service makes it possible to manage a database of email contacts, phone contacts or any other contact information to communicate with the User. These services may also collect data concerning the date and time when the message was viewed by the User, as well as when the User interacted with it, such as by clicking on links included in the message. GetResponse is an email address management and message sending service provided by Implix Sp. z o.o. Personal Data collected: email address. Place of processing: Poland –  Privacy Policy . The Owner of this Website may have legitimately collected Personal Data relating to Users without their knowledge by reusing or sourcing them from third parties on the grounds mentioned in the section specifying the legal basis of processing. Where the Owner has collected Personal Data in such a manner, Users may find specific information regarding the source within the relevant sections of this document or by contacting the Owner. The Personal Data collected are used to provide the User with services or to sell goods, including payment and possible delivery. The Personal Data collected to complete the payment may include the credit card, the bank account used for the transfer, or any other means of payment envisaged. The kind of Data collected by this Website depends on the payment system used. Users declare themselves to be adult according to their applicable legislation. Minors may use this Website only with the assistance of a parent or guardian. Under no circumstance persons under the age of 13 may use this Website. Users may exercise certain rights regarding their Data processed by the Owner. In particular, Users have the right to do the following: Where Personal Data is processed for a public interest, in the exercise of an official authority vested in the Owner or for the purposes of the legitimate interests pursued by the Owner, Users may object to such processing by providing a ground related to their particular situation to justify the objection. Users must know that, however, should their Personal Data be processed for direct marketing purposes, they can object to that processing at any time without providing any justification. To learn, whether the Owner is processing Personal Data for direct marketing purposes, Users may refer to the relevant sections of this document. Any requests to exercise User rights can be directed to the Owner through the contact details provided in this document. These requests can be exercised free of charge and will be addressed by the Owner as early as possible and always within one month. This Website uses Cookies. To learn more and for a detailed cookie notice, the User may consult the  Cookie Policy . The User ' s Personal Data may be used for legal purposes by the Owner in Court or in the stages leading to possible legal action arising from improper use of this Website or the related Services. The User declares to be aware that the Owner may be required to reveal personal data upon request of public authorities. In addition to the information contained in this privacy policy, this Website may provide the User with additional and contextual information concerning particular Services or the collection and processing of Personal Data upon request. For operation and maintenance purposes, this Website and any third-party services may collect files that record interaction with this Website (System logs) use other Personal Data (such as the IP Address) for this purpose. More details concerning the collection or processing of Personal Data may be requested from the Owner at any time. Please see the contact information at the beginning of this document. This Website does not support “Do Not Track” requests. To determine whether any of the third-party services it uses honor the “Do Not Track” requests, please read their privacy policies. The Owner reserves the right to make changes to this privacy policy at any time by giving notice to its Users on this page and possibly within this Website and/or - as far as technically and legally feasible - sending a notice to Users via any contact information available to the Owner. It is strongly recommended to check this page often, referring to the date of the last modification listed at the bottom. Should the changes affect processing activities performed on the basis of the User’s consent, the Owner shall collect new consent from the User, where required. Any information that directly, indirectly, or in connection with other information — including a personal identification number — allows for the identification or identifiability of a natural person. Information collected automatically through this Website (or third-party services employed in this Website), which can include: the IP addresses or domain names of the computers utilized by the Users who use this Website, the URI addresses (Uniform Resource Identifier), the time of the request, the method utilized to submit the request to the server, the size of the file received in response, the numerical code indicating the status of the server ' s answer (successful outcome, error, etc.), the country of origin, the features of the browser and the operating system utilized by the User, the various time details per visit (e.g., the time spent on each page within the Application) and the details about the path followed within the Application with special reference to the sequence of pages visited, and other parameters about the device operating system and/or the User ' s IT environment. The individual using this Website who, unless otherwise specified, coincides with the Data Subject. The natural person to whom the Personal Data refers. The natural or legal person, public authority, agency or other body which processes Personal Data on behalf of the Controller, as described in this privacy policy. The natural or legal person, public authority, agency or other body which, alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes and means of the processing of Personal Data, including the security measures concerning the operation and use of this Website. The Data Controller, unless otherwise specified, is the Owner of this Website. The means by which the Personal Data of the User is collected and processed. The service provided by this Website as described in the relative terms (if available) and on this site/application. Unless otherwise specified, all references made within this document to the European Union include all current member states to the European Union and the European Economic Area. Small sets of data stored in the User ' s device. This privacy statement has been prepared based on provisions of multiple legislations, including Art. 13/14 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation). This privacy policy relates solely to this Website, if not stated otherwise within this document. Latest update: May 16, 2018 The following describes the Federal Trade Commission Compliance for our Color Me Positive website. We make every effort at candor regarding any products or services we use, recommend, or otherwise make mention of at Color Me Positive. We strive to clearly differentiate between our own products or services versus those of third parties, to facilitate inquiries, support, and customer care. Likewise, just as we (and any other legitimate business) may profit from the sale of our own products or services, we may also profit from the sale of others’ products or services (like any retailer) at Color Me Positive. Additionally, wherever products or services may give rise to income generation, we endeavor to provide realistic and factual data, but highlight the fact that the variables impacting results are so numerous and uncontrollable that no guarantees are in any way made. It is our goal to embrace the guidelines and requirements of the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) for the benefit of all, and with that in mind provide the following disclosures regarding compensation and disclaimer regarding earnings  &  income. Note that material connections may not be made known at every single advertisement or affiliate link. Thus, to be safe, you should simply assume there is a material connection and that we may receive compensation in money or otherwise for anything you purchase as a result of visiting this website, and also that we may be paid merely by you clicking any link. Compensation   You should assume that we may be compensated for purchases of products or services mentioned on this Color Me Positive website that are not created, owned, licensed, or otherwise materially controlled by us. Stated differently, while most people obviously understand that individuals make a living by way of the profit that remains after the costs associated with providing their product or service are covered, at least theoretically there may be someone out there who does not understand that a third party can  " affiliate "  someone else ' s products or services and be compensated by the product or service creator/owner for helping spread the word about their offering. Just compare it to retailers. They seldom produce anything, but rather make their money connecting product and service creators with end users. Admonition Having said that, you cannot count on anyone looking after your interests but you. So, you ought to always do your own research into various offers and opportunities, to the extent that leaves you comfortable, doing your own due diligence prior to making any purchase of any product or service from this Color Me Positive website or any other. Here is a great set of guidelines for you to keep in mind: First, just always operate from the position that any website proprietor, including us at Color Me Positive, will have a material connection to the product or service provider, and may be compensated as a result of your purchase, unless expressly stated otherwise. Aside from your purchases, note that even you actions could result in earnings for this website. For instance, there could be ads displayed on this Color Me Positive website that we are compensated for displaying whenever a website visitor clicks on them. Second, to the extent that we have every interest in positively furthering our business relationship with you, we certainly desire to share only those offerings that we believe will benefit you. Just because we are not the founder or originator of the product or service, we are not going to withhold knowledge of this offering from you. If you can get some benefit from it, regardless of whether or not you ' ve taken advantage of our own products and/or services, we want you to do well. Thus, we make a good faith effort to only present to you items that we either personally use, have actually tried, or else have faith in the reputation of the provider or concept. You can count on us making this determination based on all relevant and applicable information at the time of the recommendation. Third, despite the fact that it would be counterproductive to mention products or services that you ' ll find disappointing or inferior, not only are people different, but it’s also possible for us to have a lapse in judgment. Thus, to be extra cautious, even if you believe in our good faith motives, you may as well go ahead and keep in mind that we could be at least partially influenced by the monetization factor of listing various products or services on our Color Me Positive website. Furthermore, in that vein, the reality is that there are sometimes other connections between parties that are not monetary, such as personal capital, goodwill, or otherwise, that could be an underlying undercurrent swaying the decision to promote a particular offering. Due to this hypothetical possibility, you should again simply nor rely solely on what we have to say, but rather just form your own independent opinion just to be safe. Finally, bear in mind that we might also receive free products or services, gifts, or review copies of items too. Testimonials Testimonials regarding the outcome or performance of using any product or service are provided to embellish your understanding of the offering. While great effort is made to ensure that they are factually honest, we at Color Me Positive are not liable for errors and omissions. Aside from human error, some information may be provided by third parties, such as customers or product/service providers. The best results are not uncommonly correlated with the best efforts, discipline, diligence, and so on, and thus the results depicted cannot, in any way, be construed as common, typical, expected, normal, or associated with the average user’s experience with any given product or service. Exceptional results may be depicted by our website as highlights, but you are responsible for understanding that atypical outcomes may not reflect your experience. Aside from market conditions, products and services change over time. Older products may lose effectiveness. Newer products may not have a reliable track record. Where products or services might pertain to earning money, the same safeguards about use of testimonials apply. Additionally, note that any related income figures are highly specific to the individual or entity that produced those results, and there can be no assurance that you will be able to leverage the same, or similar, products or services to achieve comparable results. The results, though real, may be the result of the conflation of a number of favorable circumstances that would be difficult to replicate, and so you must proceed with the knowledge that your outcome can differ from any shared on our website. Professional Consultation Many products and services are designed to solve problems. Common problem areas include legal, financial, and medical. We are in no way purporting to counsel you on issues related law, finances, or health. If you require guidance in these arenas, you should consider securing your own counsel from lawyers, accountants, tax professionals, investment advisors, or medical professionals before taking any action. Nothing we may ever communicate at Color Me Positive Journals, in print or spoken word, will ever be intended to constitute any such counsel, as we do not claim to be professionals in any of those disciplines. You assume all risk for actions taken, losses incurred, damages sustained, or other issues stemming from your use of any product or service in any way connected with or mentioned on this website. Indeed, such decision is solely your own, or else determined in conjunction with the professional guidance of the advisor of your choosing. Use Of Products  &  Services The following are facts you should be advised of if you intend to take advantage of any products or services: The price paid for products and services change over time. Even the prices of staples and basic commodities change, and there are many factors such as supply and demand, sales and other customer acquisition incentives, and more. Price, and value, can be quite relative. Technology, innovations, product improvements, market penetration, and numerous other factors all weigh in. It is impossible to define the “right” price for any product and service. Willing buyers and willing sellers determine price at any given time. You accept the fact that your purchase reflects your own attribution of value at the time of purchase, and that the price may increase or decrease in the future. The outcome you experience is dependent upon many factors. Aptitude and attitude go a long way towards success with products and services in virtually any niche, whether fitness or making money. Circumstances, experience, innate abilities, personality, education, time commitments, and perseverance are just a few factors. Given the smorgasbord of interrelated variables, there is no way to reasonably predict your specific outcome with any degree of reliability or certainty. Income-Producing Products  &  Services Income-producing products  &  services are likewise subject to the above cautions. In addition, however, there are additional factors we like to point out at Color Me Positive. Unlike weight loss products or self-help materials, income-producing methods are influenced by the overall health of the economy in which one operates. In times of liquidity, money flows freely and commerce is easier. In times of perceived scarcity, fear, recession, depression, or otherwise, commerce is stymied. Results can be influenced by market sentiment, just as the stock market indices around the world are swayed heavily on news. Income-producing products  &  services purchased should be viewed as just that – purchases. Though they can be investments in one’s business, it is not unreasonable to expect that there may not be an express return on that investment, per se. Often, business success is the convergence of a number of factors, methods, strategies, and so on. It can be hard to peg success to one method or machination. This does not necessarily undermine value of any given product or service, as it can have an additive effect. Or, it may have no effect. Since it can be difficult to tell, you should operate on the assumption that your outcome could be zero. We make no guarantees and you should only risk what you can afford to lose on any purchases on or through Color Me Positive. Earning  &  Income In light of all of the factors above, impinging on the very nature of income-producing products and services, there is no way to guarantee results of any kind whatsoever. Accordingly, we affirmatively declare that we make no guarantees as to your earnings  &  income of any kind, at any time. As with any business endeavor or investment, past performance is no guarantee or predictor of future performance. Any testimonials or other representations of results are for illustrative purposes only and, though every effort is made to ensure they’re factually honest, they are not intended to imply or insinuate what is likely to happen with you. Your reliance on them as such is not advised. It should be noted that “earnings  &  income” is so phrased with specific intent. While income may typify the earnings most either seek or are accustomed to, earnings can come in non-monetary forms. These include some forms that are abstract or intangible, and thus not even readily converted to currency or a common medium of exchange. Thus, note that all manner of compensation, including earnings of a non-income yet nevertheless beneficial form, are covered by these provisions. Affiliates  &  Other Third Parties It should also be noted that we only have control over, and thus only accept responsibility for, the content of this Color Me Positive website authored by us. Any representations made by others should be considered prima facie unauthorized. You may also read, hear, or otherwise come into contact with commentary about any of our products  &  services or offerings, and should assume those have likewise not been authorized. While information, in any form, can arise, at any time, regarding our products  &  services, there may be times when this results from an affiliate relationship. In other words, we may permit our products  &  services to be marketed through other individuals, businesses, websites, and otherwise, just as providers of goods and services use retailers and other vendors to make available what they offer. You should not construe a third-party offer as an endorsement by that third party of any product or service. You should, more conservatively, view it as an offer to buy something. Likewise, as alluded to previously, note that we cannot fully control all marketing practices by all parties. With the use of “mirror” sites, indirect or unauthorized affiliates, “tiered” affiliate structures, and so on, policing the world wide web with any modicum of thoroughness is unlikely. We make reasonable efforts to ensure our affiliates comply with our policies and represent our products  &  services consistent with our guidelines. However, at Color Me Positive we cannot always guarantee they will do so. You are always free to report concerns or abuses via our Contact information. Customer Care Last, but not least, please note that our role in briefing you on products and services other than our own is simply as a  " matchmaker. "  We do not provide any support or customer service for those items and you should always contact the owner or provider of those products or services to have any and all questions answered to your satisfaction before purchasing. CHANGE NOTICE: As with any of our administrative and legal notice pages, the contents of this page can and will change over time. Accordingly, this page could read differently as of your very next visit. These changes are necessitated, and carried out by Color Me Positive Journals, in order to protect you and our Color Me Positive website. If this page is important to you, you should check back frequently as no other notice of changed content will be provided either before or after the change takes effect. COPYRIGHT WARNING: The legal notices and administrative pages on this website, including this one, have been diligently drafted by an attorney. We at Color Me Positive Journals have paid to license the use of these legal notices and administrative pages on Color Me Positive for your protection and ours. This material may not be used in any way for any reason and unauthorized use is policed via Copyscape to detect violators. QUESTIONS/COMMENTS/CONCERNS: If you have any questions about the contents of this page, or simply wish to reach us for any other reason, you may do so by following this link: https://colormepositive.club/contact.html 