California Auction Company - 2383 N Wilson Way, Stockton, CA Ausome place to buy. Highly recommend  Overall,  I have had pleasant experiences with this Company with other items. However, I wanted the public to be aware that the Autogra ... Ausome place to buy. Highly recommend  Overall,  I have had pleasant experiences with this Company with other items. However, I wanted the public to be aware that the Autograph material they sell are not the real deal. I bought about 10 autographs from them with COAs from steel city and others. I had questions with the COAs, lacking addresses, phone numbers, emails with gmail accounts. I would Google the COA company and no businesses would pop up, only negative reviews. I sent everyone of these to PSA/DNA to be re authenticated. Low and behold they all came back as forgeries, fakes. I contacted them and they gave me my money back and swore they would not sell from these guys that give them the autograph material again. Every week they still have them on, buyers beware and be careful with autograph material from this company.  Ausome place to buy. Highly recommend  Overall,  I have had pleasant experiences with this Company with other items. However, I wanted the public to be aware that the Autograph material they sell are not the real deal. I bought about 10 autographs from them with COAs from steel city and others. I had questions with the COAs, lacking addresses, phone numbers, emails with gmail accounts. I would Google the COA company and no businesses would pop up, only negative reviews. I sent everyone of these to PSA/DNA to be re authenticated. Low and behold they all came back as forgeries, fakes. I contacted them and they gave me my money back and swore they would not sell from these guys that give them the autograph material again. Every week they still have them on, buyers beware and be careful with autograph material from this company.   Claim your free business listing The more information you provide about your business, the easier it will be for customers to find you online.  Claim your free business listing on Superpages. The more information you provide about your business, the easier it will be for customers to find you online. 