How long do the results of Eye LASIK last? (432) 694-5259 4109 N. Midland Dr. Midland, TX 79707  //  laser@eyelasikmidland.com  by  EyeLASIK  |  Feb 19, 2014  |  Uncategorized  |  0 comments The body is a miraculous thing. There are so many functions to be thankful for, but certainly our vision tops the list. Beautiful sunsets, green meadows, seeing the faces of the ones we love and hitting the perfect shot on the course rely on our vision. One of the most asked questions about laser vision correction surgery, is how long do the results last. Let s discuss 2 topics relating to that question. If you wear eye glasses you know that the eyes are constantly changing which is why your prescription lenses need to be changed from time to time. Unfortunately laser eye surgery, no matter how successful, cannot halt the natural changes and deterioration in our eyes as we age. Some of the biggest changes in our eyesight usually occur during our forties. Presbyopia, a decline in your ability to focus is a common problem. It may become more noticeable in your 40s, making it more difficult to see while reading or doing close work. If you have opted for LASIK surgery before that age for nearsightedness, farsightedness or astigmatism, then it is likely that you will notice changes which require the need for reading glasses for reading and close work during your forties. Once the full healing process after Eye LASIK surgery has been completed, your optimum visual acuity will be reached. After 3 to 6 months your eyesight will have reached its optimum benefit from the surgery. In many cases 20/20 vision is achieved, but some patients find they need reading glasses for close work. This may be diagnosed shortly after the LASIK surgery or a few years down the road. Occasionally, if your vision is not clear after LASIK, a further minor surgery may be recommended to obtain visual acuity. This is called an enhancement and is required by around 10% of LASIK patients. If your eyesight remains at 20/30 or worse than a low power pair of eyeglasses will usually be prescribed to be worn as needed. For those over the age of 40-45 who opt for LASIK surgery to correct nearsightedness, farsightedness or astigmatism, the outlook is good for the improved eyesight achieved to remain for many years. No-one can tell what changes the eye will naturally undergo with age, but these changes will not be halted by LASIK surgery. Natural deterioration of eyesight, whether you have LASIK surgery or not will still take effect. Most patients who undergo LASIK surgery see immediate improvements in their vision and no longer need to wear eyeglasses. This benefit can last for many years, making it well worth considering for the near term. Tests on those who had laser eye surgery more than 10 years before showed excellent long-term results with patients retaining on average 20/25 vision. Unfortunately, the term  permanently  with regard to our eyesight rarely applies, with or without Eye LASIK surgery. No matter what your age, always monitor your vision changes, make healthy lifestyle and dietary choices, and see your eye doctor for yearly eye exams to keep your eyes healthy for years to come! Ready to take the next step? Schedule your free consultation. //   */ /*   */ 