Ciara - Interview @ Designer Magazine With just two singles, the number 1 smash "Goodies"and the follow up "1 2 Step", behind her  it seems like Ciara hasalready entered the surreal world of the tabloid gossip. "Ciara's a hermaphrodite!!!Ciara's Pregnant!!! Ciara's going out with Bow Wow (the artist formerlyknown as Lil' Bow Wow, which we're presuming entitles us to call him BigWow Wow next time we see him)" scream the gossip columns across the web.Designer Magazine's Alex McCann side-stepped the gossip and talked to Ciaraabout being an army brat, getting crunked up and how's she's rapping onMissy Elliotts new record. Q: You spend your formative years of your life travellingfrom city to city and country to country as what you describe as an "armybrat" A: Up until the age of 8 I was travelling and it was14 when I decided to do music. I'm definitely an independent person andit opened up my mind so much as to the type of person I am. It made wewant to try different things, it makes me want to explore more and it informsme who I am as a person. Q: Living over in Europe in Germany did it make itmore important for you as an artist to make your name over here as wellas in the States A: You know what, I think it's important period. Evenif I didn't live there, it would still be important to me. You know, it'svery meaningful to have fans all over the world. It's means so much tome, yer know, I think it's important regardless of whether I lived thereor not Q: Were you surprised at the success of Goodies? A: You know what. I definitely believed in the recordwhen we were writing it, but I didn't know it would go to number 1 as fastas it did in America. I definitely was caught of guard with it being number1 in the UK. That was just amazing to me even though I believed it wasa hit record. Q: "Goodies" was the second ever crunk'n'b song. Forthose people that haven't signed up for the crunk revolution, would youlike to explain what it is? A: When I define Crunk Music I define it as the heavymetal of hip hop. It's high energy music and I think what makes a crunkrecord a genuine crunk record is like for example if Lil Jon produces it.Lil Jon is the King of Crunk and he's know for making that crunk musicand that crunk beat and that crunk sound. So when you add R & B to ityou make this high energy crunk'n'b. Q: So you're the Queen of Crunk'n'B then? A: No. I don't like being called the Queen of Crunk'n'B,nor the Princess or the Lady of Crunk'n'B. I've only got one Crunk'n'Bsong on my album, but I guess people want to give me that the title forsome reason. I'm definitely not the queen of crunk Q: As you said earlier, you've only been in the businesssince you were 14. It must have been a mad journey A: It's been crazy. I've had my bad experiences and goodones. All of them have made me a much stronger and wiser person. It's mademe who I am today and there's so much more that I have to learn, but it'sdefinitely been a journey for me. At the end of the day i've enjoyed itand look what's happening to me now. It's been a great journey, it's ablessing. Q: Before you went solo you were actually in a girlgroup. What happened there? A: I went to audition for the group and there was actuallya girl who went for the same spot who'd been in a profession big recordinggroup before. It was a funny thing because I got the position over herand i'd never had vocal training. I was just singing off natural talent.We were together for a little bit and we started to have differences. Ijust decided that going solo was what I wanted to do and what would bebest for me. At first I was interested in doing the group situation, butthen eventually I realized that being solo was what I really wanted todo. It's just easier when it's one. Q: At the time you started singing you were rappingas well A: Well, I used to rap around and play around outsidein the neighbourhood with my friends, but I never went and recorded raprecords or anything like that. I used to do a bit of freestyling whichwas fun. It was crazy. Missy made me rap on this song. It's crazy becauseI'm so shy when it comes to that. But she got me to do it. If you've gotMissy digging what you do it must be good. She's incredible. I can't evenremember the freaking songtitle at the moment, but it's gonna be her firstsingle back and it's about how music makes you lose control. Q: Some of the people you've worked with on the album- R Kelly, Ludacris etc A: Missy...Lil Jon...Jazzy. It's been crazy. It's beena blessing yer know. All the people are so talented and they've been aroundfor so long and to know that they believe in me as an artist and to knowthat they were interested in working with me means so much to me. Q: When you sit down on a day off and look back youmust think "19 and i've done all this"? A: I definitely think about how blessed I am. I appreciateeverything that has happened to me and that is happening to me. Especiallyat this age. I do realize that a lot of people don't even get half as muchas what i've had happen to me almost for their whole lives. I pray fora long career and strive for longevity. Q: And I guess that's why you've co-wrote most of thesongs on the album. Do you think it's important for an artist to writetheir own songs A: For me I like to be involved in my record just becauseI want my music to reflect who I am as a person as much as possible. Ithink it's very important that I give people the real me. And because Ilove writing. Writing is something i've been blessed with, i've been blessedwith this talent to write. It's great to have that talent under your belt,but I don't think that everybody has to be a writer though. Q: Would you consider writing for other artists? A: For sure. I've actually done it before. There wasa song that I wrote when I was 15 that Mya loved so she used it for heralbum. And I also had a song on The Proud Family Soundtrack, it was onthe America Idol featuring Alicia Key's (but Alicia Keys wasn't on therecord). I've also done a song for Fantasia's album called "Keep Me Waiting",a song I wrote with Jermaine Dupri. Q: You sing, you write, you dance, you rap - is thereanything you can't do? A: Oh my goodness. There are some things I can't do,but i'm working on the things you wouldn't expect. I'm working on a clothesline at the moment, but I don't wanna tell you much cos someone will thengo and get that idea. It's gonna be hot though. ...and at that point as if someone was looking downon us the fire alarm sounds in the hotel and we're ushered out on to thestreets of London. Ciara - the girl who's so damn hot she set alarm bellsoff!!! ************* "1 2 Step" featuring Missy Elliot is out now onSony BMG For more info on Ciara www.ciaraworld.com ************* ***************** Clickhere to leave your Ciara comments on the Message Board (NB: The message board opens in a new window soplease disable your pop-up blocker to view) ***************** 