Conquer Online - Tips - How to Conquer! - co.99.com Live support The first step of your journey is to choose a class, I would recomend water tao. Now you need to buy tonnes of bulk packs from the CO site (You can ask such players as Hudnut and ...Mr.WHITE... for help on this). Now that you have tonnes of DB's you can use your DB's to do the unkown man quest to get to lvl 130. Now exchange one of your DB's into cps (This can be done in the market) so you can purchase a celestial stone from the shopping mall. With this you can get your first rebirth. I would recommend u reborn into a warrior Now you can use DB's along with the unkown man quest to get to lvl 130 again. Now exchange more of your DB's into cps and purchase an excemption token from the shopping mall. Now you can get your 2nd Rebirth. Reborn into a Trojan now. Now you can use your DB's to get to lvl 130 again with the unkown man quest. Once lvl 130 you should exchange more of your DB's into cps and use 10 expierence balls daily along with paying the cps to complete the monster hunting quest. This way you can get to lvl 135. Now you can buy more exp balls from the shoppping mall and use them to make ur weapon proficiencies lvl 12. Along the way you should have been buying full super 2 sok items from fellow players (Earings, Necklace, Attk Ring, Armour, Boots, Blade, Poison Blade, Club) NOTE:If you don't want Trojan armour you can get Super+12, 2 SDG (Super Dragon Gem),-7pct damage, SDG enchant lvl 67 archer coat. You can lvl this coat in the market until it is lvl 120 (NOTE:Don't take this off, or you will have to buy a new one). Now that you have your trojan I recommend that you make an archer (Follow the above method, but go Water-Trojan-Archer, that way you can stig yourself whilst using cyclone). Use your archer to water farm (PLVL water taos to lvl 110 and reborn them for the SDG's). You should also PLVL trojans to 130 so they can reborn with your equips, with a blessed rebirth and eventually make all your equips -7pct damage. Now that you have full super+12, 2 SDG, -7pct damage, SDG enchant and are lvl 135 2nd Reborn, you should donaote to the empire to become a King and gain extra potency. Now you can start going to guild war (NOTE: You are most likely the strongest person on you server). You can also start pkin (Again Hudnut will show you how to do this), and try to have fun. I hope you enjoyed my easy guide to lvl fast. With this guide you can get to your desired level easy and play a minimum of 5mins per day and only pay about ?15000 USD to get your character strong. Good Luck! 