Sumanth Reddy | Ochsner Health System Dr. Reddy received a Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine from Kirksville College of Medicine in Kirksville, MO. He completed a Radiology Residency at John Peter Smith Hospital in Forth Worth, TX followed by a Musculoskeletal Fellowship at the University of Texas-M.D. Anderson Cancer Center/Memorial Hermann Hospital Texas Medical Center/St. Luke’s Episcopal Hospital in Houston, TX. Dr. Reddy is a member of the following professional organizations: American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America, American Osteopathic College of Radiology and the American Osteopathic Association.  Over 1,000 clinical trials being conducted at Ochsner. We change and save lives every day. Your support makes it possible. Your online health resource for health information, nutrition tips and advice from our medical experts Free 24/7 Assistance: Call the Nurse Care Line to talk to a specialty trained registered nurse. No verified reviews available These patient verified ratings are based on the “likelihood to recommend” physician scores on the nationally developed CAHPS Clinician  &  Group Survey (CG-CAHPS). Actual top box results for this question are translated to a 1-5 scale, and the star scores are measured on that scale, with 5 being the best score. © Ochsner Health System |  Notice of Privacy Practices  |  Terms of Use  |  Vendor Information Ochsner accepts all major insurances. Ochsner is a 501(c)3 not-for-profit organization, founded on providing the best patient care, research, and education. We are one of the country’s largest non-university based academic medical centers. Ochsner is an equal opportunity employer and all qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, age, national origin or ancestry, citizenship, sexual orientation, gender identity, veteran status, disability or any other protected characteristic under applicable law. Community Needs Health Assessment EpicMobile Tablet  |  EpicMobile Phone We'd love to know more about you so we can deliver the most relevant content. Which of the following best describes you? 