Quotes from Judy Garland movies and TV shows All people starting with J Don Hewes : Miss Brown, what idiot ever told you you were a dancer? Hannah Brown : You did. Hannah Brown : Was I too terrible? Don Hewes : No. No. Hannah Brown : I've never really danced before. Don Hewes : You're going to be fine. Hannah Brown : Mr. Hewes, Mr. Hewes... You know you don't have to go on with this. Don Hewes : Now look. Hannah Brown : No, I mean it. You're the most wonderful dancer I've ever seen. You could get anyone to dance with you. You could get the very best. Don Hewes : I don't want the very best. I want you. Susan Bradley : Would it be possible you don't want to marry me? H.H. Hartsey: Now wait a minute, Miss Bradley. I wanna marry ya, I wanna marry ya somethin' like all get-out. I wanna marry ya somethin' awful, ma'am. But please, ma'am, please say no. Jenny Bowman : You think you can make me sing? Do you think you can - do you think George can make me sing? or Ida? You can get me there, sure, but can you make me sing? I sing for myself. I sing when I want to, whenever I want to, just for me. I sing for my own pleasure. Whenever I want - do you under stand that? Rose Smith : Oh, Es, isn't he simply enchanting? And so mature. Esther Smith : Well, how did it happen? Where did you meet? Rose Smith : I was coming out of the shop and he was coming in. We bumped into each other. Esther Smith : Accidentally? Rose Smith : Almost. John Truett: Gosh, Miss Esther, I hope I'm not too presumptuous, but you don't need any beauty sleep. Esther Smith : What a nice compliment. Esther Smith : I'm going to let John Truett kiss me tonight. Rose Smith : Esther Smith. Esther Smith : Well, if we're going to get married, I may as well start it. Rose Smith : Nice girls don't let men kiss them until after they're engaged. Men don't want the bloom rubbed off. Esther Smith : Personally, I think I have too much bloom. Maybe that's the trouble with me. 'Tootie' Smith: And I'm taking all my dolls, even the dead ones. I'm taking everything. Esther Smith : Of course you are. I'll help you pack them myself. You won't have to leave anything behind. Except your snow people, of course. We'd look pretty silly trying to get them on the train, wouldn't we? Esther Smith : It's our last dance in St. Louis. I feel like I'm going to cry. Dorothy : There's no place like home. Dorothy : How can you talk if you haven't got a brain? Scarecrow : I don't know. But some people without brains do an awful lot of talking, don't they? Dorothy : Follow the yellow brick road. Dorothy : Toto, I have a feeling we're not in Kansas anymore. Separate from  membership , this is to get updates about mistakes in recent releases. Addresses are not passed on to any third party, and are used solely for direct communication from this site. You can unsubscribe at any time. Contact me  |  Privacy policy  |  Join the mailing list  |  Links Design and text   1996 - 2019  Jon Sandys . All rights reserved. All images   their respective owners. 