Cheryl Fujii - San Francisco Bay Area | Professional Profile | LinkedIn Liked by  Cheryl Fujii Liked by  Cheryl Fujii Liked by  Cheryl Fujii Aug 2012 Children Poverty Alleviation InnVision Shelter Network is dedicated to helping homeless families and individuals regain permanent housing and self-sufficiency. InnVision Shelter Network is dedicated to helping homeless families and individuals regain permanent housing and self-sufficiency. In this video I worked in front of the camera to walk sellers through the new eBay Seller Dashboard. The dashboard was completely revamped to provide all eBay sellers with the information they need to deliver great service.  In this video I worked in front of the camera to walk sellers through the new eBay Seller Dashboard. The dashboard was completely revamped to provide all eBay sellers with the information they need to deliver great service.  The purpose of this video was to create a venue to allow sellers to share their best selling business practices with each other.  My role was to create production schedules, develop talking points/script and to work with our agency to ensure proper messaging, tone and feel were achieved. The purpose of this video was to create a venue to allow sellers to share their best selling business practices with each other.  My role was to create production schedules, develop talking points/script and to work with our agency to ensure proper messaging, tone and feel were achieved. The purpose of this video was to personalize and highlight the benefits to a recent price change.  My role was primary producer, writer and editor. Video description: To find out if a store subscription makes sense for your business, visit http://ebay.com/stores. Three sellers discuss the benefits of an eBay store subscription and new simplified rate plans. With free insertion listings and lower final value fees, an eBay store can help you save on costs and sell more profitably.  The purpose of this video was to personalize and highlight the benefits to a recent price change.  My role was primary producer, writer and editor. Video description: To find out if a store subscription makes sense for your business, visit http://ebay.com/stores. Three sellers discuss the benefits of an eBay store subscription and new simplified rate plans. With free insertion listings and lower final value fees, an eBay store can help you save on costs and sell more profitably.  A preview of what LinkedIn members have to say about Cheryl: There are people who are enjoyable to work with because of their personality. And there are people who are very good at what they do. Cheryl has the rare combination. I had the privilege of working with Cheryl on projects from 2013-14 while we were both with eBay. Cheryl is always organized and prepared, yet agile and ready to pivot when the right opportunity arises. But my biggest grins came with watching Cheryl engage with people. One day I hope to have her passion for people, as she is graceful and effective working with everyone she meets. No matter what team or project you are working on- it is better to have Cheryl working on it at your side. There are people who are enjoyable to work with because of their personality. And there are people who are very good at what they do. Cheryl has the rare combination. I had the privilege of working with Cheryl on projects from 2013-14 while we were both with eBay. Cheryl is always organized and prepared, yet agile and ready to pivot when the right opportunity arises. But my biggest grins came with watching Cheryl engage with people. One day I hope to have her passion for people, as she is... There are people who are enjoyable to work with because of their personality. And there are people who are very good at what they do. Cheryl has the rare combination. I had the privilege of working with Cheryl on projects from 2013-14 while we were both with eBay. Cheryl is always organized and prepared, yet agile and ready to pivot when the right opportunity arises. But my biggest grins came with watching Cheryl engage with people. One day I hope to have her passion for people, as she is graceful and effective working with everyone she meets. No matter what team or project you are working on- it is better to have Cheryl working on it at your side. 1 person has recommended Cheryl Join now to view Join to view Cheryl’s full profile 