14th District Position One | yakimaherald.com First time here?  Click to create a yakimaherald.com user account . Mainly clear. Low 33F. Winds light and variable.. Mainly clear. Low 33F. Winds light and variable.  Updated: October 1, 2019 @ 10:12 pm Sprawling and diverse, the 14th District of the state House of Representatives includes most of western Yakima, all of Klickitat and Skamania counties and parts of Clark County.  Sprawling and diverse, the 14th District of the state House of Representatives includes most of western Yakima, all of Klickitat and Skamania counties and parts of Clark County.  Article with images Education funding, public records, gun rights and how to address carbon emissions are just a few issues likely to come up in Washington’s next legislative session.  YAKIMA, Wash. -- Republican Chris Corry and Democrat Sasha Bentley will square off for an open state House seat representing the 14th Legislative District in November.  Display a map YAKIMA, Wash. — A 19-year-old Yakima man charged with child molestation, sexually exploiting minors, possessing and distributing child pornography could face additional charges.  YAKIMA, Wash. — A man wanted on a warrant for a 1992 homicide in California was arrested in  Prosecutors are waiting for toxicology test results to come back before deciding whether to  Federal arson investigators will work with local authorities to find the cause of a Thursday A California man whose BMW sport-utility vehicle went into the Tieton River Monday was relea Bail was set at $25,000 Wednesday for a Wapato-area man who tried to run a Yakima County she There are now 11 people vying for Mike Leita’s Yakima County commission seat.  Proponents of a plan to split Washington into two states held their first news conference We SEATTLE (AP) — Former Republican U.S. Rep. Dave Reichert says he's not running for governor  For months, Washington state Republicans have fumed over Gov. Jay Inslee's use of a state-funded security detail during his short-lived presidential bid. Now, they're demanding Inslee reimburse the state for those costs. His climate-focused campaign has had an impact on the overcrowded Democratic presidential race, but it hasn't been able to boost Inslee's standing in the contest. Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device. 