Branch Finder | Barclays Barclays uses cookies on this website. They help us to know a little bit about you and how you use our website, which improves the browsing experience and marketing - both for you and for others. They are stored locally on your computer or mobile device. To accept cookies continue browsing as normal. Or go to the  cookies policy  for more information and preferences. To find your nearest branch, enter your address, town or postcode in the search box above and submit it. You can turn your location services on for your device or desktop and the search should default to your current location in future. If you'd like information about using the Post Office to do your everyday banking essentials, visit our  Post Office Banking  page. If you’d like information about the closure of a branch, or significant changes to its opening hours, visit our  Access to Banking  page. You’ll find a ‘Reasons’ booklet there for all affected branches. A ‘Feedback’ booklet will also be available in the same place, 2 weeks before the changes come into effect. Can we save you a trip? Over 50 of the most common banking tasks can be done via mobile and Online Banking. Find out in our help and support pages If you’d like information about the closure of a branch, or significant changes to its opening hours, visit our  Access to Banking  page. You’ll find a ‘Reasons’ booklet there for all affected branches. A ‘Feedback’ booklet will also be available in the same place, 2 weeks before the changes come into effect. Can we save you a trip? Over 50 of the most common banking tasks can be done via mobile and Online Banking. Find out in our help and support pages 0  filters(s) applied  Remove Barclays Bank UK PLC. Authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority (Financial Services Register number: 759676). Barclays Bank UK PLC adheres to The Standards of Lending Practice which is monitored and enforced by The Lending Standards Board. Further details can be found at www.lendingstandardsboard.org.uk. Barclays Insurance Services Company Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (Financial Services Register number: 312078). Barclays Smart Investor is a trading name of Barclays Investment Solutions Limited. Barclays Investment Solutions Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. (Financial Services Register number: 155595). Barclays Investment Solutions Limited is a member of the London Stock Exchange  &  NEX. Barclays Bank PLC. Authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority (Financial Services Register number: 122702). Barclays Bank UK PLC. Registered no. 9740322. Barclays Insurance Services Company Limited. Registered no. 973765. Barclays Investment Solutions Limited. Registered no. 2752982. Barclays Bank PLC. Registered no. 1026167. All registered in England. Registered office for all: 1 Churchill Place, London E14 5HP. Barclays Bank UK PLC. Authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority (Financial Services Register number: 759676). Barclays Bank UK PLC adheres to The Standards of Lending Practice which is monitored and enforced by The Lending Standards Board. Further details can be found at www.lendingstandardsboard.org.uk. Barclays Insurance Services Company Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (Financial Services Register number: 312078). Barclays Smart Investor is a trading name of Barclays Investment Solutions Limited. Barclays Investment Solutions Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. (Financial Services Register number: 155595). Barclays Investment Solutions Limited is a member of the London Stock Exchange  &  NEX. Barclays Bank PLC. Authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority (Financial Services Register number: 122702). Barclays Bank UK PLC. Registered no. 9740322. Barclays Insurance Services Company Limited. Registered no. 973765. Barclays Investment Solutions Limited. Registered no. 2752982. Barclays Bank PLC. Registered no. 1026167. All registered in England. Registered office for all: 1 Churchill Place, London E14 5HP. 