Michael Ciccolone - Managing Attorney - The Law Office of Michael Ciccolone, PLLC | LinkedIn Liked by  Michael Ciccolone Liked by  Michael Ciccolone Liked by  Michael Ciccolone Aug 2019   –  Present 5 months Oct 2017   –   Aug 2019 1 year 11 months •Advises business and corporate clients on a broad range of matters including determining the appropriate entities for use in their business ventures, as well as formation, financing, and capitalization of businesses.  •Negotiates and drafts purchase sale agreements for stock and asset sales and acquisitions, mitigating potentially adverse tax consequences for clients. •Reviews, drafts, and negotiates executive compensation packages and incentive stock options for key employees to ensure they are in compliance with the Internal Revenue Code to avoid taxes and penalties on improperly structured deferred compensation plans.  •Provides general counsel services to business clients regarding routine corporate matters including reviewing, revising, and drafting the company’s existing governing documents and contracts.  •Serves as litigation counsel for business clients for claims involving breach of contract, breach of warranties, and violations of consumer protection laws.  •Advises business and corporate clients on a broad range of matters including determining the appropriate entities for use in their business ventures, as well as formation, financing, and capitalization of businesses.  •Negotiates and drafts purchase sale agreements for stock and asset sales and acquisitions, mitigating potentially adverse tax consequences for clients. •Reviews, drafts, and negotiates executive compensation packages and incentive stock options for key employees to... •Advises business and corporate clients on a broad range of matters including determining the appropriate entities for use in their business ventures, as well as formation, financing, and capitalization of businesses.  •Negotiates and drafts purchase sale agreements for stock and asset sales and acquisitions, mitigating potentially adverse tax consequences for clients. •Reviews, drafts, and negotiates executive compensation packages and incentive stock options for key employees to ensure they are in compliance with the Internal Revenue Code to avoid taxes and penalties on improperly structured deferred compensation plans.  •Provides general counsel services to business clients regarding routine corporate matters including reviewing, revising, and drafting the company’s existing governing documents and contracts.  •Serves as litigation counsel for business clients for claims involving breach of contract, breach of warranties, and violations of consumer protection laws.  Jan 2016   –   Oct 2017 1 year 10 months •Served as In-House Counsel for a Fortune 100 corporation and its subsidiaries, representing the company in breach of contract and Deceptive Trade Practices Act disputes, as well as the company’s insured clients in property damage and bodily injury suits. •Provided sound legal advice and drafted coverage opinions to the company’s claims organization regarding controversies arising from the implementation and execution of claims policies and procedures. •Negotiated and drafted settlement contracts on behalf of the corporation to minimize the potentially negative effects of costly litigation. •Served as In-House Counsel for a Fortune 100 corporation and its subsidiaries, representing the company in breach of contract and Deceptive Trade Practices Act disputes, as well as the company’s insured clients in property damage and bodily injury suits. •Provided sound legal advice and drafted coverage opinions to the company’s claims organization regarding controversies arising from the implementation and execution of claims policies and procedures. •Negotiated and drafted... •Served as In-House Counsel for a Fortune 100 corporation and its subsidiaries, representing the company in breach of contract and Deceptive Trade Practices Act disputes, as well as the company’s insured clients in property damage and bodily injury suits. •Provided sound legal advice and drafted coverage opinions to the company’s claims organization regarding controversies arising from the implementation and execution of claims policies and procedures. •Negotiated and drafted settlement contracts on behalf of the corporation to minimize the potentially negative effects of costly litigation. Apr 2014   –   Jan 2016 1 year 10 months •Represented the State of Texas in all legal proceedings in multiple County Courts at Law, serving both as lead and co-counsel.  •Researched and drafted responses to discovery demands, procedural motions, and other documents prepared incident to hearings and trial practice creating an effective argument strategy for the courtroom. •Managed the nation’s second largest Veteran’s Treatment Court program, balancing the sensitive rehabilitative needs of veteran offenders with the State’s punitive interest.  •Represented the State of Texas in all legal proceedings in multiple County Courts at Law, serving both as lead and co-counsel.  •Researched and drafted responses to discovery demands, procedural motions, and other documents prepared incident to hearings and trial practice creating an effective argument strategy for the courtroom. •Managed the nation’s second largest Veteran’s Treatment Court program, balancing the sensitive rehabilitative needs of veteran offenders with the State’s... •Represented the State of Texas in all legal proceedings in multiple County Courts at Law, serving both as lead and co-counsel.  •Researched and drafted responses to discovery demands, procedural motions, and other documents prepared incident to hearings and trial practice creating an effective argument strategy for the courtroom. •Managed the nation’s second largest Veteran’s Treatment Court program, balancing the sensitive rehabilitative needs of veteran offenders with the State’s punitive interest.  May 2012   –   May 2014 2 years 1 month Houston, Texas •Conducted extensive legal research and drafted memorandum on issues involving Texas property, contract, and tort law including obligations and liability arising under bailment contracts, quasi-contracts, and agistment contracts. •Synthesized information and legal concepts to provide analyses regarding novel issues within Texas jurisprudence to support Professor Ortiz’s publication. •Conducted extensive legal research and drafted memorandum on issues involving Texas property, contract, and tort law including obligations and liability arising under bailment contracts, quasi-contracts, and agistment contracts. •Synthesized information and legal concepts to provide analyses regarding novel issues within Texas jurisprudence to support Professor Ortiz’s publication. Aug 2013   –   Dec 2013 5 months •Managed and coordinated the extradition of all fugitives sought by foreign jurisdictions residing in the Harris County Jail, ensuring timely disposition of all criminal defendants. •Represented the government during fugitive removal and extradition proceedings, as well as civil expunction hearings.    •Managed and coordinated the extradition of all fugitives sought by foreign jurisdictions residing in the Harris County Jail, ensuring timely disposition of all criminal defendants. •Represented the government during fugitive removal and extradition proceedings, as well as civil expunction hearings.    Mar 2003   –   Jul 2011 8 years 5 months • Served as division chief of the Special Operations Division responsible for several autonomous sections including the SWAT (Special Response Team), Canine Section, Game Wardens, and Accident Investigations.  • Expertly managed, directed, and led over 106 Military and Civilian Police Officers, overseeing their daily professional and personal development. • As Kennel Master organized, supervised, and evaluated all operational and training aspects for the Canine Unit comprised of more than 25 working dogs and their handlers.   • Provided subject matter expertise, training, and guidance to unit commanders concerning proper implementation of canine teams in furtherance of force protection, anti-terrorism measures, and law enforcement activities.  • As a Watch Commander, served as overall shift supervisor responsible for the planning, directing, assignment, and reviewing the activities of up to 70 law enforcement personnel engaged in the enforcement of federal and state laws requiring the use of sound judgment under adverse, stressful conditions. • Handpicked for elite United States Secret Service security details providing dignitary protection and support for The President of the United States, members of Congress, and high-ranking military officials. • Served as division chief of the Special Operations Division responsible for several autonomous sections including the SWAT (Special Response Team), Canine Section, Game Wardens, and Accident Investigations.  • Expertly managed, directed, and led over 106 Military and Civilian Police Officers, overseeing their daily professional and personal development. • As Kennel Master organized, supervised, and evaluated all operational and training aspects for the Canine Unit comprised of more than... • Served as division chief of the Special Operations Division responsible for several autonomous sections including the SWAT (Special Response Team), Canine Section, Game Wardens, and Accident Investigations.  • Expertly managed, directed, and led over 106 Military and Civilian Police Officers, overseeing their daily professional and personal development. • As Kennel Master organized, supervised, and evaluated all operational and training aspects for the Canine Unit comprised of more than 25 working dogs and their handlers.   • Provided subject matter expertise, training, and guidance to unit commanders concerning proper implementation of canine teams in furtherance of force protection, anti-terrorism measures, and law enforcement activities.  • As a Watch Commander, served as overall shift supervisor responsible for the planning, directing, assignment, and reviewing the activities of up to 70 law enforcement personnel engaged in the enforcement of federal and state laws requiring the use of sound judgment under adverse, stressful conditions. • Handpicked for elite United States Secret Service security details providing dignitary protection and support for The President of the United States, members of Congress, and high-ranking military officials. 2016   –   2017 2011   –   2014 2006   –   2010 Activities and Societies: Golden Key International Honour SocietyGlobal Mentor Network A preview of what LinkedIn members have to say about Michael: Michael and I worked very closely during our Marine Corps service and I can say without hesitation that his integrity and fortitude are of the highest caliber.  Michael is an eager contributor, a talented communicator and a natural leader.  I would recommend him with enthusiasm for positions requiring substantial responsibility. Michael and I worked very closely during our Marine Corps service and I can say without hesitation that his integrity and fortitude are of the highest caliber.  Michael is an eager contributor, a talented communicator and a natural leader.  I would recommend him with enthusiasm for positions requiring substantial responsibility. 1 person has recommended Michael Join now to view Join to view Michael’s full profile 