Rocky Road Fudge Bars Capturing Joy with Kristen Duke Capturing the Joy in Life My friend Tamiel introduced me to these  Rocky Road Fudge Bars  recipe over 4 years ago. We had both just given birth to our 4th child, and we liked to treat ourselves to delicious  lunches, while watching Cake Boss together. She was in the middle of whipping this up when I got there, and my first glance, I wasn t overly excited because I don t LOVE marshmallows and I don t prefer too much chocolate in my treats too rich for me. Once she finished them and they chilled, I did the most gracious thing I could think of, and offered a nibble (they did start to look pretty appealing). Then I took another bite, then a bigger bite, then had seconds…and thirds. I was in heaven. The dense, texture, deliciousness has become one of my most favorite desserts to make. My 4 year old helped me whip these up yesterday.  She cracked the eggs, stirred the flour, and measured the sugar. I was so excited to eat them! Sadly, I wish the pictures did them justice. I wasn t too happy with my brain when I was trying to style them for the perfect picture shot (like Averie does with her  dessert bars ) so that the world would see the image and fall in love with them. But, alas, I feel I missed the mark on doing these babies justice, but I m sharing what I ve got anyway. TRUST me when I say GIVE IT A TRY! The cream cheese is the perfect blend with the chocolate chip/pecan infusion, and the marshmallows and stuffed in the middle, so not as marshmallow-y as they would be on top. They are delicious all year round, but would make a fun gift to give neighbors this holiday season! I hope you try them and love them as much as I do!! If you like this, you might also like my  Cream Cheese Chocolate Chips Cupcakes  or  Fudgy Vanilla Brownies . Hello! I’m Kristen, and I believe in creating intentional family fun, to build lasting memories for my children. I'm delighted to have you come along for the ride. Email me with any questions, I always reply if I see it!  {Read More …} Copyright   2019  Capturing Joy Top of Page 