Body Bags (film) - Wikipedia Body Bags  is a 1993 American  horror comedy anthology television film  originally made for television, featuring three unconnected stories, with bookend segments featuring  John Carpenter ,  Tom Arnold  and  Tobe Hooper  as deranged  morgue  attendees. [ 1 ]  It was directed by Carpenter, Hooper and Larry Sulkis. [ 1 ]  It first aired on 8 August 1993.  It is notable for its numerous celebrity cameo appearances. The first story, "The Gas Station", features  Robert Carradine  as a serial killer, with cameos by  David Naughton ,  Sam Raimi , and  Wes Craven . "Hair" follows  Stacy Keach  as he receives a botched hair transplant that infests him with an alien parasite. "Eye" is another transplant story, this time featuring  Mark Hamill  as a baseball player who loses an eye in a car accident and receives a transplant, only to be taken over by the personality of the eye's previous owner, a murderous killer. A creepy-looking  coroner  introduces three different horror tales involving his current work on cadavers in "body bags". Anne is a young college student who arrives for her first job working the night shift at an all-night filling station near  Haddonfield, Illinois  (a reference to the setting of Carpenter's two  Halloween  films). The leaving worker, Bill, reminds her that a  serial killer  has broken out of a  mental hospital , and cautions her not to leave the booth at the station without the  keys  because the door locks automatically. After Bill leaves, Anne is alone and the  tension  mounts as she deals with various late-night customers seeking to buy gas for a quick fill-up, purchase cigarettes or just use the restroom key, unsure whether any of them might be the escaped maniac. A homeless transient asks to use the restroom, and when a partying couple arrives, she asks the man to check on the bum. He says he's sleeping. She goes inside the men's restroom, only to find an elaborately grotesque drawing on an evil looking entity carrying beheaded people in the Restroom and then the dead body of the man sitting in a pickup truck on the lift in one of the garage bays. She makes a phone call for help which results in her realization that "Bill", the attending worker she met earlier, is in fact the escaped killer, who has killed the real Bill and is killing numerous passers-by. She finds the real Bill's dead body in one of the  lockers . Serial killer "Bill" then reappears and attempts to kill Anne with a  machete , breaking into the locked booth by smashing out the glass with a  sledgehammer  and then chasing her around the deserted  garage . Just as he is about to kill her, a customer returns, having forgotten his  credit card , and he wrestles the killer, giving Anne time to crush him under the vehicle lift. Richard Coberts is a middle-aged businessman who is very self-conscious about his thinning hair. This obsession has caused a rift between him and his long- suffering  girlfriend Megan. Richard answers a  television ad  about a "miracle"  hair transplant  procedure, pays a visit to the office, and meets the shady Dr. Lock, who agrees to give Richard a solution to make his hair grow back. The next day, Richard wakes up and removes the  bandage  around his head, and is overjoyed to find that he has a full head of hair. But soon he becomes increasingly  sick  and  fatigued , and finds his hair continuing to grow and, additionally, growing out of parts of his body, where hair does not normally grow. Trying to cut a hair off his mouth, he finds that it "screams", and, examining it under a  magnifying glass , sees that it's alive and resembles a tiny serpent. He goes back to Dr. Lock for an explanation, but finds himself a prisoner as Dr. Lock explains that he and his entire staff are  aliens  from another  planet , seeking out  narcissistic  human beings and planting  seeds  of "hair" to take over their bodies for consumption as part of their plan to spread their essence to Earth. Brent Matthews is a  baseball  player whose life and career take a turn for the worse when he gets into a serious  car accident  in which his right  eye  is gouged out. Unwilling to admit that his career is over, he jumps at the chance to undergo an  experimental surgical procedure  to replace his eye with one from a recently deceased person. But soon after the  surgery  he begins to see things out of his new eye that others cannot see, and begins having  nightmares  of  killing women and having sex with them . Brent seeks out the  doctor  who operated on him, and the doctor tells him that the  donor  of his new eye was a recently executed  serial killer  and necrophile who killed several young women, and then had sex with their dead bodies. Brent becomes convinced that the  spirit  of the dead killer is taking over his body  so that he can resume killing women. He flees back to his house and tells his skeptical wife, Cathy, about what is happening. Just then the spirit of the killer emerges and attempts to kill Cathy as well. Cathy fights back, subduing him long enough for Brent to re-emerge. Realizing that it is only a matter of time before the killer emerges again, Brent stabs his donated eye with garden scissors, severing his link with the killer, but then bleeds to  death . The coroner is finishing telling his last tale when he hears a noise from outside the  morgue . He crawls back inside a  body bag , revealing that he himself is a living cadaver, as two other morgue workers begin to go to work on his "John Doe" corpse. Showtime Networks  planned to create  Body Bags  as a television series similar to HBO's  Tales from the Crypt . [ citation needed ]   However, shortly after filming began, Showtime decided not to pursue the series. [ citation needed ]  The three completed stories were assembled around John Carpenter's narration segment, and  Body Bags  became a horror anthology. [ citation needed ] The film was released on  Blu-ray  in Shout Factory!'s  Scream Factory  series in late fall 2013. Body Bags  was generally well received by critics and holds a 78% approval rating on movie  review aggregator  website  Rotten Tomatoes , based on nine reviews with an  average score  of 5.7/10. [ 2 ] However,  Time Out  (London, UK) called the film "an attempt by a pair of one-time horror auteurs to emulate the successful  Tales from the Crypt  formula, only now it's nowhere near as happening." [ 3 ] 