The 10 best hotels near Feroz Shah Kotla Cricket Stadium in New Delhi, India Loading Pick your preferred language. We speak English and 42 other languages. View vacation packages to Chandni Chowk, New Delhi (0.3 miles from Feroz Shah Kotla Cricket Stadium) Located in central New Delhi, goStops Delhi provides a 24-hour front desk for the convenience of the guests. Free WiFi access is available in this self-catering accommodations.  New Delhi (0.2 miles from Feroz Shah Kotla Cricket Stadium) Located a 4-minute walk from Feroz Shah Kotla Cricket Stadium and 0.4 miles from National Gandhi Museum, Centrally Located Entire Apartment near ITO offers accommodations with a kitchen in New Delhi.  Hotel in North Delhi, New Delhi(0.7 miles from Feroz Shah Kotla Cricket Stadium) Established in 1956, Hotel Broadway Delhi is within 0.6 mi from famous landmarks like Rajghat, Delhi Gate and Red Fort. Its themed restaurant and Hollywood-style bar present an old-world charm.  Hotel in Central Delhi, New Delhi(1.4 miles from Feroz Shah Kotla Cricket Stadium) Just 1969 feet from Connaught Place, this hotel offers Wi-Fi accessible rooms with a flat-screen TV and DVD player. Located in New Delhi, it features an Indian restaurant and 24-hour room service.  Hotel in Paharganj, New Delhi(1.7 miles from Feroz Shah Kotla Cricket Stadium) Located in New Delhi, 1.8 miles from Jantar Mantar, Hotel Ritz provides air-conditioned rooms with free WiFi and concierge services. This 3-star hotel offers a tour desk and luggage storage space.  Hotel in Central Delhi, New Delhi(1.8 miles from Feroz Shah Kotla Cricket Stadium) Just over half a mile from central New Delhi and its business district, Hotel Imperial features an outdoor pool and health club. Guests can enjoy spa services and 7 dining options.  Hotel in New Delhi Popular with guests booking hotels in New Delhi Hotel in Paharganj, New Delhi Popular with guests booking hotels in New Delhi Hotel in Connaught Place, New Delhi Popular with guests booking hotels in New Delhi Hotel in Paharganj, New Delhi Popular with guests booking hotels in New Delhi Hotel in Paharganj, New Delhi Popular with guests booking hotels in New Delhi Hotel in Paharganj, New Delhi Popular with guests booking hotels in New Delhi Hotel in Paharganj, New Delhi Popular with guests booking hotels in New Delhi Hotel in Paharganj, New Delhi Popular with guests booking hotels in New Delhi Hotel in Central Delhi, New Delhi Just over half a mile from central New Delhi and its business district, Hotel Imperial features an outdoor pool and health club. Guests can enjoy spa services and 7 dining options.  Fantastic hotel. Location, staff, rooms, interior! Hotel in Paharganj, New Delhi Located just 328 feet from the New Delhi Railway Station, The Prime Balaji Deluxe @ New Delhi Railway Station operates a 24-hour front desk to assist guests at all hours.  Close to New Delhi railway station, taxi from airport Hotel in Paharganj, New Delhi Just 984 feet from Delhi Railway Station, Bloomrooms @ New Delhi Railway Station offers convenient transport access and bright, cheery rooms with free Wi-Fi and a private bathroom.  This was my 2nd visit to Delhi and I enjoyed Bloomrooms so much my first time so I booked here again... Hotel in Central Delhi, New Delhi Set in a grand building in bustling Connaught Place, The LaLiT New Delhi welcomes guests with its full spa and outdoor pool.  We had all our personal needs catered for at 5 star level and The Lalit also provided us with... Hotel in Paharganj, New Delhi Located in New Delhi, 1.8 miles from Jantar Mantar, Hotel Ritz provides air-conditioned rooms with free WiFi and concierge services. This 3-star hotel offers a tour desk and luggage storage space.  Very modern and full of great amenities Hotel in North Delhi, New Delhi Set in the heart of Delhi, WelcomHeritage Haveli Dharampura, awarded UNESCO award for cultural and heritage restoration, is nestled among the narrow alleys of Chandni Chowk.  A beautifully renovated boutique hotel. Hotel in Paharganj, New Delhi 1.1 miles from Gurudwara Bangla Sahib, Hotel The Karlo Kastle is located in New Delhi and provides free WiFi, a tour desk and a ticket service.  The reseptionists were very kind,  specifik Avishek, hot water, clean. Hotel in Paharganj, New Delhi Hotel City Empire @ New Delhi Railway Station is located in the Paharganj district in New Delhi, 6.6 feet from New Delhi Railway Station and 2.8 mi from Jantar Mantar.  I love everything about city empire. Hotel in Paharganj, New Delhi Hotel Singh Empire DX features 24-hour room service and modern rooms with free WiFi. It is 8.7 mi from New Delhi International Airport and 1969 feet from New Delhi Railway Station.  Large room with street view. Good aircon and two ceiling fans. Clean and very pleasant stay. Hotel in Paharganj, New Delhi Conveniently located opposite New Delhi Railway Station, Ajanta Hotel features a rooftop restaurant and 24-hour room service.  We very much enjoyed our stay in Ajanta hotel. Hotel in Paharganj, New Delhi Located in Paharganj, this boutique hotel is just 2297 feet from New Delhi Train Station. Housing a fitness center it also offers rooms with a flat-screen TV and free Wi-Fi access.  The hotel staff was very friendly. Hotel in Paharganj, New Delhi Located in New Delhi, within a 20-minute walk of Gurudwara Bangla Sahib and 1.8 miles of Jantar Mantar, Hotel Grand Uddhav - Delhi City Center provides accommodations with a terrace and free WiFi... Great staff, very friendly and helpful. Nice room and comfortable bed. Highly recommended Hotel in Paharganj, New Delhi Attractively located in the Paharganj district of New Delhi, Hotel Glow Inn is located 1.8 miles from Jantar Mantar, 1.8 miles from Jama Masjid and 2.3 miles from Gurudwara Bangla Sahib.  The service was amazing! Staff (especially Prashant! Hotel in Paharganj, New Delhi Offering a terrace, Aman Continental is located in New Delhi, 1640 feet from New Delhi Railway Station and 0.9 mi from Connaught Place. Aman Continental features free WiFi throughout the property.  Wonderful hotel and wonderful staff! They make it so good I always stay there when I’m in Delhi. Hotel in Paharganj, New Delhi Offering a barbecue and terrace, Hotel Prince Palace Dx is located in New Delhi in the Delhi NCR Region, 5 minute walk away from New Delhi Railway Station. Guests can enjoy the on-site restaurant.  Very friendly staff, good location for this street in Deli. Hotel in Paharganj, New Delhi Hotel Shelton is conveniently located just 984 feet from Delhi Railway Station. Guests can enjoy free Wi-Fi access at all areas of the hotel. It features a restaurant.  I stayed in Shelton hotel for couple of days with friends and we were impressed by the staff and... Hotel in Central Delhi, New Delhi Just 1969 feet from Connaught Place, this hotel offers Wi-Fi accessible rooms with a flat-screen TV and DVD player. Located in New Delhi, it features an Indian restaurant and 24-hour room service.  Staff were very helpful. Restaurant was excellent. Located near the metro and many restaurants. Hotel in Paharganj, New Delhi Along with a free pick-up service from Indira Gandhi International Airport, Hotel City Star in New Delhi features a rooftop restaurant and a fitness center.  The staff was professional and hotel was very clean Hotel in Paharganj, New Delhi Located in New Delhi, 1.7 miles from Jantar Mantar, The Nest By BOHO provides accommodations with a restaurant, free private parking and a bar.  Allover hotel is very gd nice stay good cleaning good food and nice staff Hotel in Paharganj, New Delhi A 5-minute walk to the city center and New Delhi Railway Station, Hotel Tourist Deluxe offers 3 dining options and a 24-hour front desk. Free Wi-Fi access is provided.  Very nice hotel and clean . Reception area is more like a 4 star hotel. Hotel in Central Delhi, New Delhi Just across from Super Bazaar in Connaught Place, Hotel Bright offers modern air conditioned rooms and free private parking in New Delhi. It is about 8 miles from Indira Gandhi International Airport.  The location is great, the staff really helpful, friendly and good with communications. Hotel in Paharganj, New Delhi Delhi Guest House features air-conditioned rooms with cable flat-screen TV in the Paharganj district of New Delhi. With free WiFi, this 2-star hotel offers an ATM and a tour desk.  Nice place to stay.Well-located, only a few meters from New Delhi station. Hotel in North Delhi, New Delhi Hotel Tara Palace has a rooftop offering views of heritage monuments such as Red Fort and Jama Masjid which are within 1312 feet away. Free Wi-Fi is provided in all areas.  Friendly staff. Great location, close to many historical sites and metro stations (2 different... Hotel in Paharganj, New Delhi Located in New Delhi, 1.6 miles from Gurudwara Bangla Sahib, Hotel Delhi heart has accommodations with a restaurant, free private parking, a bar and a terrace.  Nice  &  Friendly managers and staff! Absar Alam  &  Saniya Khan are nice! Error: Please enter a valid email address. Error: Oops! An error has occurred. Thanks! We've sent you an email so you can confirm your subscription Refer a property List your property Booking.com is part of Booking Holdings Inc., the world leader in online travel and related services. We have more than 70 million property reviews, all from  real, verified guests . 1 The only way to leave a review is to first make a booking. That's how we know our reviews come from real guests who have stayed at the property. 2 When guests stay at the property, they check out how quiet the room is, how friendly the staff is, and more. 3 After their trip, guests tell us about their stay. We check for naughty words and verify the authenticity of all guest reviews before adding them to our site. If you booked through us and want to leave a review, please sign in first. Check-in date Check-out date 