Amelia (Amy) Robinson - Teacher and Administrator - The Academy at World Champions Centre | LinkedIn Liked by  Amelia (Amy) Robinson Liked by  Amelia (Amy) Robinson Liked by  Amelia (Amy) Robinson Mar 2018   –  Present 1 year 10 months Aug 2015   –  Present 4 years 5 months Houston, Texas Area Amelian Academic provides personal and individualized tutoring support for middle school, high school and college level students. I am currently working with middle school and high school students in pre-Algebra, Algebra I and II, Geometry, Chemistry, Biology, and Dyslexia / Assignment prioritization. My college level tutoring includes: basic math up to Calculus; Environmental Science; Geology; Engineering; and Chemistry (I, II, organic chemistry, and biochemistry). I tutor individually and through Wyzant at this time. Please review my personal webpage with Wyzant for more information: https://www.wyzant.com/Tutors/amelianacademic Amelian Academic provides personal and individualized tutoring support for middle school, high school and college level students. I am currently working with middle school and high school students in pre-Algebra, Algebra I and II, Geometry, Chemistry, Biology, and Dyslexia / Assignment prioritization. My college level tutoring includes: basic math up to Calculus; Environmental Science; Geology; Engineering; and Chemistry (I, II, organic chemistry, and biochemistry). I tutor individually... Amelian Academic provides personal and individualized tutoring support for middle school, high school and college level students. I am currently working with middle school and high school students in pre-Algebra, Algebra I and II, Geometry, Chemistry, Biology, and Dyslexia / Assignment prioritization. My college level tutoring includes: basic math up to Calculus; Environmental Science; Geology; Engineering; and Chemistry (I, II, organic chemistry, and biochemistry). I tutor individually and through Wyzant at this time. Please review my personal webpage with Wyzant for more information: https://www.wyzant.com/Tutors/amelianacademic Jul 2015   –   Dec 2015 6 months Aug 2010   –   Mar 2015 4 years 8 months Jul 2007   –   May 2010 2 years 11 months 2001   –   2010 1998   –   2001 1992   –   1997 1992   –   1997 Join to view Amelia (Amy)’s full profile 