Ranked! The 10 best assists in Premier League history | FourFourTwo Amit Katwala 6. Frank Lampard for Didier Drogba Chelsea 6-0 Man City, 2007/08 At 1:04   There was a version of  FIFA  – around 2002 – where you could hold down one of the trigger buttons to play ridiculous curled through-balls with either foot that were inch-perfect every time. Once you’d mastered this, it kind of ruined the game – not least because the motions of the animated players would defy the laws of human mechanics. This pass, from Frank Lampard to Didier Drogba, is one of those goals. A post-Mourinho Chelsea hosted a pre-Robinho Manchester City in October 2007, on a fine run of form. Frank Lampard had already set up Michael Essien to put Avram Grant’s team into the lead. With half an hour gone, Lampard collected the ball on the halfway line and then threaded a long, outside-of-the-right-foot pass into the gap between Richard Dunne and Micah Richards, slicing through the heart of City’s defence like a scalpel and spinning perfectly into Drogba’s path. The Ivorian did the rest. 5. Frank Lampard for Didier Drogba Bolton 0-4 Chelsea, 2009/10 Another notable combination for the most prolific assist-scorer duo in Premier League history. Lampard is third on the all-time assists chart, and 24 of the 102 goals he created were scored by Didier Drogba. This one owed a lot to the invention of Portuguese artist Deco, who chested a cross from the edge of the area into Lampard’s path, in the last minute of a comfortable win over 10-man Bolton. Lampard’s simple yet sublime backheel flick left Drogba with an easy finish to make it four. 4. Mesut Ozil for Olivier Giroud Arsenal 5-0 Aston Villa, 2014/15 Eight minutes into a home game against Aston Villa, and Mesut Ozil is exactly where you’d expect him to be if you listen to certain sections of the Emirates’ faithful: standing in the centre circle, not doing a whole lot. But he always has a picture in his head. As a long Gunners’ ball forward arcs towards the German, Olivier Giroud sets off on a run. Ozil, facing towards his own goal, flicks a first-time volley with the outside of his left foot perfectly into Giroud’s path, leaving the French striker clean through on goal. There have been more spectacular assists in this genre – Zlatan Ibrahimovic does a good line in them, and Juan Mata set up Chris Smalling of all people with a similar flick in a Champions League game against Wolfsburg. But the fact that Giroud, who is not the quickest, couldn’t be caught by the defence in time tells you something about the quality of the pass. Or the criminal slowness of Aston Villa's backline. Probably that, actually.  