Managed IT Services for Accounting Firms and Bookkeepers Windows 7 and Server 2008 End-of-Life - January 2020 Contact Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube RSS Feed Make Appointment Now We see the details. What would happen to your accounting firm if all of your data were stolen?  What if your client files were hacked or corrupted by malware, ransomware, spam or viruses?  With PCG’s Managed Services, you’ll never worry again. Cloud based workflow management, device security, document management, tax preparation, practice management solutions, file and data encryption – PCG is your trustworthy IT Advisor. Keep your confidential data secure and your practice in business with PCG. Ensure your business information and data are safe. PCG enables you to share confidential information with the trusted partners and suppliers you engage with. Firewalls, secure VPN (Virtual Private Network) for your remote offices and employees and highly cost-effective security solutions are quick to set up, and include regular technology updates and maintenance. Minimize threats and vulnerabilities with Managed Antivirus, Managed Malware. Working with Compliancy Standards is imperative in the Accounting/CPA Vertical for safety and security of your firm, business partners and most importantly, your clients. PCG’s effective approach offers Risk Assessment, Data/Work Process, Software Compliancy, Backup, Remote Access, Training and more. PCG will assist and ensure that you are in compliance with your software applications, data, offsite backup, and user access.  The time to address this is now, before the lack of compliance costs you a client! PCG will help keep your CPA/Accounting practice business competitive, stable and reliable. Integrating and collaborating with all levels of your Clients and the Government enables you to elevate your business efficiencies. PCG will streamline your IT and ensure network reliability, standards, disaster recovery, cloud backup, data encryption and business continuity are all in alignment. Our proactive 24x7x365 network monitoring will allow us to remediate any hardware vulnerabilities that can cause any downtime. Our Support/Help Desk is but a phone call away for immediate support for any major business network or employee productivity issues. PCG understands that your CPA/Accounting business process and requirements are vital to making a profit. “IT” Information Technology plays a major role here and PCG is here to make sure that your IT “OML” Operation Maturity Level is in alignment to help your practice grow and prosper.  Excellent service and Representation of your company We had Justin Lightizer in here for a few issues we needed help with. Just wanted to let you know that he was great. He resolved every issue on our list and he is going to have someone write up a quote on a new unit. Justin is a great representative of PCG. We have been working with PCG for well over 15 years. We can count on their timely response and guidance no matter what the issue is. Our server went down last year and they got us running in no time. PCG is constantly giving us recommendation to add value to our business and IT. JC is very helpful and is a pleasure to work with. We can always count on PCG to keep us up and running! We appreciate all the help we’ve received from PCG over the years in converting, installing, fixing, and fine-tuning our network. We can now concentrate on the work we do best …knowing our network needs are being monitored and maintained by a company of computer professionals. PCG is local, knowledgeable, responsive, and reliable. I would like to extend our sincere gratitude and respect for the support and services provided to us over the last several years by PCG. The attention, consideration and effort put forth by PCG and all its employees in providing quality advise, service, and maintenance is outstanding in all forms. Their proactive approach on monitoring our equipment and supporting our remotes sites is priceless. We joined up with PCG in the fall of 2011, they sold me on their attention to detail, skilled staff, and response time. The real test was when I purchased new business software for out golf course,I needed new servers, PC’s and remote usage at other locations. I was use to the blame game when it came to hicupps on new installs but not this time. From the front desk, management, engineers on, I had expertise all the way. Fantastic communication, attention to detail, clear recommendations. To hire PCG was one of the best decisions our Town has made. You fulfilled every promise. We have complete confidence in the abilities of your company and all of your employees. We continually recommend that PCG is the obvious choice for small or large networks… At one time or another we've all experienced that sinking feeling when you sit down at your desk to boot up your computer for the day and get nothing but a blank screen, or worse yet - a funny noise. Our firm needs to be operational 24/7, both remotely and in the office. We began working with PCG about 1997. You might say we grew our firms together -- PCG expanded and moved, AER Advisors expanded and moved. And with each move we made PCG was there every step of the way - upgrading and adding equipment, networking our offices, building and servicing customized systems to suit our particular business structure. And with all this comes the most important feature: incredible service reliability, I would say the best words to describe the people at PCG are these: patient, reliable, trustworthy, and knowledgeable. They also have a great sense of humor which helps us deal with the stress of dealing with IT on a daily basis. Your technical staff is extremely competent and does a great job of translating technical issues in English to us. Your response time is outstanding and gives us peace of mind that you have us up and running in no time Thanks to the PCG team for a wonderful experience on our recent network conversion. They handled this project with great care and took an interest with our staff, workfow and explained our options while meeting our budget.. Change is very hard, but the PCG process and team approach to get us up an running was more than I could have ever expected. Thanks PCG!! We want to thank you for the quick response to all of our computer issue requests. Your consistent advise, recommendations and service you have given us over the years ia appreciated!!In this day and age good customer service is often hard to find… When we moved our offices permanently to Portsmouth we needed to find a company that could take care of our IT needs along with knowing our key line of business application “Timberline software”. We searched and were lucky enough to find PCG. We have been with PCG since 2010. All the employees that I have worked with are not only nice but extremely knowledgeable. PCG is always up to date with the latest technology but also understands the business side of things that sometimes these upgrades need to be budgeted and planned out for. We like having the proactive monthly maintenance plan and knowing that when we have a problem they are quick to respond. In this day and age, if you are without your computers or down for some reason you can’t afford to be for long. We have been very pleased with PCG and would highly recommend them for your business IT/Networking needs. PCG has repeatedly shown their ability to provide top notch planning, design, and implementation ability to handle our complex technology projects. We look forward to a continued relationship… PCG has a high level of expertise and is able to provide simple and reliable solutions to our evolving network needs. Your outstanding service and support you have shown us over the years is very much appreciated. The excellent service creates a standard of expectation that we know we can expect from you We are back up and running! We just wanted to say thank you to PCG and Dan for the quick response. Even though I am sure we are not a big customer in the overall scheme, it’s nice to know that you have our back in an emergency such as what we just experienced with our Server going down hard. I get lots of calls from your competition and I am always honest and tell them who I work with and let them know I have no interest in changing anything. There is something to be said for keeping it local. I want to thank you for consistently exceeding our expectations. The technicians are without fail, professional, capable, and courteous. Always a pleasure to deal with PCG. The work done has been terrific. We appreciate your willingness to share your expertise with such clarity and good humor…exemplify good customer service. Dear Dave, Thank you for checking with us regularly. Yes! Everything is running great!!! I can't say enough about your crew at PCG...all very helpful and caring people. I especially love Janel and Nick...great people, very knowledgeable and very customer service friendly helpful. And YOU ... top of the line as well! Thanks again from all of us at PPSSC, we really appreciate how much PCG cares about our people, process and business. Your staff has been terrific in every experience I have had with PCG. They are very knowledgeable, friendly, and willing to go the extra mile. Thanks PCG for a seamless move from Google email to 365 The email conversion is complete and it went off without a hitch. I also wanted to let you know that Riley did an excellent job helping to complete the task without any issues. Before the actual conversion, he was not only helpful, but always accessible to answer any questions. When he came to the office to start the conversion, he did what he needed to do with our laptops and was happy to help with a few other questions we had that didn't have to do with the conversion. He was polite, knowledgeable and professional. Great job team PCG on our moves!! I wanted to let you know what a great job Dan and Bill did for us during the move out and the move back. They were very knowledgeable and helpful, which made a difficult time a lot easier for us. Both moves were seamless, with no problems. Your successful coordination did not go unnoticed, either. Thank you for pulling all of the pieces together under challenging circumstances of our Office having to be shut down because of the water damage.  Excellent service and Representation of your company We had Justin Lightizer in here for a few issues we needed help with. Just wanted to let you know that he was great. He resolved every issue on our list and he is going to have someone write up a quote on a new unit. Justin is a great representative of PCG. We have been working with PCG for well over 15 years. We can count on their timely response and guidance no matter what the issue is. Our server went down last year and they got us running in no time. PCG is constantly giving us recommendation to add value to our business and IT. JC is very helpful and is a pleasure to work with. We can always count on PCG to keep us up and running! Portsmouth Computer Group Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube RSS Feed December 12th, 2019 December 11th, 2019 December 10th, 2019 