Team Free Will Chapter 1: In Need of Little Divine Help, a supernatural fanfic | FanFiction AN: Gooooooooooooooooooood evening my Imperial Storm Army! Welcome new Padawans to the darkside, I'm your Empress. Lol! So, to my regular readers, I meant to have this up last night but after working on the sequel to my book and finishing up my first dark fic (posted, not written) I felt like I needed a break. So yeah. Sorry! So I asked y'all which fic should be next, and it was a tie! So I did a tie breaker and this 'verse won! This 'verse is finished! So don't worry. I know, I know, I'm terrible with 'verses, but this one and another are shockingly done. I worked on them a little each time I went to Indiana to see my little brother. Speaking of whom...he goes back to school soon! NOOOO! I feel like he just came home! WAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAH! Sorry...he's mah baby! He grew up too fast...*sniff* Lol. Alright, I'm done. Let's get the show on the road! By the way, I lost my notebook to this 'verse and I can't find it all! So I'll be going off memory and such, and I don't remember how many stories are in this 'verse, so bear with me now. Hopefully I'll find it. Anyways, for real this time! Here we go! Summary: Lucifer has escaped! Oh no! Sam, Dean, and Castiel are in for the fight of their lives, but they're not alone! Gabriel and shockingly Michael has joined the team! Join Team Free Will in an epic journey as they help each other cope, survive, and eat pie! First in the Battle For the World 'verse! Enjoy Join me and Team Free Will as Mutilated Pancake on Facebook All mistakes are my own and flames are not welcome  In Need of Little Divine Help Sam gasped as he brought back by Lucifer. He tried to kill himself again and failed. He growled to himself and got up. He was dizzy from blood loss, so he took it slow. He looked at the cabin he found and stationed himself at away from Dean and Castiel. He sighed sadly with tears in his eyes, which he refused to let fall. He let the Devil himself out of his Cage and Dean wanted nothing more to do with him. A day after the incident, Dean dropped him like a hot rock. He chose Castiel over him as well! Not only had he been disowned, he also been replaced in one night. He didn't really remember what Dean said, thanks to him bashing his own head in, but the one thing he did remember Dean saying to him, was something he wanted to forget. "YOU LET THE DAMN DEVIL HIMSELF OUT OF CAGE! This is the final straw Sam. As of now, we're not brothers. As far as I know, my real little brother died a long time ago. Get out Sam. You're not welcome here anymore. Castiel and I will clean up the mess you made." Dean snarled. "Dean-" Sam whispered, getting shoved out the door with his things. "I SAID GET OUT! I NEVER WANT TO SEE YOU AGAIN!" Dean shouted. "I'm sorry. I love you." Sam tried. "I hate you." Dean spat and slammed the motel door behind him.  That was a few weeks ago. Sam shook his head. The argument was much worse, but that's part he remembered well, but so desperately wanted to forget. He scrubbed his face, now was not the time to cry. After he left Dean, Lucifer appeared to him in his dreams and told him that he was his vessel. Which Sam refused to be. He figured if he died Lucifer wouldn't stand a chance. Plus Dean wouldn't have never have to see him again. "But he keeps bringing me back dammit!" Sam snarled. "Maybe that's a good thing kiddo." A voice said. Sam whipped around and saw Gabriel the archangel? Why was he here? "What are you doing here?" Sam asked. "I'm here to help Sam a Lam. You could use some divine help." Gabriel said. "Help? Me? The monster that let the damn Devil walk?" Sam asked. "Kid, it wasn't your fault. Not entirely." Gabriel said firmly but softly. Sam sighed. "It is my fault. Now if you'll excuse me, Gabriel, I have some dying to do." "Sam-Wait, did you call me Gabriel?" He asked. "I figured it out a while ago." Sam said, grabbing the salt. "What's that for?" Gabe asked worriedly. "If I can't die any other way, then maybe salt and fire will do the trick." Sam said devoid of emotion. "Sam no! I can't let you do this!" Gabriel pleaded. "I'm sorry." Sam whispered, placing a bloody palm on the symbol he drew when he got here just in case if Castiel showed up for whatever reason. With tears running down his face, he re doused the cabin with gasoline and then himself, he then salted the cabin and himself. With a whispered prayer for Castiel and Heaven to look after Dean for him, he lit his zippo and dropped it. Gabriel was blasted back and landed outside. He watched in horror as the cabin burned. But there was nothing he could do. When an angel got blasted it prevented them for going back to that particular place. "No." Gabriel whispered. He closed his eyes. He had been too late. Gabriel cared for Sam and now, he was too late to save him and the world was going to suffer. He snarled. When he got his hands on Lucifer, he was going to kick his ass! "Looking for someone?" A voice asked. "Wha-Mikey?!" Gabriel exclaimed. "It's Michael. And yes. We need to leave. We have to get Sam to safety." Michael said, he was cradling an unconscious Sam. Gabriel nodded and snapped his fingers. When Sam woke up, they were going to have a very long talk! There you guys and gals go! The first chapter! To the newbies, this is an AU! My regulars already know that. At least they should. Silly gooses! Also, bear with me on Michael, I've never really written him before, so yeah.  Until Next Time! *noming on pancakes because pancakes* 