Trademark and Copyright | Re:Marks on Trademark and Copyright A blog focusing on brand issues, trademark, copyright, advertising and more. By  Aislinn Smalling  and  Carissa Bouwer The increasing popularity of cannabis products has led to decriminalization and legalization of marijuana in many states and a proliferation of products containing CBD oil.  But marijuana remains illegal Continue Reading By:  Michael Geller A new rule from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office imposes a substantial new requirement on companies and individuals outside of the U.S.  Starting August 3, foreign applicants and registrants must be Continue Reading By:  John Nading The U.S. Supreme Court issued its most recent decision yesterday picking away at the same clause of the Lanham Act, Section 2(a), 15 U.S.C. § 1052(a), and this time finding that the Continue Reading BY  EDWARD CHATTERTON ,  HORACE LAM  AND  JOANNE ZHANG On 23 April 2019 China passed amendments to two major IP laws -the Trademark Law and the Anti-Unfair Competition Law ( Continue Reading On Monday, May 20, 2019, the United States Supreme Court issued an 8-1 decision holding that a bankrupt  company’s decision to reject an existing license of its trademarks does not terminate a licensee’s right to  Continue Reading By:  Aleksandra Baczykowska  (DLA Piper Poland),  Jan Metelka  (DLA Piper Czech Republic) At the moment in Poland entities that facilitate infringements by renting properties and those offering other services used to infringe trademark rights may  Continue Reading By:  Krystian Maciaszek   New Polish regulation supports the trademark owners in execution of their rights The recent amendment of the Polish Industrial Property Law, which has now entered into force, introduces significant changes to trademark Continue Reading By:  Andrew L. Deutsch  and  Tamar Y. Duvdevani On March 4, 2019, the United States Supreme Court decided an important issue of copyright law that had divided federal courts for years. In  Fourth Estate Public  Continue Reading By:  Melinda Upton ,  Nicholas Boyle ,  Jessie Buchan , Lucy Meadley and Valiant Warzecha Businesses are constantly looking for an extra dimension that will allow their brand to cut through the saturation of the Continue Reading By:  John Wilks ,  Claire Sng  and  Sophie Anim Background The UK’s Competition and Markets Authority has announced, following its investigation (see our earlier article available  here ), that it has secured commitments from 16 Continue Reading Read our IPT Newsletter to learn more about worldwide developments in IP and technology law. Legal Notices  |  Privacy Policy  |  Cookie Policy  |  dlapiper.com 