devender kapoor - Director Sales (OTC) - Dr Reddys | LinkedIn A good human being with care for People and organization working for. People manger and aggressive and passionate sales person. Having experience of 20+ years working across geographies in India. Knowing core of Sales operation and distribution. Want to work as consultant for developing sales strategy and people deployment Liked by  devender kapoor Liked by  devender kapoor Liked by  devender kapoor Jun 2014   –  Present 5 years 7 months Hyderabad Responsible for top line and bottom line business delivery, through team of 58 professional sales manager and 230 off roles sales team in coordination with HR, Marketing and Finance team. Developing short term and long terms sales strategy and sales budgeting Responsible for top line and bottom line business delivery, through team of 58 professional sales manager and 230 off roles sales team in coordination with HR, Marketing and Finance team. Developing short term and long terms sales strategy and sales budgeting Apr 2013   –   May 2014 1 year 2 months Mumbai Area, India Responsible for Training intervention of 955 Field/corporate staff comprising Area Business Managers /SO’s/TSO’s/TSE’s. Co-ordinate with other functions to conduct new product launch training support and provide post launch training support . Develop process  &  procedures for development of Sales Team. Keep abreast of industry’s best practices in training and development with innovative training methodologies like case study, electronic channels, OJT’s etc. Responsible for Training intervention of 955 Field/corporate staff comprising Area Business Managers /SO’s/TSO’s/TSE’s. Co-ordinate with other functions to conduct new product launch training support and provide post launch training support . Develop process  &  procedures for development of Sales Team. Keep abreast of industry’s best practices in training and development with innovative training methodologies like case study, electronic channels, OJT’s etc. Jan 2007   –   Mar 2013 6 years 3 months Looking after complete business operations with accountability of profitability, forecasting monthly/annual sales targets  &  executing them in a given time frame. Looking after complete business operations with accountability of profitability, forecasting monthly/annual sales targets  &  executing them in a given time frame. 1990   –   1993 Bachelor of Commerce, Master of Business Administration( Marketing) System Analysis and Designing from NIIT Nagpur Bachelor of Commerce, Master of Business Administration( Marketing) System Analysis and Designing from NIIT Nagpur 1980   –   1988 @ Post Graduate with MBA in Marketing from Nagpur University.. @ Member for University and College Cricket  and Lawn Tennis Team. @ Part of Air Wing of NCC. for 2 year.s @ Post Graduate with MBA in Marketing from Nagpur University.. @ Member for University and College Cricket  and Lawn Tennis Team. @ Part of Air Wing of NCC. for 2 year.s Join to view devender’s full profile Hyderabad Area, India Auckland, New Zealand New Delhi Area, India India 14 others named devender kapoor are on LinkedIn 