Parkside Surgery in Grove Medical Centre - Belfast - Family Medicine Practice, Family Doctor | Facebook this surgery hasn ' t enought staff they never answer the phones and when there busy they just hang up .! disappointing do not join I registered here in Aug 18. I don ' t know if it is my accent, my sexuality or the fact that I know my rights and expect a good service but I have been treated very badly in pretty much all of my dealings with the surgery. It ' s impossible to get through and when you do the staff make it very difficult to even get a call back from a doctor. On more than one occasion I had to go to A & E for things that could have been addressed by a call back from a GP.  My repeat prescriptions h ... ave been messed up every single time with either an item missing or an item not ordered appearing on it. Most of the reception staff are so unhelpful and downright rude. Two of the doctors appear to have absolutely no interest in what you are saying in fact Dr Hall gives the impression that she would rather watch paint dry than listen to what you are saying. If you try and ask for more information on your condition or enquire re tests they try and fob you off by saying you are being over anxious when in fact you want to be involved and educated about your health issues. I requested my medical notes and was consistently told they were not received but when I rang the BSO within minutes they found out who in the practice had signed for them. I rang the surgery back only to be told once more that they were not there. I politely but firmly insisted they were quoting the name of the person who had signed for them and I was hung up on. I had to again ring the BSO to contact the surgery again. In no way was I rude but today I received a letter saying that I was belligerent to the said woman who hung up on me. Clearly insisting that you are correct in what you are saying is not acceptable even when they are in the wrong. It seems the staff go out of their way to make your life more difficult than it already is when you are suffering a long term condition. I also find a policy of theirs to be discriminatory towards woman. If you have any issue in an intimate area a male doctor refuses to examine you unless a female is present (I realise that it is protocol to offer a chaperone) but here it is not offered it is mandatory and therefore due to the lack of female nurses/doctors available more often than not as a woman with such an issue will be refused an examination which means by gender we are at a disadvantage at this practice. The treatment centre is also very inaccessible and a 2 day waiting period to get a piece of glass that was stuck in my finger looked at which I ended up removing myself. I am absolutely disgusted with this practice and I believe I not only need to lodge an official complaint but that I deserve an apology for the way I have been treated. Getting bloods done again . Fingers crossed they are normal Getting bloods done again Getting bloods checked again Getting bloods check  💜 I hope I get some results here 2day or I will crack up Getting bloods checked 