Temperature influence of nonionic polyethylene oxide and anionic polyacrylamide on flocculation and dewatering behavior of kaolinite dispersions - ScienceDirect ScienceDirect Nonionic polyethylene oxide (PEO) and anionic polyacrylamide (PAM) flocculation of kaolinite dispersions has been investigated at pH 7.5 in the temperature range 20–60 °C. The surface chemistry (zeta potential), particle interactions (shear yield stress), and dewatering behavior were also examined. An increase in the magnitude of zeta potential of kaolinite particles, in the absence of flocculant and at a fixed PEO and PAM concentration, with increasing temperature was observed. The zeta potential behavior of the flocculated particles indicated a decrease in the adsorbed polymer layer thickness, while at the same time, however, the adsorbed polymer density showed a significant increase with increasing temperature. These results suggest that polymer adsorption was accompanied by temperature-influenced conformation changes. The hydrodynamic diameter and supernatant solution viscosity of both polymers decreased with increasing temperature, consistent with a change in polymer–solvent interactions and conformation, prior to adsorption. The analysis of the free energy (Δ G ads ) of adsorption showed a strong temperature dependence and the adsorption process to be more entropically than enthalpically driven. The polymer conformation change and increased negative charge at the kaolinite particle surface with increasing temperature resulted in decreased polymer bridging and flocculation performance. Consequently, the shear yield stress and the rate and the extent of dewatering (consolidation) of the pulp decreased significantly at higher temperatures ( > 40 °C). The temperature effect was more pronounced in the presence of PEO than PAM, with 40 and 20 °C indicated as the optima for enhanced performance of the latter and former flocculants, respectively. The results demonstrate that a temperature-induced conformation change, together with polymer structure type, plays an important role in flocculation and dewatering behavior of kaolinite dispersions. Flocculant-assisted thickening processes are commonly used in the minerals industry for the dewatering of kaolinite and other clay mineral waste tailings, but these are far from being efficient. High settling rates (e.g., 1–10 m/h) are typically achieved for kaolinite and mixed mineral oxide tails with the aid of polyelectrolytes. However, this good settling behavior is invariably accompanied by space-filling flocs and thickener underflow tails of characteristically low solid loadings (e.g., 20–30 wt%)  [1] ,  [2] ,  [3] . Several studies have shown that conventional polymeric flocculants such as high-molecular-weight nonionic and ionic polyacrylamides (PAM) and, to a limited extent, unconventional, nonionic polyethylene oxide (PEO) may be used to readily dewater kaolinite and other clay mineral tailings  [1] ,  [3] ,  [4] ,  [5] ,  [6] ,  [7] ,  [8] ,  [9] . Flocculation with PAM, however, leads to space-filling flocs with low-compaction behavior. The failure to achieve a high solid density during thickening of kaolinite dispersions may be attributed to several physical and chemical factors that affect the conformation and adsorption of polymeric flocculants, hence the flocculation and dewatering behavior  [10] ,  [11] ,  [12] ,  [13] ,  [14] ,  [15] . These factors include flocculant characteristics such as molecular weight, charge density, functionality, dosage, and dilution and slurry properties such as pH, ionic strength, temperature, the presence of simple and hydrolyzable metal ions, particle surface area, size, zeta potential, and solid concentration  [15] ,  [16] ,  [17] ,  [18] ,  [19] ,  [20] ,  [21] . An effective flocculant for a given dewatering application must be of the right molecular weight and charge density and contain functional groups that are predisposed to interact favorably with specific sites on the particle surface, for given dispersion conditions, including temperature. Furthermore, it must also have an extended and flexible (elastic) configuration in the solution to achieve better particle bridging and to produce flocs capable of withstanding moderate shear forces without rupturing  [1] ,  [8] ,  [19] ,  [21] ,  [22] ,  [23] . The use of shear-sensitive polymers (e.g., high-molecular-weight PEO) has been of considerable interest in recent years due to their ability to produce thickened tails of solid loadings significantly greater than those achieved with conventional flocculants (e.g., PAM), under moderate shear conditions  [11] ,  [12] ,  [23] ,  [24] ,  [25] ,  [26] . PEO is perceived as a “flexible” polymer, with a structure described as a random coil and can change conformation dynamically in solution  [27] ,  [28] . The size of the coil is dependent upon the solvent quality, which in turn is dependent on temperature, concentration, and molecular architecture of the polymer molecule. The initial contact between particles occurs through loops and tails which suggest that the configurations of the polymer prior to and after adsorption are important. The number and size of these polymer loops and tails will determine the flocculation efficiency and, hence, the settling rates and consolidation of kaolinite dispersions. While the influence of physicochemical factors such as polymer structure type, molecular weight, charge density, dilution, solution pH, and mechanical effects on flocculation and dewatering are well researched and documented, the knowledge available in the literature on the influence of temperature is very limited  [29] ,  [30] . Several of the reported studies  [31] ,  [32] ,  [33] ,  [34] ,  [35] ,  [36] ,  [37] ,  [38]  on the influence of temperature on flocculation and dewatering process indicate mixed or conflicting results. According to some studies  [31] ,  [32] ,  [33] ,  [34] ,  [35] , enhanced flocculation of mineral dispersions such as kaolinite, alumina, and TiO 2  occurred upon increasing temperature using PEO and PAM flocculants. Binner and Murfin  [36] , who studied the flocculation and dewatering of alumina particles with polyacrylate, observed an increase in settling rates with increasing temperature up to 45 °C, which then decreased with a further increase of temperature. On the other hand, the studies by Mohtadi and Rao  [37]  showed that temperature did not have any noticeable effect on the flocculation of kaolinite and smectite dispersions using nonionic polymers and polyelectrolytes in the temperature range 1–20 °C. A noticeable decrease of particle zeta potential with decreasing temperature was, however, observed. Temperature is, thus, a process variable of central importance in the dewatering of mineral dispersions, as it can have a profound impact on the interactions between both mineral particles and polymer in aqueous media. To date, it appears that no conclusive information on how temperature affects the conformation and adsorption of a nonionic PEO or anionic PAM, particle zeta potentials, and the flocculation and dewaterability of kaolinite particles has been reported. The main aim of this work, therefore, was to investigate the effect of temperature on the conformation and adsorption of nonionic PEO and anionic PAM flocculants, flocculation of colloidally stable kaolinite dispersions and how this impacts on surface chemistry, shear yield stress, and dewatering behavior. The temperature range studied was 20–60 °C as this is the range mostly encountered in clay mineral tailings treatment in industry. The investigations were performed at a constant pH of 7.5 and flocculant concentration range of 0–1000 g/ton kaolinite solid. Colloidal-size kaolinite particles (K15GM, 99% pure, quartz and mica 1%, Commercial Minerals, Australia) were used in this work. The particle density and BET  [39]  surface area were 2.60 kg dm −3  and 24.8 m 2  g −1 , respectively. The median particle diameter of kaolinite particles was found to be 2.80 μm by laser diffraction. A Na-acrylate, carboxyl-substituted polyacrylamide copolymer flocculant (30 mol% anionically charged, Nalco, Australia) with an average molecular weight of 2.7×10 6  was used. Nonionic polyethylene oxide (SNF, Australia) with an average molecular weight of 2.5×10 6  was also used. The chemical structures of the two polymers are shown in  Fig. 1 . Average polymer particle size in solution determined at pH 7.5 and 20 °C by dynamic light scattering analysis as hydrodynamic diameter was found to be  ∼ 326 ∼ 326  and 449 nm for PEO and PAM, respectively. Fresh 0.1 wt% polymer working solutions used were prepared daily by diluting a previously prepared 1 wt% stock solution stored at room temperature. Analytical grade KNO 3  was used to increase solution ionic strength, while high-purity potassium hydroxide and nitric acid (BDH, Australia) were used to control the dispersion pH. All solutions and dispersions were prepared with Milli-Q water (surface tension = 72.8 mN m −1 , specific conductivity  < 0.5 < 0.5  μS cm −1  at pH 5.6 and 20 °C). Fig. 1 . Structure of a nonionic polyethylene oxide (PEO) (a) and a Na-acrylate carboxyl-substituted anionic polyacrylamide copolymer (PAM) (b). Kaolinite dispersions of 8 wt% solid were prepared at pH 7.5 by thoroughly mixing a known mass of kaolinite particles with a known mass of 10 −3  M KNO 3  solution at an agitation speed of 250 rpm for 1 h. For each test, 500 cm 3  of fresh well-mixed slurry, equilibrated at 20–60 °C for 30 min, was transferred to a 500 cm 3  graduated glass cylinder for flocculant addition. To perform flocculation and settling tests, a known volume of 0.1 wt% PEO or PAM polymer solution was added in a single step to an 8 wt% solid slurry using a syringe and mixed by moving a perforated disc plunger up and down eight times to ensure that the suspension was well homogenized and the dispersion level was visually checked. All tests were carried out at pH 7.5 and isothermally at temperatures in the range 20.0–60.0±0.1 °C, using a thermostatically controlled water bath. The initial settling rates of the flocculated suspension was determined by recording the time taken for the “mud line” (solid–liquid interface) in the 500 cm 3  cylinder to pass between the 450 cm 3  and 350 cm 3  marks (over a distance of  ∼ 5.5 ∼ 5.5  cm). The flocculated suspension was allowed to stand quiescently for a period of 24 h and the consolidated bed volume recorded. After settling, the presedimented slurries were agitated using a four-blade impeller for 5 min at 250 rpm for further consolidation. The bed height was measured again after 1 h to investigate the effect of shear on final sediment bed consolidation. A batch depletion method was used for determining polymer adsorption isotherms at different temperatures. The adsorption measurements were conducted in 20 cm 3  vials by adding a known concentration of the flocculant to 20 cm 3  of kaolinite dispersion of 8 wt% solid equilibrated either at 20, 40, or 60 °C. The suspension was agitated by a thermostatically controlled reciprocating water bath (Paton Industries, Australia, Model RW 1812) for 24 h for equilibrium to be reached. A 10 cm 3  aliquot of the dispersion was then removed and centrifuged at 5000 rpm for 5 min. The PAM solution concentration was determined by complexation using the starch–triiodide method  [40] . The method involves bromine oxidation of the amide functional groups with the removal of excess bromine with sodium formate. The amide oxidation product converts iodide ion to iodine and is measured as a starch–triiodide complex, determined using a Cary 5 UV–vis spectrophotometer (Varian Instruments) operating at a wavelength of 600 nm. The residual PEO concentration in the supernatant was determined using the tannic acid method  [41] . Particle zeta potential ( ζ ) was determined from dynamic mobility measurements made with an acoustosizer (Colloidal Dynamics Inc., Australia). The measurements were carried out on agitated suspensions (8% w/w) of kaolinite particles dispersed in 10 −2  M KNO 3 . The 10 −2  M KNO 3  was used to avoid the effect of anomalous surface conductance on the zeta potential, which can be present in kaolinite clay systems at very low electrolyte concentrations  [42] . A thermostatically controlled water bath connected to the conditioning vessel &# x27;s water jacket was used to maintain a constant temperature. Calibrations using K 4 (SiW 12 O 40 ) were performed once a day, prior to zeta potential analysis. Depending on the state or flow behavior (e.g., low or high yield stress) of the flocculated dispersion, agitation rates between 500 and 2000 rpm were used. The conductivity, temperature, and pH were continuously monitored in situ using probes attached to the instrument. When a nonionic polymer is adsorbed on a particle surface, a displacement of the shear plane takes place with respect to its position in the absence of the adsorbed polymer. This displacement is dependent upon the thickness of the adsorbed polymer layer  [43] . The decrease in zeta potential may be related to the shift in the shear plane, which corresponds to the hydrodynamic thickness of the adsorbed polymer layer ( δ ) and is calculated for nonionic polymers (e.g., PEO) using the expression  [43] (1) tanh zeζ 2 4kT = tanh zeζ 1 4kTe κ( Δ −δ) , tanh zeζ 2 4kT = tanh zeζ 1 4kTe κ( Δ −δ) ,  where  ζ 1  and  ζ 2  are the particle zeta potentials in the presence and absence of polymer respectively,  z  is valency of ions in the double layer,  δ  is the adsorbed layer thickness,  k  is the Boltzmann constant,  T  is the absolute temperature, 1/ κ  is the Debye length,  e  is the electron charge, and Δ is the thickness of the stern plane. Fleer  [44]  and Fleer et al.  [45]  estimated a value of 0.4 nm for Δ at an ionic strength of 0.001 M and a similar approach has been adopted in the present calculation, as the ionic strengths are comparable. This method is satisfactory when measurements are performed in indifferent electrolyte solutions. Several studies  [44] ,  [45] ,  [46] ,  [47] ,  [48] ,  [49] ,  [50] ,  [51] ,  [52]  have used this approach to determine the layer thickness of nonionic homo- and copolymers adsorbed at solid–liquid and liquid–liquid interfaces. It is assumed that the shear plane displacement is the only effect the adsorbed polymer has on the double layer properties and that the ion distribution in the double layer does not alter upon polymer adsorption. As this approach is unsuitable for adsorbed polyelectrolytes, only the adsorbed layer thickness of PEO was determined in the present work using  Eq. (1) . The rheological (shear yield stress) measurements, which provided an indication of the particle interactions in kaolinite dispersions, were performed with respect to slurry interfacial chemistry. The yield stress was directly measured using the vane technique  [53] ,  [54] . The advantage of the vane technique is that it eliminates slip, usually encountered with the cuvette concentric cylinder technique when dealing with highly structured dispersions. The 8 wt% solid dispersions used in the zeta potential and settling tests were too dilute to give meaningful rheological data; hence only the flocculated kaolinite dispersion of 28 wt% solid content was used in yield stress analysis. The vane was immersed in the flocculated kaolinite dispersions and rotated at a low and constant rate of 0.2 rpm. A thermostatted water-jacketed vessel connected to a temperature-controlled water bath maintained a constant temperature. The volume of the sample used was 100 cm 3 . The length, radius, and blade thickness of the vane used were 30.17, 25.02, and 0.55 mm, respectively. The flocculant solution flow properties and polymer molecular conformation were probed by investigating the absolute viscosity as a function of temperature. The viscosity was measured using an Ubbelohde-type capillary viscometer (Canon Instrument, USA), type OC, with a calibration constant of 0.002749 mm 2  s −2 . PEO and PAM concentrations of 0.1 wt% were used, as this corresponded to the initial polymer solution concentration used in flocculation. Refractive indices (RI) of the solutions were measured in triplicate using an Abbe High Accuracy 60/ED refractometer (Bellingham and Stanley, England) with temperature control to within  ± 0.1 ± 0.1  °C. The precision of the refractive index determination was  ± 0.0001 ± 0.0001 . The RI data were used for polymer hydrodynamic size estimation carried out by dynamic light scattering (DLS) analysis (Lexel model 95, Argon ion laser, Brookhaven photomultiplier) at 20–60 °C. All DLS measurements were performed at a concentration of 0.05 wt% polymer. This dilute concentration was used because the resulting interparticle spacing is so large that the polymer molecule interactions are minimized  [55] . Furthermore, this concentration is close to polymer concentration observed upon addition of a known volume of 0.1 wt% to a 500 cm 3  pulp to give 500 g ton/solid. A high-resolution field emission scanning electron microscope (FESEM, Philips XL30) was used to examine the kaolinite floc structures formed at 500 g flocculant/ton solid before and after shear at different temperatures. Samples were analyzed after rapid vitrification to avoid drying, which can cause internal structure rearrangement or modification. To vitrify them, microgram size slurry samples were placed in copper rivets (7 mm, length of two rivets joined together, and 1 mm internal diameter) using a small microsyringe. The rivets were then mounted onto a cryogenic transfer rod and very rapidly plunged ( ∼ 2 ∼ 2  m s −1 ) into liquid propane that was cooled by submersion in liquid nitrogen to “solidify” and arrest all supramolecular motion. The vitrified samples were transferred to and kept in a liquid-nitrogen-cooled specimen stage of the FESEM. The samples were fractured under vacuum by breaking off the top rivet. The vitrified water was then removed by sublimation at a temperature of −90 °C, avoiding local melting by excessive temperature rises. After 5 min at this temperature, the stage temperature was lowered again to approximately −180 °C, to stop any further sublimation. The samples were then coated with platinum to a thickness of 3 nm using a high-resolution sputter coater. They were subsequently analyzed at an accelerating voltage in the range 5–10 kV. Fig. 2  shows the zeta potential of kaolinite particles at 8 wt% solid content and 10 −2  M KNO 3  electrolyte and as a function of PEO (a) and PAM (b) concentration and at temperatures 20, 40, and 60 °C at pH 7.5. In the absence of flocculant the zeta potential became more negative (from −30 to −34 to −46 mV) with increasing temperature, a finding which is in good agreement of previous studies  [37] ,  [38] . Fig. 2 . Electrokinetic zeta potential of kaolinite in 10 −2  M KNO 3  at 8 wt% solids as a function of PEO (a) and PAM (b) concentration and temperature 20 (●), 40 (○), and 60 °C (▾) at pH 7.5. In the presence of both PEO and PAM, the magnitude of the zeta potential decreased with increasing polymer concentration. However, the decrease was more dramatic with PEO than PAM. The reduction in zeta potential is attributed to the effect of the shift in the plane of shear away from the particle surface  [43] . For PAM, which is 30% anionically charged, the small decrease in zeta potential with increasing flocculant concentration may be due to a shift in the position of plane shear due to the adsorbed layer being offset by an increase in charge around the particles of the negatively charged carboxyl groups of the polymer. PEO appears to adsorb more onto kaolinite particles than PAM at all temperatures, a finding which is strongly supported by the adsorption data below. The adsorbed layer thickness as a function of temperature and PEO concentrations calculated according to  Eq. (1)  is shown in  Fig. 3 . The layer thickness decreased with increasing temperature, consistent with the zeta potential data. The adsorption density of PEO (a) and PAM (b) at pH 7.5 as a function of equilibrium polymer concentration in solution and at temperatures 20, 40, and 60 °C is shown in  Fig. 4 . The polymer adsorption increased steadily with increasing equilibrium concentration until a plateau was reached for each temperature. The maximum adsorption density of PAM was lower than PEO at similar temperatures. It appears that the negatively charged COO −  pendant of the PAM reduced its adsorption onto the negatively charged particles. The observed adsorption densities are significantly lower than those reported for other flocculated systems such as PEO and SiO 2 , MoO 3 , and V 2 O 5  particles  [26] , ethyl(hydroxyethyl)cellulose and SiO 2   [52] , and polysaccharide and talc  [50] . Fig. 3 . Adsorbed layer thickness as a function of PEO concentration and temperature: 20 (●), 40 (○), and 60 °C (▾) at pH 7.5. Fig. 4 . Adsorption isotherm of PEO (a) and PAM (b) as a function of temperature 20 (○), 40 (●), and 60 °C (▾) at pH 7.5 and 10 −3  M KNO 3 . According to polymer adsorption theory  [29] , an increase in adsorption density with increasing temperature is expected since the Flory–Huggins interaction parameter ( χ ), which relates to the enthalpy of mixing for both PEO and PAM and solvency, increases with increasing temperature  [49] . A decrease in solvency as temperature increases is indicated, hence the adsorption density increased. These results are, however, inconsistent with the adsorbed layer thickness or zeta potential data. All adsorption isotherms for PEO and PAM onto kaolinite particles at all different temperatures were fitted to the Langmuir adsorption isotherm model  [58]  given by  (2) C eq x/m = 1 K(x/m) max + C eq (x/m) max , C eq x/m = 1 K(x/m) max + C eq (x/m) max ,  where  C eq  (mg dm −3 ) is the equilibrium solution concentration of polymer,  x  is the amount of polymer adsorbed (mg dm −3 ),  m  is the total solid particle surface area per unit volume (m 2  dm −3 ),  K  is the Langmuir adsorption constant (dm 3  mg −1 ), and ( x / m ) max  is the maximum amount of polymer adsorbed per unit solid surface area. A linear relationship should be obtained when  C eq /( x / m ) is plotted against  C eq . The assumptions made for the derivation of  Eq. (2)  are that the solute (flocculant) and solvent (water) have equal molecular cross-sectional surface areas, there is no net solute–solvent interaction in the surface or bulk phases, and the adsorption process is reversible. It is acknowledged that these assumptions may not be fully justified in the case of polymer adsorption. The Langmuirian treatment of the low affinity adsorption process of the present work allows a direct and consistent semiquantitative comparison to be made between PEO and PAM adsorption thermodynamics, in the manner of recent flocculation studies of talc  [50] , silica  [52] , and hematite  [62]  dispersions. Consequently, useful mechanistic information relating to the exact contributions of entropic and enthalpic effects has emerged. It is pertinent to note that more sophisticated models  [29] ,  [58]  exist for quantitative treatment of the polymer adsorption process but they are not readily intractable in the terms of the present experimentally measured variables for deconvoluting the adsorption thermodynamics. The values of  K  and ( x / m ) max  can be determined respectively from the intercept and gradient of such a plot. A plot of  C eq /( x / m ) as a function of  C eq  for PEO (a) and PAM (b) at three different temperatures is shown in  Figs. 5A and 5B , respectively, and clearly conforms to a Langmuir type of adsorption as depicted by the linearity of the plots. Values of  K , ( x / m ) max , and  δ max  are given in  Table 1  for comparison. A significant variation is seen in the  K  and ( x / m ) max  values which are observed to increase, while  δ max  decreased with increasing temperature. It is clearly evident that more polymer was adsorbed at 60 than at 40 or 20 °C.  K  represents the affinity of the polymers for a particular particle surface and may be related to the Gibbs free energy of adsorption (Δ G ads ) (J mol −1 ) as  (3) Δ G ads =−RT ln K, Δ G ads =−RT ln K, (4) Δ G ads = Δ H ads −T Δ S ads , Δ G ads = Δ H ads −T Δ S ads ,  where  R  is the general gas constant (8.314 J K −1  mol −1 ) and  T  is the absolute temperature ( K ).  Fig. 6  shows the plot of Δ G ads  versus  T  according to  Eq. (4)  from which the estimate of the enthalpy (Δ H ads ) (J mol −1 ) and entropy (Δ S ads ) (J K −1  mol −1 ) changes for PEO and PAM adsorption was made, determined from the intercept and gradient of the straight line, respectively. It is assumed that both parameters are independent of temperature over the range studied  [45] . Fig. 5 . Langmuir plot of the adsorption of PEO (a) and PAM (b) at temperature 20 (●), 40 (○) and 60 °C (▾) at pH 7.5. Table 1 . The calculated values of ( x / m ) max ,  K , and  δ max  for the adsorption of PEO (a) and PAM (b) onto kaolinite at pH 7.5 at various temperatures Fig. 6 . Plot of (Δ G ads ) for PEO (●) and PAM (○) as a function of temperature. The estimated parameters, Δ H ads , − T Δ S ads , and Δ G ads  for PEO (a) and PAM (b) are shown in  Table 2 . The Δ G ads  values are found to be negative, increasing in magnitude with increasing temperature and of similar order of magnitude to the free energy of formation of 1 mole of hydrogen bonds (−20.9 kJ mol −1 )  [55] . The data not only indicate that the adsorption of PEO and PAM onto kaolinite is not only more favorable at elevated temperatures, but also suggest that the adsorption process is dominated by entropic rather than enthalpic effects since  | Δ H ads | < | −T Δ S ads | | Δ H ads | < | −T Δ S ads | . Table 2 . Thermodynamic parameters for PEO (a) and PAM (b) adsorption onto kaolinite at pH 7.5 The viscosity and polymer hydrodynamic size (diameter) of the PEO and PAM solutions measured as a function of temperature relate to solvency and polymer conformation, prior to adsorption onto kaolinite particle surface. It is evident from  Fig. 7  for the viscosity data of a 0.1 wt% polymer solution that the solvent quality, as determined by water–polymer and polymer–polymer interactions, was significantly affected by temperature. The viscosity decreased markedly with increasing temperature, and this is believed to be due to a breakdown of polymer–water hydrogen bond interactions and concomitant changes of polymer molecular conformation. The polymer chains may be considered more expanded in space due to stronger water–polymer interactions via hydrogen bonding at the lower temperature range (20–40 °C); hence a higher viscosity resulted. With the disruption of the water–polymer hydrogen bonds at higher temperatures, the polymer–polymer interactions became more favored and led to the formation of a more coiled or contracted conformation. This is clearly shown by the average hydrodynamic size of the polymer units in  Fig. 8  below. Fig. 7 . Absolute viscosity of 0.1 wt% PEO (●) and PAM (○) concentration as a function of temperature. Fig. 8 . Hydrodynamic size of polymer units in solution at 0.05 wt% PEO (●) and PAM (○) as a function of temperature. In the temperature range 20–40 °C, the hydrodynamic diameter of both PEO and PAM were substantially constant; thereafter it decreased sharply as the temperature was further increased ( Fig. 8 ). This observation is consistent with a good solvent prevailing at 20–40 °C and the polymer chains are more solvated to a larger size than at a higher temperature where a more tightly coiled chain results from a poor solvent. At similar molecular weights and concentrations, PAM has a higher hydrodynamic size than PEO. This may be due to the fact that the anionic charge of the PAM molecules substantially facilitated polymer chain expansion and enhanced the effective hydrodynamic volume in solution. The shear yield stress, which is diagnostic of the floc strength, may be considered as a measure of the maximum force per unit area that the floc can withstand before rupturing. It is related to the total energy ( E sep ) required to separate the flocs into single units by the following expression  [59] ,  [60] ,  [61] ,  (5) τ B =3φ s n E sep 8πr 3 , τ B =3φ s n E sep 8πr 3 ,  where  φ s  is the volume fraction of the primary particles in the dispersion,  n  is the average number of contacts per particle in the floc (i.e., the coordination number, assumed to be 12 for a face-centered cubic arrangement), and  r  is the radius of the primary particles. The effect of temperature on shear yield stress and energy of separation (floc strength) at 500 g PEO or PAM/ton solid and 28 wt% solid kaolinite dispersions is shown in  Fig. 9 . A decrease in shear yield stress and energy of separation with increasing temperature was observed, consistent with other studies  [57]  involving TiO 2  dispersions. The plot of  E sep  as a function of flocculant concentration was similar to that of  τ B , with  E sep  decreasing from 1200 to 260 kT  for PEO and 1000 to 200 kT  for PAM as the temperature increased. Thus, the presence of PEO resulted in stronger particle interactions than did PAM. The lower yield stress observed at higher temperatures ( > 40 °C) is believed to be due to the polymer conformation changes and reduced hydrogen bonding that occurred and led to weakened polymer-mediated interparticle bridging forces. Fig. 9 . Bingham shear yield stress and energy of separation of 28 wt% kaolinite flocculated with 500 g/ton solids PEO (●) and PAM (○) concentration as a function of temperature at pH 7.5 and 10 −3  M KNO 3 . The initial settling rates of 8 wt% solid kaolinite slurry shown as a function of temperature indicate a strong temperature dependence ( Fig. 10 ). A slight increase in flocculation performance and hence settling rates was observed as the suspension temperature was increased up to 40 °C for PEO. However, beyond 40 °C the settling rates decreased significantly. Previous studies  [34]  showed that increasing temperature from 25 to 95 °C increased flocculation performance and settling rates of coal particles using PEO. Upon flocculation with PAM, the initial settling rates decreased monotonically with temperature in the range 20–60 °C. Additionally, PEO produced higher settling rates than did PAM and this may be attributed to differences in the polymer structure-related characteristics (e.g., charge and conformation). The settling behavior of flocculated kaolinite dispersions suggests that an optimum temperature exists for enhanced flocculation with PEO, shown to be around 40 °C. This observation is in good agreement with other studies of polyacrylate-flocculated alumina dispersions  [36] . It was reported that a further increase in temperature beyond 45 °C hindered the settling behavior considerably. The decrease in settling rates with increasing temperature for both flocculants may be explained in terms of conformation changes, as well as weakened hydrogen bonding resulting from increased particle charge. Improved dewatering behavior was achieved at 500 g flocculant/ton kaolinite, which gives adsorption densities  ∼ 50% ∼ 50%  of saturation coverage values. Fig. 10 . Initial settling rates of 8 wt% solid kaolinite dispersions flocculated at 500 g PEO (●) and PAM (○)/ton solid as a function of temperature at pH 7.5 and 10 −3  M KNO 3 . The polymer conformational changes also had a strong impact on the sediment solid content as indicated by the data in  Fig. 11 , before and after shear at 250 rpm for 5 min and a polymer concentration of 500 g/ton solid. A much better consolidation is observed at a temperature of 20–40 °C for PEO and 20 °C for PAM in comparison with 60 °C without shear. Upon agitation, the PEO-flocculated slurries showed a dramatic improvement in consolidation at 20–40 °C, which decreased thereafter as the temperature was further increased to 60 °C. However, for PAM, no significant improvement in consolidation was observed before and after shear. The flocs formed were mostly destroyed upon moderate shearing. Fig. 11 . Sediment solid content of kaolinite as a function of temperature flocculated at 500 g/ton solid PEO before (●) and after shear (○) and PAM before (▾) and after shear (▿), at pH 7.5 and 10 −3  M KNO 3 . For PEO, large flocs which coalesced and densified into a single mass upon shearing resulted. The dense flocs could be hand-squeezed like a sponge into a paste consistency, causing further removal of the supernatant. It appears that, in the temperature range 20–40 °C for PEO, the stretched and dangling polymer flexible chain bridges the small flocs to larger flocs compacting the flocs further and thus more water is excluded. This behavior highlights the exceptional “flexible” characteristics of PEO, which facilitate the formation of compressible flocs capable of withstanding moderate shear forces, growing denser without rupturing. The flocs formed beyond 40 °C were easily destroyed upon shearing and could not be compacted by squeezing. The decrease in pulp consolidation behavior with increase in temperature is consistent with the conformation changes that occurred. SEM micrographs of floc structures of the kaolinite flocculated at 500 g PEO or PAM/ton solid of at varying temperatures, before and after shear, are shown in  Fig. 12 ,  Fig. 13 , respectively. A more compacted floc structure of PEO flocculated slurries produced at 20 and 40 than at 60 °C is clearly evident. The flocs produced at 20–40 °C were denser aggregates and less prone to breakage upon shear, while at 60 °C, the floc structure was more fragile and open, with large voids of trapped supernatant. For the PAM flocculated slurries, the floc structures were more open and less compact in comparison with PEO at all temperatures. As the temperature was increased, the floc structures became more open with larger voids which, upon shear, were easily destroyed. Fig. 12 . Scanning electron micrographs of kaolinite dispersions flocculated at 500 g/ton solid PEO at pH 7.5 and 10 −3  M KNO 3  before shear and after shear at different temperatures. Fig. 13 . Scanning electron micrographs of kaolinite dispersions flocculated at 500 g/ton solid PAM at pH 7.5 and 10 −3  M KNO 3  before shear and after shear at different temperatures. The present study has revealed that the adsorption of PEO and PAM on kaolinite surfaces and the subsequent flocculation and dewatering processes were greatly dependent upon the dispersion temperature. Temperature had a profound effect on the particle zeta potential, polymer adsorbed layer thickness, and adsorption density and the shear yield stress, settling rates, and consolidation of the kaolinite dispersions. The zeta potential of unflocculated kaolinite particles became more negative with increasing temperature, indicative of increased deprotonation of silanol and aluminol surface groups, which may be ascribed to partial dissolution of the kaolinite particles. The reduction in zeta potential in the presence of polymer, coupled with the polymer-structure-dependent adsorbed layer thicknesses and densities, provided useful insight into the conformation of PEO and PAM. In order to fully elucidate the influence of temperature, it is important to understand the underlying polymer adsorption and conformation mechanisms. The conformation of a polymer in bulk solution or at the particle–solution interface is dependent upon the polymer–solvent interactions, which may be defined in terms of the Flory–Huggins parameter ( χ )  [29] . The amount of polymer adsorbed as a function of temperature was found to be at odds with the adsorbed layer thickness ( δ ) and zeta potential data. There was a collapse from an expanded to a more compact polymer structure, as the polymer solution or flocculated dispersion temperature was increased from 40 to 60 °C. The increased adsorbed amount, accompanied by a marked decrease in adsorbed layer thickness with increasing temperature, may be attributed to a decrease in solvency which, in turn, influenced the polymer conformation  [44] . When  χ < 0.5, the polymer will be extended in a good solvent, resulting in a higher  δ , as opposed to the condition of poor solvency ( χ > 0.5), where it will be in a more contracted state. An expanded polymer conformation which prevailed in a good solvent at a lower temperature ( < 40 < 40  °C), changing to a more compact one in a poor solvent as the temperature is increased up to 60 °C, is depicted in  Fig. 14 . Similar polymer conformation behavior has been reported for ethyl(hydroxyethyl)cellulose adsorption onto silica  [52]  and PEO onto kaolinite dispersions in the presence of a sodium sulfate  [31] . The observed trend is, however, contrary to the findings of other studies  [56] ,  [57] , which reported a decrease in nonionic polyacrylamide adsorption (molecular weight of ∼1.2×10 6 ) onto kaolinite with increasing temperature. Fig. 14 . Schematic illustration of a possible conformation for the adsorbed PEO and PAM at the kaolinite–solution interface at temperatures: (a) 20–40 °C, PEO and 20 °C, PAM and (b) 60 °C, PEO and  > 20 °C, PAM. The temperature influenced conformation change in solution, as reflected by polymer hydrodynamic size, solution viscosity and adsorption data, are in good agreement with the flocculated pulp dewatering and rheological behavior. In a good solvent, more loops and tails were available at greater adsorbed polymer layer thickness, facilitating effective interparticle bridging. Consequently, better flocculation performance, leading to higher settling rates and greater sediment consolidation occurred at 20–40 °C. With increasing temperature, collapse of the stretched and dangling polymer chain with fewer loops and tails but more trains which occurred and resulted in less effective bridging with poor dewatering behavior. As a consequence of the polymer conformation change and concomitant reduction in polymer bridging forces, the flocculated pulp yield stress decreased with increasing temperature. The higher pulp yield stress produced by PEO indicates its greater enhancement of particle interactions, leading to more strongly networked flocs than those produced by PAM. The results demonstrate that the strength of aggregates formed in flocculated kaolinite dispersions is strongly temperature and polymer structure dependent. Analysis of flocculant adsorption thermodynamics indicated that entropic effects were more dominant than enthalpic effects in the adsorption mechanism. This may be rationalized in terms of the loss of polymer translational freedom upon polymer adsorption only partially offsets the large entropy gain from the release of bound hydration water around the polymer chains and at the particle surface. Similar findings have been made for guar gum adsorbing onto talc  [50] . With increasing suspension temperature, the Brønsted acid sites at the kaolinite particle surfaces decreased, as indicated by the zeta potential, which increased (i.e., became more negative), and this also mitigated interactions with the Lewis base functional groups of PEO (CO) and PAM (OCNH 2 ) for adsorption. Consequently, the nonionic PEO showed a stronger temperature-mediated effect than the 30% anionically charged PAM. The results show that temperature plays a pivotal role in the interactions between high-molecular-weight polymeric flocculants (PEO and PAM) and kaolinite, with a marked impact on pulp rheology and dewatering behavior. The conformation change that was produced by temperature variation resulted in a significant reduction in settling rates and consolidation. The findings exemplify how the effect of temperature is of significant importance during tailings treatment in flocculant-assisted thickening processes as used in the minerals industry, where substantial thickener temperature variations occur from summer to winter. The outcomes demonstrate that it is possible to control the flocculation performance and the dewaterability of mineral waste tailings by controlling pulp temperature. The influence of temperature on PEO and PAM flocculant adsorption, interfacial chemistry, particle interactions, and dewatering behavior of kaolinite dispersions has been investigated. Temperature had a pronounced effect on the magnitude of zeta potential of kaolinite particles which increased sharply, at a fixed PEO and PAM concentration, with increasing temperature, reflecting a decrease in the adsorbed layer thicknesses. The adsorbed amount of PEO and PAM was found to increase with increasing temperature, suggesting a reduction in solvency of the polymer. Good flocculation performance and dewatering behavior was achieved at 500 g flocculant/ton kaolinite, which gives adsorption densities well below saturation coverage. Hydrodynamic diameter and solution viscosity of both polymers decreased with increasing temperature, consistent with a reduced polymer–solvent interactions and a more contracted polymer conformation. The adsorption data showed that the free energy of polymer adsorption was strongly temperature-dependent and that PEO and PAM adsorption onto kaolinite particles entropically dominated rather than enthalpically driven. The dispersion shear yield stress decreased with increasing temperature, reflecting reduced interparticle bridging forces. The results indicate that, with increasing the dispersion temperature from 20–40 to 60 °C, a change from a expanded to a contracted polymer conformation occurred. Consequently, higher settling rates and greater consolidation of the dispersions were observed at a lower temperature range (20–40 °C), where an expanded polymer conformation was preferred. The temperature influence was more pronounced in the presence of nonionic PEO rather than anionic PAM. The temperature-mediated polymer conformation change which occurred, together with polymer-structure type, plays a predominant role in the flocculation and dewatering behavior of kaolinite dispersions. Elsevier We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content and ads. By continuing you agree to the  use of cookies . Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. or its licensors or contributors. ScienceDirect ® is a registered trademark of Elsevier B.V. 