Pokémon X and Y - Bulbapedia, the community-driven Pokémon encyclopedia Pokémon X  (Japanese:  ポケットモンスターＸ Pocket Monsters X ) and  Pokémon Y  (Japanese:  ポケットモンスターＹ Pocket Monsters Y ) are the primary  paired versions  of  Generation VI . The games are available on the  Nintendo 3DS . The games take place in the  Kalos  region. Announced on January 8, 2013 at 8 pm JST during a worldwide announcement by  Satoru Iwata  through  Nintendo Direct , the paired versions were released worldwide (except for select countries) on October 12, 2013 and are available for both retail sale and download. [ 8 ]  All copies of the game are playable in all seven of the languages that the Pokémon games are released in: Japanese, English, German, Spanish, French, Italian, and Korean. The game begins with the  player  waking up in their bedroom in  their hometown . After being encouraged by their  mother  to talk to their neighbor —  Serena , if the player is male, or  Calem , if the player is female — the player learns that  Professor Sycamore  has a request for five kids: the player, their rival,  Shauna ,  Trevor , and  Tierno . In  Aquacorde Town , to fulfill this request, the player chooses a starter Pokémon:  Fennekin ,  Froakie , or  Chespin . Shauna will then choose the Pokémon that is weak to the player's starter and Serena/Calem will take the Pokémon that is strong against the player's starter, in traditional  rival  fashion. Trevor presents the player with a  Pokédex . After getting a send-off from their mother in Vaniville Town, the player travels along Routes  2  and  3  and through  Santalune Forest . Upon arrival in  Santalune City , the player receives the  Roller Skates  in front of the  Santalune Gym , where the player defeats the Gym Leader,  Viola , and receives the  Bug Badge . Viola's sister,  Alexa , points the way to  Route 4 . As the player reaches the gate to  Lumiose City , they meet  Sina  and  Dexio , who introduce the new  Fairy type . When the player first reaches Lumiose City, they cannot do much because of a power outage. They go to Professor Sycamore's lab, and soon the rest of their friends arrive. Sycamore allows each of them, including the player, to pick a  Kanto  starter Pokémon. On the player's way out, they see Dexio with  Lysandre  talking about the potential the Professor's pupils have. Lysandre says he desires a beautiful world and leaves the building. The friends come to the player thereafter, with Tierno directing the player to Café Soleil and Camphrier Town. In Café Soleil, Lysandre is talking to  Diantha , an established Kalos actress. He asks her if she wants to remain young and beautiful forever, but she dismisses the question and says that she looks forward to playing more roles as she gets older. After Lysandre leaves, she tells the player that she is a Trainer and looks forward to battling them in the future. The player continues on through  Route 5  to  Camphrier Town , running into  Korrina  and her  Lucario  along the way. On  Route 7 , a sleeping  Snorlax  can be found blocking the way. After being directed to the  Parfum Palace , the player and Shauna will help find the owner's lost  Furfrou  before being invited to watch the fireworks show and being given the  Poké Flute . The player returns to Route 7 to wake the Snorlax and unblock the path to reach  Connecting Cave . A boulder in the cave forces the player to take a side exit to the cliff part of  Route 8 , where they receive the  Coastal Kalos Pokédex . The player then arrives in  Ambrette Town . Shauna recommends visiting  Glittering Cave , east of  Route 9 , to search for more Pokémon. The player rides a Rhyhorn on Route 9 before entering Glittering Cave. Inside Glittering Cave, the player and Calem/Serena encounter  Team Flare  for the first time and rescues a  Scientist . The player crosses the coastal part of Route 8 to  Cyllage City , where defeating  Gym Leader Grant  earns the player the  Cliff Badge . Continuing on, the player encounters more Team Flare Grunts on  Route 10  and meets Korrina again while passing through  Geosenge Town . She tells the player that Lucario can sense something in the player's aura. Past  Route 11  and  Reflection Cave , the player arrives in  Shalour City  and receives a message over the  Holo Caster  to visit  Gurkinn , the  Mega Evolution  expert, in the  Tower of Mastery . Gurkinn tells the player and their friends about Mega Evolution, which requires a  Mega Stone ,  Mega Ring , and a special bond between the Trainer and Pokémon. Unfortunately, Gurkinn only has one Mega Ring to give. The friends decide the player should get it, and Korrina will tell them to come to  her Gym  and defeat her first. After she is defeated, she awards the  Rumble Badge  and, after a second battle at the top of the Tower of Mastery, gives the player the Mega Ring and a Lucario holding the Lucarionite. The player heads for  Coumarine City  by way of  Route 12 . There, the player challenges  Ramos  at the  Coumarine Gym . After earning the  Plant Badge , the player heads to  Route 13  and receives the Mountain Kalos Pokédex from Sina and Dexio. The player cannot enter  Lumiose City  from Route 13 because of the power outage in the city, so they instead visit the route's Power Plant, where they encounter Team Flare again. After defeating  Aliana , a scientist for Team Flare, the power to Lumiose City is restored. At  Prism Tower ,  Clemont  will invite the player to battle him. After his defeat, he will awards the  Voltage Badge . The player then travels to  Laverre City  by way of  Route 14 . After the player earns the  Fairy Badge  from Gym Leader  Valerie , they and Calem/Serena encounter Team Flare again at the  Poké Ball Factory . Defeating  Celosia  and  Bryony  drives away the villainous team. When the player arrives at  Dendemille Town  via Routes  15  or  16 , Professor Sycamore and his aides will discuss the legend of  Xerneas  or  Yveltal . The player cannot head to  Anistar City  because the  Mamoswine  needed to navigate  Route 17  is gone, so the player finds it at  Frost Cavern , concerned about Team Flare's interference. The player must defeat  Mable  to make Team Flare retreat, save an  Abomasnow , and calm the Mamoswine so the player can travel to  Anistar City . There, the player earns the  Psychic Badge  from  Olympia . After the player leaves the  Anistar Gym , Lysandre will reveal over the Holo Caster his plans to use the  ultimate weapon . To stop him, the player travels to  Lysandre Labs  and defeat him and the four female scientists. The player discovers that Lysandre has imprisoned  AZ . Lysandre tells the story of how AZ used the ultimate weapon to revive his  Floette  and then used it to end the war 3,000 years ago. He promises that if the player defeats  Xerosic , he will turn off the ultimate weapon, but Xerosic turns the weapon on remotely and unleashes it in Geosenge Town. At the  Team Flare Secret HQ  there, Lysandre tells of his plans to eradicate all Pokémon and people who do not agree with his ideals. After the player defeats him and his admins and catches the Legendary Pokémon, Lysandre will try to use the remaining energy in the weapon for his selfish goals, but is instead only caught in the destruction it wreaks. The player travels through  Route 18 ,  Couriway Town , and  Route 19  to  Snowbelle City , where the Gym Leader,  Wulfric , is missing. To find him, the player navigates  Route 20  to get to the  Pokémon Village . Wulfric explains that the Pokémon there were once abused. Wulfric returns to the  Snowbelle Gym  and rewards the player with the  Iceberg Badge  for defeating him. With the final Badge in hand, the player heads through  Route 21  to  Victory Road  and the  Pokémon League , where they defeat  Fire-type  specialist  Malva ,  Steel-type  specialist  Wikstrom ,  Dragon-type  specialist  Drasna ,  Water-type  specialist  Siebold , and Champion Diantha. After the player enters the  Hall of Fame , Sycamore organizes a parade for the player. During the parade, AZ asks the player for a battle. Afterward, AZ says he finally knows what it means to be a Trainer again, and his Floette appears from the sky and is reunited with him. The next evolution in Pokémon! New Pokémon! Explosive 3D battles! Explore a majestic new region! New Features: Pokémon-Amie and Super Training! Connect instantly with players all over the world! Unlike previous games in the main series, Pokémon X and Y feature a three dimensional style of gameplay, and 3D modeled  cel-shaded  characters and creatures are used, rather than sprites like has always been done in the main series. Stereoscopic 3D can be used in Single Battles, cutscenes, specific areas, and under some special circumstances; otherwise, stereoscopic 3D is not usable. The battle system is aesthetically overhauled, featuring more lively reactions to the attacks, such as when a Pokémon is being hit. In non-Japanese languages, many move and item names are now spelled or formatted differently. For example, ThunderShock is now formatted as  Thunder Shock  and Faint Attack is now spelled  Feint Attack . Players can now walk on an eight-directional grid, allowing diagonal movement, as opposed to the four-way grid in previous games. The player now has the ability to  rollerskate , at least under certain conditions, and can also free roam on no grid. This also works with the bike. The player can use the roller skates and can grind to overcome  obstacles .  Skiddo ,  Mamoswine , and  Rhyhorn  can be  ridden  in certain locations and allow the player to interact with the environment, by destroying rocks and crossing broken paths.  Gogoat  can also be ridden, although only around  Lumiose City  in a set path. The Player Search System (PSS) is a multiplayer feature that allows people to connect, battle, and trade with other players through the Internet. It uses the bottom screen and allows the player to search for other people playing both globally and locally. Pokémon-Amie is a new feature that allows the player to develop stronger bonds with their Pokémon. It uses the touch screen to allow players to pet, feed, and play with Pokémon currently on their team. Players may interact with their Pokémon by petting or feeding them via the touchscreen or mimicking their movements using the camera. Sky Battles are battles which are restricted to  Flying  Pokémon, although some Pokémon with  Levitate  can enter. These airborne battles take place against Trainers standing far away, such as on cliffs. It is now possible to encounter several wild Pokémon at once. Up to five wild Pokémon will battle against one of the player's Pokémon. These battles offer a lot of experience. Some attacks, such as  Rock Slide , are shown to hit all five of the opposing Pokémon. However, the player's Pokémon must withstand attacks from all five of the opposing Pokémon each turn. Super Training is a new method of quickly and easily increasing a Pokémon's  EVs . One new  type  has been introduced, the  Fairy  type. This type was added to balance the  Dragon  type, which was previously only weak to itself and  Ice . Fairy-type attacks are strong against  Dragon ,  Fighting , and  Dark  types and resisted by  Fire ,  Poison , and  Steel  types; Fairy-type Pokémon are weak to Poison- and Steel-type attacks, resist Fighting-,  Bug -, and Dark-type attacks, and are immune to Dragon-type attacks. The player is now able to change their appearance in-game, allowing them to customize their characters by changing their hair color and  clothing . X and Y feature  Gyms  just as most other main series titles. In Kalos, the Gym Leaders are  Viola  ( Bug ),  Grant  ( Rock ),  Korrina  ( Fighting ),  Ramos  ( Grass ),  Clemont  ( Electric ),  Valerie  ( Fairy ),  Olympia  ( Psychic ), and  Wulfric  ( Ice ). Just as in Unova, the Elite Four can be battled in any order. After battling all four, a path to the Champion is unlocked. The Elite Four members are  Malva  ( Fire ),  Siebold  ( Water ),  Wikstrom  ( Steel ), and  Drasna  ( Dragon ). After beating all four Elite Four members, the player will face the Champion,  Diantha , who uses a variety of types along with a  Gardevoir  which can Mega Evolve. 72 new Pokémon were introduced for X and Y, bringing the known total from 649 to 721. The first Pokémon to be revealed were  Chespin ,  Fennekin ,  Froakie ,  Xerneas , and  Yveltal  on January 8, 2013. A unique state, Mega Evolution, was introduced in Pokémon X and Y. Mega Evolution is a temporary in-battle transformation that results in an overall increase in stats, sometimes also changing a Pokémon's  Ability  and  types . Not all Pokémon can Mega Evolve. A Pokémon can only Mega Evolve if it is holding a  Mega Stone  in battle and its Trainer has a  Key Stone . Many Pokémon introduced prior to Pokémon X and Y received newer, more realistic  cries  upon its release. Pokémon X and Y can connect with the  Pokémon Global Link  website. They are mostly compatible with  Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire , with the exception of alternate forms, Mega Evolutions, moves, or Abilities introduced in those games, which cannot be traded to or used in battle with X and Y. The games are also able to communicate with  Pokémon Bank , which allows the storage of Pokémon. Through Pokémon Bank and  Poké Transporter , X and Y are able to communicate indirectly with games from  Generation V . Gaming magazine  Famitsu  gave Pokémon X and Y a score of 39 out of 40. [ 9 ] IGN  rated the games an "Amazing" 9.0/10, [ 10 ]  praising their animation, characters, and multiplayer functionality, receiving the same score as  Pokémon Black and White . Pokémon X and Y hold a rating of 87.26% [ 11 ]  and 87.89%, [ 12 ]  respectively, on  GameRankings  based on 45 reviews. The games sold more than four million copies during their first weekend on sale. [ 13 ] [ 14 ]  In the fiscal year of their release, they sold 12.26 million units. [ 15 ]  As of September 30, 2019, Pokémon X and Y have sold 16.42 million copies worldwide. [ 16 ] Pokémon X and Y sold 1,866,570 units on their first week on the Japanese market, [ 17 ]  being 961,003 from Pokémon X and 905,567 from Pokémon Y, with a  sell-through  of 83.30% and 78.23% respectively. By December 30, 2018, the end of their 273rd week, they had sold 4,247,167 copies, being 2,245,406 from Pokémon X and 2,001,761 from Pokémon Y. [ 18 ] The soundtrack contains most of the background music and effect music from the games. The music is composed by  Shota Kageyama  (Sound Director of Pokémon X and Y),  Hitomi Satō ,  Minako Adachi , and  Junichi Masuda . Pokémon X and Pokémon Y are the first main series titles since  Pokémon Gold and Silver  that  Gō Ichinose  did not work on as a composer, since he shifted to a side project of Game Freak's during the development of Pokémon X and Y. According to  Junichi Masuda  on November 18, 2013, X and Y were in development for 3.5 years and involved more than 500 people if localization staff is included. [ 19 ] The demo version  of Pokémon X and Y were playable at several events worldwide prior to the games' release. In the Pokémon X demo, the  player  is  Calem  (named Xavier or エックス in Japanese); in the Pokémon Y demo, the player is  Serena  (named Yvonne or ワイ in Japanese). The player starts with a random  Kalos starter Pokémon ,  Helioptile , and  Sylveon ; all 3 Pokémon are at level 30 and have a random  gender , and have a regular chance of being  Shiny . The player starts off the demo with 10  Poké Balls , which they can use to catch the wild Pokémon that appear. The player also starts off with 5  Potions , 5  Hyper Potions , 5  Paralyze Heals , and 5  Awakenings  in the bag.  Pokémon-Amie  is constantly present on the touch screen while the player is in the overworld. Pokémon do not gain  experience  in the demo. The player is welcomed by  Alexa , and starts in a modified version of  Route 4 , an area with a large fountain in an area of decreased elevation, surrounded by small staircases leading to the fountain. Between the player's starting position and the fountain is  tall grass . A wild  Pikachu  will appear as soon as the player steps into the tall grass for the first time.. At the fountain is a  Skiddo , which the player can mount with A and dismount with B. As Skiddo cannot climb stairs, the player is restricted to the small area around the fountain. Just past the fountain is the opposite-gendered  player character  ( Serena  in X demo or  Calem  in Y demo). If the player interacts with him or her, he or she will challenge the player to a battle. He or she has the starter Pokémon that is super effective against the player's and a  Gabite . Past the fountain is a field of red and yellow flowers, in which  wild Pokémon  can be encountered. A  Fletchling  is walking around in one of the patches of red flowers. Past the field of flowers are two hedge mazes on the left and right, each containing a  Litleo  and a  Marill  walking around; if the player interacts with one of these Pokémon, it will cry. Shauna  is standing around in the north general area. If the player interacts with Shauna, she will challenge the player to a battle. Shauna has the starter Pokémon with a type disadvantage to the player's.  Tierno  is standing in the northwest and  Trevor  in the northeast. If the player talks to Tierno, he will dance; if the player talks to Trevor, he will comment that people want to know more about Pokémon. Past these mazes is  Professor Sycamore  standing in front of a  gate . After a certain amount of time has passed, the player will be warped to Sycamore, and he will immediately talk to the player; it is also possible to simply talk to him before this time. He will give the player a level 100  Mewtwo  holding a  Mewtwonite Y ; the player loses access to their other Pokémon at this point. He then challenges the player to a battle with his own level 100  Crobat ,  Chandelure , and  Dragonite . English Pokémon X logo English Pokémon Y logo Japanese Pokémon X logo Japanese Pokémon Y logo Korean Pokémon X logo Korean Pokémon Y logo English Pokémon X title screen English Pokémon Y title screen Japanese Pokémon X title screen Japanese Pokémon Y title screen Pokémon X Home Menu icon * Pokémon Y Home Menu icon 