Parents - resources, calendars and information | Timothy Christian Schools Find pages, calendars, programs, information and other resources useful to parents of current students at Timothy Christian Schools. When you shop at  smile.amazon.com, Amazon donates. The 2020-21 Illinois State Scholars represent approximately the top ten percent of high school seniors from 726 high schools across the state. Illinois State Scholars are chosen based on a combination of exemplary ACT or SAT test scores and sixth semester class rank.... Congratulations to the Freshmen/Sophomore Scholastic Bowl team on their fourth consecutive Conference Championship! Joey LaBarbera and Peter Nelson were named to the Fr/So All-Conference team. Varsity Scholastic Bowl captured 2nd place at the Conference tournament.... Four Timothy Christian VEX Robotics teams traveled down to Mount Vernon High School to compete this past Saturday. Team Gridlock and Team Robominable qualified for the State competition because of their skills scores. Team Cyclops, finished second in the competition... Don’t cook! Treat your family to dinner! Present this flyer on Wednesday, December 18, 2019 at our Lombard location between 3 pm - 9 pm and 15% of your purchase will be donated back to Timothy. Download flyer here.... The Timothy Christian Chess Team competed in the Machaj Memorial Chess Tournament recently. Our 4th and 5th graders took home 2nd place and our K-3rd grade students took home 4th place. Top 10 individual finishes included: Outstanding Kindergartener - Caroline... After School Care is available to Timothy students in Kindergarten through 6th grade. It runs from 3-6pm Monday through Friday when school is in session and 12-6pm on half-days. Students have the opportunity to work on homework, play indoor and outdoors games, and engage in various other activities in a safe and welcoming environment. (Summer care program information  here. ) Information for parents and students regarding athletic registration, links to Illinois 8to18 and maps to MSC schools. Every other year, Timothy holds an Auction to help raise funds for our school. The 2018 Auction brought in $800,000 which will go towards Phase II of Project IMPACT. This will include furniture and technology upgrades in the high school as well as grade school re-purpose and renovation. Our next Auction is planned for spring of 2020. Timothy busing policies, procedures and drop-off consent form.  Timothy Christian partners with the Country House Restaurant to bring our students a quality dining experience each day. Learn more about our  cafeteria , Mealtime Online and menus. Master Calendar 2019-20 Calendar at-a-glance Cafeteria Calendar 2019-20 HS Student Life Calendar Almost all courses taught at Timothy elementary and middle school are displayed in charts called curriculum maps. These grids show the content, essential questions, faith integration, and unit questions for each class. The handbook outlines policies and procedures for enrolled elementary and middle school students and their parents. Timothy has partnered with e-Campus.com to help high school students purchase textbooks.  This site will help you select the correct versions and make you aware of any e-book or i-book alternative.  If you have any questions, feel free to contact the high school office. Timothy Christian High School uses Edmodo as our cloud based system to share resources, turn in work, and schedule assignments, quizzes, and tests.  Parents can also create a free account on Edmodo by using the  Parent Code  found on their student s Edmodo page.  This will keep you aware of upcoming assignments and assessments as well as giving you insight on course content. We encourage everyone to take advantage of this helpful resource. As part of Timothy s mission to reflect God s kingdom by serving a diverse range of students, Educational Support Services provide academic support to students from kindergarten through 8th grade. Prior arrangements have already been made to reschedule students who have 3 exams on the same day or 2 exams during the same block. The academic support department will initiate extended time exam arrangements for qualified students. If your student does not have an exam during an exam block,  please use this form  to excuse them from school during that block. Please remember that this directory is intended solely for private, non-commercial use of Timothy families. Timothy requests that no one use the directory as a mailing list or contact list. Use for any commercial purpose is prohibited. You may download a copy of the directory to your own device (making it easier to access in the future.) 2019–2020 Parent / Student Handbook 2019–2020 High School Course Registration Timothy Board Policy Manual Timothy welcomes international students and has established its World View international student program to increase cultural diversity on our campus. Each Friday morning that school is in session, a group of parents meet in the High School Conference room from 8:30 a.m. to 9:30 a.m. to pray for their children and schools.  Free child-care is provided by Timothy High School students.   All Timothy Dads are invited to join us for Big Boys on Campus — a prayer group for dads.  Come together as Christian men and pray for our school! The group meets on Friday mornings in the Advancement Office from 6:30 – 7:00 AM.  Dads may join us as their availability permits. For more information, please contact Bob Venhousen at  630-782-4072 or  venhousen@timothychristian.com . The New To You Resale shop located in Broadview, IL supports Timothy Christian Schools, Chicago Westside Christian School, Daystar School and Humboldt Community Christian School. Parents in Education (PiE) is Timothy s parent partnership.  PiE exists to promote Christian education at Timothy through hospitality, teacher support and fundraising activities to increase parental involvement, build Christian community and provide resources. Timothy uses Powerschool as our student information system.  It grants students and parents (grades 5–12) direct access to teacher gradebooks and attendance records.  There is a mobile app that allows access to the same information, and you may opt to receive daily or weekly emails with this information. To create an account or add your child to your account, you will need your student s access ID and access password.  Both are emailed at the beginning of the year.  If you cannot locate that email, feel free to contact the grade school or high school office. For additional information regarding Powerschool, please view videos below: Intro to PowerSchool Intro to Standard Based Grading Standard Based Grading Standard Based Grading and Power School Renew is an seven-day term occurring right after Christmas break. Its focus is to engage high school students in discipleship opportunities through course work, internships, and service-related trips not available to students during the academic semester. Annual participation in Renew is a graduation requirement. Complete school forms, upload documents, and track your annual enrollment checklist. Members  of the 2019–2020 School Board Timothy maintains a SmugMug photography gallery of special events, sports, concerts, etc. If you have questions regarding Timothy s SmugMug, please email  Michael VanDerAa . Purchase spirit wear online directly from Timothy Christian Schools. Lookup contact information for all Staff and Faculty members at Timothy Christian. The Summer page contains information about summer camps, summer office hours, school supply lists, and summer reading information. TCHS summer school is an opportunity for students to work ahead on earning credit towards meeting high school graduation requirements. Course offerings are dependent on teacher availability. Summer school does not have a long history at TCHS, but thus far it has been offered during the three weeks immediately following the end of semester. Summer care is available to current and returning Timothy students entering Kindergarten through 6th grade. Join other Timothy students, parents and friends of Timothy as we participate in the Chicago Triathlon SuperSprint  &  Kids Tri. These events take place the day before the main Chicago Triathlon, providing a family friendly atmosphere for participants of all ages and athletic abilities. The TRIP program is an easy way to reduce your tuition by purchasing gift cards for use at stores, restaurants, on-line retailers and other places of business. Timothy values your comments and observations about its new website. Please use this form to let us know what you like, what s missing, and ideas on how Timothy can improve its web presence. Preschool   (630) 833-4717  Elementary School   (630) 833-4717 Middle School (630) 833-4617  High School   (630) 833-7575 Tyler VanderBrug, CPA Director of Finance  &  Operations 630-833-4616 ext. 111 Sue Hoff 630-833-4616 ext. 100 Lisa Zylstra 630-833-4616 ext. 104 Sign-up to receive stories, news and announcements in your inbox. #ourtimothystory Copyright   2019  Timothy Christian Schools.  | All Rights Reserved. 188 W. Butterfield Rd., Elmhurst, IL 60126 • 630.833.4616  