Adoptions | Veterinarians San Antonio, FL | San Antonio Animal Hospital Skip to content 32347 State Road 52  San Antonio, FL 33576   Phone:  352-588-2132 Home  Adoptions Visit our  Facebook page  to view photos and videos of available kittens. We usually have kittens and cats, both male and female, in a variety of colors. There is a $50 adoption fee for each, this includes spay/neuter, vaccines, deworming, and microchipping (total value of $375 ). For more details, call the office at (352) 588-2132. Provided by the American Humane Association Curious kittens are capable of leaping onto high surfaces or squeezing into the smallest of spaces.  To protect your kitten in his new environment, and to safeguard your belongings, kitten-proof your house. If anything is in reach, your puppy will sniff, chew, and probably play with it.   So to protect your puppy in her new environment, and to safeguard your belongings, puppy-proof your house. 1.Be aware of the plants you have in your house and in your pet s yard. The ingestion of azalea, oleander, mistletoe, sago palm, Easter lily, or yewplant material, by an animal, could be fatal. 2.When cleaning your house, never allow your pet access to the area where cleaning agents are used or stored. Cleaning agents have a variety of properties. Some may only cause a mild stomach upset, while others could cause severeburns of the tongue, mouth, and stomach. 3.When using rat or mouse bait, ant or roach traps, or snail and slug baits. Most bait contain sweet smelling ingredients, such as jelly, peanut butter, and sugars, which can be very attractive to your pet. 4. Never give you animal any medications unless under the direction of your veterinarian. Many medications that are used safely in humans can be deadly when used inappropriately. One extra strength acetaminophen tablet (500mg) can kill a seven-pound cat. 5. Keep all prescription and over the counter drugs out of your pets  reach, preferably in closed cabinets. Pain killers, cold medicines, anticancer drugs, antidepressants, vitamins, and diet pills are common examples of human medication that could be potentially lethal even in small dosages. One regular strength ibuprofen (200mg) could cause stomach ulcers in a ten-pound dog. 6.Never leave chocolates unattended. Approximately one-half ounce or less of baking chocolate per pound body weight can cause problems. Even small amounts can cause pancreatic problems. 7. Many common household items have been shown to be lethal in certain species. Miscellaneous items that are highly toxic, even in low quantities, include pennies (high in concentration of zinc), mothballs (contain naphthaleneor paradichlorobenzene, one or two balls can be life threatening in most species), potpourri oils, fabric softener sheets, automatic dish detergents (contain cationic detergents which could cause corrosive lesions), batteries (contain acid or alkali which can also cause corrosive lesions), home made play dough (contains high quantity of salt), winter heat source agents like hand or foot warmers (contain high levels of iron), cigarettes, coffee grounds and alcoholic drinks. 8. All automotive products such as oil, gasoline, and antifreeze, should be stored in areas away from pet access. As little as one teaspoon of antifreeze (ethylene glycol) can be deadly in a 7-pound cat and less than one tablespoon could be lethal to a 20-pound dog. 9. Before buying or using flea products on your pet or in your household, contact your veterinarian to discuss what types of flea products are recommended for your pet. Read ALL information before using a product on your animals or in your home. Always follow label instructions. When a product is labeled  for use in dogs only  this means that the product should NEVER be applied to cats. Also, when using a fogger or a house spray, make sure to remove all pets from the area for the time period specified on the container. If you are uncertain about the usage of any product, contact the manufacture or your veterinarian to clarify the directions BEFORE use of the product. 10. When treating your lawn or garden with fertilizers, herbicides, orinsecticides, always keep your animals away from the area until the area dries completely. Discuss usage of products with the manufacturer of the products to be used. Always store such products in and area that will ensure no possible pet exposure.  information provided by Healthypet.com December 12, 2019 December 5, 2019 Tampa Bay Veterinary Emergency Services 238 E Bearss Ave  Tampa, FL 33613  (813) 265-4043  Blue Pearl Specialty  &  Emergency Medicine for Pets 3000 Busch Lake Boulevard  Tampa, Florida 33614  Phone: (813) 933-8944 To help accommodate busy schedules we offer drop off appointments.  Copyright 2019 Provided by Covetrus AVImark | Powered by  LifeLearn 