Did You Know 4 USMNT p Our site uses cookies. Please read our  Privacy Policy  for more information. Further use of this site will be considered consent. Facebook Twitter SMS Email Yes, professional soccer players have lives off the pitch and get married like every other human beings. But, with their mandatory practices and long trips on the road, how do they find the time to get married? Taylor Kemp, Dax McCarty, Wil Trapp and Walker Zimmerman all tied the knot right before reporting to the USMNT's annual January training camp in California. With preseason around the corner, the four players revealed to  U.S. Soccer  how they found the time to plan their weddings around their hectic schedules: “The offseason is wedding season for MLS guys,” said Kemp, who tied the knot on Dec. 17. “Everyone is fighting for the same weekend, so we had to get ours in early and get the word out so none of my friends would schedule on the same day.” “It’s funny, you talk to the guys here and they ask what day you got married. A lot of us here probably share the same days because there’s only about a month-long window where you can conceivably have a sure bet that there won’t be anything else going on that weekend,” Will Trapp explained.  “I didn’t know this at the time, but when we started dating, her and her sister were looking at the calendar and saw three or four years down the road that New Year’s Eve was on a Saturday. They picked out a date a year into our relationship. We dated for five years, so that’s pretty crazy,” Zimmerman shared after recently marrying his wife, Sally. The brides have been very understanding and supportive of their new husbands. “We shuffled some things around, changed some flights, cancelled some hotels and managed some tears, but it all worked out for the best. We still had our wedding, honeymoon and got to camp on time,” Mrs. Kemp said Dax McCarthy praised his new wife: “She’s my biggest fan and has been nothing but fantastic throughout the whole process. I couldn’t have married a better one, I know that.”   Take a look at the gorgeous photos from their special days: Taylor Kemp Wedding  Dax McCarty Wedding Wil Trapp Wedding Walker Zimmerman Facebook Twitter SMS Email Megan Rapinoe won the global awards, but Julie Ertz won the top domestic honor. By Travis Yoesting The wingback-keeper is the future of football tactics. By Connor Fleming Mohamed Salah scored both goals in Liverpool ' s 2-0 win over Watford.  By Travis Yoesting Alexander Nübel was shown a straight red card for his brutal challenge on Mijat Gaćinović. By Travis Yoesting  2019 The18  Facebook Pinterest Email 