The 10 best kids movies on Netflix There’s nothing like curling up on the couch to watch an uplifting movie with the kids. And if you’re looking for something suitable for them on the box, Netflix is always a good place to start. We’ve put together this list of 10 of the best kids movies on Netflix to give you a headstart finding something fun to view. All the movies are suitable for children, so you can happily leave them alone to watch if you have other stuff to get on with. Someone’s got to make the dinner, after all! wwodtv 2.3K subscribers Subscribe Many Adventures of Winnie the Pooh trailer.mp4 Info Shopping Tap to unmute If playback doesn ' t begin shortly, try restarting your device. More videos Your browser does not currently recognize any of the video formats available.  Click here to visit our frequently asked questions about HTML5 video. More videos on YouTube Share Include playlist An error occurred while retrieving sharing information. Please try again later. Watch later Share Copy link Switch camera 0:00 0:00 0:00  /  3:25 Live An error occurred. Try watching this video on www.youtube.com , or enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser. One for the pre-schoolers, but older kids (and even adults!) can get a lot out of this. Follow Pooh and friends as they go on a string of song-filled adventures. Pooh, Piglet, Tigger, Kanga, Roo, Owl and Rabbit — as well as Christopher Robbin — are one of the best groups of kids’ characters ever invented, and the stories include a lot of poignant messages which make this great viewing for kids. One of those movies that kids don’t mind watching over and over again, Monsters, Inc. tells the story of monsters trying to power a city — by trying to scare children so that they scream. But when a child gets into Monstropolis, James P. ‘Sully’ Sullivan and Michael “Mike’ Wazowski (John Goodman and Billy Crystal) have got to try and return her to the real world. Hard to believe this was made all the way back in 2001. How time flies! Another classic that’s stood the test of time and spawned innumerable sequels and spin-offs. The original Pixar movie, it follows the goings on in a child’s bedroom where a rivalry develops between the toys. Woody and Buzz Lightyear are always going to be lovable, and Netflix is as good a place as any to introduce your kids to them. A more recent addition to the movie world, Up is one of the most heart-warming stories ever to make it into animation. It tells the story of elderly widower Carl Fredricksen who tries to fly to South America to fulfil a promise he made to his wife before she died. But unbeknownst to him, young Wilderness Explorer Russell has come along for the ride. From the same year as Up (2009), Cloudy with a chance of Meatballs is loosely based on the book of the same name and spawned a sequel four years later. It tells the story of a scientist called Flint who’s seen as a failure until he makes a machine that causes food to fall from the sky. But isn’t long before it starts to cause chaos. A favorite of all kids who grew up in the early 90s, Aladdin played a huge part in turning Disney into what it is today. Released two years before The Lion King, it tells the story of Aladdin and his lamp with Robin Williams voicing the famous Genie. Although the animation might seem dated today, the songs are still just as catchy and the story just as fun. Mulan depicts the Chinese legend of Fa Mulan, the daugther of aged warrior Fa Zhou. During the Hun invasion, she signs up to the army during a conscription to save her father — by pretending to be a man. The 2011 sequel to 2006’s Cars, Cars 2 sees Lightning McQueen and his tow truck friend Mater travel to Japan to take part in the World Grand Prix. But along the way, they get caught up in a story of international espionage. A real thrill-ride of an adventure. Loads of fun. One of the more bizarre storylines to a kids’ film, but The Emperor’s New Groove definitely doesn’t suffer for it. It tells the story of the emperor Kuzco who was turned into a llama by his advisor Yzma. He tries to regain his throne with the help of kindly peasant herder Pacha, and so much hilarity ensues that you’ll be hard-pressed not to laugh out loud…a lot! The most recent film on this list, and one of the best kids movies made to date. Despicable Me 2 made the mistake of being released the same year as Disney’s Frozen, but holds its own in the world of kids movies and would have been a stand-out film any other year. The Anti-Villain League calls on supervillain turned superdad Gru to catch the person behind a huge heist. Despicable Me 2 is the most profitable film in Universal Studios’ history, and for good reason. There’s plenty more great kids films on Netflix, but we hope this gives you somewhere to start when looking for something to watch with the children. Here’s hoping Netflix will add more great movies in the coming months.  Copyright 2004 - 2019 Monsters and Critics   All Rights Reserved   All logos  &  trademarks belong to their respective owners  All images are used with permission or licensed. 