Welcome to Ocean City New Jersey, America's Greatest Family Resort There will be no trash and recycling collection on Christmas Day or New Year ' s Day. Pickup on routes regularly scheduled for Wednesday, Thursday or Friday will be pushed back by one day during both of these holiday weeks. Christmas trees that are free of decorations and bags can be placed out for regular collection throughout the month of January. Pre-scheduled pickup of white goods will move from Wednesday, Jan. 1 to Thursday, Jan. ...  details All-inclusive admission buttons for Ocean City s popular and family-friendly First Night New Year s Eve celebration are on sale now.They can be purchased at firstnightocnj.com or by calling 609-399-6111. You can also purchase tickets in person by visiting the Roy Gillian Welcome Center on the Ninth Street causeway, City Hall s Welcome Center at 861 Asbury Avenue or the Welcome Center at the Ocean City Music Pier (10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday to F...  details Dear Friends,I m pleased to announce that Ocean City has achieved Class 4 in the National Flood Insurance Program s Community Rating System (CRS). The designation means all NFIP policy holders with compliant structures in Ocean City will now receive a 30 percent discount on their flood insurance.The CRS program rewards towns that take action to make properties less vulnerable to flooding. The new rating means Ocean City s a...  details The city commissioned the Philadelphia-based economic consulting firm Econsult Solutions Inc. to provide economic development advisory services. The firm conducted extensive market research and held a series of working sessions with local stakeholders this summer. The goal was to provide all stakeholders with guidance on how to maintain Ocean City ' s strong brand as America ' s Greatest Family Resort, while being prepare...  details Seasonal beach tags for summer 2020 are on sale now for a discounted $20. That price remains in effect through May 31, 2020. On June 1, the price increases to $25.Beach tags are required for all beachgoers ages 12 and older and will be in effect from June 6, 2020 through September 7, 2020. Only seasonal beach tags can be purchased at this time. Weekly ($10) and daily ($5) tags will be available for purchase during the season....  details The City of Ocean City will host a FREE rabies Clinic on Saturday, Jan. 25, 2020 from 10 a.m. to noon at the Ocean City Fire Department at 550 Asbury Avenue.N.J. State Statute 4:19-15.1 and City Ordinance 87-17 Sec. 11-1 require that any person owning, keeping or harboring a dog of licensing age (7 Months or older) or which possess a set of permanent teeth shall in the month of January and annually ther...  details Ocean City seeks volunteers to fill vacant seats on the the following boards and commissions.Environmental CommissionMeetings: 6:30 p.m. on second Tuesday monthlyUtility Advisory CommissionMeetings: 9 a.m. on third Wednesday every other monthDuties Responsibilities can be found on our web site at www.ocnj.us under Government, Boards Commissions or at the City Clerk s office. Complete the online C...  details ...  details 