Bison dominating turnover margin | College | bismarcktribune.com © 2019 Lee Enterprises Terms of Service   |   Privacy Policy A few passing clouds. Low 14F. Winds WNW at 10 to 20 mph.. A few passing clouds. Low 14F. Winds WNW at 10 to 20 mph.  Updated: November 13, 2019 @ 3:35 pm James Hendricks of North Dakota State intercepts a pass intended for Steve McShane of Western Illinois during Saturday's game in Macomb, Ill. FARGO — The North Dakota State defense didn’t get out of Macomb, Ill., on Saturday, Oct. 13, without getting into trouble. The Bison were found guilty without the benefit of a trial of stealing … the football. NDSU forced five turnovers in the 34-7 victory at Western Illinois, bringing its turnover margin to plus-10 on the season. That ranks tied for second in NCAA Division I FCS with 14 forced turnovers by the NDSU defense and four turnovers by the offense. It’s a turnover margin average of 1.67 per game, a statistic shared by Colgate and Weber State. Only Dartmouth is better at 1.80 turnovers gained per game. Taking care of the ball will most likely play a factor Saturday, Oct. 20, when the Bison play host to Illinois State at 2:30 p.m. at Gate City Bank Field at the Fargodome. The 6-0 Bison retained their No. 1 ranking in the FCS coaches and  STATS.com  media top 25 polls. Illinois State (5-1) is right there at No. 7 in the coaches poll and No. 8 in the STATS rankings. Illinois State is not shabby in the turnover ratio department, either. The Redbirds are at plus-nine. The Bison returned a fumble for a touchdown in the first half and picked off four Leathernecks passes in the fourth quarter. NDSU has yet to give up any points in the final quarter in its three Missouri Valley Football Conference games. “To get the big four interceptions in the fourth quarter were critical,” said Bison head coach Chris Klieman. “We’re still always trying to find ways to create takeaways whether it’s with strip drills or interception things in practice.” On the flipside, the Bison haven’t been giving the ball away on offense. Senior quarterback Easton Stick has 10 touchdown passes to one interception. NDSU has lost three fumbles in its unbeaten start.  Unlimited articles on bismarcktribune.com with no surveys  FREE Access to Newspapers.com archives (last 2 years)  Try Digital for 25¢ a week  Cancel anytime  Includes E-Edition Replica of Newspaper  Unlimited articles on bismarcktribune.com  with no surveys  FREE Access to Newspapers.com archives (last 2 years)  SALE! Up to 34% OFF   Convenient home delivery of the Bismarck Tribune  Unlimited access to standard  E-Edition  Unlimited articles on bismarcktribune.com with no surveys  Exclusive members-only discounts  on travel, tickets and more  FREE Access to Newspapers.com archives (last 2 years), plus exclusive discounts  Convenient home delivery of the Bismarck Tribune  Unlimited access to standard  E-Edition  Unlimited articles on bismarcktribune.com with no surveys  50% OFF classified ads  on select categories  Exclusive members-only discounts  on travel, tickets and more  FREE Access to Newspapers.com archives (last 2 years), plus exclusive discounts  Convenient home delivery of the Bismarck Tribune  Unlimited access to bismarcktribune.com  with a faster browsing experience  FREE classified ads  on select categories  Exclusive members-only discounts  on travel, tickets and more  FREE Access to Newspapers.com archives (last 2 years), plus exclusive discounts Please call 800-472-2273 to upgrade your subscription. Try Digital for 25¢ a week “It makes a big difference in just taking care of the football,” Klieman said. It makes a difference having Stick. Klieman said an experienced player behind center helps with communication with his receivers -- and avoiding poor throws that can lead to interceptions. “He’s a huge factor in the fact he knows how the flow of the game’s going,” Klieman said. “He knows, can he take a chance? Can he be more aggressive? He knows where his receivers are going to be. He sees things pre-snap so well and he’s on the same page with his receivers and tight ends. That’s a big thing to have your senior quarterback know how everybody fits in with the scheme of our offense.” NDSU safety James Hendricks was named the Valley’s Defensive Player of the Week after he picked off two passes against the Leathernecks. Safety Michael Tutsie and linebacker Jabril Cox also had picks. “When you are a plus-five in turnover margin on the road, you have a good chance to be successful,” Klieman said. The Bison have scored a Valley-leading 66 points off 14 turnovers. Moreover, NDSU has allowed an opponent inside its 20-yard line only eight times this season, surrendering three touchdowns and two field goals. Klieman said running back Bruce Anderson and safety Robbie Grimsley both suffered hamstring injuries against Western Illinois. He thinks both could return to practice at some point this week. “We’re pleased in the fact neither one is as severe as we thought on Saturday,” Klieman said. “Hopefully one or both will have a chance to play. It’s hard to say today, we haven’t done anything yet.” We'll send breaking news and news alerts to you as as they happen! PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad PDF display ad Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device. 