CEEOL - Article Detail Summary/Abstract:   One of the fundamental problems faced by companies in the market economy is competitiveness. It can be shaped in various ways in order to achieve the desired goals. Soft competitiveness is one of such ways of shaping competitiveness and it originates from human resources, i.e. employees who contribute to the development of an organisation (enterprise). This article presents a behavioural-humanistic model of soft competitiveness of enterprises. The following assumptions have been made: Employees (human resources) are the source of soft competitiveness (thesis 1) and soft competitiveness is of a behavioural-humanistic nature (thesis 2). The theses presented have been interpreted with the use of the literature of the subject. Journal:  Jagiellonian Journal of Management CEEOL is a leading provider of academic e-journals and e-books in the Humanities and Social Sciences from and about Central and Eastern Europe. In the rapidly changing digital sphere CEEOL is a reliable source of adjusting expertise trusted by scholars, publishers and librarians. Currently, over 1000 publishers entrust CEEOL with their high-quality journals and e-books. CEEOL provides scholars, researchers and students with access to a wide range of academic content in a constantly growing, dynamic repository. Currently, CEEOL covers more than 2000 journals and 480.000 articles, over 2200 ebooks and 2500 grey literature document. CEEOL offers various services  to subscribing institutions  and their patrons to make access to its content as easy as possible. Furthermore, CEEOL allows  publishers  to reach new audiences and promote the scientific achievements of the Eastern European scientific community to a broader readership. Un-affiliated scholars have the possibility to access the repository by creating  their personal user account Invalid username or password! Please check the fields below. Enter your Username (Email) below. Shibboleth authentication is only available to registered institutions. 