Worship | Community Covenant Church of Scotts Valley Sunday Worship Time  while we ve enjoyed the early summer service time of 9:30 am to accommodate camp staff and the beach, our worship time will return to  10 am  on  September 1 . Bible and Ice Cream  Time to recommence our Adult Bible Study; what better way than with an ice cream social? September 3 at 2:30 at Gerry Cox s house. Please RSVP to Gerry  gerry1c@comcast.net  so he can make sure to make enough ice cream! First class meeting   September 17 at 10 am in the church Fireside Room Men s Bible Study  Our study will begin again on Wednesday, September 4 at 6:30 pm in the church library. It will be held the first and third Wednesday of each month. Contact Clark Walliser at  clark.walliser@gmail.com  with questions. Community Game Night  Our monthly game night continues on Wednesday, September 11 at 7 pm in the Fireside Room. Bring your favorite game and invite your friends. Email Rosie Alexander if you have questions  rosievideographer@gmail.com Women s Book Club   Come join our once a month women s book club! Will include tea, scones, and discussion led by Rosie Alexander. This month we are meeting on Friday, September 27th at 7 pm at the home of Karyl Erickson. The book is  North and South  by Elizabeth Gaskell. Plan to read the book by our meeting, but even if you can t finish it   come for the discussion and community! Contact Rosie for more information:  rosievideographer@gmail.com Women s Breakfast  Held at Auntie Mame s Restaurant in Scotts Valley, join us the fourth Monday of the month at 9 am for breakfast and conversation. The next breakfast is September 23rd.  You ll find us in the back dining room. Sunday, May 19, is Confirmation Sunday during our 10 am worship service. Come celebrate and congratulate the six students who have completed the two-year study. Sunday, January 28, after church will be our Annual Congregational Business meeting. Members will vote on the 2018 budget and Leadership Team. A soup lunch will be served and donations will be accepted for our youth ministry. Sunday, December 24 Two Services: 10 am regular service with children s program 5 pm family candlelight service Starting June 4 our worship service will be held at 9:30 am every Sunday during the summer and will return to the regular time on Labor Day weekend, September 3. This earlier worship time will provide an opportunity to serve the local summer camp staff and to get out of the house early and enjoy the day. 10:00 am Sunday Worship Celebration  &  Children s Program Office: (831) 438-4276 2700 El Rancho Drive Santa Cruz CA 95060 