Blood Pressure Medications Recalled Due To Cancer Risk Would you like to receive local news notifications on your desktop? Menu (FDA)– Legacy Pharmaceutical Packaging, LLC is recalling 43 repackaged lots of Losartan Tablets USP 25mg, 50mg, and 100mg to the consumer level. This recall was prompted due to Camber Pharmaceuticals, Inc. issuing a Voluntary Nationwide Recall of Losartan Tablets, USP, due to the detection of trace amounts of N-Nitroso N-Methyl 4-amino butyric acid (NMBA) a possible process impurity or contaminant in an active pharmaceutical ingredient, manufactured by Hetero Labs Limited, (API manufacturer). NMBA is a potential human carcinogen. To date, Legacy has not received any reports of adverse events related to this recall. Losartan Potassium USP is a prescription medication used to treat high blood pressure and congestive heart failure and is packaged in 30ct bottles. The identifying NDC number associated with Legacy’s product is as follows: The affected Losartan Potassium includes  3 repackaged      lots numbers which are listed below: The identifying NDC numbers associated with Legacy’s product are as follows: The affected Losartan Potassium includes  40 repackaged      lots numbers which are listed below: The product can be identified by checking the product name and repackaged lot number on the bottle containing these products. Losartan Potassium was distributed by pharmacies nationwide. Legacy Pharmaceutical Packaging LLC is notifying its distributors and customers in writing and is arranging/assisting for return of all recalled products to (a) For Distribution Center Level, please return the products to Legacy Pharmaceutical Packaging LLC; (b) For Retail Level, please return the products to Genco; or (c) For Consumer Level, please return the products to the dispensing pharmacy, whichever is applicable. Instructions for returning recalled products are provided in the recall letter. Consumers with questions regarding this recall can contact Stericycle at 1-888-275-0506, Monday – Friday, 9am – 5pm CST. Consumers should contact their physician or healthcare provider if they have experienced any problems that may be related to taking or using this drug product. Adverse reactions or quality problems experienced with the use of this product may be reported to the FDA’s MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program either online, by regular mail or by fax. This recall is being conducted with the knowledge of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. 