Men ' s Tissot Quickster NATO Chronograph Strap Watch with Silver-Tone Dial (Model: T095.417.17.037.01) | Tissot | Watches | Zales This Tissot Quickster NATO watch boasts a silver dial with date display, chronograph sub-dials and tachymeter scale bezel in a 42.0mm stainless steel case. The Swiss quartz movement keeps you right on time. It is water-resistant up to 100 meters and secures with a red, white, and black canvas strap with a buckle clasp. This watch includes a two-year limited manufacturer warranty. We are an authorized Tissot dealer. Typographic errors are subject to correction. Merchandise enlarged to show detail and may not always be exactly as pictured. Promotions, prices, styles and availability may vary by store and online. Your online purchase may be returned to any of our stores or returned by mail to our distribution center. Returns and exchanges are permitted within 60 days from the purchase date for jewelry; and within 30 days from the purchase date for watches. Jewelry must be in good condition with all original certificates and accessories. Watches must be unworn, unaltered and in original condition to be accepted for return or exchange. Return Instructions Share this item with others! The Diamond Credit Card Lease Purchase Program Facebook Twitter Pinterest Instagram YouTube © ZALES.COM Facebook Twitter Pinterest Instagram YouTube Map Marker Heart Fill Heart Outline Map Marer  We want to make your shopping experience at Zales.com simple and convenient. That ' s why we ' re pleased to offer you two ways to receive your purchase.   Choose to have your order shipped to the Zales, Zales Outlet nearest you, and we ' ll pay the shipping charges. When you pick up your order in the store, our experienced Jewelry Consultants will be on hand to help answer any questions.   Receive your purchase without leaving the comfort of your own home. Your order will be shipped directly to your door. For your protection, orders of $1,000 or more require a signature upon delivery, regardless of any signature waiver on file. UPS ®  will attempt to deliver 3 business days in a row before returning the package.  Swipe left on table to read more.  Orders must be received and clear credit authorization by 3:00 PM Central time or your order may not be processed until the following business day. Most packages leave our distribution center in 1‐2 business days. Exceptions include customized items, special order items, advanced order items, out of stock items, or items that require ring sizing.   Customers can obtain their UPS ®  tracking number from Zales by calling  1-800-311-5393  or by accessing their order details in Order Status.   Business days are Monday‐Friday, excluding U.S. federal holidays.   APO/FPO and P.O. Boxes may only be shipped via U.S. Postal Service and will require additional time for delivery.   UPS ®  Next Day Air Saver ®  delivery is only available for in‐stock items. Customized items, special order items, advanced order items, out of stock items, or items that require ring sizing are excluded.   Orders for UPS ®  Next Day Air Saver ®  delivery must be placed prior to 11:00 a.m. CT to be received on the next business day by 5:00 p.m.   UPS ®  Next Day Air Saver ®  is not available for orders to Alaska, Hawaii, U.S. territories, APO/FPO, or P.O. boxes. UPS Next Day Air Saver ®  delivery is available in most areas. Please contact UPS ®  to find out if this service is available in your area before selecting it as your preferred shipping method. They can be reached at 1-800-PICK-UPS ( 1-800-742-5877 ), or via  email .   UPS ®  Saturday Delivery is only available for in‐stock items. Customized items, special order items, advanced order items, out of stock items, or items that require ring sizing are excluded.   Orders for UPS ®  Saturday Delivery may only be placed on Thursday (after 11:00 a.m. CT) through Friday (before 1:00 p.m. CT).   UPS ®  Saturday Delivery is not available for orders to U.S. territories (except Puerto Rico), APO/FPO, or P.O. boxes. Please contact UPS ®  to find out if this service is available in your area before selecting it as your preferred shipping method. They can be reached at 1-800-PICK-UPS ( 1-800-742-5877 ), or via  email .   UPS ®  Saturday Delivery packages are shipped via UPS ®  2nd Day Air ®  if order is placed on Thursday and shipped via UPS ®  Next Day Air ®  if order is placed on Friday.   Allow extra delivery time for Alaska  &  Hawaii.  Swipe left on table to read more. 