Leotie Fukawa, CFP® - Product Specialist - Wealthfront | LinkedIn Liked by  Leotie Fukawa, CFP® Liked by  Leotie Fukawa, CFP® Liked by  Leotie Fukawa, CFP® Aug 2019   –  Present 5 months San Francisco Bay Area May 2018   –   Aug 2019 1 year 4 months San Francisco Bay Area Aug 2017   –   Feb 2018 7 months San Francisco Bay Area Nov 2016   –   Jul 2017 9 months Glastonbury, CT Jul 2016   –   Nov 2016 5 months Glastonbury, CT May 2015   –   Aug 2015 4 months McLean, VA Aug 2013   –   Dec 2014 1 year 5 months Blacksburg, Virginia Oct 2011   –   Oct 2013 2 years 1 month Newport News, VA 2012   –   2016 Activities and Societies: Financial Planning Association, Finance for Females, VT Running Club, REACH Living Learning Community, Leadership Tech Jan 2019   –  Present 1 year Economic Empowerment Feb 2015   –   Apr 2016 1 year 3 months Education Oct 2015   –   Dec 2015 3 months Education Sep 2014 Apr 2014 Health Apr 2013   –   Apr 2016 3 years 1 month Team-based case writing project to develop the 2016 Personal Finance Case Study for the Governor's Challenge in Economics and Personal Finance. The finished project was a client case study and accompanying balance sheet and budget. To answer the case, high school students had to apply what they learned in their required economics and personal finance courses and then present their recommendations for the chance to advance to national competitions.  Team-based case writing project to develop the 2016 Personal Finance Case Study for the Governor's Challenge in Economics and Personal Finance. The finished project was a client case study and accompanying balance sheet and budget. To answer the case, high school students had to apply what they learned in their required economics and personal finance courses and then present their recommendations for the chance to advance to national competitions.  Regional Winning Team from Virginia Tech, National Competition Participant Team-based case competition sponsored by Deloitte AERS Advisory. Developed and presented a proposal on Procurement Process Redesign and System Implementation of SAP Materials Management. Required understanding of SAP MM, risks and controls, and Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404. Presented our written proposal orally in front of campus recruiters, and later to corporate judges at Deloitte University.  Regional Winning Team from Virginia Tech, National Competition Participant Team-based case competition sponsored by Deloitte AERS Advisory. Developed and presented a proposal on Procurement Process Redesign and System Implementation of SAP Materials Management. Required understanding of SAP MM, risks and controls, and Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404. Presented our written proposal orally in front of campus recruiters, and later to corporate judges at Deloitte University.  2014 Second Place Winner 2015 Finalist Team-based case competition sponsored by the Pamplin Multicultural Diversity Committee. Developed important professional skills in analyzing and responding to complex business issues involving diversity. Presented our recommendations to corporate executives who served as a panel of judges.  2014 Second Place Winner 2015 Finalist Team-based case competition sponsored by the Pamplin Multicultural Diversity Committee. Developed important professional skills in analyzing and responding to complex business issues involving diversity. Presented our recommendations to corporate executives who served as a panel of judges.  The CFP Board partnered with Fidelity Investments, the founding sponsor of the CFP Board Career Center, to establish an exam scholarship program. The exam scholarship award covers the full registration fee for the CFP® Certification Exam. The CFP Board partnered with Fidelity Investments, the founding sponsor of the CFP Board Career Center, to establish an exam scholarship program. The exam scholarship award covers the full registration fee for the CFP® Certification Exam. The Virginia Tech Financial Planning Program participates in the Society of Financial Service Professionals University Partners Program (UPP). The Society of FSP provides each participating school with 10 student awards to distribute.  These awards provide recognition and valuable resources to top students demonstrating academic excellence in their financial services related courses. The Virginia Tech Financial Planning Program participates in the Society of Financial Service Professionals University Partners Program (UPP). The Society of FSP provides each participating school with 10 student awards to distribute.  These awards provide recognition and valuable resources to top students demonstrating academic excellence in their financial services related courses. Acknowledgment of and appreciation for selfless service to and stewardship within the Virginia Tech Financial Planning Program Acknowledgment of and appreciation for selfless service to and stewardship within the Virginia Tech Financial Planning Program Recognition of superior commitment to enhancing the understanding of and appreciation for end-of-life care-giving and decision-making in Financial Planning Education Recognition of superior commitment to enhancing the understanding of and appreciation for end-of-life care-giving and decision-making in Financial Planning Education A preview of what LinkedIn members have to say about Leotie: I was one of Leotie ' s Intern Managers for her 2015 summer internship with Sullivan, Bruyette, Speros  &  Blayney (SBSB) in McLean, VA. It was a pleasure to host her for the summer and I was able to witness first-hand the amount of real, tangible value the firm was able to derive from her work supporting our financial planning client service teams. Leotie was able to balance tasks assigned by a number of different individuals while completing them with accuracy and meeting deadlines.  She has a budding passion for the industry that is evident in her approach to the client work she completed this summer, as well as her active involvement in Virginia Tech ' s Financial Planning program.  I was one of Leotie ' s Intern Managers for her 2015 summer internship with Sullivan, Bruyette, Speros  &  Blayney (SBSB) in McLean, VA. It was a pleasure to host her for the summer and I was able to witness first-hand the amount of real, tangible value the firm was able to derive from her work supporting our financial planning client service teams. Leotie was able to balance tasks assigned by a number of different individuals while completing them with accuracy and meeting deadlines.  She... I was one of Leotie ' s Intern Managers for her 2015 summer internship with Sullivan, Bruyette, Speros  &  Blayney (SBSB) in McLean, VA. It was a pleasure to host her for the summer and I was able to witness first-hand the amount of real, tangible value the firm was able to derive from her work supporting our financial planning client service teams. Leotie was able to balance tasks assigned by a number of different individuals while completing them with accuracy and meeting deadlines.  She has a budding passion for the industry that is evident in her approach to the client work she completed this summer, as well as her active involvement in Virginia Tech ' s Financial Planning program.  1 person has recommended Leotie Join now to view Join to view Leotie’s full profile 