Preliminary Development of a Multidimensional Semantic Patient Experience Measurement Questionnaire - James A. Kleiss, 2016 You can be signed in via any or all of the methods shown below at the same time. Sign in here to access free tools such as favourites and alerts, or to access personal subscriptions I don't have a profile I am signed in as: '+$user.attr('name')+' With my free profile I can: If you have access to journal content via a university, library or employer, sign in here I am signed in via: my institutional subscription Sign in via:  Shibboleth Sign in via:  Open Athens Signed in via:  a federated identity Sign in via:  Shibboleth Sign in via:  Open Athens my institutional subscription With institutional access I can: If you have access to journal via a society or associations, read the instructions below Access to society journal content varies across our titles. If you have access to a journal via a society or association membership, please browse to your society journal, select an article to view, and follow the instructions in this box. Contact us if you experience any difficulty logging in. Some society journals require you to create a personal profile, then activate your society account I am signed in via: my society or association my society or association With society access I can: Need Help? Contact SAGE You are adding the following journals to your email alerts Contents If you have the appropriate software installed, you can download article citation data to the citation manager of your choice. Simply select your manager software from the list below and click on download. If you have the appropriate software installed, you can download article citation data to the citation manager of your choice. Simply select your manager software from the list below and click on download. Share this article via social media. The e-mail addresses that you supply to use this service will not be used for any other purpose without your consent. Email a link to the following content: Your email has been sent! All fields are required Sharing links are not available for this article. For more information view the  SAGE Journals Article Sharing  page. Create a link to share a read only version of this article with your colleagues and friends. For more information view the  SAGE Journals Sharing  page. Please read and accept the  terms and conditions  and check the box to generate a sharing link. I have read and accept the terms and conditions View permissions information for this article Explore More The purpose of this research was to assess the utility and reliability of a multidimensional patient experience measurement questionnaire in a clinical setting. Patient experience has emerged as an important metric for quality of healthcare. A number of separate concepts have been used to measure patient experience, but psychological research suggests that subjective experience is actually a composite of several independent concepts including: (a) evaluation/valence, (b) potency/control, (c) activity/arousal, and (d) novelty. The present research evaluates the reliability of a multidimensional patient experience measurement questionnaire in a clinical setting. A multidimensional semantic differential questionnaire was developed to measure the four underlying semantic dimensions of patient experience mentioned above. A group of 60 patients used the questionnaire to assess prescan expectations and postscan experience of a magnetic resonance scan. Data for one patient were deleted because their scan was interrupted. Results revealed more positive evaluation/valence, higher potency/control, and lower activity/arousal for postscan ratings compared to prescan expectations. Ratings of novelty were neutral in both the prescan and the postscan conditions. Subsequent analysis suggested that internal consistency for some concepts could be improved by replacing several specific rating scales. Present results provide evidence of the utility and reliability of a multidimensional semantic questionnaire for measuring patient experience in an actual clinical setting. Recommendations to improve internal consistency for the concepts potency/control, activity/arousal, and novelty were also provided. The traditional metric for quality of medical care has been clinical outcomes. With the advent of the Affordable Care Act, however, patient satisfaction has risen to prominence as a metric for healthcare quality ( “Hospital Consumer Assessment,” 2015 , but see also  Jenkinson, Coulter,  &  Bruster, 2002 ;  Ware, Snyder, Wright,  &  Davies, 1983 ). With this growing emphasis on patients’ subjective response to clinical settings, interest has also grown in understanding the factors that influence patients’ subjective experience. Global metrics such as the Hospital Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers and Systems (HCAHPSs;  Hospital Consumer Assessment, 2015 ) are aimed at a high-level understanding of the entire hospital stay or visit. As such, they may not be suitable for informing design decisions at a detailed level. In fact, the  HCAHPS Fact Sheet (Healthcare Consumer Assessment, 2015 ) specifically recommends against using the questionnaire to make within-hospital comparisons. Design research intended to inform design decisions at a detailed level has used a variety of measures to quantify patients’ subjective response to environmental manipulations. These include satisfaction (e.g.,  Quan, Joseph,  &  Ensign, 2012 ), comfort ( Okken, van Rompay,  &  Pruyn, 2013 ;  Rathert, Williams, McCaughey,  &  Ishquaidef, 2012 ), stress and anxiety ( Fenko  &  Loock, 2014 ;  Laursen, Danielsen,  &  Rosenberg, 2014 ;  Spielberger, Gorsuch,  &  Lushane, 1970 ), positive distraction ( Hartig, Korpela, Evans,  &  G€arling, 1997 ;  Laumann, Gärling,  &  Stormark, 2001 ), pain ( Robinson  &  Green, 2015 ), a sense of environmental control ( Lee  &  Brand, 2005 ), and willingness to recommend to others ( Quan et al., 2012 ). Given this variety of measures one might ask, which is most appropriate in any given circumstance? Defining a minimal set of meaningful metrics would be both helpful and parsimonious. Given this variety of measures one might ask, which is most appropriate in any given circumstance? Osgood, Suci, and Tannebaum (1957)  used a battery of bipolar attribute rating scales (so-called Semantic Differential Scales) to measure subjective response to a variety of sensory stimuli and concepts. Using a factor analytic technique, they found that attributes consistently clustered into three primary categories: evaluation (positive vs. negative valence), potency (strength or effectiveness), and activity (speed or intensity).  Osgood et al. (1957)  argued for a multidimensional conceptual framework in which experience is described by a composite of three semantic dimensions rather than a single concept. The semantic differential technique has a fairly long history of use in applied contexts to measure subjective responses ( Mindak, 1961 ). It has been refined for practical purposes to provide design guidance by correlating product features with specific semantic qualities (e.g.,  Chuang, Chang  &  Hsu, 2001 ;  Chuang  &  Ma, 2001 ;  Hsiao  &  Chen, 1997 ).  Kleiss, Georgiev, and Robinson (2012)  adapted the semantic differential technique for use in a medical context to relate auditory device signals to the medical messages they were intended to indicate based on common semantic meaning. Using a factor analytic technique, they replicated the three semantic factors of evaluation, potency, and activity identified by  Osgood et al. (1957) , plus a fourth factor related to novelty or familiarity.  Kleiss and Ouyang (2014)  extended the semantic differential technique to measurement of patients’ experience in the context of a variety of simulated mammography exam rooms that differed in such qualities as color, room size, type of lighting, and acoustic properties. Using a factor analytic technique they replicated  Osgood et al.’s (1957)  three basic semantic dimensions of evaluation, potency, and activity, plus an additional fourth dimension of novelty. Using a factor analytic technique they replicated  Osgood et al.’s (1957)  three basic semantic dimensions of evaluation, potency, and activity, plus an additional fourth dimension of novelty. The purpose of the present research was to evaluate the use of a semantic differential technique to measure patients’ experience in an actual clinical setting. The clinical setting of interest was a magnetic resonance (MR) imaging scan. Patients undergoing an MR scan may experience stress and discomfort due to uncertainty regarding possible disease conditions as well as to the foreign nature of the clinical environment itself. The ability to reliably measure patient experience on all relevant dimensions of experience is an important precursor to effectively evaluating the impact of specific design manipulations on each independent dimension of experience. The research protocol and materials were reviewed and approved by the Affinity Health System institutional review board (IRB00003490), Appleton, WI. The participants were 60 patients scheduled for routine MR scans at St. Elizabeth Hospital in Appleton. There was no attempt to screen patients for participation in the study other than that participation was voluntary (indicated by signing a consent form) and that patients had to be fluent in English in order to fill out the questionnaire. Patients provided basic demographic information but no protected health information. The data for one patient were deleted because the patient’s scan was interrupted. Patient demographic data are summarized in  Table 1 . One can see that there was a wide range of age represented and that there were approximately twice as many females as males. Patients received scans for a variety of medical purposes, although the largest proportion of scans was for orthopedic issues. Data regarding the medical purpose of the exam were collected by the technologists who conducted the exam and were not associated with any identifying patient information. These data were secured by the clinic and not made available to the author. Table 1.  Participant Demographic Information. Table 1.  Participant Demographic Information. All data were collected in the patient waiting area of an MR scan suite. The MR scan suite was isolated from the larger clinic, and the patient waiting area was separate from the room in which the MR scan was conducted. Neither the MR scanning device nor the interior details of the scan room were visible from the patient waiting area. The prescan ratings were taken after the patient had signed the consent form but before they had entered the MR scan room. The postscan ratings were taken after the patient had completed their scan and had returned to the patient waiting area. The bipolar semantic differential rating scales used by  Kleiss and Ouyang (2014)  to assess mammography patients’ experience of simulated mammography exam rooms were adapted for use with this more diverse sample of patients.  Table 2  shows the bipolar attribute pairs from  Kleiss and Ouyang (2014 ) organized according to the factors on which they loaded most heavily in the factor analysis that was performed on the semantic differential ratings. Attributes at the top of each column have the largest factor loadings.  Osgood et al. (1957 ) recommend that three bipolar attribute pairs be chosen for each semantic concept being measured. The attributes that were chosen to be retained from the study of  Kleiss and Ouyang (2014 ) are indicated by asterisks. Only two attribute pairs were retained for the novelty factor, and an additional pair, interesting/uninteresting, was added with the intent of capturing the common underlying concept of interest that new phenomena may elicit. Only two attribute pairs were retained for the potency factor, and an additional pair, insecure/confident, was added with the intent of capturing the common underlying concept of security and confidence. Three new attribute pairs were chosen for the activity factor with the intent of capturing the common underlying concept of stimulation and arousal. The final set of 12 bipolar attribute pairs is shown in  Table 3  organized by the semantic concept they are intended to measure. The sequential order of attributes, as well as the polarity of the bipolar anchors (left vs. right), was randomized for presentation to patients to avoid response bias. The randomized order is shown in  Table 4 . Table 2.  Bipolar Attribute Factor Structure for Mammography Patients. Table 2.  Bipolar Attribute Factor Structure for Mammography Patients. Table 3.  Bipolar Semantic Attribute Pairs Grouped by Semantic Concept. Table 3.  Bipolar Semantic Attribute Pairs Grouped by Semantic Concept. Table 4.  Randomized Order of Bipolar Semantic Attribute Pairs. Table 4.  Randomized Order of Bipolar Semantic Attribute Pairs. The attribute pairs served as anchors for 7-point bipolar attribute semantic differential rating scales. Following  Osgood et al. (1957) , the middle point on each rating scale was anchored with the word “neither” indicating a neutral experience in which neither attribute applied. Proceeding outward, the three points on either side of the neutral point were anchored with words “slightly,” “quite,” and “extremely,” indicating increasingly greater agreement with the attribute at the corresponding end point of each rating scale. The format of one bipolar attribute rating scale is shown in  Figure 1 . The verbal anchors for the individual rating points were shown above the first rating scale only. Figure 1.  Example of a Bipolar Attribute Rating Scale with anchors. All 12 rating scales appeared on a single sheet of paper preceded in the case of the prescan condition by two paragraphs describing the purpose of the study plus a description of how to fill out the rating scales. These instructions are shown in  Appendix A . The postscan data sheet was printed on a separate page and contained the same 12 ratings scales preceded by the instructional paragraph shown in  Appendix B . Upon entering the patient waiting area of the MR scan room, patients were asked if they would volunteer to fill out a questionnaire to assess their experience during their scan. Those who volunteered were given a consent form to read and sign and then the prescan data sheet containing instructions for filling out the prescan ratings scales. Prescan ratings asked the patient to evaluate their “expected” experience during the scan.  Barclay and Thumin (1963 ) provide evidence that semantic differential rating scales are effective for evaluating hypothetical entities such as the personality characteristics of hypothetical individuals. The intent was for ratings of expected experience to provide a benchmark against which to compare ratings of the actual scan experience. To further familiarize patients with the rating procedure, they were also shown a hypothetical example consisting of two bipolar semantic differential rating scales marked to show how to indicate similarities and differences in the taste of two types of coffee, a common experience familiar to most patients. The clinical routine of the scan was not otherwise altered except that patients were returned to the waiting area after their scan to fill out the postscan rating scales. Bipolar semantic differential ratings were transcribed from the paper data sheets to a spreadsheet application for further analysis. The middle point on each rating scale was coded with the numeric value “0.” Proceeding left from the middle point, points were coded −1, −2, and −3 successively. Proceeding right from the middle point, points were coded 1, 2, and 3 successively. Following initial data entry, the polarity of the values for three rating scales was reversed so that all three rating scales within the same semantic concept had consistent polarity. This was accomplished by multiplying the original scores by the value −1. The bipolar attribute pairs that were reversed were sheltered/exposed (reversed to exposed [−3]/sheltered [+3]), interesting/uninteresting (reversed to uninteresting [−3]/interesting [+3]), and unusual/routine (reversed to routine [−3]/unusual [+3]). The scores for the three rating scales within each semantic concept were then averaged to produce a single mean score for each of the four semantic concepts for each patient. The scores were then averaged across patients within each of the four semantic concepts for each of the prescan and postscan conditions. The four means that describe semantic experience for a given condition can be visualized as a profile by charting the means in a line graph. The profiles for the prescan and postscan conditions are shown in  Figure 2 . For clarity, the three attributes associated with each pole of each semantic concept are shown grouped above and below each corresponding mean. The semantic concept to which each group of attributes belongs is shown above the attributes. Figure 2.  Semantic profiles for the prescan and postscan conditions. One can see in  Figure 2  that the two profiles are globally similar: slightly high in evaluation (friendly/welcoming/pleasing), slightly high in potency (confident/sheltered/protected), slightly low in activity (relaxing/still/calming), and neutral with regard to novelty. Postscan ratings tend to be more positive in evaluation, higher in potency, and lower in activity than prescan ratings. A series of  t -tests was conducted to provide support for the above observations. The first set of  t -tests assessed possible differences between the mean ratings in the prescan and postscan conditions compared to the zero middle point on the rating scales. Results are shown in  Table 5 . There is a trend for all means to be positive in evaluation, high in potency, and low in activity. Means did not deviate significantly from zero for novelty. Table 5. t -Tests for Differences From Zero. Table 5. t -Tests for Differences From Zero. A second set of  t -tests assessed possible differences between the prescan and postscan ratings. Results are shown in  Table 6 . Postscan ratings tended to be more positive in evaluation, higher in potency, and lower in activity than those in the prescan condition. There was no difference between prescan and postscan ratings of novelty. Table 6. t -Tests for the Difference Between Prescan and Postscan Ratings. Table 6. t -Tests for the Difference Between Prescan and Postscan Ratings. A key criterion for measuring psychological concepts is that the rating scales chosen to measure the concept do so consistently. To assess the internal consistency of the present rating scales, each set of the three rating scales was submitted to a factor analysis using the varimax rotation. Factor analysis assesses the degree to which a set of measurements are associated with a common underlying construct or factor. There are two major criteria: (a) that the rating scales all load on a single common factor and (b) that the internal consistency of the rating scales, measured by Cronbach’s α coefficient, is high.  Nunnally and Bernstein (1994)  recommend a minimum Cronbach’s α coefficient of at least .700 for acceptable internal consistency. Separate analyses were performed on the ratings for each semantic concept within each of the prescan and postscan conditions. Results are summarized in  Table 7 . Table 7.  Factor Loadings and Cronbach’s α Coefficients for Bipolar Attribute Pairs Within Each Semantic Concept. Table 7.  Factor Loadings and Cronbach’s α Coefficients for Bipolar Attribute Pairs Within Each Semantic Concept. Results in  Table 7  show that the rating scales used to measure the semantic concept of evaluation (annoying/pleasing, forbidding/welcoming, and impersonal/friendly) all load on a single common factor in both the prescan and the postscan conditions. The Cronbach’s α coefficients in both cases also exceed the critical value of .700. This provides evidence that these three rating scales reliably measure the semantic concept of evaluation. The three attribute pairs intended to measure the semantic concept of potency (vulnerable/protected, insecure/confident, and exposed/sheltered) also load on a single common factor in both the prescan and the postscan conditions. However, the Cronbach’s α coefficient in the prescan condition is considerably smaller than the critical value of .700. Examination of the factor loadings in the prescan condition reveals that the loading is much smaller for the exposed/sheltered attribute pair than it is for the other two attribute pairs. This suggests that the exposed/sheltered attribute pair is not as highly associated with the underlying concept of potency as the other two attribute pairs. The Cronbach’s α coefficient in the postscan condition does exceed the critical value of .700, and the factor loadings are large for all three attribute pairs. This suggests that the experience of the MR scan itself provides additional context that clarifies the meaning of the exposed/sheltered attribute pair. The three attribute pairs intended to measure the semantic concept of activity (calming/invigorating, relaxing/stimulating, and still/lively) all load on a single common factor in both the prescan and the postscan conditions. The Cronbach’s α coefficient in the prescan condition (.686) narrowly misses the critical value .700, whereas it exceeds the critical value in the postscan condition. Once again, this suggests that the actual experience of the MR scan provides additional context that clarifies the meaning of the attributes. It should be noted that factor loadings for the attribute pairs calming/invigorating and relaxing/stimulating increase considerably in the postscan condition, whereas the factor loading for the still/lively attribute pair actually decreases somewhat. Taken together, these results suggest that the reliability of the still/lively attribute pair for measuring the underlying semantic concept of activity is poorer than the other two attribute pairs. Results for the attribute pairs intended to measure the semantic concept of novelty (unfamiliar/familiar, unusual/routine, and uninteresting/interesting) exhibited mixed reliability. In particular, the uninteresting/interesting attribute pair diverged to form a second unique factor in the prescan condition, suggesting that it does not measure the same underlying semantic concept as that being measured by the other two attribute pairs. All attribute pairs loaded on a single common factor in the postscan condition, but the uninteresting/interesting attribute pair had a small and negative factor loading. Therefore, the uninteresting/interesting attribute pair does not appear to be a reliable measure of the underlying semantic concept of novelty in this context. The primary goal of this research was to generalize a multidimensional semantic differential technique for measuring patient experience to an actual clinical setting, the MR scan, with a diverse sample of patients. Results revealed that patient experience was generally positive in evaluation (friendly, pleasing, and welcoming), high in potency (protected, confident, and sheltered), low in activity (calming, relaxing, and still), and neutral in novelty. However, experience after the scan was more positive in evaluation, higher in potency, and lower in activity than it was prior to the scan. The average patient had experienced at least one prior scan (see  Table 1 ), so the difference between prescan and postscan ratings is not due to mere inexperience with the MR scan procedure. The room in which scans occurred was in a recently constructed addition to the clinic and had been outfitted with special lighting, audio, and video capability, which could have influenced patients’ ratings on these three dimensions. A key criterion in psychological measurement is that the rating scales intended to measure a psychological concept of interest do so consistently. Analyses of internal consistency revealed mixed results but pointed to opportunities for improvement. The three rating scales used to measure the semantic concept of evaluation (impersonal/friendly, forbidding/welcoming, and annoying/pleasing) exhibited consistently high reliability and appear to provide good candidates for measuring the general concept of evaluation in clinical settings going forward. The bipolar attribute pairs used to measure the semantic concept of potency (vulnerable/protected, insecure/confident, and exposed/sheltered) exhibited mixed internal consistency. The exposed/sheltered attribute pair, in particular, showed poor internal consistency. The exposed/sheltered attribute pair was selected with the intent of capturing an environmental distinction described by  Appleton (1975)  between prospect (an open space that provides opportunity) and refuge (an enclosed space that provides safety). Results suggest that this was not a particularly meaningful concept to patients prior to their MR scan. It should be noted that the other two attribute pairs, insecure/confident and vulnerable/protected, appear to connote a slightly different meaning than exposed/sheltered, capturing the subjective feeling of confidence or self-assuredness. Measurement reliability for the semantic concept of potency might, therefore, be improved by replacing the exposed/sheltered attribute pair with a pair that this is more closely aligned with the concept of confidence. One possibility is uncertain/self-assured. The three bipolar attributes used to measure the semantic concept of activity failed by a small margin to meet the criterion for internal consistency in the prescan condition but did so in the postscan condition. The increase in reliability in the postscan condition was due mainly to larger factor loadings for the calming/invigorating and relaxing/stimulating attribute pairs. The factor loading for the still/lively attribute pair actually decreased. The attributes relaxing/stimulating and calming/invigorating describe feelings of arousal, whereas the attributes still/lively describe movement. Although these are both aspects of activity, it would appear that the feeling of arousal is most meaningful to patients in this context. Reliability for measuring the semantic concept of activity might, therefore, be improved with an attribute pair that is more closely aligned with the concept of arousal, for example, peaceful/agitated. The three bipolar attribute pairs used to measure the concept of novelty (unfamiliar/familiar, unusual/routine, and uninteresting/interesting) also exhibited mixed internal consistency. In particular, the uninteresting/interesting attribute pair had a small and negative factor loading. Taken together, this suggests that the uninteresting/interesting attribute pair is measuring a different underlying concept than is being measured by the other two attribute pairs. The uninteresting/interesting attribute pair was chosen to capture an assumed quality of novel objects or events to attract attention and fascinate. It does not appear that this quality of novelty was particularly meaningful to patients in the present context. The attribute pairs routine/unusual and familiar/unfamiliar connote familiarity or typicality, and an alternative attribute pair that is more aligned with that concept would be typical/uncommon. The proposed changes discussed above are illustrated in  Table 8 . Table 8.  Proposed Changes to Bipolar Semantic Attribute Pairs Grouped by Semantic Concept. Table 8.  Proposed Changes to Bipolar Semantic Attribute Pairs Grouped by Semantic Concept. A multidimensional conceptualization of patient experience has potential to integrate at least some of the diverse measures of patient experience that currently exist. The commonly used concept of satisfaction ( “HCAHPSs”, 2015 ;  Jenkinson et al., 2002 ;  Ware et al., 1983 ) has a connotation of positive versus negative valence that places it squarely within the domain of the semantic concept of evaluation. Therefore, evaluation can accommodate current satisfaction measures as well as any other measures that imply valence. Osgood et al.’s (1957)  semantic concept of potency connotes strength or efficacy, which appears related to the concept of control discussed by  Lee and Brand (2005 ). The opposite of strength is weakness. However, because negative valence is captured by the evaluation dimension, weakness in the context of the potency dimension should not be taken to have negative valence. Rather, it simply connotes susceptibility to being controlled or, perhaps, a submissive/compliant attitude. It is possible that patients might feel overly submissive in a clinical environment and that an enhanced sense of environmental security would be preferable to counteract that effect. Stress and anxiety have also been used as measures of patient experience ( Spielberger et al., 1970 ). Stress and anxiety have a clear connotation of negative valence and are, therefore, related to the semantic concept of evaluation. However, stress and anxiety also connote a certain high level of intensity or arousal, which implies the semantic concept of activity. Stress and anxiety, therefore, might not be unique concepts in themselves but might reflect a combination of specific levels of evaluation and activity. Other apparently unique concepts might also reflect combinations of two or more basic semantic concepts. For example, boredom also appears to combine evaluation and activity/arousal but with a low levels of each. One advantage of a semantic approach to patient experience is that it can integrate many disparate concepts within an overarching multidimensional framework. One consequence of a multidimensional semantic conceptualization of patient experience is that any given design will have several criteria for acceptability not just one. To this point, it is important to note that not all of the semantic dimensions have a clearly preferred pole. Positive evaluation will always be desirable. Depending on preferences of the intended population of patients, however, an ideal design might be low, neutral, or high on other semantic dimensions. Even in the case of potency, it is possible to conceive of a situation in which a strong and secure environment might be desirable for occupant security (probably true in the present case), or a submissive and easily manipulated environment might be desirable for occupant strength and control. Whether or not a particular environmental feature is perceived to be desirable will depend upon the state of the perceiver and their goals. Because of the lack of inherent valence for most semantic concepts, it is difficult to anticipate what preferences a given population of patients might have without first assessing those preferences. The present bipolar semantic differential rating scales provide two options for setting design goals anchored directly to patients’ experience. One was exemplified in the present research by patients’ ratings of their own expected experience prior to the MR scan. Patients’ ratings of their expectations provide a quantitative criterion against which to compare ratings of the actual scan experience. In the present case, the actual scan showed a trend toward more positive evaluation, higher potency, and lower activity than prescan expectations. More positive evaluation will always be desirable. The potency dimension does not have inherent valence. However, the higher postscan potency scores reflect a greater perceived sense of security than was expected by patients prior to the exam, and this seems like a desirable outcome. Activity also does not have inherent valence. The lower postscan activity scores indicate that patients felt more relaxed, still, and calm after the scan than they expected prior to the scan and this also seems like a desirable outcome. Hence, it would appear that the current facility exceeds patients’ expectations with regard to these dimensions of experience.  Coates (2003 ) also describes a similar use of semantic differential rating scales to assess consumers’ “ideal” product profile. Consumers rated their hypothetical ideal product on a set of semantic differential ratings scales, which then served as criteria against which to compare ratings of actual designs. An alternative, but less rigorous, criterion for quantifying design intent is to reference design intent to the natural zero point that exists on the semantic differential rating scales. Here, a simple directional statement such as low, neutral, or high will suffice to describe design intent. Correspondence to design intent can be readily assessed with prototypes or actual products/environments. To the extent that one can assess a design against quantitative criteria for patient experience, a question naturally arises regarding how to modify a design to move scores in a desired direction. Just as the full richness of patient experience cannot be described by a single concept or metric, no single design feature will be adequate to optimize experience on all semantic dimensions simultaneously. Indeed, any given design feature might have a desirable effect on one semantic dimension of experience but have no effect or even an undesirable effect on others. Some guidance for choosing design features to influence specific semantic concepts in a desirable direction may be obtained by considering the specific meaning of the concepts. For example, evaluation reflects positive versus negative valence, and any design feature that evokes “liking,” or “disliking,” will influence this dimension. Objectively, it is difficult to say what specific physical features will influence evaluation in any given situation. However,  Coates (2003)  describes a concept of objective concinnity, which he associates with the classic aesthetic properties of harmony, elegance, and symmetry. In the present case, evaluation was probably also influenced by social factors related to staff interactions as captured by the attributes impersonal/friendly and forbidding/welcoming. Indeed, semantic differentials are effective for evaluating personality characteristics ( Barclay  &  Thumin, 1963 ), and it might be unavoidable that such factors will influence certain dimensions of experience. Hence, evaluation in a clinical context may well extend beyond the physical design of the clinical space itself. Potency implies effectiveness and control. Control may be viewed from two different perspectives depending upon the state of the occupant. If the occupant seeks to control the environment, then the environment must be submissive, that is, open, reachable, graspable, in essence providing prospect in  Appleton’s (1975)  sense. If the occupant feels submissive, as patients might be assumed to feel, then the environment must be sturdy and protective, in essence providing refuge in  Appleton’s (1975)  sense. The important point is that there is a reciprocal relationship between the occupant and the environment. Which environmental features, prospect or refuge, are best suited to those needs will depend upon the state of the patient/occupant. Activity literally reflects speed or movement but encompasses the general concept of arousal. Manipulating the intensity of any sensory factors will likely influence perceived activity. However, the complexity of the environment reflected in density of environmental elements, texture, contrasting elements, and so on may also influence perceived Activity. Novelty reflects familiarity but will vary from person to person depending upon one’s own personal experience.  Coates (2003)  uses the concept of subjective concinnity to describe the correspondence between an external object or event and one’s own expectations or ideal. Manipulating novelty is easy but risky. One needs to only add new or unexpected features to an environment in order to obtain novelty. However, novelty comes with a risk in that too much novelty might be startling to occupants or seem too foreign. Therefore, increasing novelty must be done with caution so as to balance the arousal of new experiences with the discomfort of excessive foreignness. In this light, it is interesting to note the patients in the present study expected a neutral experience of novelty and judged their actual experience to be neutral, despite the presence of “novel” lighting, audio, and video features in the scan room. To the extent that typical clinical features are perceived to be familiar by patients, removing or replacing them will necessarily move the experience of novelty from familiar toward neutral. However, one might question the need for additional novelty beyond this point, given the already desirable scores on the dimensions of evaluation, potency, and activity. Additional novelty might simply make the room seem too foreign. The present research demonstrated the practical utility and reliability of a multidimensional semantic approach to measuring patient experience in a clinical setting. Based upon results, recommendations were made to improve the measurement reliability for three of the four semantic dimensions. These recommendations remain to be validated by future research. A multidimensional semantic conceptualization of patient experience accommodates many of the disparate measurement concepts that currently exist in the literature and integrates them into a conceptual whole that is consistent with psychological theory. An important implication of a multidimensional conceptualization of patient experience is that the full richness of patient experience cannot be adequately described by any single measure, regardless of its face validity, but requires a complete profile of measures. Similarly, a profile of different design features is required to influence experience on each dimension in the desired direction. An important implication of a multidimensional conceptualization of patient experience is that the full richness of patient experience cannot be adequately described by any single measure, regardless of its face validity, but requires a complete profile of measures. Similarly, a profile of different design features is required to influence experience on each dimension in the desired direction. To summarize, the present semantic approach to measuring patient experience provides a convenient and reliable measurement technique that is based on psychological theory and captures the richness of underlying patient experience on multiple dimensions simultaneously. It can also be conveniently administered in an actual clinical setting with a diverse sample of patients. The full richness of underlying patient experience can be captured by the four underlying semantic dimensions of evaluation, potency, activity, and novelty. Each dimension should be assessed with three corresponding bipolar attribute rating scales. Create a profile of scores by averaging the three bipolar attribute rating scales within each of the four semantic concepts. Reference profiles for design concepts, or actual designs, to patients’ estimates of expected or ideal experience to assess correspondence to design intent. Compare semantic profiles for two or more prototypes or concepts to identify points of similarity and difference and inform design changes to move experience in the intended direction. St. Elizabeth Hospital is interested in improving how you feel while undergoing an MR scan. Please take a few minutes to indicate how you  expect to feel  during your MR scan today. Do this by filling out the rating scales below. Each rating scale consists of two opposite words with seven check boxes in between. Check a box between each pair of words that best describes how you expect to feel during your MR scan today. Check one box between each pair of words that best describes how you expect to feel during your exam today. Once again, check one box between each pair of words. This time, check the box that describes how you  actually felt  during your MR scan today. The author wishes to thank Jim Hanlon, Affinity Health System, for assistance with data collection and data entry for this research. Declaration of Conflicting Interests The author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this article. Funding The author(s) received no financial support for the research, authorship, and/or publication of this article. article book data external-link info-round info-round external-link 