About Us | Kamloops Society for Community Inclusion affordable housing. community involvement. meaningful employment. A A A At Kamloops Society for Community Inclusion, we believe we have a responsibility to empower people, remove barriers that restrict life choices, build autonomy and independence, and uphold the rights of people with diverse abilities. We are proud to have served Kamloops for over 65 years, and have a rich history in this community. We are overseen by a volunteer board of directors comprised of local community and family members. Our focus is on supporting and working with adults who have developmental disabilities; helping them carve out fulfilling lives within their community. The services we offer, such as customized employment, housing initiatives, and community inclusion supports, the people we serve are able to accomplish their goals and live life on their own terms. Kamloops Society for Community Inclusion is operated by a board of directors made up of community members and family members who volunteer their time to guide the Society in new and innovative directions. Daily operations are overseen by the Executive Director, Community Inclusion Manager, and Residential Managers. They are always available to answer any questions. We are located at 521 Seymour Street, in Downtown Kamloops. Our office hours are 8:00 am   4:00 pm, Monday through Friday, excluding holidays. Drop by and say hello! The Kamloops Society for Community Inclusion (KSCI); formerly know as Kamloops Society for Community Living and then Inclusion Kamloops Society, was formed in 1956 by a group of concerned parents who wanted an alternative for their children at a time when children who were born with developmental disabilities were excluded from the regular school system. Since then, the Society has served the needs of people with disabilities and their families through a wide range of community activities, projects and services. Over the years, the services have grown and changed as resources were developed that enabled individuals to have opportunities to experience a higher quality of life while community integration has allowed many people to reach their fullest potential. In contrast to earlier forms of services that emphasized standardized service options, KSCI has moved to a more “person-centered” model built around the unique values, priorities and preferences of each individual it serves. Kamloops Society for Community Inclusion continues to utilize a  person-centered  model of care and community inclusion to support individuals. We are striving to support individuals to live in their own homes with appropriate support from their families and the community. Through our many services and initiatives, we believe in fostering community inclusion, unpaid relationships, meaningful employment, and independent housing to all individuals that we support. Welcome to Kamloops Society for Community Inclusion. We are a non-profit society dedicated to enriching the lives of adults with diverse abilities and promoting community inclusion in every form. 