Amarok 2.0 TDI ( 90kw) towing ? - Forum Topic I would like to know what anyones experience has been using this vehicle, I plan to be pulling a Penta, this is the lower specced engine, just not sure about the 2.0 L engine .. I just test drove this bakkie and dont think there will be any problems there is loads of low down torque Darren Do you have one or are you thinking to buy one? If you are in the market do yourself a favour and test drive the Ford Ranger 2.2 as well. I used to be a huge VW fan, but due to their poor service will never drive one again. (sold my Vivo with only 14000km on the clock). Our Co bought an Amarok (90kw) for testing. Would have changed +/- 80 vehicles to Amarok. At 72000km Cambelt broke. Not the Only Amarok that this has happened to. (we settled for the Ford). Apparently this cambelt problem happened to the guys of Voetspore as well. My motto about VW is as follow : The take all their workshop personell to a special training centre for a 6 week training session. There they teach them HOW TO GIVE POOR SERVICE AND STUFF UP YOUR CAR!!!!! Just a though..use..loose it. At least I feel better Grumpy Hi Darren, do yourself a favour and go for at least a 2.5 engined vehicle  for the penta, the VW will be fine on level and slight uphill, but will be wanting a lettle extra  for the long uphills. i towed a palma and now have a Classique that i tow with a 2.5 Ranger. With the classique even this Ranger could do with a little extra for the long uphills. my view regards graham B Hi Darren, I agree with Grumpy Smurf - was so happy with my 1.4 Polo towing a Caravette 6. With 69 000km in 13 months wanted to trade in only on another VW Polo either 1.2d or 1.6TDi. Price and trade-in was not an issue. Even when I bought the Polo, I had to get their Head Office o put some fire under 5 dealers who gave poor service and again complained to the HO before buying and to date have never received a reply. The salesman in Mooi street dealership, was so pathetic, I decided to look around and am not sorry (yet). VW have seen the last of me! DR DRAKE GP that's not a Doctor nor a GP. I dis a advanced training course with the Amarok ,not inpressed Pity abput the VW after sales service mentioned here cos the Amorok is a good looker. I must say the new Ford Ranger is very impressive indeed. Colin VW and Toyota is like Blue Bulls  &  Stormers. I was a VW man all my life (with their poor service) last 2 years driving Toyota Hilux. If you want to know what service is, check out Toyota in Potties. Fantastic service. phone yesterday 16H00 to book a service, car is going in now 07H00. Will be ready 10 - 11H00 today. That makes Toyta TOPS allthough I will never buy one for myself. Grumpy I think that the Amarok will tow the Penta with no hassle. Reason why I say this is because I towed my Penta with a Ford Saphire 3L GLX. The Kw's was less than that of the Amarok. Probably wrong to compare the two vehicles but it basically boils down to mind change. You must know the following. Towing the Penta on level roads you will have no problems the thing comes when towing through hills and Mountain Passes. You will find that your speed will drop to between 60-75 Km/h on a steep hill or incline. If you are okay with that go for the Amarok. As stated by another forum member to pass other vehicles on route will be possible but it will be with much effort compaired to larger enjined vehicles. I towed my Penta like that for over 9 years as it was a legal combination but my Saphire worth R16 000 replacement would have been a cost of about R150 000, money I did not have at the time. It was a mind change I had to make. Charge down to Dolphin Holiday Resort every year April or do it in a day and a quater. Towing with the Saphire made me used to tow at 90Km/h. And now with the Navara I rarely tow over 100Km/h. So according to me the Amarok will tow your Penta. But you will have to make sacrifyses and that is in the form of traveling speed. Some members tow at a speed of 120Km/h(level roads) and 80 on hills and passes, you will do it comfortably at 90-100(level roads) and 60-75 on hills and passes. I made the decision that the moment I take position behind the wheel I am on leave. That even made the towing trip enjoyable. Hi Kw`s is not the real issue with towing but torque is the main issue.Even a landcruiser has a low kw rating but it`s` torque is massive.The end result to worry about is will the engine last the distance of the use of the vehicle or die a death because it cannot deliver and take the punch. Kia Sorento 2.2d 420nm Antony We have to look at whats happening in the motoring industry. The call is for smaller sized engines in all kind of vehicles including the D/C market. Traditionally Toyota was the leader and up to date is the only manufacturer not to implement a smaller sized engine, allthough they intoduced the 2.5 in the Fortuner. But again, it is an exsisting motor. I have no doubt that the Amarok's engine could last a long time, however, due to their lack of interrest in the customer make this a "tricky" buy. Ford opted for a smaller 2.2lt engine with 110kw available.Fantastic vehicle to drive. I think Ford will be the one to keep an eye on to see if smaller engines will last. Then again, they have been building Bakkies for more years than VW and should know if it will work or not. Grumpy Darren Congrats on your purchase  - hope u have many Km's in the Amarok Hi Darren I tow a Classique with my VW 2.5 Touareg, The Amarok delivers the same torque as the Touareg and I can tow easely at 140km/h.(this is not safe though) I did the spirit of Africa last year in a Amarok, and was very impressed with it. Definatly the most spaceious double cab in the market. The Amarok that broke a cambelt with voetspore was due to a tree branch and the off road bumper they used, the origanal engine covers was removed to fit the bumper.VW flew a technician up to repair that vehicle with in 2 day's. The whole story was on their web page. Unfortunatly there is alway's dealers that give's poor customer service, had it with my Touareg and with my Jimny. In Gauteng I can recomend Hatfield VW. Congrats Darren My collegue with the Amarok has the following to say....... All good things come in 2lt...Milk, Coca Cola, Water...... The rest come in .....2.5, 2.2 and 3.2.  please note the .(point)!!!! Grumpy Here is some interisting figures. Toyota 3.0L d4d 343nm torque Triton/pajero did 3.2 373nm Mazda/Ford 2.5d 330nm Mazda/Ford 3.0d 380nm Amarok 2.0l (90kw) 340nm Amarok 2.0l (132kw) 400nm Touareg 2.5d 400nm All of us that tow caravans want Torque because that help's you to tow easier. Take for instance the Touareg 2.5 and Nissan Navara 2.5, It is small engines with lots of torque. Another excample, VW Touareg went from the Mighty V10 to a smaller V8 750nm to 850nm. Pajero/Triton with a big engine doesnt even make that amount of torque. Another excample is the Toyota Land Cruiser Pick-up:4.1L 285nm. very big engine with very little torque. The trend in the world is to go for smaller engines and less polution but with more or the same power then bigger engines. Only the future will tell witch is best. I tend to look at the figures, size is not everything. Nothing like statistics hey?!?!?!?! Everybody complains about the 2l in the Amarok but no one jap anything about the 2l Toureq. Torque is not everthing. You still need kw to get the train rolling. Ek sleep reeds etlike jare met 'n VW Touan 2.0 TDI en is my ondervinding buitengewone werkverrigting en brandstofverbruik. Daar is vele kere gekompeteer met veel groter enjins soos die Nissan 2,5, Toyota 3,0, Mazda BT50 en verskeie ander dieselaangedrewe voertuie. Ek kan met vrymoedigheid noem dat nie een van die groter enjins my teen hellings kon agterlaat nie en was dit meestal die Touran wat die groter enjins agtergelaat het. Die Amarok het basies dieselfde enjin behalwe vir die ekstra turbo en behoort uitstekend te sleep. Maar hier kom die fout nou. VW enjins was nog nooit bekend vir dieselfde uithouvermo  en lewensduur soos die japanese enjins nie. Ek het 'n vloot voertuie en kan dit met vrymoedigheid bevestig deur my voertuigonderhoud statistieke. Op 92000 km is 'n silinderkop op die Touran vervang teen nagenoeg R10000. Ook ander strategiese onderhoud is gedoen wat nogal duur was. Op my Japanese voertuie het groter onderhoud eers na 200000km begin kom. My eerlike opinie uit ondervinding: VW enjins is klein en opgepomp met steroides soos ekstra turbos en allehande oulike foefies wat werkverrigting gee. Meganiese logika is mos maklik indien as volg redeneer: Hoe is dit moontlik dat 'n 2,0l enjin dieselfde kraglewering en lewensduur kan gee as 'n 3,0l sonder dat daar iewers n verwronge ingeneurspesifikasie kan wees? VW sal nog eers 'n bietjie moet oefen voordat daar werklik met die beproefde voertuie gekompeteer sal kan word. Jammer VW geesdriftiges maar ek staaf my kommentaar op ondervinding en duur skoolgeld. Nie sommer weer 'n VW vir my nie. Terloops Hendrik, dit is die wringkrag wat saak maak en nie die KW nie. Zylie Joubert Hi Zylie. Kom ons vergelyk die Amarok en die Fortuner. Amarok 90 kw 340 nm Fortuner 120 kw 343 nm Gestel albei het dieselfde ratverhouding/gewig ens. watter een gaan beter werkverrigting he? Groete fORTUNER 4L 4X4 V6 auto pulls like n tug on the see ,if you want the power you pay for it. Willem. You confirm my opinion. With only 376 nm but a whopping 175 kw it CAN pull. Wat se jy Zylie? Nothing like statistics! ! ! ! Zylie ek is bly jy gee jou mening veral ten opsigte van die vloot inligting. Was die Touran deel van die vloot voertuie of net vir jou eie privaat gebruik? Zylie I agree with everything you say, I have the single turbo version, I think what VW have done to get clever is shorter gear and the extra gear WRT service I can say that i sent my bakkie back for a few niggles and the service has been excellent, they sent a driver out with a car and took my bakkie back leaving the standby car even though we didnt request it. The dealership is in Kuilsriver and i live 50km away when they returned the car the seats had some unexplained marks and the windscreen chip still wasnt correctly repaired, no problems they returned the driver to collect and sorted out the seats and replaced the windscreen I dont do high mileage, so its horses for courses but the Amarok is a very comfortable and powerful ( torque) I have Fortuner and to be fair the bakkie is far smoother suspension wise but that toyota engine ( D4D) is something else Willem Ek stem saam, Ford Territory  ST  AWD 4.0L Turbo 245kw 380NM teen 2,000rpm  !!! Hendrik, Met dieselfde ratverhoudings sal die Fortuner verseker die VW klop want daar is 1L meer enjinkapasiteit tussen die twee. Dit bevestig mos dan my teorie dat die steroide enjin van VW slegs so goed doen op sterkte van die ratverhoudings. Nogtans het die Duitsers dit reggekry om  saam met die groter bulle te kan sleep. Eintlik 'n feeverhaal. Feeverhale is egter nooit volhoubaar nie. Ek sou gaan vir die Fortuner. Zylie Ek stem saam, Ford Territory  ST  AWD 4.0L Turbo 245kw  380 480 NM teen 2,000rpm  !!! Oops ek het 'n fout gemaak, sien dit nou eers. Hi Zylie. Met die vergelyking wat ek gemaak het, het dit gegaan oor die verskil in kilowatt, nie die engin kapasiteit nie. Ek is bly jy stem saam dat die Fortuner beter sal vaar al is die wringkrag naastenby dieselfde op albei voertuie. Groete Hi all, I am new to the forum and drive a 2L turbo 90kw Amarok. I have been on the long road with here twice already and both times pulled my fullly loaded camping trailer behind with no hassles, even managed to get to around 140. That being said the fuel consumption does take a knock and went from 9.2L per 100km to just over 11L per 100km. If you tow at around 100km/h and keep the pedal pressure consistent you wont have any problems, sure she wont fly up any major hills, but you shouldnt be doing that if you towing anyways. I bought her for the extra space and to be able to pull my trailer and i have had absolutely no problems.. Roland As you can see, I don't have VW but what I want to say is  WELCOME  to this Forum, hope you enjoy it around the Campfire with the rest of us.  Hope to hear more from you. 