Note Industry Resources Diversified Investment Services Helping investors and brokers succeed in the cash flow business using real estate notes and invoice factoring! Looking for more information on the cash flow business? These are valuable online resources for the cash flow note industry: NoteInvestor.com   This site is dedicated to real estate notes with over 200 informative articles available online.  Be sure to sign up for our free report on the note business including weekly eletters for the latest industry news. Directory of Note Buyers  Gain access to our personal Rolodex of experienced note professionals that took years to develop. Work direct with knowledgeable investors, educators, and master note brokers with the current Directory of Owner Financed Note Buyers and Service Providers! FindingCashFlowNotesTraining.com  Get a free preview of the #1 Online Cash Flow Note Training of its kind!  These videos provide honest answers to all your questions including: NoteBuyerSites.com  Looking for an effective online solution for your note business? Note Buyer Sites provides turn-key websites for note buyers and brokers that can be up and running within 48 hours.  These professional sites use state of the art technology to deliver ready to use content and online forms at an affordable price tag! FactoringInvestor.com  This site is dedicated to factoring brokers and companies with over 200 free articles on invoice financing. It provides access to the best training resources and books available in the factoring business! Be sure to read the site s best seller on  How I Run My One Person Factoring Business  by Jeff Callender. Directory of Factoring Companies  Sometimes it is not only what you know, but who you know.  The Directory of Factoring Companies introduces you to the funding sources and companies that offer competitive pricing and broker friendly programs for invoice factoring. PaperSourceOnline.com Publisher of The Paper Source Journal, they have been printing a newsletter for note investors and brokers since 1987. You will also find great forum and up to date information on what s happening in our industry. Want To Talk To Real People?  Contact Us Here Diversified Investment Services buys seller financed mortgage notes in Florida. To receive a note buyer offer on a FL real estate note please  Request a Quote . Diversified Investment Services, Inc. 7512 Dr. Phillips Blvd., #50-250 Orlando, FL 32819 Contact Us By Email! 