Etienne Wouters - Digital Backend Lead - Huawei Technologies | LinkedIn Liked by  Etienne Wouters Liked by  Etienne Wouters Liked by  Etienne Wouters Jan 2018   –  Present 2 years Leuven Digital BackEnd Lead in the IC Design Team Digital BackEnd Lead in the IC Design Team Apr 2013   –  Present 6 years 9 months Yearly presentation of a seminar on Physical Implementation of Low-Power  &  Mixed-Signal SOCs in the frame of a microelectronics course (Pr. David Bol) at Ecole Polytechnique de Louvain (Institute of Information and Communication Technologies, Electronics and Applied Mathematics, ICTEAM). Yearly presentation of a seminar on Physical Implementation of Low-Power  &  Mixed-Signal SOCs in the frame of a microelectronics course (Pr. David Bol) at Ecole Polytechnique de Louvain (Institute of Information and Communication Technologies, Electronics and Applied Mathematics, ICTEAM). A preview of what LinkedIn members have to say about Etienne: Etienne has been involved in all the projects I’ve been leading for years.  Etienne was the key expert for RTL-to-GDS tasks. Through his long experience in digital design, including front-end aspects, Etienne demonstrated excellent skills to tackle complex technical challenges. Etienne is able to innovate, tune adequate methods to sustain the continuously evolving design technology and design flow. Etienne is highly motivated, problem-solver, reliable and team player. I strongly recommend Etienne. Etienne has been involved in all the projects I’ve been leading for years.  Etienne was the key expert for RTL-to-GDS tasks. Through his long experience in digital design, including front-end aspects, Etienne demonstrated excellent skills to tackle complex technical challenges. Etienne is able to innovate, tune adequate methods to sustain the continuously evolving design technology and design flow. Etienne is highly motivated, problem-solver, reliable and team player. I strongly recommend... Etienne has been involved in all the projects I’ve been leading for years.  Etienne was the key expert for RTL-to-GDS tasks. Through his long experience in digital design, including front-end aspects, Etienne demonstrated excellent skills to tackle complex technical challenges. Etienne is able to innovate, tune adequate methods to sustain the continuously evolving design technology and design flow. Etienne is highly motivated, problem-solver, reliable and team player. I strongly recommend Etienne. It ' s a pleasure working with Etienne on a complex chip for wireless domain at 40nm tech node. Etienne handled all the physical aspects of a complex block very efficiently though separated by geography. He is a very senior and matured technical personality to work with. I thoroughly enjoyed all the interactions with him during my time at ST-Ericsson. At the personal level he is very down-to-earth and very good team player. I wish him all the success and don ' t hesitate to work with him in future. It ' s a pleasure working with Etienne on a complex chip for wireless domain at 40nm tech node. Etienne handled all the physical aspects of a complex block very efficiently though separated by geography. He is a very senior and matured technical personality to work with. I thoroughly enjoyed all the interactions with him during my time at ST-Ericsson. At the personal level he is very down-to-earth and very good team player. I wish him all the success and don ' t hesitate to work with him in... It ' s a pleasure working with Etienne on a complex chip for wireless domain at 40nm tech node. Etienne handled all the physical aspects of a complex block very efficiently though separated by geography. He is a very senior and matured technical personality to work with. I thoroughly enjoyed all the interactions with him during my time at ST-Ericsson. At the personal level he is very down-to-earth and very good team player. I wish him all the success and don ' t hesitate to work with him in future. 3 people have recommended Etienne Join now to view Join to view Etienne’s full profile Kreisfreie Stadt Aachen Area, Germany Maastricht Area, Netherlands Brussels Area, Belgium Limburg Area, Belgium 4 others named Etienne Wouters are on LinkedIn 