Is there any  &# x27;VERY EASY &# x27; Python GUI Library? : learnpython Is there any  &# x27;VERY EASY &# x27; Python GUI Library? I tried tkinter but its so ugly and old fashion. I don &# x27;t like PyQT, PyGUi, WxPython, PySide.. Is there any better and very easy GUI library? GUI libraries are complicated because GUIs are complicated. Suck it up and learn to use one of those ones you mentioned. You forgot to mention you don &# x27;t like PyGTK... Have you looked at  Kivy  yet?  I haven &# x27;t done much of anything with it yet myself (I keep meaning to go back and play around with it) so I don &# x27;t know how  " easy "  it &# x27;d be, but it &# x27;s one that kept being suggested when  I  was searching for a GUI lib for a project (that quickly got shoved to the back-burner; hence the  " haven &# x27;t done anything yet " ) ... +1 kivy, very easy for basic gui but its also very in depth for more advanced stuff I mean you listed damn near every major GUI library. Only option to go from here is to make your own or use one of the ones you don &# x27;t like. It &# x27;s very limited in what it can do, but  https://github.com/robertlugg/easygui/  is by far the easiest way I &# x27;ve seen to throw up a GUI in Python. Use a web app instead, Flask + either CSS/HTML/Jquery can make some very pretty stuff. If you wanted something really nice, you can do Flask Rest API + AngularJS on the front end. Then just create a script that starts the server, launches a web browser directed to the local server that ships with Flask. It &# x27;s pretty simple. But depending on your use, might not give the exact functionality you want. Is there a good tutorial for end to end simple flask API + web front end that you know of I use Gtk +3 libraries and they are super simple. But if you absolutely need something really easy, maybe use a tool like Glade instead? I tried tkinter but its so ugly and old fashion. Did you try the  ttk  version of tkinter widgets? It &# x27;s a lot more modern. You want easy, go with Gooey. It &# x27;s a Python module that transform CLI apps to a simple GUI. Otherwise it &# x27;s Tkinter for fast, and PyQT for pretty. I realize what subreddit this is, but is there a reason why you have to use python for your GUI?  I mean if you don &# x27;t like any of the major libraries, I would jump ship. wxPython is pretty easy to use. Tkinter really isn &# x27;t all that hard either and with its  ttk  widgets, it isn &# x27;t nearly as ugly looking as it used to be. You could always try Kivy, but that has its own learning curves. Not sure if this would work for your specific application, but I find this a very comfortable way to make GUIs:  https://github.com/plotly/dash hi everyone one month ago i decided to learn programming. I always enjoyed the idea of programming but never tried it. So i started a udemy course on python and i was addicted from the first line of code(actually from the second!! i really hated the  " hello world "  programs). I have a batchelors degree in a different field(as you can see not in English!!!) so i never thought about programming as a new career, i just wanted to start a new hobby. 28 days later i really consider to change path to programming, or maybe find a master combining my field with programming. So for the last 28 days i studied and wrote code for 100 hours!! Let me tell you about my progress from hour to hour and what i managed to make so far! hour 0:  Hello world!! hour 1-15:  learning the basic python syntax hour 20:  i created 2 simple projects. one simple dictionary where you give an input and the script returns the meaning ofthe word from a json file. The second program is a simple script for runners  which gets some user input about your running speed duration and heart rate and returns an estimation of your running fitness. Sound like a lot but it is just a simple calculator with some fancy equations i found online hour 23 : Things are getting interesting. As i learn about webscraping instead of building(copying) the program my tutor was making i instead decided to create a scraper on a different website.Theres a site called polar flow where running data from sport watches are stored. so i created a webscraper that scrapes my data from my past acticities and using the equation from my last progress estimates my running fitness from every activity of mine!! hour 23-40 . Studied about numpy,pandas,selenium webdrive,BeautifulSoup,csv files.matploid,bokeh and other libraries hour 45 : learned how to do linear fitting of scatter data in bokeh. Actually i have a good math background from my university studies so the math part was not hard. I created my first graph in bokeh using the running data of my previous project to calculate how my running fitness increases over time hour 45-60 : Learning some basic things about oo programming and classes and pyqt5 graphical interface library hour 60 : created my first one window program with pyqt5. now i had to decide. Create simple one window boring programs copying code from my tutor or take notes about the various code lines and how they work together and create a graphical interface for my running app project. i chose the later!! 79 hour : almost 20 hours laters most of which was me looking at a screen and wondering why my program doesnt work (cried twice) i managed to create a 4 window program. The concept of the program is to get some running data input from a csv file and calculate running performance and vo2max(estimate). Then using some fitted equations which i created on my own by fitting data from 20 athletes the program estimates your training speeds as (easy, tempo,intervals ect). The third screen calculates your heart rate zones and the forth screen shows a graph on how your stats change over time. I want to add more functions to my program but i left it on the side for now to study more. >< p> hour 79-92   started reading more about some oop cause i don &# x27;t really get it! started rewriting my code without using  copy and paste even from my one previous scripts and studied various online resources hour 92-101 : created a  " shady "  instagram webscraper which does the following. visits a profile and scrapes all the usernames that follow this profile. Then it visits every each one of them   and scrapesfollower and following number data. Then calculates the ratio of following and followers andchecks from its last posts if it is an active account. If it is an active account and follows more people than hasfollowers the program saves his link and username in a database.The concept is that people who followmore people than get followed are good future follower candidates. Now i want to add a function to theprogram to auto like 5 posts on each of this account. I created a second account to test all this and i won &# x27;t tryto use it on my primary account. I will get banned obviously! >< p> So that was my first 100 hours of programing, i would be happy to answer your comments and questions and about your programing journey too!! >< p> Edit : heres some photos of my running fitness project      https://imgur.com/gallery/LDTkPlZ   the dots in the plot are running fitness scores for individual runs and the line is the last 3 activities average. Something i want to clarify is that i am not good at programming yet. My programs are buggy and my code is most of the times unreadable. i use google and stack overflow all the time and i get stuck every 5 seconds at something. >< p> Edit2:  The reason i remember so clearly what i did in every hour is cause i logged every minute studing and coding in a productivity timer app. I am a master procrastinator so doing things like this keeps me motivated. i also kept notes of what i accomplised every hour to a spreadsheet knowing that one day it may motivate and help someone else do the same. i won &# x27;t stop here!!! i am planning to write about my journey here or on a new post as i reach 200-300 hours. The next 2 months will be a little slow but i believe until summer i will reach 300-500 hours >< p> Edit 3  :  I want to add some more things to the post(advices,thoughts and future plans) edx and coursera has plenty of more  " university "  like courses on programming even from universities like MIT and other known institutions, all of the courses there are FREE to watch, you only pay if you want to get a certificate. Also there is a financial aid program if you cant pay the full price but still want to get a certificate. I plan to start a data science/Machine learning course in the future the strugle with online courses is that most of them cover the basics and then you are pretty much on your own, so i now i feel a little lost on where to go on and what to learn another strugle i have is that i don &# x27;t know how to organize my code properly. I don &# x27;t know where it makes more sense to create classes, when to split my script to two or more files and things like that, as my projects grow in size i get the feeling that my code is like a giant with glass legs one little thing goes wrong and the whole thing colapses and sometimes i have to rewrite whole sections just to make it work. I believe that if i learn to organize my code better i won &# x27;t have such problems in the future use jupyter notebooks!!!! google it! visit  codewars.com  it is a great site where you solve problems riddle like using programming. You start from easy problems and as you solve them you go to harder ones do your own projects not the one your tutor does. you will fail miserably but in the process of finding why you failed you will learn more stuff play with the code. when i find a line of code online and put it in my project i switch little things to see how it breaks and trying to find out why. This way i learn what every word and symbol in the line of code does and whats it &# x27;s role try to not copy paste code even if you wrote it in a previous project. read a libary &# x27;s documentation. When you start learning a new library don &# x27;t google everything take some time to read the documentation, you will get a better idea of what you can do with this library in the future When I look at other peoples code, I frequently see What exactly does this do and mean? I almost want to cry with happiness. I actually enjoy coding again. SOLVED; I AM AN IDIOT USING 32 BIT VSCODE FUCKING KILL ME THANKS BYE. Num... Py... I mean I get the gist of it all I know loops, I can handle functions, I can do... stuff. I can create the most basic crap that is utterly useless and simplistic, but i can &# x27;t actually do anything useful or even fun. Kinda hitting a wall here partially cause I can do things but how I do them is so inefficient and when I try to copy those who do it better my code fails. I &# x27;m trying  " DRY "  but all it does is make me want to bang my head against a wall. Sorry just venting. So these are the projects that i was able to finish over the last year. Mind you, i am a relative newbie to Python and have just started seriously learning this past year (Also, i do not have any formal learning experience when it comes to coding) Learnt how to connect to a SQLdb and add information/retrieve information Financial Data analysis using Python (Pandas, Numpy, SciPy) Automation of Logging in Procedures at work (Saved close to 15 mins and freed myself from the hassle of remembering passwords) - This done through Using Selenium Automation projects for onboarding clients - Again using Selenium, saving the team a bunch of Time Scraping Websites using Beautiful Soup Creating a Telegram Bot - Channel to have the scraped data being sent to these channels - Again saving a whole bunch of time Creating a Python Transcriber - Still a work in Progress- Still need to understand how to have the transcribed data into a word file - This was done using PyAudio Creating a personal assistant - Wouldnt deny it was done by looking at a YT video Creating a GUI for calculations using Tkinter (Again mostly done through watching a YT video and Stackoverflow) One of the reasons for me putting this here was to get all of you tell me as to what should i focus on, A lot of people have suggested Machine Learning Courses on Coursera but i need to brush up on my math skills before i enroll. Any other suggestions would be greatly appreciated. Also, for all those people who are just trying to get around coding with Python- If i could do it, i am sure anyone can too. Just keep practicing is what everyone says and so would i. guys...what are currently your most common struggles in learning python? In your python learning journey, what techniques did you use to grasp rather difficult concepts that you did not understand immediately? I was trying to find a way to add commas for numbers greater than one thousand and stumbled upon code that was more or less like this: Surprisingly, it worked, but I have no idea why. Is this a special feature of f-strings? What am I missing here? How can i return the index of each repeated letter (like letter  " l "  and  " o " )? def numOfOccurance(word, guess): for i in range(len(word)): if word[i] == guess: getIndexPositions(word, guess) letters_added_to_list.insert(getIndexPositions(word, guess), guess) print(letters_added_to_list) def getIndexPositions(listOfElements, element): global indexPos  #indexPos = 0 for i in range(len(word)): if word[i] == element: return i and this is the terminal: Enter the letter you guessed:h [ ' h ' ] Correct. Guess another letter:e [ ' h ' ,  ' e ' ] Correct. Guess another letter:l [ ' h ' ,  ' e ' ,  ' l ' ] [ ' h ' ,  ' e ' ,  ' l ' ,  ' l ' ] [ ' h ' ,  ' e ' ,  ' l ' ,  ' l ' ,  ' l ' ] Correct. Guess another letter:o [ ' h ' ,  ' e ' ,  ' l ' ,  ' l ' ,  ' o ' ,  ' l ' ] [ ' h ' ,  ' e ' ,  ' l ' ,  ' l ' ,  ' o ' ,  ' o ' ,  ' l ' ] Correct. Guess another letter:w [ ' h ' ,  ' e ' ,  ' l ' ,  ' l ' ,  ' o ' ,  ' o ' ,  ' w ' ,  ' l ' ] Correct. Guess another letter:r [ ' h ' ,  ' e ' ,  ' l ' ,  ' l ' ,  ' o ' ,  ' o ' ,  ' w ' ,  ' l ' ,  ' r ' ] Correct. Guess another letter:d [ ' h ' ,  ' e ' ,  ' l ' ,  ' l ' ,  ' o ' ,  ' o ' ,  ' w ' ,  ' l ' ,  ' r ' ,  ' d ' ] I appreciate any insight on what I ' m doing incorrectly. 278k Members 3.4k Online Oct 2, 2009 Cake Day 