Bosphorus Turkish Restaurant, Guangzhou - Restaurant Reviews, Phone Number  &  Photos - TripAdvisor I really enjoyed the meal at this restaurant really taste the turkish food as it taste in Canada! their price are affordable and the services was perfect ! I love Mediterranean food and this place has the best menu with all the good you might know. Very affordable and delicious food. Everyone is very friendly. I love their fluffy bread fresh from the oven and the variety of their salads and soups. My... More Good restaurant, find it weird that they stick prices over their original prices for canton fair,which is much higher than normal.Service is good and food is good just a little pricey during canton fair time As for dinner we went Bosphorus, after 30 minutes waiting for table, considering impolite staff, we can seat.Non organize, dirty dishes, cold food, begging for waiters attention on any single requests and waiting for long time to receive that item made a bad experience... More If  ever your in Guangzhou and your looking for halal food to eat this is place to try  ,the service was very fast and  the food was delicious  and  the resturant was clean comfortable  too  ,greetings with a big smiles when ever you go... More One of the best Turkish food around Guangzhou, you will not regreat it. I highly recomend it. One visit is not enough :) Went to the trade show and found this Turkish restaurant with real Turkish food.  Great taste and good food. There is always a long line. Delicious food and friendly staff. Most of the customers are middle easterns. No Chinese food in their menu. They have amazing bread, salads and desserts. Go easy as the main courses are big portions. They always offer amazing complimentary black tea after your meal. We walked here from our hotel because it has good reviews and it was close by. We love Mediterranean food and since we live in China we don ' t have many options. The first thing you notice is that the area is very mixed. We saw... More Bosporus have nice Turkish food, I like it so much. Specially the lame steak is the best one I like it, I order that all the time. Even the black tea is my favorite, I have to have tea over there every time. 