Blair overruled watchdog on RAF chief's defence job - Telegraph Accessibility links Thursday 19 December 2019|  UK News feed  By Andrew Sparrow, Political Correspondent 12:05AM BST 26 Jul 2004 Tony Blair personally overruled a decision by a Whitehall anti-sleaze watchdog delaying an RAF air chief marshal from taking a job with a defence company. In a highly unusual move, the Prime Minister decided it was unfair for the advisory committee on business appointments to make Sir John Day wait a year after leaving his job as head of Strike Command before he could join BAE Systems. He decided it was in the "wider national interest" for Sir John to be allowed to start work within three months. The committee was set up to prevent conflicts of interest where "insider knowledge" could be particularly useful. Last night one member said he could not remember Downing Street overruling its decisions before. There is no suggestion that Sir John has done anything wrong. But Mr Blair's decision shows he is deeply frustrated with the rules governing the relationship between the private and public sectors. The committee disclosed that one of its decisions had been vetoed by Downing Street in its annual report released with minimal publicity last Thursday, the day MPs left Westminster for the Commons recess.  The committee, chaired by Lord Mayhew of Twysden, a former Northern Ireland Secretary, said it had reviewed the way it applied the rules because it believed conditions were changing. "Not surprisingly, many officers who have served in the Armed Forces, and who retire at the age of 55 or below, wish to obtain further employment in the defence industry," it said. "The early take-up of these jobs can, however, occasion suspicion of impropriety. In the case of the MoD, it can be argued that the numbers seeking such employment are so significant as to amount to a 'traffic' from the department to defence contractors who supply it." The committee named all 49 senior Civil Service cases it dealt with in 2003/04, involving people being allowed to take jobs immediately or having to wait up to a year. When Sir John applied to take up a post as military adviser to BAE Systems, the committee noted that "he had been involved with Air Force Board decisions that would have a direct bearing on the MoD's business with the company".  It ruled that he should wait a year. However, the report said, Mr Blair decided there was "a wider national interest" in letting Sir John start earlier. The Prime Minister said Sir John could take up his post three months after leaving the RAF provided that he did not get involved with the competition for a particular contract.  On the day the report was published, Mr Blair also announced that he had asked for a review of the business appointments rules. One member of the committee said he was concerned about Downing Street being able to use the "national interest" as an excuse for overruling its recommendations. Norman Baker, a Lib Dem MP, said: "These rules are there to keep politicians out of these decisions. If the Prime Minister is getting involved, he is undermining the committee. It's a worrying precedent." Both Downing Street and BAE Systems were unable yesterday to give any more detail as to why Sir John's appointment to the company was in the national interest. In UK News Top news galleries Latest Video Back to top  Copyright of Telegraph Media Group Limited 2019 Terms and Conditions Today's News Archive Style Book Weather Forecast MOST VIEWED IN NEWS 