Why people are talking about closed beta being played right now? : Artifact Maybe it &# x27;s an alpha they are playing? Closed beta is supposed to be available to general public via invites like in Dota 2, is it not? I only know two states: Pre-release. Post-release. We are currently in the blue balls department. Alpha, Beta, whatever, are just terms. There is no real rule when, what is called. Either term has lost all meaning nowadays, since both, Betas and Alphas, have been made playable for the public via Early Access or Promotional Multiplayer demos. Both are just pre-release versions. No, we do not know how far along Artifact is in development, and we do not know which term they refer to internally at Valve. But the point is, the game is not only in a playable state (as it was 8 months ago at Valve HQ), it is being distributed to testers world-wide via Steam already for a wide range of players from Dota 2 and Hearthstone personalities to Competitive Card Game Pros. This makes it likely that the game is mostly gameplay/feature complete or at least close to it. Lack of balance and polished visuals etc will still be a given but that is why many of us refer to it as a Beta, rather than an Alpha. Besides, the game is supposed to be released this year, according to the teaser trailer, so with less than 10 months left, the game  should  be in beta. But then again, since we are dealing with a company that has its own brand-name for delays, I expect the full release next year, with an open Beta later this year. Dota 2 was in a closed beta where only specific people got invites.  Then it went into a closed beta where they invited a few people who signed up.  I remember I payed like 50$ for mine in sep or nov 2011 or something.  Then they started letting people in the beta invite people into the beta, then it was in this weird spot where basically everyone who really wanted to play was in the closed beta, then it went open beta for a long time.  I suspect Artifact will follow that timeline since there really is no definitive definition for each phase. Also Artifact may stay inv closed beta only longer since they have to do things like balancing stuff, testing mechanics they may change wildly and in game UIs/controls which they didn &# x27;t really have to for Dota 2. An alpha is usually considered an unfinished product, a beta is usually considered a product ready to launch, save for polish and bug hunting. A closed beta is a beta that is closed and not open. What you &# x27;ve described is an open beta, which is not a closed beta. These definitions are not helpful. Alpha and Beta are just stages of development and the definitions can vary from developer to developer. Typically, Alphas are very raw. You will have missing textures, animations, placeholders all over the place for models, sounds, text lines, etc. The Dota 2 Alpha for example used spell icons that were just made in MS Paint so they could have some functionality before the art team finished their work. Beta stages often look much more like the finished product but are feature incomplete which means the game will be missing quests, spells, items, characters, etc. but will be much more  " playable "  compared to the alpha stage. When I started in the Dota 2 beta in 2011, the game was very playable. There were of course, a lot of bugs and very few heroes but it was more than enough to take me away from the WC3 version pretty much fulltime. An Alpha test can be completely open if they wish to do so. If they want to create hype for the game or show off a very small portion (perhaps a boss fight or little quest) or even just gain a large amount of technical data across many types of GPUs, CPUs, etc. very easily. I know the MMO Tera did exactly this. Open and closed tests can be done in any stage and are completely up to the developer how they wish to be carried out. Open tests are just that, anybody can access them. I suppose technically some sort of NDA could be done under an open test, at the very least not allow the game to be streamed but it would be fairly pointless and very difficult to enforce. Closed tests are just the opposite, but can be done in many different ways. Guild Wars 2 was fairly easy to gain access to testing in the alphas and betas just by preordering, but you were not allowed to share any in game footage for some periods of testing.  There was a difficult to notice overlay on the game that had your account name pasted all over it so you were easy to find if you took screenshots or streamed the game but you could obviously discuss it on third party sites without any way to know who it was because there were so many people with access to the game. In the current stage of Artifact, there are likely so few people with access to the game that even leaks on third party sites like Reddit or 4chan would be risky because of the small amount of people with access to the game. The Closed Beta for Dota 2 however was not under NDA by any means, it was just selective invites that they gradually eased up on the criteria over time. You were allowed to stream, take screenshots and even got some invites to share but by most definitions, would still be considered closed since they controlled the amount of people who were able to access it. Open Beta for Dota 2 was treated the same as any other F2P game on the Steam, you didn &# x27;t have to find an invitation or even really sign up. They simply kept it under the name  " Beta "  because by their definition, the game was not feature complete. Early Access is just a relatively new, made up term used by developers to sell unfinished games to get money to assist with future development, Early Access games can be in any part of the development stage. theres also Family and Friends alpha where devs choose people they want Well, that &# x27;s not how we should look at the testing. Alpha means only basic mechanics available to be played. So, mostly alpha is a play test build. For example, if you build simple 3D scene without any actual models, mechanics, textures and etc, but you asked around 5 thousand people to join you, it &# x27;s still alpha because your game has lack of base functionality. Beta and closed beta is playable versions of testing content with almost all functions/features included. Closed beta mostly comes for testing purposes: bug finding, testing new/reworked functions/balance, server stability. Open beta is a short time when project ready to be played but still missing something which will be done later. If you look on Gwent, it started it &# x27;s own beta without Arena, Story Mode and some cards. Functionality it had some content but it wasn &# x27;t enough I don &# x27;t think it works like that. The terms are made on how developed the game is not on who can play the game. Alpha normaly is the first stage which can &# x27;t be considered a game but is playable. Beta is when it can be considered a game but some things are not finished and still bugs remain. That &# x27;s maybe how it  should  be, but there are definitely other people invited to alpha sometimes Alpha: Very Early build of the game. Only the developers and People with good knowledge of game/genre are invited for input.(With NDA) Closed Beta: This stage usually give public access with limited number of Invites enough to test the Servers and find bugs/Crash on a major scale. No Progress will be carried over(Kards what hav u done). Open Beta: Game is almost ready. There is no limit here anyone can join and play the game. Left out bugs/Crash fixes. Some allow saves/progress in this stage to Final release. Some Publishers give in game rewards. etc. This stage may last more than 3 years with publishers like Valve. Early Access: Basically you pay $ to a unfinished game and quit it years before its launch. 44.8k Members 151 Online Mar 25, 2014 Cake Day 