Unscented Taper Candle, Set of 6 | Pottery Barn Store Locator Search Cart Search Close Select  " Accept Terms "  to acknowledge this policy and to continue to add this item to your cart. If you select Decline, this item will not be added. FREE SHIPPING ON YOUR ORDER Use Code: JINGLE Exclusions Apply HOLIDAY MEGA SALE UP TO 50% OFF GET IT BEFORE CHRISTMAS! 4 DAYS LEFT TO ORDER  View Delivery Dates Favorites Saved to Favorites!  View Favorites Enter  ZIP Code  for a better delivery estimate. Enter your ZIP code for delivery and availability. Please choose a different store. Earn  $1.20  (10%) back in rewards* on this item when using your Pottery Barn Credit Card. Flickering candlelight adds a warm, welcoming feel to a dinner table or mantel. These paraffin candles come boxed to create the perfect gift for a host or hostess. SHIPPING UPS can deliver most in-stock items within 3-5 business days. Next Day Delivery and Processing We can arrange for next day delivery to most destinations within the contiguous 48 states, for an extra charge of $26.00 per address. If we receive your order by 6pm PT Monday through Friday, you'll receive your order the next business day; orders placed on Friday after 6pm PT through Sunday will arrive on Tuesday. Note: Next Day Delivery service is not available for some oversized items, White Glove Delivery, out of stock items, personalized items or for items shipped directly from the manufacturer. View the complete  Shipping and Delivery Information page . EASY RETURNS You can return eligible item(s) within 30 days of receiving an order or 7 days for Quick Ship upholstery items for a refund of the merchandise value. An original receipt or gift receipt is required. Monogrammed items and Made to Order furniture or rugs are not eligible for returns. Review the full list of ineligible items and our refund policy below before starting the process. Easy Ways to Return: Details: Ineligible Items Items non-eligible for returns or exchanges: Questions? See our full  Easy Returns Policy . See How Our Customers Styled It! The location you specified seems to be incorrect. Please enter a valid address or ZIP code. Available in {0} store{1} within {2} mile{3}: This product is not available in any stores within {0} miles. Stores Nearby: There are no stores within   miles of you. Try entering a new location or adjusting the distance. Prices and promotions may vary in stores. We make every effort to give you current product availability information, but our store inventory is always changing so an item's availability cannot be guaranteed. Get inspiration, sale alerts and exclusive offers.  2019 Williams-Sonoma, Inc. All Rights Reserved 