Urban Legends -- The Exploding Cactus (All Lies) A couple of newlyweds were driving back to Los Angeles from their Las Vegas elopement when the woman spotted a beautiful little cactus in the desert just off the highway. Although it is illegal to  " poach "  cacti in Nevada, the couple drove off the road in their SUV, dug up the plant, and brought it home. Back at their little ranch-style tract home, they repotted the cactus carefully and gave it a prominent place on the patio. The cactus thrived in the California sun for about three months. Then one day the woman was at home talking annulment with her lawyer on her cell phone when she noticed that the cactus was moving. She told the lawyer she'd call him back and went to see what was going on. It looked to her like the cactus was  breathing. Weird! Totally creeped out by this, she speed-dialed the L.A. County Floral Emergency Hotline. They asked her a few questions, each one more frantic than the last, finally ending up with,  " Are you alone at home? "  The woman said she was.  " Good. Get out of the house. Help will be there soon. " Moments later, two police cars arrived. They were accompanied by an ambulance, two large fire trucks, a HASMAT van, and a camouflaged halftrack. Black helicopters circled overhead. A pair of men in what looked like space suits jumped out of one of the trucks and ran toward the house brandishing flamethrowers. They kicked in the front door (even though it was unlocked) and rushed through to her back yard as the police cordoned off the street and evacuated the neighbors. The men with the flamethrowers laid into the cactus. The wash of their weapons engulfed the plant, the back fence, the organic vegetable garden, and the Astroturf putting green. Back on the front lawn, firefighters ripped off the woman's clothes for immediate implosion by a demolitions team. The house was ordered fumigated. The neighborhood was quarantined and condemned. Nobody was allowed back on their property until the government had spent a year using it to test atomic weapons. But why? A good question, and a question that the woman soon thought to ask.  " It was the cactus, "  government agents told her.  " Either it was filled with baby bird-eating tarantulas and was about to explode, or it was one of those  novelty cacti that dances and sings 'I'm Stuck on You' whenever someone walks by. Either way, we weren't going to take a chance. " This one is almost true. In 1984, a couple living in La Jolla, California, did indeed illegally take a cactus from the Nevada desert and repot it in their back yard. There was no  " breathing "  involved, however. Instead, the woman found a beetle on the cactus that experts identified as a Mexican long-horn root borer -- a bug with the power to completely replace California's wetland population of Mexican  medium -horn root borers should it ever be introduced into the wild. Fortunately, the threat to indigenous species and the environmental status quo was immediately recognized and government conservationists lept into action. (The part of the story about the flamethrowers, etc., is true.) A number of variations of this legend exist. For example: Home Urban Legends  | Literature  | Misinformation Feedback  | Site Map  | Privacy  | FAQs  | Search Got an urban legend or book you want mangled or a question you need a bad answer to? Send it to us. All information on this site is, to the best of our knowledge, false.  If any significant true information has slipped through, we apologize.  Contents   2005 2012 so don't go spreading our lies without permission. Urban Legends Literature Misinformation Section menu 