&# x27;She cared only for a beautiful little statue of a boy of pure white marble. &# x27; The Little Mermaid Illustration from Hans Andersen’s Fairy… in 2019 | Andersen &# x27;s fairy tales, Mermaid illustration, Fairytale art This cotton fabric block is a reproduction based on a vintage book illustration by artist Edmund Dulac, from the book The Little Mermaid. In it we can see the mermaid diving down to obtain the potion from the Sea Witch that will turn her into a human. This block is available in three sizes: 8 x 10, Fab undersea illustration. They could be used in your scrap-booking, paper crafts, jewelry making, whatever strikes your fancy! Ready for you to print out! Total print size-8 x 10 You are purchasing an incredibly sharp, clear, digital image scanned at a high resolution, 300dpi in jpg form. Once Buy  &# x27;The Rescue &# x27; by Belinda Morris as a Chiffon Top, Sticker, iPhone Case, iPhone Wallet, Case/Skin for Samsung Galaxy, Poster, Throw Pillow, Tote Bag, Mug, Travel Mug, Art Print, Canvas Print, Framed Print, Art Board Print, Photographic P... Gallery Quality Prints Beautiful art print Vintage Nursery Art Print  " Israel " . You will receive a professionally pinted artwork on medium weight cardstock 8.5 x 11 " . Ready for framing. Perfect for Nursery or shower gift. Vintage art print reproduction Printed on medium weight card stock Unframed Professionally printed and ready for framing Shop The Mermaid by Howard Pyle, 1919. Poster created by veinglory. Personalize it with photos  &  text or purchase as is! Just another WordPress.com weblog Originally posted by katia_lexx at Boris Diodorov. The Little Mermaid. Create art faster than ever with a high quality instant digital download from The Brass Mouse. One click, and in under five minutes youll have a vintage photograph sent directly to your computer. This listing is for an instant digital download, which means there is no shipping or wait time. Explore n.illarionova &# x27;s photos on Flickr. n.illarionova has uploaded 75 photos to Flickr. French Art Nouveau Smoking Woman Collage is a painting by Tina Lavoie which was uploaded on January 25th, 2016. The painting may be purchased as wall art, home decor, apparel, phone cases, greeting cards, and more. All products are produced on-demand and shipped worldwide within 2 - 3 business days. Illustration by Virginia Frances Sterrett for Old French Fairytales (1920), a collection of works from the 19th-century French author, Comtesse de Ségur. The exquisite set of illustrations were Chicago-born Sterrett &# x27;s first ever commission, taken on at the tender age of 19. Shortly after completing them she was diagnosed with tuberculosis. Sterrett would manage a few other commissions, including illustrations for a 1928 edition of Arabian Nights, but her failing health meant she could only… If you can’t be bothered to say hi to me I’m done saying hi to you. From a Hans Christian Andersen fairy tale about a mothers struggle. illustrated by the magnificent Kay Nielsen for a newspaper supplement. IMPORTANT--these particular illustrations are ethereal and soft in line and color--they will not print out crisp as many others do--that isnt the way the work Buy  &# x27;Mermaid CaveThe TempestEdmund Dulac &# x27; by forgottenbeauty as a T-Shirt, Classic T-Shirt, Tri-blend T-Shirt, Lightweight Hoodie, Fitted Scoop T-Shirt, Fitted V-Neck T-Shirt, Relaxed Fit T-Shirt, Graphic T-Shirt, Chiffon Top, Sleeveless T... antelucanhourglass 