Plan Details  &  Information : Path2College 529 Plan Your sign-up was successful. The Path2College 529 Plan will email you periodic updates about: Be sure to visit us online at  path2college529.com  for plan promotions and other information about the Plan. If you have any questions, please call us at 1-877-424-4377, Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 8:00 PM ET. Thanks again for your interest in the Path2College 529 Plan. Return to your saved application Set up online access for an existing account Monday - Friday 8:00AM to 8:00PM ET Continue Saved Application Need Help? Call 1-877-424-4377 On November 28, 2019, our customer phone centers will be closed. On November 29th, we will be closing early at 4:00 pm ET. We will be open for normal business hours on Monday, December 2nd. Verification * It s never too early to prepare your child or grandchild for a successful future. No matter what their age   with the rising cost of tuition   the time to start is now.  The Path2College 529 Plan is a state-sponsored, tax-advantaged 529 college savings plan that s helping families and individuals plan for the cost of education.  It s available to any citizen or tax payer. And just about anyone can help contribute including Grandparents, other family members and friends. It only takes about 15 minutes to open an account online and it is easy to manage.  There are a variety of low-cost investment portfolios to choose from including age-based, multi-fund, single-fund and guaranteed options. A 529 college savings plan can help you save more of your money over time. Any earnings grow free from federal tax, and many states offer a state income tax deduction or tax credit for contributions. Limitations apply. See the  Disclosure Booklet  for details. As a 529 Plan, the Path2College 529 Plan also offers certain gift and estate tax planning benefits; consult your tax advisor. And withdrawals are tax-free at both the federal and state level when used for qualified education expenses. You can use the funds for a lot more than just tuition   including required fees, certain room and board costs, books, supplies, as well as computers and related technology costs such as Internet access fees and printers. Additional equipment required for attendance may also qualify. Funds can be used at most accredited colleges and universities in the United States   even certain colleges abroad. In addition, up to $10,000 annually can be used toward K-12 school tuition per student from all 529 plans.* If you re worried about having the account in one state and attending school in another, don t be. With most plans, your school choice is not affected by the state of your savings plan. You can be a resident of Georgia and send your student to college in North Carolina.  This section provides a summary of information about the Path2College 529 Plan, but it s important you read the full  Disclosure Booklet  for more detailed information. *State tax treatment of withdrawals for K-12 tuition expense is determined by the state where you file state income tax. If you are not a Georgia taxpayer, please consult with a tax advisor. The Path2College 529 Plan was created by the State of Georgia as a tax-advantaged way to help people save for the cost of higher education. To contact the plan: The Path2College 529 Plan is administrated by the State of Georgia, acting by and through the Board of Directors of the Georgia Higher Education Savings Plan. The Direct Plan Manager is TIAA-CREF Tuition Financing Incorporated, or TFI.  TFI is a wholly owned subsidiary of Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association of America ( TIAA ). TIAA, together with its companion organization, the College Retirement Equities Fund ( CREF ), forms one of America s leading financial services organizations and one of the world s largest pension systems, based on assets under management. A financial services company with nearly 100 years  experience, TIAA specializes in helping clients like you reach your financial goals   for retirement, saving for college, or providing protection for your loved ones.  It s how we meet our commitment to helping you make financial well-being possible. TFI and the Board of Directors of the Georgia Higher Education Savings Plan entered into an agreement under which TFI provides certain services, including investment recommendations, recordkeeping, reporting and marketing. If you re a U.S. citizen or resident alien with a valid Social Security Number or Taxpayer ID Number, and you re least 18 years of age, you re eligible to open an account.  Individuals opening an account may also designate a person to be the Contingent Account Owner in the event of their death. Additionally, certain types of entities with a valid Taxpayer ID Number such as a trust, an estate, or a corporation may also open an account*. *Additional restrictions may apply, please refer to the  Disclosure Booklet  for details The beneficiary is the future student. The beneficiary can be anyone with a valid Social Security Number or Taxpayer ID Number. Typically this would be your child, your grandchild, or yourself.  You do not need to be related to the beneficiary, but there may only be one beneficiary per account.  The only exceptions to this are entities establishing this as a general scholarship account.  You can open an account with as little as $25 dollars per investment option, or $15 dollars per pay period through payroll deduction. Your maximum account balance per beneficiary for the Path2College 529 Plan is $235,000. Any contribution beyond this amount would be returned to you. In the event your account reaches this amount, it may continue to accrue earnings/interest, though further contributions would be returned and not applied. One of the best aspects of the Path2College 529 Plan is that it s easy to make contributions. There are many ways to add to the fund including: ScholarShare College Savings Plan PO Box 55205 Boston, MA 02205-5205 ScholarShare College Savings Plan 430 W 7th Street Suite 219293 Kansas City, MO 64105-1407 Systematic Exchange is an optional feature offered by the Path2College 529 Plan, and allows you to regularly transfer funds from one or more investment options to one or more different investment options. You may choose this option when making a one-time new contribution, or with funds already invested in your account. Similar to the Automatic Contribution Plan, you make recurring contributions to an investment option over time, but instead of making regular transfers from a bank account, Systematic Exchange allows you to make transfers from a Path2College 529 Plan investment option (e.g., from Guaranteed Option to an Age Based Investment Option, vice versa, or any other combination of  Source Investment Option  and  Recipient Investment Option ). You choose the amount you would like to transfer either on a monthly, quarterly, semi-annual or annual basis. If you elect the Systematic Exchange option at the time your Path2College 529 Plan account is opened, it will be considered the initial investment allocation for your account. If you elect, change or terminate the Systematic Exchange option for your existing Path2College 529 Plan account, it will be considered a change in investment strategy for previously contributed funds which you are allowed to change twice per calendar year. *Be sure to consult with a qualified advisor regarding the possible legal and tax consequences associated with such changes. Only the account owner may make a withdrawal.  You can request a withdrawal by mail, by phone, or from the plan s website.  Withdrawals may be made individually or systematically.  You can pay the institution, send it directly to the beneficiary, or reimburse yourself.  Be sure to keep all receipts to substantiate qualification.  Type of Withdrawals: In the event of a refund of amounts paid for qualified higher education expenses from an eligible educational institution, the refund may be redeposited to the 529 plan within 60 days without the amount being subject to tax. The recontributed amount cannot exceed the amount of the refund. *State tax treatment of withdrawals for K-12 tuition expense is determined by the state where you file state income tax. If you are not a Georgia taxpayer, please consult with a tax advisor. Qualified Education Expenses may include tuition, certain room and board expenses in addition to any fees, books, supplies and equipment required for enrollment and attendance at an eligible educational institution, which includes most post-secondary institutions. Computers and related technology such as internet access fees, software or printers used primarily by the designated beneficiary when enrolled at an eligible educational institution are also qualified education expenses. If the beneficiary is a special needs student, any additional costs required for enrollment or attendance to meet those needs will also be treated as a qualified higher education expense. Qualified Higher Education Expenses also include tuition in connection with enrollment or attendance at a K-12 public, private or religious school, up to a maximum of $10,000 per year per Beneficiary from all Section 529 plans.* *State tax treatment of withdrawals for K-12 tuition expense is determined by the state where you file state income tax. If you are not a Georgia taxpayer, please consult with a tax advisor. Room  &  board costs are considered qualified only during the academic period in which the student is enrolled or accepted for enrollment in a program that leads to a recognized educational credential from an eligible educational institution. This amount cannot exceed the institution s  cost of attendance  allowance. Funds can be used at most accredited colleges and universities in the United States   even certain colleges abroad. In addition, up to $10,000 annually can be used toward K-12 school tuition per student from all 529 plans. See the  Disclosure Booklet  (PDF) for more information. Visit Ed.gov  to find out if your post-secondary school is accredited. The Path2College 529 Plan provides a variety of professionally managed investment options to choose from including age-based options an all-in-one portfolio series, intended for those saving for college.  The allocation automatically shifts from aggressive to conservative investments as your child approaches college age. Alternatively you can tailor your investment options with multi-fund, single-fund and guaranteed options to match your risk tolerance, timeline, and investment preferences. When you pay fewer taxes, you can earn more and grow your account faster   giving your child or grandchild an even bigger head start. See the difference these tax advantages can make over time in the table below. This example assumes an initial investment of $5,000, monthly contributions of $100, and a 6% annual rate of return over 18 years. The taxable account assumes a 28% federal and 5% state tax rate. The illustration is for illustrative purposes only and does not represent the performance of any specific portfolio. As a 529 Plan, the Path2College 529 Plan offers unsurpassed income tax benefits. Although contributions are not deductible on your federal tax return, any investment earnings can grow tax-deferred, and distributions to pay for the beneficiary s qualified education expenses come out federally tax-free.  In addition to federal tax benefits, there are state tax benefits as well.  For the Path2College 529 Plan, tax treatment is as follows:  Contributions are deductible for Georgia income tax purposes up to $4,000 per year per Beneficiary for those filing a joint return and up to $2,000 per year per Beneficiary for all others. Effective for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2020, contributions are deductible up to $8,000 per year per Beneficiary for joint filers, and $4,000 per year per Beneficiary for all others. Incoming rollovers from other 529 plans do not qualify as contributions eligible for the state income tax deduction.  Qualified Withdrawals are not subject to Georgia income tax. Non-Qualified Withdrawals and an outgoing rollover to another state s 529 plan are subject to Georgia income tax if the contribution portion was previously deducted for Georgia income tax purposes.  Georgia tax benefits related to the Path2College 529 Plan are available only to Georgia tax payers. You should talk to a qualified advisor about how Georgia tax provisions affect your circumstances. There s another tax advantage unique to the 529 plan.  There s no federal gift tax on contributions up to $15,000 per year for single filers and $30,000 for married filers.  There s even an option to gift amounts up to $75,000 for single filers and up to $150,000 for married filers if pro-rated over 5 years.  This means you could make a one-time gift equivalent to the 5 year amount and it could all qualify for the federal gift tax exclusion.  Consult your tax advisor. It s a good idea to periodically re-evaluate your investment strategy as your goals, investment horizon, and personal situation change   for example annually at tax time, on a yearly basis if your income changes, or upon the birth of another child. There are no application fees, no cancellation fees, no change in beneficiary fees   only program management and underlying mutual fund fees. As with any investment, there are risks.  To help you manage these risks there are flexible investment options ranging from conservative to aggressive. Assets in an account are not guaranteed or insured. The value of your account may decrease and you could lose money, including amounts contributed. For more information about the risks involved in investing in a particular investment option, and whether or not an option is appropriate for you, read the  Disclosure Booklet  (PDF). It s possible you might want or need to make changes to your account.  Here's a quick summary of the types of changes you can make and what happens when you do: After you open an account you can change the beneficiary of the account to an eligible family member of the former beneficiary without adverse federal tax consequence.   Family member  includes not just immediate family but grandparents, aunts and uncles, step children, in laws...even first cousins.  Otherwise, changes may be subject to federal income tax as well as other state and federal tax consequences. See the  Disclosure Booklet  (PDF) for more information. Anytime you make a new contribution, you may select a different investment for that amount.  However, you may only change the previously contributed amount twice per year or when you change a beneficiary, and only then if it s a member of the previous beneficiary s family.  If you have more than one account for the same beneficiary, this restriction applies to all accounts, so you ll need to make all changes on the same calendar day.  You make these changes by submitting the proper asset allocation instructions. You can add or change a contingent account owner at any time by completing the  appropriate form .* You may also transfer the ownership of your account to another individual or entity that is eligible to be an account owner.  This is not the same as changing a contingent account owner.  This would be when you want to irrevocably sign away all rights, title and interest in the account.* *Be sure to consult with a qualified advisor regarding the possible legal and tax consequences associated with such changes. 320353 tooltip Eligible Educational Institutions tooltip Family Member tooltip Qualified Higher Education Expenses tooltip Section 529 10 Reasons to Save with Path2College Reducing the Cost of College Saving vs. Borrowing The Future Cost of College Ways to Save  &  Pay for College Why Path2College is a Plan for Everyone > Click here for legal disclosure Consider the investment objectives, risks, charges and expenses before investing in the Path2College 529 Plan. Please call toll-free 1-877-424-4377 or  click here for a Disclosure Booklet  containing this and other information. Read it carefully. Investments in the plan are neither insured nor guaranteed and there is the risk of investment loss. Before investing in a 529 plan, you should consider whether the state you or your designated beneficiary reside in or have taxable income in has a 529 plan that offers favorable state income tax or other benefits such as financial aid, scholarship funds or protection from creditors that are only available if you invest in that state s 529 plan. Consult your legal or tax professional for tax advice. If the funds are not used for qualified education expenses, a 10% penalty tax on earnings (as well as federal and state income taxes) may apply. The Path2College 529 Plan is offered by the State of Georgia. TIAA-CREF Tuition Financing, Inc. (TFI),  program manager. TIAA-CREF Individual  &  Institutional Services, LLC, Member FINRA, distributor and underwriter for the Path2College 529 Plan. The Plan Web site is for informational purposes only, and does not constitute an offer to sell or solicitation of an offer to buy any security that may be referenced on the site. Such offer or solicitation can be made only through the  Disclosure Booklet . The Plan Web site contains links to other Web sites. Neither the Plan nor TFI and its affiliates are responsible for the content of those other Web sites. The accuracy of information on those sites cannot be confirmed. All social media platforms are managed by the Georgia Student Finance Commission. 