Here ' s a Lovecraftian Monster from Xavier Gens ' ' Cold Skin ' ! - Bloody Disgusting [It Came From the ‘80s] Resurrecting the Fury of ‘Christine’ Two Beautiful New  Maleficent: Mistress of Evil  Posters Highlight Disney s Dark Side Now That s a Power Duo: Toni Collette Joins the Cast of Guillermo del Toro s  Nightmare Alley ! Amanda Seyfried in Talks for Netflix and  American Splendor  Duo s Horror Film  Things Heard  &  Seen Netflix and  Cloverfield  Director Matt Reeves Adapting Classic Sci-fi Novel  Way Station Welcome to the End: Watch the Trailer for the Final Season of  Supernatural [Anime Horrors] The Psychological Deception and Trauma of  School-Live! Best Trailer So Far for HBO s  Watchmen  Uncovers a Vast and Insidious Conspiracy Meet Lizzy Caplan s Annie Wilkes in Official Teaser Trailer for  Castle Rock  Season 2 Robert Kirkman s  Super Dinosaur  Will Stomp Its Way Onto Amazon Prime Video in October [TIFF Review]  The Vigil  Introduces a New Kind of Jewish Horror [Review]  Hipsters, Gangsters, Aliens and Geeks  is a Zany, Over-the-Top Sci-Fi Comedy [TIFF Review]  The Platform  Is Grotesque and Compelling Horror Satire [TIFF Review]  Saint Maud  Is An Exquisite Religious Psychological Thriller [TIFF Review]  Joker  Has a Remarkable Lead Performance Trapped in an Inevitable Plot [It Came From the ‘80s] Resurrecting the Fury of ‘Christine’ [Anime Horrors] The Psychological Deception and Trauma of  School-Live! [Butcher Block] ‘Among the Living’ Is the Most Brutal Amblin-Inspired Movie of Them All Voorhees and Beyond: Horror s Long-Running History with Releasing Films on Friday the 13th Feasting on Fear: The Shared Horror of ‘IT’ and ‘A Nightmare on Elm Street’ Welcome to the End: Watch the Trailer for the Final Season of  Supernatural Shudder s Cosmic Opera  Blood Machines  Has the Most Striking, Unique Trailer We ve Seen All Year Headless Horrors Await in Second Trailer for  Along Came the Devil 2 Best Trailer So Far for HBO s  Watchmen  Uncovers a Vast and Insidious Conspiracy [Video]  Friday the 13th  Fan Film  Here Comes the Night  Released on YouTube Today! Explore The Music of  Code Vein  in Latest Developer Diary Dive Into The First Chapter of  A Plague Tale: Innocence  With This Free Demo NECA Teases NES Video Game Variant of Toony Terrors Jason Voorhees Toy Monster Hunter World: Iceborne  Ships 2.5 Million Copies in Seven Days Demo For  Contra: Rogue Corps  Now Available For Consoles Published on By Xavier Gens  ( The Divide, Frontiere(s),   The  Crucifixion) just shared the official teaser trailer for his   adaptation of Albert Sanchez Piñol’s Spanish novel,  Cold Skin . The visually stunning footage, shown below, ends with a shot of hundreds of creatures coming ashore. Speaking of, check out the above hi-res shot of one of the film s Lovecraftian monsters. As  previously reported , the film is a Lovecraftian tale of isolation and madness that has been in the works since 2009 when  30 Days of Night  director David Slade was developing from a script by Alex and David Pastor ( Carriers ). At some point, that creative teamed turned over and Gens ended up shooting the film from a script by  28 Weeks Late r scribe  Jesús Olmo.  Cold Skin  takes place on the edge of the Antartic Circle, in the years after World War I, a steam ship approaches a desolate island far from all shipping lanes. On board is a young man, on his way to assume the lonely post of weather observer, to live in solitude for a year at the end of the world. But on shore he finds no trace of the man whom he has been sent to replace, just a deranged castaway who has witnessed a horror he refuses to name. The rest is forest, a deserted cabin, rocks, silence, and the surrounding sea. And then the night begins to fall… It stars  Ray Stevenson  ( Punisher: War Zone, Big Game ) and  David Oakes  ( The Borgias, The White Queen ) along with Spain’s double-Goya nominee  Aura Garrido. We also scored some early art for the release set for this fall overseas. Co-founded Bloody Disgusting in 2001. Producer on Southbound, the V/H/S trilogy, SiREN, Under the Bed, and A Horrible Way to Die. Chicago-based. Horror, pizza and basketball connoisseur. Taco Bell daily. It: Chapter Two  Banners Unite the Past and Present The  3 From Hell  Bring Murder  Madness  and Mayhem to the Poster Sadistic Intentions  Poster Brings Romance to Horror [Exclusive] Copyright © 2018 Bloody Disgusting, LLC 