one does not simply walk into the black pyramid : SecretWorldLegends use the following search parameters to narrow your results: e.g. subreddit:aww site:imgur.com dog see the search faq for details. advanced search: by author, subreddit... 53 users here now Click on any of these buttons to search for all posts tagged with that category.  Dev Response Helpful Bug Report Modding Discussion Question/Help Builds Roleplay Fan Creation Media Cabals Suggestions General Guidelines Be Good to One Another.  The golden rule of this community is that it should be a positive place for discussion. Treat others as you would like to be treated. Be On Topic.  Keep posts relevant to Secret World Legends. Speculation, feature wishlists, etc. are fine. Be Constructive.  Pointless flaming or trolling isn ' t helpful.  If you have criticism, please express it in a civil manner. Personal attacks will not be tolerated.  Posts containing racism, bigotry, or discrimination will be removed on sight at the discretion of the moderators.  Please don ' t post exploits.  If you have an exploit to report, please PM the moderator team FIRST and confirm a response before anything.  Please do not publicly explain how to perform exploits against other players. Such posts will be removed on sight. Please don ' t  " name and shame " .   Witch hunts are not allowed.  If you have a grievance with another user, open a petition ingame or DM a Community Manager. We can ' t help with billing and account issues here.  Issues that require the attention of customer service, such as billing and account issues, should go to  http://help.funcom.com/  or at least be DMed to a Community Manager for guidance. All posts, comments, and links submitted to this subreddit do not necessarily reflect the views of Funcom, their staff, or affiliates.  Open discussion is encouraged, but your Mods reserve the right to remove posts containing weird gross stuff or other objectionable material. All general Reddit rules also apply. the front page of the internet. and subscribe to one of thousands of communities. Media one does not simply walk into the black pyramid ( i.redd.it ) submitted 1 year ago by [deleted] Post a comment! [–] YanCoffee 6 points 7 points 8 points 1 year ago (2 children) You know, I don ' t hate CoTS as much as some people, it had a nice story line, just... I still sighed.  [–] RoyalDF 0 points 1 point 2 points 1 year ago (0 children) I think it ' s the color scheme is the problem, well at least in scorched desert imoo, it ' s all sand colored and I ' m too used to Tokyo and the tower with futuristics to care about Egypt as an art piece. [–] [deleted] 0 points 1 point 2 points 1 year ago (0 children) the terrain is too trippy for me [–] Ennui_Ca-Ira 1 point 2 points 3 points 1 year ago (0 children) You ' re making Egypt look much better than it is. Now unsure whether to score on artistry or deceit. B-) [–] LuckyStampede 2 points 3 points 4 points 1 year ago (0 children) I remember first seeing this thing and the sense of awe and foreboding it inspired. That ' s something that I can never experience again. [–] tobascodagama 0 points 1 point 2 points 1 year ago (0 children) I really love the sun effects in Egypt. Be sure to look up while you ' re dead, too. [–] Alyciae 0 points 1 point 2 points 1 year ago (0 children) I for one, loved egypt. I hated solomon isles with a passion Posts are automatically archived after 6 months. We are unable to post your link or media unless you can verify to us that you own the rights to it. And if you’re just a small-time creator and not a big media conglomerate, good luck with that. ><br >JUST KIDDING (your post is fine). But we won’t be kidding if the new EU Copyright Directive passes the European Parliament. Learn more about how to contact your MEP and what else you can do to #saveyourinternet. Posts are automatically archived after 6 months. We are unable to post your link or media unless you can verify to us that you own the rights to it. And if you’re just a small-time creator and not a big media conglomerate, good luck with that. ><br >JUST KIDDING (your post is fine). But we won’t be kidding if the new EU Copyright Directive passes the European Parliament. Learn more about how to contact your MEP and what else you can do to #saveyourinternet. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy .   2019 reddit inc. All rights reserved. REDDIT and the ALIEN Logo are registered trademarks of reddit inc. By having a Reddit account, you can subscribe, vote, and comment on all your favorite Reddit content. Sign up in just seconds. Already have an account? Log In Skip for now Reddit is filled with interest based communities, offering something for everyone. Check out some communities and we recommend you subscribe to at least 5. Your username is how other community members will see you. This name will be used to credit you for things you share on Reddit. What should we call you? Having a hard time picking a name? Here are some available suggestions. Rendered by PID 1853 on  r2-app-02590e2b55efe5d6f  at 2019-05-07 13:00:21.395782+00:00 running cc3de93 country code: US. 