Deciding bundles per skid   The International Journal   of Newspaper Technology July  2005 Decidingbundles per skid Editor’snote: This month, Newspapers  &  Technology, in conjunction with the PostPress Federation and Perfect Pallets Inc., is debuting a question-and-answercolumn aimed at postproduction issues. Topics and associated responses originatefrom the Federation’s free online forum. Membership information and otherdetails about the Federation, sponsored and managed by Perfect Pallets, can befound at  www.perfectpalletspostpress.com . Topic:Skid weight Q:Does anybody have a skidding matrix that quickly tells you the height and amountof bundles that can be placed on a skid depending upon web size, format and pagecount? Response:If you are trying to determine bundles per skid, we take a page of newsprint(.003-inch) and multiply that by the number of pages and then add all theinserts (measured with a micrometer). Add it all together and we have determinedthat our comics translates into less than 6 inches per bundle and about 10inches for our news/advance. We stack 11 bundles to a layer and our skid cutoffheight is five feet. Follow-up:The problem I face is that I’m trying to establish a standard for product thatcomes right off the press to product that goes through bindery. This way, therewill be no shortage/overage and I can get total skid weights to common carriers,etc. We print so many different-sized products that it’s been difficult todetermine how many (products) go either in a layer or bundle. What I would likeis to put something together that would let operators quickly determine if theproduct is “X” amount of pages, the web stock is “X” amount of inchesand the run amount is “X,” then there would be so many per bundle, perlayer, per pallet and the pallet will weigh this much and be this tall. Response:We use piece weight instead of thickness to determine bundle size andpallet/cart heights. We multiply the weight of all pieces in pounds (preprintsplus jackets) by bundle size to determine the weight. Bundle weight times numberper layer times number of layers gets us pallet weight. For us, our bundlemaximum is 20 pounds off inserter and 35 pounds off press. Our pallet maximumweight is 1,100 pounds and that keeps (our pallets) around 4.5-feet tall. Onadvance runs we normally use the heaviest weight of any one package type. Forour TMC product we break it out by ZIP code and set bundle sizes to 13 poundsand under. Response:Here is what we use to figure out skid weights. All of our skids are 11 in layerand five high. Payload formula: Page weight (.0103)-by-number of pages-by-drawequals payload. Here’s a sample: .0103-by-64-by-9,000 equals 15,525 pounds. Topic:Rotation of feeders Q:How often, if at all, does the rest of the industry rotate people on insertingmachines. We currently rotate at first break, lunch and second break. Employeessay this isn’t often enough. Response:At one newspaper at which I worked, the feeders on the machine moved aroundevery 30 minutes throughout the entire shift. Where I work now people stay onthe same head/heads for the entire shift. Shifts only last as long as productiondictates so it’s not usually more than four hours at a time. They do anexcellent job and have no trouble mastering products and ensuring good feeds. Response:We do not rotate hopper feeders during the shift. We try to rotate the feederseach day so the same person does not get stuck running the (more difficult)inserts every day. We have tried to pay extra for pre-inserted packages as a wayto keep quality feeders on these packages and this works well. Our feeders feedtwo to three hoppers most days, depending on size. Response:We usually rotate after every run and we try not to let the same person run thesame hoppers every day. Response:We rotate every half-hour. If we have a really difficult insert we will put ourbest inserter on it and leave (him or her) on there or rotate other goodinserters in and out of that position. Response:We rotate every two hours: We’re a union shop and the two-hour rotation wasarrived at using ergonomics software from Ergonomics by Design Inc. Topic:Training best practices Q:I’m currently working on a team project and looking for best practices indeveloping and training mailroom employees. Any programs, methods or tools yourorganization has used that have delivered results would greatly be appreciated. Response:We usually try to team a new employee with a more experienced one for a few daysto try to get them used to using the joggers and to help them to understand howhigh or low you have to feed some of the inserts. When we turn them loose bythemselves it is usually on some of the simpler inserts. Response:We use a qualification sheet program. Every job has a qualification sheet thatlists all requirements, or steps needed to complete the job. Employees mustdemonstrate their skills or explain their knowledge to the satisfaction of anauthorized signer to get signed off on the sheet. The good thing about thisprogram is that it leaves a paper trail that can be helpful when problems orquestions about someone’s ability arise. Response:We use a training checklist and assign new people with trainers or mentors fordifferent tasks. We pay a bonus to the trainer/mentor. This method has workedwell for us for the past four years. 