Best 30 Appliance Parts in Strongsville, OH with Reviews - YP.com What are you looking for? YP - The Real Yellow Pages SM  - helps you find the right local businesses to meet your specific needs. Search results are sorted by a combination of factors to give you a set of choices in response to your search criteria. These factors are similar to those you might use to determine which business to select from a local Yellow Pages directory, including proximity to where you are searching, expertise in the specific services or products you need, and comprehensive business information to help evaluate a business's suitability for you. “Preferred” listings, or those with featured website buttons, indicate YP advertisers who directly provide information about their businesses to help consumers make more informed buying decisions. YP advertisers receive higher placement in the default ordering of search results and may appear in sponsored listings on the top, side, or bottom of the search results page. The repairs were handled very quickly and so far everything is working well.He was very nice.  We was pleased with his work. Wherever you bought it, we'll repair it. Serving the Strongsville Area Do not use their services!  They mark up part cost 200% and send sub-par techs that do shoddy work.  For example, on a service call, the washer was… I've used Tiger Air (44129) twice.  The first time was an OK experience.  They got the job done.  The second time, they sent this guy who was very… Becky, our technician, was courteous, thorough and professional. She diagnosed our washer issue quickly and repaired just as quickly. Thank you,… Wherever you bought it, we'll repair it. From Business: Sears Home Services is the leading appliance repair service in the nation. Trusted for generations and proudly serving your neighborhood, the Sears Home… Wherever you bought it, we'll repair it. From Business: Sears Home Services is the leading appliance repair service in the nation. Trusted for generations and proudly serving your neighborhood, the Sears Home… Wherever you bought it, we'll repair it. From Business: Sears Home Services is the leading appliance repair service in the nation. Trusted for generations and proudly serving your neighborhood, the Sears Home… Wherever you bought it, we'll repair it. From Business: * Call For Fast, Professional Service * Please Visit Our Website * Open Monday - Friday 8:30 - 5:30 - Saturday 9 - 1 This company has the nicest technician. He has been to my home many times for many appliances.  He is friendly and the most professional.   I… From Business: Home Appliance is Northeast Ohio's only appliance retailer that sells, services, delivers and installs with our own team. No outside contractors here! We are a… From Business: 6 Distribution Centers and 45 Locations stocked with the most inventory and staffed with the best people in the industry ensure you that you'll receive the right… BS scam of a store forcing people to overpay for services they don't need.  All part of the plan to convince people they are too dumb to do… From Business: GE Appliance Repair in Valley View offers premier appliance repair services at competitive rates. Call or use easy online scheduling to book an appointment with… From Business: Here at Rapco we have repair specialists on most makes and models including all major and small appliances. Also we provide microwave service  &  repair home  & … I am leary of people anymore when it comes to fixing things, but let me tell you. ......Matt is HONEST AND FAIR!  Very reasonable even on a tight… Service  was prompt and efficient and appreciated for those reasons.  I would certainly recommend Sears  service to friends. Wherever you bought it, we'll repair it. terrible! do not use, they did my warranty repair for Ryobi but refuse to give me my product back until they get paid from Ryobi! We found 85 results Didn't find what you were looking for?  Please help others by helping us do better.  2019 Thryv, Inc. All rights reserved. YP, the YP logo and all other YP marks contained herein are trademarks of YP LLC and/or YP affiliated companies. All other marks contained herein are the property of their respective owners. 