Donald Trump considering new $100bn tariff on Chinese goods as trade feud escalates | US news | The Guardian US president instructs trade agency to mull options as onlookers fear tit-for-tat will become full-blown trade war US president instructs trade agency to mull options as onlookers fear tit-for-tat will become full-blown trade war Lily Kuo  and agencies Fri 6 Apr 2018  02.06 EDT First published on Thu 5 Apr 2018  19.57 EDT Donald Trump  has instructed the US trade representative to consider slapping $100bn in additional tariffs on Chinese goods in an escalating standoff over trade. Trump said in a statement on Thursday that the further tariffs were being considered “in light of China’s unfair retaliation” against earlier US trade actions. He added that the US trade representative had determined that  China  “has repeatedly engaged in practices to unfairly obtain America’s intellectual property”.  The White House said Trump had instructed the Office of the United States Trade Representative, the agency responsible for developing and recommending trade policy, to consider whether the additional tariffs would be appropriate under  section 301  and, if so, to identify which products they should apply to. He’s also instructed his secretary of agriculture “to implement a plan to protect our farmers and agricultural interests”. “Rather than remedy its misconduct, China has chosen to harm our farmers and manufacturers,” Trump said.  Trump argues China’s trade practices have led to the closure of American factories and the loss of millions of American jobs.  On Friday China’s commerce ministry said Beijing would fight the US “at any cost”. China’s state-run tabloid Global Times called Trump’s latest threat “ ridiculous ” in an editorial on Thursday, noting that it “reflects the deep arrogance of some American elites in their attitude towards China”. Trump’s move comes one day after  China issued  a $50bn list of US goods including soybeans and small aircraft for possible tariff hikes. That itself was 11 hours after the White House announced a list of 1,333 Chinese imports, also worth about $50bn, for punitive tariffs of 25%.  “Hopefully the president is just blowing off steam again but, if he’s even half-serious, this is nuts,” said the senator Ben Sasse, a Republican from Nebraska, who has been critical of the president’s posture on trade. “China is guilty of many things, but the president has no actual plan to win right now. He’s threatening to light American agriculture on fire.” The tit-for-tat has  rattled stock markets  on worries over a full-blown trade war between two of the world’s largest economies. US stock futures fell more than 1% following Trump’s announcement, made after the close of trading. In currency markets, the dollar fell against Japan’s yen. The National Retail Federation, a Washington-based trade group, said in  a statement : “We urge the administration to change course and stop playing a game of chicken with the nation’s economy.”  Last month, the US president  claimed  that “trade wars are good, and easy to win”. Trump has said the tariffs will push Beijing to change policies that force American companies to give up their intellectual property to Chinese businesses, a policy the US believes is part and parcel of one of Beijing’s key industrial plans,  Made in China 2025 .  On Wednesday, Trump sought to play down concerns,  saying on Twitter : “We are not in a trade war with China, that war was lost many years ago by the foolish, or incompetent, people who represented the US. Now we have a Trade Deficit of $500 Billion a year, with Intellectual Property Theft of another $300 Billion. We cannot let this continue!” He added: “When you’re already $500 Billion DOWN, you can’t lose!” However, if China matched the White House’s threats to subject as much as $150bn in Chinese goods to tariffs, it would more than cover total US exports to the country.  The US exported around $130bn to China last year, mainly in agricultural products like soybeans and grains, as well as vehicles, aircraft and pharmaceuticals – items included in China’s list released on Wednesday. Trump’s threatened increase of tariffs on Chinese goods would affect only about 30% of what China exports to the US. Beijing has not signalled any willingness to back down. China’s People’s Daily, the official voice of the ruling Communist Party, said in an editorial on Thursday: “Within 24 hours of the US publishing its list, China drew its sword, and with the same strength and to the same scale, counterattacked quickly, fiercely and with determination.”  The two sides have still left  room for manoeuvre . US tariffs will not come into effect until after a public comment and consultation period that should take about two months.  China  has said implementation of its tariffs will depend on the US. A senior US official told Reuters that the US was  willing to negotiate  with China, though no formal negotiations had been set.  China’s economic tsar, Liu He, has spoken over the phone with the US treasury secretary, Steven Mnuchin, and reportedly  exchanged letters  with Mnuchin and US trade representative Robert Lighthizer. “We are at a critical juncture where the US may have its maximum leverage to get changes in China, and both sides are at least talking about talking,” said Claire Reade, senior counsel at Arnold  &  Porter, who advises on Chinese regulatory and governmental issues. “If the two sides can reach an agreement in the next 60 days, [then] no trade war.”  … in the coming year, and the results will define the country for a generation. Democracy is under attack, as is civility, truth and normal forms of political behaviour. The White House harbours white nationalists, incites fear and prejudice, undermines intelligence agencies, courts foreign influence in US elections and undermines the judiciary. The need for a robust, independent press has never been greater and with your help we can continue to provide fact-based reporting that offers public scrutiny and oversight.  These are perilous times. The administration ' s willingness to deploy untruths, violent speech and hateful attacks on the media are now commonplace. This is why we are asking for your help so that we can continue to put truth and civility at the heart of the public discourse.  " Next year America faces an epic choice – and the result could define the country for a generation. It is at a tipping point, finely balanced between truth and lies, hope and hate, civility and nastiness. Many vital aspects of American public life are in play – the Supreme Court, abortion rights, climate policy, wealth inequality, Big Tech and much more. The stakes could hardly be higher. As that choice nears, the Guardian, as it has done for 200 years, and with your continued support, will continue to argue for the values we hold dear – facts, science, diversity, equality and fairness. "  – US editor, John Mulholland On the occasion of its 100th birthday in 1921 the editor of the Guardian said,  " Perhaps the chief virtue of a newspaper is its independence. It should have a soul of its own. "  That is more true than ever. Freed from the influence of an owner or shareholders, the Guardian ' s robust independence is our unique driving force and guiding principle.  We also want to say a huge thank you to everyone who has supported the Guardian in 2019. You provide us with the motivation and financial support to keep doing what we do. We hope to surpass our goal by early January. Every contribution, big or small, will help us reach it.  Make a year-end gift from as little as $1. Thank you. We use cookies to improve your experience on our site and to show you personalised advertising. To find out more, read our  privacy policy  and  cookie policy . 