Easy French Onion Soup Recipe | She Wears Many Hats subscribe now and get new posts delivered via email: This quick and  Easy French Onion Soup  recipe can be ready in no time so it can be enjoyed any day of the week. Comfort food comes in all shapes and sizes for people. It doesn’t have to be complicated or fancy. Soup is one of my favorite comfort foods. This quick and  Easy French Onion Soup  recipe is a simplified version of the favorite classic. Did you read that? Simplified. Simple comfort food is a good thing, don t you agree? Seriously, forget that canned French Onion Soup and make your own in no time right at home with basic ingredients, straightforward preparation and in just under 45 minutes. It s super simple soup making, y all. The most difficult part is slicing the onions and we all know slicing onions is easy peasy. To prepare this flavorful soup, begin by sautéeing sliced onions in butter for about 7-8 minutes, until tender. Stir in beef broth, Worcestershire sauce and salt to taste. Then, bring to a simmer, cover and simmer for at least 10 minutes. Keep the soup warm until ready to serve. When ready to serve, preheat your broiler. Place oven-proof individual bowls on a baking sheet and ladle soup into each. Finish by topping each with a slice of thick crusty toasted bread and a slice of provolone (or gruyere) cheese. Place under broiler until cheese melts and is slightly golden. See how easy that is? For make-ahead prep for this  Easy French Onion Soup , prepare the soup through the simmering stage, then cover and refrigerate up to two days. When ready to serve, rewarm soup stove top, then proceed with recipe by filling oven safe  onion soup crocks , bowls or wide-mouthed mugs with soup, top each with bread and cheese then bake under the broiler until melty and bubbly. So what are you waiting for? Warm up with a bowl of this Easy French Onion Soup  right at home. Enjoy! A quick and easy version of the classic favorite soup. For make-ahead prep, prepare the soup through the simmering stage, then cover and refrigerate up to two days. When ready to serve, rewarm soup stove top, then proceed with the recipe. Originally published February 28, 2016. subscribe now and get new posts delivered via email: Why is there no  Pin it  button on here? I d like to save it to my Pinterest, but it s not as easy as it should be. Hi @Bridget – note about pintrest – I used to feel the same way until I found you can install a “pintrest save button” right in your google chrome browser and just click on the little red circle with a “p” each time you want to save anything at all and it converts it to a pin and saves it for you. Under the title at the top are small social media icons, which includes one for saving/sharing to Pinterest. Very yummy! Very easy! Thank you for sharing hi, that is good but that is not French onion soup it is Irish onion soup. I live this soup, simple and delicious. Made with stuff everybody has too,. Thanks for sharing. Pingback:  10 Soups to Warm You Up this Fall | Pineapple and Prosecco Pingback:  Coq au Vin Recipe | She Wears Many Hats Love your site, I love quick and easy on week nights, Honey it s cold outside and I m gonna fix this tonight. Had it for super tonight. Delisth add some sherry thx Pingback:  Vegetable Beef Soup Recipe | She Wears Many Hats Pingback:  The 20 Best Ideas for Quick French Onion soup - Best Recipes Ever Pingback:  20 Best Recipe French Onion soup - Best Recipes Ever Pingback:  20 Of the Best Ideas for French Onion soup Recipe   Home Decor Inspiration and Ideas Pingback:  Top 20 French Onion soup Recipe - Best Recipes Ever Pingback:  The Best Ideas for Onion soup Recipes - Best Recipes Ever Pingback:  The Best Ideas for Recipe for French Onion soup - Best Recipes Ever This French Onion Soup was so delicious and easy to make! We had planned it as an appetizer but agreed we needed nothing more because it is also extremely rich. We will eat this again and again! Pingback:  EASY FRENCH ONION SOUP RECIPE   alldeliciousrecipes Pingback:  Best 20 Recipe for French Onion soup - Best Round Up Recipe Collections Is there nutrition facts? Pingback:  EASY FRENCH ONION SOUP RECIPE   Helprecipes Pingback:  Delicious Onion soup Recipes Easy Your Family Love It I added some ground thyme and a dash of white whine vinegar (I had no sherry on hand) and I really like it. Many more traditional french onion soups have too much acidity for my taste, and I ve burned too many onions trying to carmelize them in the past. The worcestershire sauce makes it nice and savory Your email address will not be published.  Required fields are marked  * Comment Name  * Email  * Website Current ye@r  * Leave this field empty Notice: It seems you have Javascript disabled in your Browser. In order to submit a comment to this post, please write this code along with your comment:  5453a88cc09ea55c0bf102f52dc05adf I’m tickled that you’re here!  Like you, I wear many hats, and live to tell about it. This space is a place for sharing food, home, garden, travel and lifestyle tidbits, with some fun always thrown in for good measure. more about me » subscribe now and get new posts delivered via email: subscribe now  and get new posts delivered via email: 