How to Meal Prep for Beginners - Project Meal Plan Project Meal Plan Project Meal Plan is a food blog dedicated to make-ahead recipes, meal planning and preparing ahead. Meal prep is for anyone! But I totally understand if you re a beginner a need a little bit of a  starting place . That s why I put together How to Meal Prep for Beginners. Meal prep is basically any  preparation of your food that you do ahead of time. Any amount of prep at any time counts. It can be your whole week of meals or just pre-cutting your veggies. Anything that saves you time. If you ve written down your meal plan for the week, take one more look and see what you can prep ahead. Or maybe you planned your meals based on what s easy to prep. Either way, you can meal prep! It s not hard, it just takes a little time (but will save you so much later!). Before you dive in for the first time, think about the following:  Do you have containers to store the food you prepare? Storing food in airtight containers is important for freshness. I would recommend  4-cup Pyrex containers , or most glass containers in general, for lunch meals prepared ahead. I ve also recently started using these  3 compartment glass containers , like for this  Instant Pot Buffalo Chicken Meatball Meal Prep .  Think about your favorite cooking methods and new ones you d be willing to try. Try one new thing at a time.  Think about your favorite foods, and which foods you d be willing to eat for at least a couple days in a row. For example, if you don t already like roasted broccoli, you might really hate it after a few days.  Consider your dietary needs or check with your doctor. If you don t know where to start, here s a  macronutrient calculator . Think about this:  What does your week look like? Think about when you have the least amount of time, or when you normally resort to eating out, and prep for THAT. Prep for only what you need. You don t have to prep  every meal. Start simple (meat, veggies, grain).  For examples of meats, grains, and veggies to get started, I love this infographic from  Precision Nutrition, How to Create the Perfect Meal with plenty of ideas for protein, veggies, and smart carbs.  Keep in mind  food safety and storage times .  For more variation in your prep, try something new every once in a while, but make sure to gather and keep recipes that you like.Use  Yummly ,  Pinterest , or just make bookmarks to keep all your recipes in order. You could print them, but it s more environmentally friendly just to save them online.  Be aware of the number of portions made from each recipe. After you make a recipe for the first time, you ll notice how much of it you prefer to eat and how many meals it makes you.  Each week, specifically look for recipes with similar ingredients. Avoid things that call for tiny amounts of ingredients when you have to buy a large portion.  If you re prepping/cooking multiple meals, pick items with different cooking methods so they can cook at the same time. Invest in a  slow cooker  to make things like  Easy Slow Cooker 4-Bean Turkey Chili . Think about possibly prepping on a couple days later in the week, since everything won’t store until Friday. Plan to make some overnight oats or a smaller meal later in the week if you run out of prepared food.  Brainstorm! Use these articles to think of new ideas if you get bored:  Don t shop hungry.  Don t underestimate the power of a good shopping list.  Do buy sales. Be flexible if you can and utilize your freezer. Breakfast sausage on sale? Try the  Make-Ahead Freezer Friendly Breakfast Burritos . If you find good deals on fruit, you can freeze it to make your own  Berry Protein Smoothies .  Start shopping in bulk. If you meal prep regularly, you ll start to notice certain spices or oils that are running out. I d suggest buying things like that at  Costco to make your meal prep cheaper .  Stick with your plan. Start with whatever takes the longest to cook, or has the most downtime ( rice cooker  or slow cooker).  You can also prep parts of meals, instead of complete meals. Chop veggies. Portion out spices. Cook meats. I might talk about Meal Prep Sunday a lot, but meal prep can happen on any day of the week.  You can also cook and freeze items such as fruits and veggies, or even complete meals so you always have something ready to go. Here are some  Freezer Do s and Don ts from Sweet Peas  &  Saffron .  Portion your food into airtight containers. Use a scale. Take the entire amount you started with and divide it into how many servings you want. And that s how to meal prep for beginners! If you re looking for even more ideas, motivation, and meal prep help in general, I put together  The Ultimate List of Resources for Meal Planning and Prep . Check it out! Feel free to send an email to danielle@projectmealplan.com with any questions! amzn_assoc_placement = "adunit0";amzn_assoc_tracking_id = "promeapla0b-20";amzn_assoc_ad_mode = "manual";amzn_assoc_ad_type = "smart";amzn_assoc_marketplace = "amazon";amzn_assoc_region = "US";amzn_assoc_title = "Useful for Meal Prepping:";amzn_assoc_linkid = "a983cd7571d040568fc1caefc4b3141d";amzn_assoc_asins = "B003HF6PUO,B00I1VCFWQ,B007WQ9YNO,B004164SRA";amzn_assoc_search_bar = "true"; Subscribe and receive my FREE Meal Prep Quick Start Guide PLUS recipes and meal prep tips weekly! I ' ll never send you spam. You can unsubscribe at any time. Facebook facebook Instagram instagram Pinterest pinterest Twitter twitter YouTube youtube More Fall Recipes → Hey, I'm Danielle. I made Project Meal Plan because being prepared and saving time are my favorite things. It doesn't hurt that I LOVE cooking and photography too.  Learn More → Copyright  &# x000A9; 2019  PROJECT MEAL PLAN PRIVACY POLICY  &  DISCLOSURE Facebook facebook Instagram instagram Pinterest pinterest Twitter twitter YouTube youtube 