Nevermind - Wikipedia Nevermind  is the second  studio album  by American  rock  band  Nirvana , released on September 24, 1991, by  DGC Records . A number of labels courted the band, but Nirvana ultimately signed with  Geffen Records  imprint DGC Records based upon repeated recommendations from  Kim Gordon  of  Sonic Youth  and their management company. [ 2 ]  Produced by  Butch Vig , it was the band's first release on the label, as well as the first to feature drummer  Dave Grohl .  Despite the initial low commercial expectations,  Nevermind  became an unexpected breakout success. On January 11, 1992, it peaked at number one on the  US  Billboard  200 . [ 3 ]  The lead single " Smells Like Teen Spirit " was a critical success and peaked at number six on the  Billboard  Hot 100 . [ 4 ]  Three other successful singles were produced: " Come as You Are ", " Lithium ", and " In Bloom ". At its height,  Nevermind  was selling approximately 300,000 copies a week. [ 5 ] Nevermind  was voted as the best album of the year in  Pazz  &  Jop  critics' poll; "Smells Like Teen Spirit" also topped the single of the year and video of the year polls. [ 6 ] Nevermind  has sold over 30 million copies worldwide, making it one of the  best-selling albums of all time . It was certified  Diamond  by the  Recording Industry Association of America  (RIAA).  Nevermind  was responsible in part for bringing both  grunge  and  alternative rock  music to a mainstream audience, and has been ranked highly on lists of the greatest and most influential albums of all time by publications. In 2005, the  Library of Congress  added  Nevermind  to the  National Recording Registry , which collects "culturally, historically or aesthetically important" sound recordings. Nirvana was a rock band from  Aberdeen, Washington , formed by  Kurt Cobain  and  Krist Novoselic  in 1987, that had signed to Seattle independent record label  Sub Pop . The band released their debut album  Bleach  in 1989, with  Chad Channing  on drums. However, Channing left Nirvana in 1990, and the band was in need of a permanent drummer. During a show by  hardcore punk  band  Scream , the group's drummer,  Dave Grohl , impressed Cobain and Novoselic. When Scream unexpectedly disbanded, Grohl contacted Novoselic, travelled to Seattle, and was soon invited to join the band. Novoselic said in retrospect that when Grohl joined the band, everything "fell into place". [ 7 ] Meanwhile, Cobain was writing a number of new songs. At the time Cobain was listening to bands like  The Melvins ,  R.E.M. ,  The Smithereens , and the  Pixies . Feeling disillusioned by the heavy detuned rock popular in the Seattle grunge scene upon which Sub Pop had built its image, Cobain—inspired by his contemporary listening habits—began writing songs that were more melodic. A key development was the single " Sliver ", released on Sub Pop in 1990 (before Grohl joined the band), which Cobain said "was like a statement in a way. I had to write a pop song and release it on a single to prepare people for the next record. I wanted to write more songs like that." [ 8 ]  Grohl said that the band at that point often made the analogy of likening their music to children's music, in that the band tried to make its songs as simple as possible. [ 7 ] By the start of the 1990s, Sub Pop was experiencing financial difficulties. With rumors that Sub Pop would sign up as a subsidiary of a major record label, the band decided to "cut out the middleman" and start to look for a major record label. [ 7 ]  A number of labels courted the band, but Nirvana ultimately signed with  Geffen Records  imprint  DGC Records  based upon repeated recommendations from  Kim Gordon  of  Sonic Youth  and their management company. [ 2 ] In early 1990, Nirvana began planning its second album for Sub Pop, tentatively titled  Sheep . For the album, Sub Pop head  Bruce Pavitt  suggested  Butch Vig  as a potential producer. [ 7 ]  Nirvana particularly liked Vig's work with  Killdozer  and called Vig up to tell him, "We want to sound as heavy as that record." [ 9 ]  The band traveled out to Vig's  Smart Studios  in  Madison , Wisconsin, recording from April 2 to 6, 1990. [ 10 ]  Most of the basic song arrangements were completed by that time, but Cobain was still working on lyrics and the band was unsure of which songs to record. [ 11 ]  Ultimately, eight songs were recorded: "Immodium" (later renamed "Breed"), "Dive" (later released as the  B-side  to "Sliver"), " In Bloom ", "Pay to Play" (eventually renamed "Stay Away" and given a new set of lyrics), "Sappy", " Lithium ", " Here She Comes Now " (released on  Velvet Underground Tribute Album: Heaven and Hell Volume 1 ), and "Polly". [ 12 ]  On April 6,  the band played a local show in Madison with fellow Seattle band  Tad . [ 13 ]   Vig began to mix the recordings while the band hung out in Madison,  giving an interview to Madison's community radio station  WORT  on April 7. [ 14 ]  Nirvana had planned to record more tracks, but Cobain had strained his voice, forcing Nirvana to shut down recording. On April 8 the group headed to  Milwaukee  to kick off an extensive Midwest and East Coast tour of 24 shows in 39 days. [ 15 ]  Vig was told that the group would come back to record more songs, but the producer did not hear anything for a while. [ 7 ]  With the band parting ways with drummer Chad Channing after the tour, additional recording was put on hold. Instead, Nirvana used the sessions as a demo tape to shop for a new label. Within a few months, the tape was circulating amongst major labels, creating a buzz around the group. [ 16 ] After signing to DGC, a number of producers for the album were suggested, including  Scott Litt ,  David Briggs , and  Don Dixon , but Nirvana still wanted Butch Vig. [ 17 ]  Novoselic noted in 2001 that the band was already nervous about recording on a major label, and the producers suggested by DGC wanted percentage points for working on the album. Instead, the band held out for Vig, with whom they felt comfortable collaborating. [ 18 ]  Afforded a budget of $65,000, Nirvana recorded  Nevermind  at  Sound City Studios  in  Van Nuys , California in May and June 1991. [ 19 ]  Nirvana was originally set to record the album during March and April 1991, but the date kept getting pushed back in spite of the band's eagerness to begin the sessions. To earn gas money to get to Los Angeles, Nirvana played a show where they performed " Smells Like Teen Spirit " for the first time. [ 7 ]  The band sent Vig some rehearsal tapes prior to the sessions that featured songs recorded previously at Smart Studios, along with some new ones including "Smells Like Teen Spirit" and " Come as You Are ". [ 20 ] When the group arrived in California, Nirvana did a few days of pre-production where the band and Vig tightened up some of the song arrangements. [ 21 ]  The only recording carried over from the Smart Studios sessions was the song "Polly", which included cymbal crashes performed by Chad Channing. Once recording commenced, the band worked eight to ten hours a day. The band members tended to take two or three tries at instrumental takes; if the takes were not satisfactory at that point, they would move on to something else. [ 22 ]  The group had rehearsed the songs so much before recording started that often only a few takes were needed. [ 18 ]  Cobain used a variety of guitars, from  Stratocasters  to  Jaguars , and Novoselic used a black 1979 and natural 1976 Gibson Ripper. Novoselic and Grohl finished their bass and drum tracks in a matter of days, but Cobain had to work longer on guitar overdubs, singing, and particularly lyrics (which sometimes were finished mere minutes before recording). [ 23 ]  Cobain's phrasing was so consistent on various takes that Vig would mix the takes together to create overdubs. [ 22 ]  Vig says that he often had to trick Cobain into recording additional takes for overdubs since the singer was averse to performing multiple takes. In particular, Vig convinced Cobain to double-track his vocals on the song "In Bloom" by telling him " John Lennon  did it." [ 7 ]  While the sessions went well generally, Vig said Cobain would become moody and difficult at times: "He'd be great for an hour, and then he'd sit in a corner and say nothing for an hour." [ 9 ] After the recording sessions were completed, Vig and the band set out to  mix  the album. However, after a few days, both Vig and the band members realized that they were unhappy with how the mixes were turning out. As a result, they decided to call in someone else to oversee the mixing, with Geffen Records imprint  DGC  supplying a list of possible options. The list contained several familiar names, including Scott Litt (known for his work with R.E.M.) and  Ed Stasium  (known for his work with  The Ramones  and The Smithereens). However, Cobain feared that bringing in known mixers would result in the album sounding like the work of those bands. Instead, Cobain chose  Andy Wallace  (who had co-produced  Slayer 's 1990 album  Seasons in the Abyss ) from the bottom of the list. [ 24 ]  Novoselic recalled, "We said, 'right on,' because those Slayer records were so heavy." [ 25 ]  Wallace ran the songs through various special effects boxes and tweaked the drum sounds, completing about one mix per day. [ 26 ]  Both Wallace and Vig noted years later that upon hearing Wallace's work the band loved the mixes. [ 27 ]  After the album's release, however, members of Nirvana expressed dissatisfaction with the polished sound the mixer had given  Nevermind . Cobain said in  Come as You Are , "Looking back on the production of  Nevermind , I'm embarrassed by it now. It's closer to a  Mötley Crüe  record than it is a punk rock record." [ 26 ] Nevermind  was  mastered  on the afternoon of August 2 at The Mastering Lab in Hollywood, California.  Howie Weinberg  started working alone when no one else showed up at the appointed time in the studio; by the time Nirvana, Andy Wallace, and Gary Gersh arrived, Weinberg had mastered most of the album. [ 28 ]  One of the songs mastered at the session, a  hidden track  called "Endless, Nameless" intended to appear at the end of "Something in the Way", was accidentally left off initial pressings of the album. Weinberg recalled, "In the beginning, it was kind of a verbal thing to put that track at the end. Maybe I misconstrued their instructions, so you can call it my mistake if you want. Maybe I didn't write it down when Nirvana or the record company said to do it. So, when they pressed the first twenty thousand or so CDs, albums, and cassettes, it wasn't on there." When the band discovered the song's omission after listening to its copy of the album, Cobain called Weinberg and demanded he rectify the mistake. [ 29 ]  Weinberg complied and added about ten minutes of silence between the end of "Something in the Way" and the start of the hidden track on future pressings of the album. [ 30 ] Cobain, Nirvana's main songwriter, fashioned chord sequences using primarily  power chords  and wrote songs that combined pop hooks with dissonant guitar riffs. His aim for  Nevermind 's material was to sound like " The Knack  and the  Bay City Rollers  getting molested by  Black Flag  and  Black Sabbath ". [ 31 ]  Many of the songs on  Nevermind  feature shifts in dynamics, where the band changes from quiet verses to loud choruses. Dave Grohl said this approach originated during a four-month period prior to the recording of the album, where the band would experiment with extreme dynamics during regular jam sessions; [ 32 ]  however; the  Smart Studios  recordings of songs such as " Lithium " and " In Bloom " show the band was writing songs in that style long before Grohl had joined the band. Guitar World  wrote, "Kurt Cobain's guitar sound on Nirvana's  Nevermind  set the tone for Nineties rock music." On  Nevermind , Cobain played a 1960s  Fender Mustang , a  Fender Jaguar  with DiMarzio pickups, and a few  Fender Stratocasters  with  humbucker  bridge pickups. The guitarist used distortion and  chorus  pedals as his main effects, the latter used to generate a "watery" sound on "Come as You Are" and the pre-choruses of "Smells Like Teen Spirit". [ 33 ]  Krist Novoselic tuned down his bass guitar one and a half steps to D flat "to get this fat-ass sound." [ 18 ] Grohl has said that Cobain told him, "Music comes first and lyrics come second," and Grohl believes that above all Cobain focused on the melodies of his songs. [ 7 ]  Cobain was still working on the album's lyrics well into the recording of  Nevermind . Additionally, Cobain's phrasing on the album is often difficult to understand. Vig asserted that clarity of Cobain's singing was not paramount. Vig said, "Even though you couldn't quite tell what he was singing about, you knew it was intense as hell." [ 7 ]  Cobain would later complain when rock journalists attempted to decipher his singing and extract meaning from his lyrics, writing "Why in the hell do journalists insist on coming up with a second-rate  Freudian  evaluation of my lyrics, when 90 percent of the time they've transcribed them incorrectly?" [ 34 ] Charles R. Cross  asserted in his 2001 biography of Cobain,  Heavier Than Heaven , that many of the songs written for  Nevermind  were about Cobain's dysfunctional relationship with  Tobi Vail . After their relationship ended, Cobain began writing and painting violent scenes, many of which revealed a hatred for himself and others. Songs written during this period were less violent, but still reflected anger absent from Cobain's earlier songs. Cross wrote, "In the four months following their break-up, Kurt would write a half dozen of his most memorable songs, all of them about Tobi Vail." "Drain You" begins with the line, "One baby to another said 'I'm lucky to have met you,'" quoting what Vail had once told Cobain, and the line "It is now my duty to completely drain you" refers to the power Vail had over Cobain in their relationship. According to Novoselic, "'Lounge Act' is about Tobi," and the song contains the line "I'll arrest myself, I'll wear a shield," referring to Cobain having the  K Records  logo tattooed on his arm to impress Vail. Though "Lithium" had been written before Cobain knew Vail, the lyrics of the song were changed to reference her. [ 35 ]  Cobain also said in an interview with  Musician  that "some of my very personal experiences, like breaking up with girlfriends and having bad relationships, feeling that death void that the person in the song is feeling–very lonely, sick." [ 36 ] The tentative title  Sheep  was something Cobain created as an inside joke directed towards the people he expected to buy the album. He wrote a fake advertisement for  Sheep  in his journal that read "Because you want to not; because everyone else is." [ 37 ]  Novoselic said the inspiration for the title was the band's cynicism about the public's reaction to  Operation Desert Storm . [ 18 ]  As recording ended, Cobain grew tired of the title and suggested to Novoselic that the album be named  Nevermind . Cobain liked the title because it was a metaphor for his attitude on life and because it was grammatically incorrect. [ 38 ] The  album cover  shows a naked baby boy, Spencer Elden, [ 39 ]  swimming underwater with a U.S. dollar bill on a fishhook just out of his reach. According to Cobain, he conceived the idea while watching a television program on  water births  with Grohl. Cobain mentioned it to Geffen's art director  Robert Fisher . Fisher found some stock footage of underwater births, but they were too graphic for the record company. Furthermore, the  stock house  that controlled the photo of a  swimming baby  that they chose wanted $7,500 a year for its use. Instead, Fisher sent a photographer, Kirk Weddle, to a pool for babies to take pictures. Five shots resulted and the band settled on the image of four-month-old Spencer Elden, the son of a friend of Weddle. [ 40 ]  Geffen were concerned that the infant's penis, visible in the photo, would cause offense, and prepared an alternate cover without it; they relented when Cobain said the only compromise he would accept would be a sticker covering the penis reading: "If you're offended by this, you must be a closet pedophile." [ 41 ] The back cover features a photograph of a rubber monkey in front of a collage created by Cobain. The collage features photos of raw beef from a supermarket advertisement, images from  Dante's Inferno , and pictures of diseased vaginas from Cobain's collection of medical photos. Cobain note, "If you look real close, there is a picture of  Kiss  in the back standing on a slab of beef." [ 42 ]  The album's liner notes contain no complete lyrics; instead, the liner contains random song lyrics and unused lyrical fragments that Cobain arranged into a poem. [ 43 ] For the albums 10th, 17th and 25th anniversaries, Elden recreated the front cover shot for photographers. He wanted to do the 25th anniversary shoot nude but the photographer preferred that he wore swim shorts. [ 44 ]  In 2003 he appeared on the cover of  cEvin Key 's album  The Dragon Experience . [ 45 ] Nevermind  was released on September 24, 1991. American record stores received an initial shipment of 46,251 copies, [ 46 ]  while 35,000 copies were shipped in the United Kingdom, where  Bleach  had been successful. [ 47 ]  The lead single "Smells Like Teen Spirit" had been released on September 10 with the intention building a base among alternative rock fans, while the next single " Come as You Are " would possibly garner more attention. [ 48 ]  Days before the release date, the band began a short American tour in support of the album. Geffen hoped that  Nevermind  would sell around 250,000 copies, matching sales of Sonic Youth's Geffen debut  Goo . [ 49 ]  The best estimate was that  Nevermind  could be  certified Gold  (500,000 copies sold) by September 1992. [ 50 ] Nevermind  debuted on the  Billboard  200  at number 144. [ 51 ]  Geffen shipped about half of the initial U.S. pressing to the American Northwest, where it sold out quickly and was unavailable for days. Geffen put production of all other albums on hold in order to fulfill demand in the region. [ 52 ]  Over the next few months, sales increased significantly as "Smells Like Teen Spirit" unexpectedly became more and more popular. The song's video had received a world premiere on  MTV 's late-night alternative show  120 Minutes ,  and soon proved so popular that the channel began playing it during the day. [ 53 ]  The record was soon certified Gold, but the band was relatively uninterested. Novoselic recalled, "Yeah I was happy about it. It was pretty cool. It was kind of neat. But I don't give a shit about some kind of achievement like that. It's cool—I guess." [ 54 ] As the band set out for their European tour at the start of November 1991,  Nevermind  entered the  Billboard  Top 40 for the first time at number 35. By this point, "Smells Like Teen Spirit" had become a hit and the album was selling so fast none of Geffen's marketing strategies could be enacted. Geffen president Ed Rosenblatt told  The New York Times , "We didn't do anything. It was just one of those 'Get out of the way and duck' records." [ 55 ]  Nirvana found as they toured Europe during the end of 1991 that the shows were dangerously oversold, television crews became a constant presence onstage, and "Smells Like Teen Spirit" was almost omnipresent on radio and music television. [ 56 ] Nevermind  became Nirvana's first number-one album on January 11, 1992, replacing  Michael Jackson  at the top of the  Billboard  charts. By this time,  Nevermind  was selling approximately 300,000 copies a week. [ 57 ] [ 58 ]  "Come as You Are" was released as the second single in March 1992; it peaked at number nine on the  U.K. Singles Chart  and at number 32 on the  Billboard  Hot 100  singles chart. [ 59 ]  Two more singles, "Lithium" and "In Bloom", peaked at number 11 and 28 on the  UK Singles Chart  respectively. [ 60 ] Nevermind  was certified Gold and Platinum by the  Recording Industry Association of America  in November 1991 and certified Diamond in March 1999. [ 61 ]  It was also certified Diamond in Canada (1,000,000 units sold) by the  Canadian Recording Industry Association  in March 2001 [ 62 ]  and five times Platinum in the United Kingdom. [ 63 ] Geffen's press promotion for  Nevermind  was lower than that typical of a major record label. The label's publicist primarily targeted music publications with long lead times for publication as well as magazines in the Seattle area. The unexpectedly positive feedback from critics who had received the album convinced the label to consider increasing the album's original print run. [ 47 ] At first,  Nevermind  did not receive many reviews, and many publications ignored the album. Months after its release and after "Smells Like Teen Spirit" garnered airplay, print media organizations were "scrambling" to cover the phenomenon the album had become. However, by that point, much of the attention fell on Cobain rather than the album itself. The reviews that did initially appear were largely positive. [ 74 ]  Karen Schoemer of  The New York Times  wrote, "With 'Nevermind,' Nirvana has certainly succeeded. There are enough intriguing textures, mood shifts, instrumental snippets and inventive word plays to provide for hours of entertainment." Schoemer concluded, "'Nevermind' is more sophisticated and carefully produced than anything peer bands like  Dinosaur Jr.  and  Mudhoney  have yet offered." [ 75 ] Entertainment Weekly  gave  Nevermind  an A– rating, and reviewer  David Browne  argued that on  Nevermind , Nirvana "never entertain the notion" of wanting to sound "normal," compared to other contemporary alternative bands. [ 68 ]  Concluding his very enthusiastic review for the British  Melody Maker ,  Everett True  wrote that "When Nirvana released  Bleach  all those years ago, the more sussed among us figured they had the potential to make an album that would blow every other contender away. My God have they proved us right." [ 76 ] Spin  gave  Nevermind  a favorable review stating that "you'll be humming all the songs for the rest of your life—or at least until your CD-tape-album wears out." [ 77 ] Select  compared the band to  Jane's Addiction ,  Sonic Youth , and the  Pixies , stating that the album "proves that Nirvana truly belong in such high company." [ 73 ] Some of the reviews were not entirely positive.  Rolling Stone  originally gave the album three out of five stars. [ 78 ]  Reviewer  Ira Robbins  wrote, "If Nirvana isn't onto anything altogether new,  Nevermind  does possess the songs, character and confident spirit to be much more than a reformulation of college radio's high-octane hits." [ 71 ] The Boston Globe  was less enthusiastic about the album; reviewer Steve Morse wrote, "Most of  Nevermind  is packed with generic punk-pop that had been done by countless acts from  Iggy Pop  to the  Red Hot Chili Peppers ," and added "the band has little or nothing to say, settling for moronic ramblings by singer-lyricist Cobain." [ 78 ] Nevermind  was voted as the best album of the year in  The Village Voice Pazz  &  Jop  critics' poll; "Smells Like Teen Spirit" also topped the single of the year and video of the year polls. [ 6 ] Nevermind  topped the poll by a large majority, and  Village Voice  critic  Robert Christgau  wrote in his companion piece to the poll, "As a modest pop surprise they might have scored a modest victory, like  De La Soul  in 1990. Instead, their multi-platinum takeover constituted the first full-scale public validation of the Amerindie values—the noise, the toons, the 'tude—the radder half of the [Pazz  &  Jop poll] electorate came up on." [ 79 ] Nevermind  popularized the  Seattle grunge  movement and brought  alternative rock  as a whole into the mainstream, establishing its commercial and cultural viability. [ 80 ]  Its success surprised Nirvana's contemporaries, who felt dwarfed by its impact.  Fugazi  frontman  Guy Picciotto  later said: "It was like our record could have been a hobo pissing in the forest for the amount of impact it had ... It felt like we were playing ukuleles all of a sudden because of the disparity of the impact of what they did." [ 81 ]  Karen Schoemer of the  New York Times  wrote that "What's unusual about Nirvana's  Nevermind  is that it caters to neither a mainstream audience nor the indie rock fans who supported the group's debut album." [ 82 ]  In 1992,  Jon Pareles  of  The New York Times  described that in the aftermath of the album's breakthrough, "Suddenly, all bets are off. No one has the inside track on which of dozens, perhaps hundreds, of ornery, obstreperous, unkempt bands might next appeal to the mall-walking millions." Record company executives offered large advances and record deals to bands, and previous strategies of building audiences for alternative rock bands had been replaced by the opportunity to achieve mainstream popularity quickly. [ 83 ] Michael Azerrad  argued in his Nirvana biography  Come as You Are: The Story of Nirvana  (1993) that  Nevermind  marked an epochal generational shift in music similar to the rock-and-roll explosion in the 1950s and the end of the baby boomer generation's dominance of the musical landscape. Azerrad wrote, " Nevermind  came along at exactly the right time. This was music by, for, and about a whole new group of young people who had been overlooked, ignored, or condescended to." [ 84 ]  In its citation placing it at number 17 in its 2003 list of the  500 greatest albums of all time ,  Rolling Stone  said, "No album in recent history had such an overpowering impact on a generation—a nation of teens suddenly turned punk—and such a catastrophic effect on its main creator." [ 85 ]  Gary Gersh, who signed Nirvana to Geffen Records, added that "There is a pre-Nirvana and post-Nirvana record business...'Nevermind' showed that this wasn't some alternative thing happening off in a corner, and then back to reality. This is reality." [ 86 ] Nevermind  has continued to garner critical praise since its release. The album was listed at number 17 on  Rolling Stone ' s list " The 500 Greatest Albums of All Time ", [ 85 ]  maintaining the rating in a 2012 revised list. [ 87 ] Rolling Stone  also rated  Nevermind  as the number one best album of the 1990s, calling it the "album that guaranteed the nineties would not suck." [ 88 ] Time  placed  Nevermind , which writer  Josh Tyrangiel  called "the finest album of the 90s", on its 2006 list of "The All-TIME 100 Albums". [ 89 ] Pitchfork  named the album the sixth best of the decade, noting that "anyone who hates this record today is just trying to be cool, and needs to be trying harder." [ 90 ]  In 2005, the  Library of Congress  added  Nevermind  to the  National Recording Registry , which collects "culturally, historically or aesthetically important" sound recordings from the 20th century. [ 91 ]  On the other hand,  Nevermind  was voted the "Most Overrated Album in the World" in a 2005  BBC  public poll. [ 92 ]  In 2006, readers of Guitar World ranked  Nevermind  8th on a list of the 100 Greatest Guitar Recordings. [ 93 ] Entertainment Weekly  named it the 10th best album of all time on their 2013 list. [ 94 ]  In 2019,  Nevermind  was ranked No. 1 on  Rolling Stone 's "50 Greatest Grunge Albums" list. [ 95 ]  The same magazine named the album at No. 10 in their list "40 Greatest Punk Albums of All Time." [ 96 ]  It was voted number 17 in the third edition of  Colin Larkin 's  All Time Top 1000 Albums  (2000). [ 97 ] Novoselic revealed in 2019 that  Nevermind' s  master tapes  were likely lost in the  2008 Universal fire . The fire, the extent of which was long undisclosed, destroyed a swath of  Universal Studios Hollywood 's outdoor lot, and nearly all the master recordings stored there in a Universal Music Group archive. Master recordings from artists ranging from  Louis Armstrong  to  Tom Petty  were also lost in the fire. [ 98 ] In 1996,  Mobile Fidelity Sound Labs  released  Nevermind  on  vinyl  as part of its ANADISQ 200 series, and as a 24- carat  gold CD. The CD pressings included "Endless, Nameless". The LP version quickly sold out its limited pressing but the CD edition stayed in print for years. [ 99 ]  In 2009, Original Recordings Group released  Nevermind  on limited edition 180g blue vinyl and regular 180g black vinyl mastered and cut by Bernie Grundman from the original analog tapes. [ 100 ] In September 2011, the album's 20th anniversary,  Universal Music Enterprises  reissued  Nevermind  in a 2-CD "deluxe edition" and a 4-CD/1-DVD "Super Deluxe Edition". [ 101 ]  The first disc on both editions features the original album with studio and live B-sides. The second discs feature early session recordings, including the Smart Studio sessions and some band rehearsals recorded with a  boombox , plus two  BBC  session recordings. The "Super Deluxe Edition" also includes alternate mixes by Butch Vig, and CD and DVD versions of  Live at the Paramount . All tracks are written by  Kurt Cobain , except where noted. Notes Disc one Disc two – Smart Sessions, Boombox Rehearsals, BBC Sessions Disc three –  Nevermind: The Devonshire Mixes Disc four and DVD –  Live at the Paramount DVD music videos Nirvana Additional musicians Technical staff and artwork * sales figures based on certification alone ^ shipments figures based on certification alone 