Floating landing platform - Wikipedia A  floating landing platform  is a large  marine  floating structure used to land  launch vehicle booster stages .   This is a fairly new phenomenon after 2013 as all early  orbital  launch vehicle stages were  expended , with booster stages returning through the atmosphere to certain destruction on contact with either land or sea.  Since that time, two  private  companies are developing reusable launch vehicle technology and using, or planning to use, floating landing platforms. After attempts to land orbital rocket booster stages by  parachute  failed in the late 2000s,  SpaceX  began to  develop reusable technology  in the early 2010s.  By mid-decade,  Blue Origin  was following, with a commitment to land the booster of a large launch vehicle on a moving ship. In the 2010s,  SpaceX  contracted with a  Louisiana shipyard  to build a floating landing platform for  reusable orbital launch vehicles . The platform had an approximately 90 by 50 meters (300 ft × 160 ft) landing pad surface and was capable of precision  positioning  with  diesel-powered azimuth thrusters [ 1 ]  so the platform can hold its position for launch vehicle landing. This platform was first deployed in January 2015 [ 2 ]  when SpaceX attempted a  controlled descent flight test  to land the first stage of  Falcon 9 flight 14  on a solid surface after it was used to loft a contracted payload toward Earth orbit. [ 3 ] [ 4 ]  The platform utilizes  GPS position information  to navigate and hold its precise position. [ 5 ]  The rocket  landing leg  span is 18 m (60 ft) and must not only land within the 52 m (170 ft)-wide barge deck, but must also deal with  ocean swells  and  GPS errors .SpaceX CEO  Elon Musk  first displayed a photograph of the newly designated " autonomous spaceport drone ship " in November 2014. The ship is designed to hold position to within 3 meters (9.8 ft), even under storm conditions. [ 6 ] On 8 April 2016, the first stage of the rocket that launched the  Dragon CRS-8  spacecraft, successfully landed on the drone ship named  Of Course I Still Love You,  the first successful landing of a rocket booster on a floating platform. [ 7 ] By early 2018, SpaceX had two operational drone ships and had a third under construction.  By September 2018, sea platform landings had become routine for the  SpaceX launch vehicles , with over 23 attempted and 17 successful recoveries. [ 8 ] As of 2018 [ update ] ,  Blue Origin  is intending to make the first stage boosters of  New Glenn  be  reusable , and recover launched boosters on the  Atlantic Ocean , downrange of their  Florida launch site , via a stabilized  ship  that is  underway , acting as a moving floating landing platform.  The  hydrodynamically-stabilized  ship is projected to increase the likelihood of successful recovery in  rough seas .  The first recovery from an orbital launch by Blue is expected around 2020. [ 9 ] In October 2018, the ship was disclosed to be the former  Stena Freighter , built in 2004 as a  roll-on/roll-off cargo ship .  The  ship  is currently [ when? ]  undergoing  refit  in 2018–2019 in  Pensacola, Florida . [ 10 ] 