Gameloft HQ Producer – Project Manager (Paris/France) | SmartRecruiters A leading digital and social game publisher, Gameloft® has established itself as one of the top innovators in its field since 2000. Gameloft creates games for all digital platforms and, with a monthly audience of 157 million unique players, offers advertisers a unique level of visibility and involvement via Gameloft Advertising Solutions. Gameloft operates its own established franchises such as  Asphalt ®,  Order  &  Chaos ,  Modern Combat  and  Dungeon Hunter , and also partners with major rights holders including Universal, Illumination Entertainment, Disney®, Marvel®, Hasbro®, Fox Digital Entertainment, Mattel® and Ferrari®. Gameloft distributes its games in more than 100 countries and employs 6,000 employees. Gameloft is a Vivendi Group company. Job Description We are currently looking to fill a position for an open-ended contract at our headquarters, located in the heart of Paris: HQ PRODUCER: From a game ' s design phase to its retail release and on through its updates, you will follow the title ' s production and develop its editorial content and brand identity. Then, after it launches, you will track the game ' s market performance and take steps to ensure its improvement. In this capacity, you will have the following tasks: A graduate of a university, business school or video-game-related engineering school, you have at least 3 years of experience in video games, which has allowed you to develop management and organisational skills as well as an understanding of the technical roles that are tied to video games. You are fluent in English, allowing you to communicate daily with overseas teams and their management in a precise, substantial fashion. You must absolutely have a marked interest in video games. Why Join Gameloft? What Can Gameloft Paris Offer You? Contact information Posted by Senior Producer Barcelona, Spain Concept Assistant Producer (Intern) Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam Producteur H/F - Producer Paris, France Copy the link and open WeChat to share. Use Scan QR Code in WeChat and click ··· to share. HQ Producer – Project Manager (Paris/France) 