Old Man’s Cave Campground, Hocking Hills, OH: 6 Hipcamper Reviews And 15 Photos What's wrong with this photo?  Learn more about our  photo removal policy  if you would like to proceed with flagging this photo for removal.  Reminder — You can select the order of your own photos in your Host Dashboard so that they will show up exactly where you want them to on your listing.  Offered near the campground. Natural features you ' ll find at Old Man’s Cave Campground. Something between an RV park and a state park campground.  Don't let the crowds put you off, tho.  Grin and bear it at the campground, then during the day take full advantage of the lovely trails, the caves, the natural rock formations and those rivers.  Bathrooms are new-ish, but there's a real bug problem at this campground (maybe because the water treatment is right on site); bathrooms swarmed.  My campsite (G1, right between the public swimming pool and the sewage treatment area) is best avoided but try to score the larger group campsite next to G1, and you should be okay.  What I loved: the trails through rhododendron jungles, the rush of the river and the falls. It's Old Man's Cave!  Hard to go wrong here.  Another spot that seems to be more suited to RV camping than tent camping. WE actually paid to stay in the group area because were with a few other families. Loved the spot. Close to the restrooms, showers, laundry, and the kids favorite: the pool! It was hot when we went to s it was nice for the kids to get to cool off in the pool. The restroom was clean. If you find yourself needing to use the laundry (like we did thanks to some rain, and a leaky tent..... thankfully it was just some wet towels) make sure you have some change, and bring your own detergent and fabric softener. We definitely plan on going again. Be prepared For some beautiful sights! Stayed in site 90 and recommend.  Go to Old Man's Cave area early to avoid crowds.   Ive lived here my entire life basically and you dont need much just make sure if its your first rime walk from old mans cave to ash cabe an amazing hike Lousy wi fi at the campground Check availability Old Man’s Cave Campground  is not operated by Hipcamp and can only be booked externally. (For now!) Hipcamp is working closely with the government to allow bookings here asap.  Enter your email below to be notified when we get access and receive a code for  10% off your first booking   on Hipcamp.com.  Success! You have joined the movement. Nearby public campgrounds Nearby cities Best Camping near me Old Man’s Cave Campground  is not operated by Hipcamp and can only be booked externally. (For now!) Hipcamp is working closely with the government to allow bookings here asap.   Enter your email below to be notified when we get access and receive a code for  10% off your first booking   on Hipcamp.com.   Success! You have joined the movement. Discover unique experiences on ranches, nature preserves, farms, vineyards, and public campgrounds across the U.S. Book tent camping, treehouses, cabins, yurts, primitive backcountry sites, car camping, airstreams, tiny houses, RV camping, glamping tents and more. 