Koobideh Kabob (Persian Ground Beef Kabob) - Family Spice Family Spice World Cuisine for the Whole Family  by  Family Spice 22 Comments My mother-in-law took the time to teach me (and my little girl) how to make  Koobideh Kabob  (ground beef kabob) on the grill, in the oven or on the stove!  Find more of my  Persian kabob recipes . This post contains affiliate links. We are members of the Amazon Affiliate program. For any sale through our links, we earn a small commission. Your price is unaffected. For more information, please see our disclosure policy . My mother-in-law is a professional when it comes to making Persian Koobideh Kabob , Ground Beef Kabobs. You know, ground meat on a skewer? It sounds easy, but it s an art form to cook pieces of meat or chicken over an open flame. If the mixture is off by an ingredient, the whole thing falls off the skewer and into the hot coals. And the kabobs must remain moist and tender, practically melting in your mouth, certainly not like thick, heavy meat patties. My mother-in-law s master hands work quickly. She has lovingly and selflessly made these kabobs for her family as long as she can remember: first for her children and her husband, and now for her grandchildren, daughter-in-law and extended family. My own grandmother was also a master in making  koobideh . But she is gone now, and I never had the opportunity to learn from her. So one afternoon, I invited my mother-in-law over and we made  koobideh  together. I watched her work her magic and learned her  koobideh  recipe. Persian kabob is pretty special. There are many varieties available, from beef to chicken to lamb.  Koobideh  kabob is made with ground beef. Sometimes it is a mixture of ground lamb and beef, depending on personal taste. This version is a simple recipe that my mother-in-law makes every time we come over for a delicious meal of homemade  koobideh . And like most home cooks, both my mother-in-law and my grandmother do not work in exact measurements. They measure everything by sight and feel. So I would run to the measuring spoons to make sure I wrote everything down exactly as my mother-in-law explained. In it s simplest form, this  koobideh  recipe is with ground beef (20% fat), grated onions (drained of excess water), salt and pepper. Sometimes I like to add some chopped parsley, mint and even garlic powder to the mix. But my mother-in-law keeps the mixture super simple. Don t let these simple ingredients fool you. It is all about how  koobideh  kabob is prepared that makes it special. As I explained earlier, if your meat does not have enough fat on it, it will fall off the skewers as it cooks. If your meat has too much moisture on it, it will fall off the skewers. If your meat doesn t have enough moisture, it will fall off the skewers. If your meat isn t mixed thoroughly, well, you get the picture. The onions are first grated in the  food processor . My mother-in-law then adds this onion mixture to the  blender  to purée it even more. I ve skipped this step because, well, I m lazy and my koobideh  still turns out beautifully. The idea is to grate your onions as fine as possible and then strain out the liquid   but do NOT discard it! That onion juice is used later. The meat massaging process takes A LOT of time, I won t lie to you. First, you mix the meat and the grated onions in the food processor until you get a big ball that whirls around the bowl. Then you mix the meat mixture, massaging it by hand as you would pizza dough for about 20 minutes. My daughter was only 3-years old at the time of this  koobideh  lesson. She loved every minute of it and even helped out! My girl loved working with the meat patties, probably because it reminded her of play doh. She s 13 now and she still loves squishing around with pizza dough,  koobideh  mix, play-doh and slime. My boys also enjoyed making kabob with their  Maman , as did the other grandchildren who are now too old and too cool to be seen massaging ground beef. They know that their meal is a lot of work to prepare, but their grandmother does it with a smile and a heart full of love. You want the meat to be fluffy. As my mother-in-law explains,  this is not hamburger . The meat mixture should be airy, and not super sticky. You dip your hands in the onion water as you mix the meat and later on, when you massage it onto the skewer. Do let your mixture sit in the refrigerator for a couple of hours at least so that the onions and meat melt together. This is another tricky situation, but you get the hang of it after lots of practice. You start with a softball size amount of koobideh  mix and pierce it down to the center of your skewer. Again, you are using  flat metal skewers  and NOT thin bamboo skewers. You  do not  want your kabab  koobideh  spinning around on a thin skewer. Once your softball of  koobideh  is in the center of your skewer, use one hand to squeeze it and massage it onto the skewer. The center of the skewer will be filled with the  koobideh  mix. You need to leave several inches off the ends of the skewers open so it can sit properly on your grill. Knowing how big your grill opening is also decides how long you can make your  koobideh  kabob. When we are at Maman s  house for a kabob dinner, the kids are gathered around her as she grills the kabob, turning each skewer at just the right time for even cooking. My mother-in-law sneaks bites of kabob fresh off the girl and feeds them to the kids, who typically are the last to be served dinner, after their elders serve themselves first. Your koobideh  mix should wrap around the skewer, but not be bulky. So for the engineers out there who need exact measurements, we are talking about a half an inch of meat on the top and a half an inch of meat along the bottom of the skewer. Using two fingers to mimic scissors (the forefinger and index finger),  scissor  the meat down the skewer to make the bumps you normally see in  koobideh  kabob. The ends of the  koobideh  mix should not be open. Use your fingers to pinch the ends, sealing it shut to the skewer. All the while as you work, dip your hands in the reserved onion juice or regular water to keep the meat from sticking to your hand. amzn_assoc_placement = "adunit0";amzn_assoc_search_bar = "true";amzn_assoc_tracking_id = "familyspice07-20";amzn_assoc_ad_mode = "manual";amzn_assoc_ad_type = "smart";amzn_assoc_marketplace = "amazon";amzn_assoc_region = "US";amzn_assoc_title = "My Amazon Picks";amzn_assoc_linkid = "51b7eb0d9b773ccceb31c38f0d0d3a5e";amzn_assoc_asins = "B06XCWQB8G,B07KWSHBJV,B07MLYSKBB,B003FZAVU6"; Grilling Persian kabob is all about getting down to the basics. You do not need a fancy grill. In fact, I have memories of my grandmother sitting on her haunches fanning the flames of her little hibachi-style charcoal grill. My husband rigged his mother s gas grill with metal stands so the skewers of meat sit above the open flame. Now she can stand easily and not crouch over a low grill. The hubby has found that those  big stainless steel chaffing pans  are a cheap and efficient way to grill koobideh kabob . Or any kabob, for that matter. You can also cook your koobideh kabob  in one of these  kabob grills  that are specifically designed to lay skewers of meat over hot coals   without crouching or bending over. You can cook  koobideh  in the oven, when you do not have a grill. My American dad has perfected this technique and cooks  koobideh  this way all the time. You do not need skewers if you cooking your kabob in the oven. You will need a broiler pans  like this one  to place the kabob on. Form the meat into elongated fat hot dog shaped kabobs, about 1-inch thick and 6-inches long. Place each kabob on the top pan. You want to use both pans, so that the drippings will fall below the kabob. Leave at least 1-inch between each kabob. You don t want to over crowd the pan. Heat the oven on broil for at least 10 minutes so your oven is piping hot. You also want the oven rack to be place on the top level. Once your oven is hot, place your pan full of  koobideh  kabob in the oven and cook for about 10 minutes, then turn kabob over and continue cooking for 10 more minutes or until juices run clear. When my family has a hankering for  koobideh  kabob and it s a busy school night, then many times I just cook up my kabob in a pan on the stove. This version is called kabob-e deeg , or kabob from a pot. I mix the koobideh as I would for skewering, form the kabobs like you do for the oven, but smaller, maybe 4-inches long. Then heat a pan, add some olive oil or melt some butter and brown your kabob on every side until done. Easy peasy, kabob in a flash! Because  koobideh  making is a bit  challenging, it is the most popular meal to order at Persian restaurants. But despite our adventures eating kabob at restaurants, my kids always agree. It s never as good as  Maman s  kabob. This is one family recipe I will definitely pass down to my children and of course to my own grandchildren. Read my husband s favorite way to enjoy chelo kabab and koobideh kabob here. This can also be made with a mixture of beef and lamb. But for practicality purposes, we primarily use ground beef. Again, low-fat (10% fat or less) ground meat is not recommended for this technique. You need the fat for flavor and to help the meat stick to the skewer. Please use 20% fat ground beef. Much of the fat will burn off during the grilling process, and you are left with moist and tender skewers of  koobideh kabob  to enjoy. My mother-in-law took the time to teach me (and my little girl) how to make Koobideh Kabob (ground beef kabob) on the grill, in the oven or on the stove! Serving Suggestions: Serve with basmati rice or lavash bread. Cooking Tips: The ingredients are simple, but the technique is key. You want the meat mixture to be sticky enough to stay on the skewers and not fall off during the grilling process. Long flat skewers work best with this kabob. To cook in the oven, form kabob mix into desired shape and place onto a broiler pan coated with non-stick spray. Broil in the oven on the top-most shelf until kabob starts to brown, about 5-7 mins. Turn kabob over  &  broil for 5 more mins or until cooked through. * This step can be skipped. The secret to great ground beef kabob is to make sure your onions are pureed very smoothly. You don't want to taste the onion pieces, as you would in a hamburger. The texture is very different. As an Amazon Associate and member of other affiliate programs, I earn from qualifying purchases. Filed Under:  main course ,  Recipes Tagged With:  bbq ,  beef ,  campfire cooking ,  grill ,  kabob ,  lavash ,  onions ,  Persian recipes Lois says  at  This is always my favorite meal at your place. Watching your husband grill the meat skewers over his make shift grill is half the fun. The other half is listening to his stories of growing up in Iran. Laura Bashar says  at  And I believe, you were just invited for another night of kabob at our house! Lois says  at  Really? We re so making that happen! We love sharing food, fun and family with you all. Eha says  at  Thank you for a wonderfully informative lesson. The ingredients are so simple but I fear the method will take some time: have never made a mixture this way and have always been taught mince should be handled as little as possible 🙂 ! Very interesting and shall soon try to see whether I can get it right!! Have the right skewers . . . oh, and love the family photos . . . enjoyable post . . . Laura Bashar says  at  Eha, until my mother-in-law showed me how to do it, I wasn t very successful making kabob either. The food processor may become a mess to cleanup afterwards, but it fluffs the meat beautifully and my kabob never fall off the skewers. Let me know how it works for you! Eha says  at  Sent this to some friends and quite a few wrote back to say they would subscribe . . . yes, shall tell you when I get a reasonable result 🙂 ! Chris Thorne says  at  I absolutely LOVE this recipe. But I scares me to death making them because of how easy they fall off of the skewer. I think the closer the meat comes to room temperature, the more likely they are going to fall off, no matter how evenly you rotate them. I use a yogurt strainer to strain my onion puree and reserve the juice in case I need it. The juice is great to freeze and add to soups later. Family Spice says  at  It is always a challenge to keep the meat from falling off the skewers. If you have a refrigerator big enough to hold the skewered meat, then yes, keep it cold. Here in San Diego, our nights are cool so we are able to keep it cool sitting out on the table. The onion juice is definitely a secret flavor weapon. Great idea on freezing it! mohammad says  at  hello sir  i m mohammad from iran and i know english a little !  Put the meat and onion mixture in the refrigerator for 3 hours before cooking Family Spice says  at  Yes, this lets the meat flavors meld together and helps it stay on the skewer. Jen says  at  Perfect recipe! Thank you for sharing! Family Spice says  at  You re very welcome! Jenni says  at  Dang, Laura, these sound wonderful! And thank you for teaching me about the flat skewers. That changes everything in kabob land! Also, I love that you are passing this family recipe forward within your own family while also sharing it with all of us. xo Family Spice says  at  Flat skewers are life changing when it comes to kabob-making! Happy to help! xoxox Beth Lee says  at  What a great post. The pictures of leaning down and cooking on the grill outside remind me of pictures of Doug s Korean grandma doing the same on the beach in Hawaii cooking kalbi. These are a bit like latkes   very few ingredients but so much technique! Thanks for sharing! Family Spice says  at  My grandmother didn t mind cooking for 30 people using that little grill! Go bless grandmothers! Arash says  at  Hi, I ve read that you mix the grated and strained onions to the ground beef and then finally mix them up in the food processor? Is that correct? Thanks Family Spice says  at  Hi Arash-  Sorry for not writing sooner. I have been sick in bed for the last week. Yes, you read the post correctly. Just make sure you separate the grated onions from its juices before mixing it with the meat again. Save the onion juice for later when you are ready to massage the meat onto the kabob. wilhelmina says  at  This is a great post! I love the simplicity of this recipe! Family Spice says  at  Thank you! Simple AND delicious! Dara says  at  So many useful tips for making the best beef kabobs! Thank you for sharing your mother-in-law s amazing recipe. Family Spice says  at  My mother-in-law was happy that someone wanted to learn her cooking secrets! Your email address will not be published.  Required fields are marked  * Comment Name  * Email  * Website Rating:  Notify me of follow-up comments by email. Notify me of new posts by email. This site uses Akismet to reduce spam.  Learn how your comment data is processed . Hi! My name is Laura, recipe developer, graphic designer, photographer, cookbook author, wife  &  mom of three living in San Diego, CA.  Read More… Facebook facebook Instagram instagram Pinterest pinterest RSS rss Twitter twitter YouTube youtube My emails will make you drool! Sign up below to stay up-to-date with my newest recipes and posts, plus receive my free ebook all about pomegranates! Thank you for subscribing! Copyright  &# x000A9; 2019 FamilySpice   Implemented by WPopt Family Spice images and content are copyright protected. These copyrighted works cannot be republished or used without prior permission. Licensing inquiries for commercial use, publication and general distribution can be sent to  laura@familyspice.com 