PlayStation Mini games list reveal: GOOD NEWS for PSOne fans and Sony | Gaming | Entertainment | Express.co.uk Don ' t have an account?  Register Register with email Already have an account?  Sign in By registering I understand and agree to the  Terms of use & Privacy policy By registering I understand and agree to the  Terms of use & Privacy policy Please provide your site password to link to your existing account or  click here  to create a new account Please enter your email address to reset your password Sign in with a different account The email should arrive straight away, it may be in your spam. The link will expire after 24 hours.  We value your privacy   We and our partners use technologies, such as cookies, and process personal data, such as IP addresses and cookie identifiers, to personalise ads and content based on your interests, measure the performance of ads and content, and derive insights about the audiences who saw ads and content. Click below to consent to the use of this technology and the processing of your personal data for these purposes. You can change your mind and change your consent choices at any time by returning to this site.   Powered by  PlayStation Mini customers have been given some good news ahead of the release of the new PSOne console. The new mini gaming device has been backed to be a significant success for Sony, having been announced in September as a new device being launched for the holiday season. The  PlayStation Classic launches with 20 games pre-installed , including Final Fantasy 7, Ridge Racer Type 4, Wild Arms, Jumping Flash and Tekken 3. Not much is known about the remaining games that will be launched, only that titles like Ape Escape will not be included. This is because any title that requires that use of peripherals for the original PlayStation or later platforms are not supported on the PlayStation Classic. But while it might be bad news for some that Ape Escape has been ruled out, it sounds like fans won t have to worry about scrambling to find a console this holiday. According to Analyst Michael Pachter, Sony could sell millions of copies of the PlayStation Mini in 2018. And if that is correct, it means that the tech giant won t be focusing on a tiny supply of the PS Mini in 2018. This was a huge problem with Nintendo s NES Classic, leaving many players frustrated by not being able to find stock. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. There has been a lot of support for the Nintendo classic hardware, so I presume Sony will see similar success,  he Pachter told  Gamingbolt . They should be able to sell  millions  (1   2 million) without any problem if they choose to make that many. It s priced right, and the game lineup is pretty good for that price. I wouldn t be surprised if they sell 2   3 million this holiday and a similar number per year so long as they choose to keep manufacturing. So while it isn t an official notice regarding how much stock there will be, it does sound like Sony is being backed to make a run of PlayStation Minis. Sony has also confirmed that there will be no kind of internet support for their new mini console, which has a massive effect on post-release content. Speaking to  IGN , a Sony spokesperson outlined plans for the Mini PSOne, which won t include future games releases. A full remake of Castlevania Symphony of the Night would revitalise the series [KONAMI] This rules out any games making an appearance further down the line. So if your favourite PSOne classic isn't revealed as part of the initial games list, you won't be able to download them at a later date. According to the information released so far by Sony, the mini console will be approximately 45% smaller than the original PlayStation, and will  emulate the original s look and feel by featuring the same controllers and similar packaging . Each unit will also come with an HDMI cable to connect to your TV, alongside two controllers for local multiplayer within compatible titles. Fans are hoping to hear more about what games will be included in the classic console this week, with the release date set for December 3, 2018. Saturday, 14th December 2019  See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper,order back issues and use the historic Daily Expressnewspaper archive. 