WhatsApp dare messages with Answers - Best for Friends  &  Group Internet Tips  &  Tricks @Pritesh Das Last updated on March 29th, 2018 at 10:15 pm WhatsApp dare messages are fun games which you can play with your friends, family and even your boyfriend or girlfriend. WhatsApp dare messages is a also fun way to keep your whatsapp group active, increase interaction among the group users. They key to whatsapp truth dare messages with Answers is that the person who are going to dare should be ready to accept the challenge and answer the dare with all honesty. These whatsapp dare messages can be played by all age groups and gender. There are times when some questions really surpirise you and make you feel like you are trapped and the only way out is to answer the dare question. Such Whatsapp dare messages games also builts trust and bonding between friends. Research have shown that answering dare messages can bring you out of your shell, it can also enhance confidence within you and face this world with your head held high. Life can be very boring with a bit of humor. These WhatsApp dare messages can really make you laugh and also release stress from your otherwise hectic and monotonous life.Use these fun filled truth and dare messages for entertainment purpose only. I m a very pro-active WhatsApp users and based on the popularity  these are best WhatsApp truth dare messages with Answers. Check Out  :  Now Enjoy WhatsApp on Mac Laptop First share this Image and wait for the response. Once the other person has told you his/her chosen number share this image with her and see the fun  First share this Image and wait for the response. Also read :  Rare Whatsapp Status in Punjabi Once the other person  has told you his/her chosen number share this image with her and see the fun  First share this Image and wait for the response. Once the other person  has told you his/her chosen number share this image with her and see the fun  Always remember that these little funny games are for having a laughter time and not to insult or hurt anyone. I will be adding more and more WhatsApp dare messages as soon as I encounter some good ones. If you yourself know of some cool, nice and funny WhatsApp best dare messages, please email us or use the comment system to let us know , so we can add it to our post and eventually make this a one stop solution for WhatsApp dare messages. P.S  If you want these whatsapp truth and dare messages in plain text for easy copy paste , you can use our whatsapp dare messages download in simple text format  here  Whatsapp Birthday Wishes, status, Images and Video WhatsApp Status Messages -  Easy way to Impress Others Transfer Whatsapp Messages from Android to IPhone OMG this was fun . Tried this truth dare game with my boyfriend. Cool list of whatsapp dare message. which one should I use for my best friend ? This site uses Akismet to reduce spam.  Learn how your comment data is processed . 