Careers at Thor Global If you feel you should be a part of our team, please fax or email your resume and cover letter explaining why you should work for Thor Global to the following contact: Attention: HR Department E: hr@thorglobal.ca F: 905-564-9602 CAREER OPPORTUNITIES INTERMEDIATE SERVICE TECHNICIAN ENGINEER About THOR GLOBAL: THOR GLOBAL ENTERPRISES LTD. is a leading designer  &  manufacturer of bulk material handling equipment that is sold both domestically and internationally.  Our equipment is used in diverse applications ranging from: mining, recycling, aggregate, agriculture, coal handling and shipping port terminals. THOR GLOBAL has been in business over 50 years and has recently seen significant growth as we pride ourselves in providing innovative solutions with unparalleled service and technolog What we offer: Roles and Responsibilities: Provide customer phone support for service and warranty issues in order to perform troubleshooting Maintains rapport with customers by examining complaints; identifying solutions; suggesting improved methods and techniques; recommending system  &  safety improvements. Test, install  &  commission THOR machines. Responsible for all aspects of set up and start up procedures: electrical panels, VFDs, calibration of sensors and mechanical devices. Provide onsite training to THOR customer s locations as deemed necessary. Perform a detailed functionality test of the mechanical and electrical equipment. Adjust machinery and repair or replace defective parts. Read blueprints, diagrams and schematic drawings/layouts to fabricate, assemble  &  troubleshoot equipment.  Ability to understand and convey both written and verbal instructions. Inspect and examine machinery and equipment to detect and investigate irregularities and malfunctions (mechanical and electrical) Coordinate with outside contractors to perform warranty work as required  Identify and escalate ideas for improvement (cost/time reduction, safety etc.) Establish and maintain good relationships with customers, vendors. Documents service and installation actions by completing forms, reports, logs, and records. Prepares reports or analysis of product failure trends and service issues Cooperate with technical team and share information across the organization Qualification and Experience: Minimum 5 Years of proven field Experience Must be able to travel extensively in and out of country   a current valid Passport is required Technical degree or certification is an asset Ability to work flexible hours in order to adapt to our customer s changing work schedules Experience in electrical motors, sensors, pneumatics, hydraulics, HMI, vision systems, etc. Ability to troubleshoot, test, repair and service technical equipment PLC experience- Allen Bradley  &  Schneider is a benefit Excellent English communication skills, both oral and written Strong Electro-Mechanical aptitude with hands-on experience Additional Preferred Competencies: Ability to work autonomously  Capable of travelling to remote locations for extended periods of time to service and install equipment Team player with the willingness to take on and complete all assigned tasks Work in extreme environmental conditions (dust, cold, heat, rain) when installing/repairing equipment at customer location For immediate consideration please send your resume plus cover letter stating your salary expectations and how your qualifications are in line with our requirements by mail, fax or email to the following contact: Attention: HR Department E: hr@thorglobal.ca F: 905-564-9602 INTERMEDIATE MECHANICAL DESIGNER You are a Mechanical Engineer/Technologist with a solid background in mechanical and structural design of heavy-duty equipment primarily used in the aggregate and mining industry. Successful applicants must have a demonstrated knowledge of bulk material handling equipment including conveyors (portable, stationary  &  overland), stackers (telescopic, folding and cable mast), hoppers, belt feeders, crushers and screening plants. About THOR GLOBAL: THOR GLOBAL ENTERPRISES LTD. is a leading designer  &  manufacturer of bulk material handling equipment that is sold both domestically and internationally.  Our equipment is used in diverse applications ranging from: mining, recycling, aggregate, agriculture, coal handling and shipping port terminals. THOR GLOBAL has been in business over 50 years and has recently seen significant growth as we pride ourselves in providing innovative solutions with unparalleled service and technolog What we offer: Roles and Responsibilities: Qualification and Experience: MUST be proficient in SolidWorks  &  AutoCAD with a minimum 4-5 years  experience. SolidWorks PDM experience is also desirable. Comprehensive understanding of mechanical design theories such as statics, dynamics, DFMA, stresses, tolerances and fits, shaft design, power transmission component selection, hydraulics, machine frames, bolted connections and welded joints. Knowledge of CEMA conveyor and industry related standards Experience in a manufacturing environment that involves processes such as: plasma/laser cutting, plate forming, fitting  &  welding, machining, saw cutting, painting, assembly and equipment testing. Structural Steel detailing Ability to read engineering drawings and interpreting customer specifications.  Proficient in all MS Office (primarily Excel  &  Word) applications Excellent English communication skills, both oral and written University Degree or College Diploma in Mechanical Engineering Design MUST have 5-7 years Canadian experience in field related materials handling/heavy duty equipment. Excellent English communication skills, oral and written. Highly motivated, organized, results oriented, critical thinker, problem solver, decision-maker, strong mechanical aptitude.  Additional Preferred Competencies: Ability to work autonomously PEO is desirable Strong Mechanical aptitude with hands-on experience Team player with the willingness to take on and complete all assigned tasks  For immediate consideration please send your resume plus cover letter stating your salary expectations and how your qualifications are in line with our requirements by mail, fax or email to the following contact: Attention: HR Department E: hr@thorglobal.ca F: 905-564-9602 