The Times boys basketball top 10 | NWI Preps Boys Basketball | nwitimes.com © 2019 Lee Enterprises Terms of Service   |   Privacy Policy Thunderstorms likely. High 82F. Winds SSE at 10 to 15 mph. Chance of rain 90%.. Thunderstorms early, overcast overnight with occasional rain. Low 68F. Winds ENE at 5 to 10 mph. Chance of rain 90%. Rainfall near an inch. Locally heavy rainfall possible.  Updated: August 12, 2019 @ 1:27 pm The Times' sports staff ranks the Region's top boys basketball contenders. Last week: 1 | Overall record: 8-3 Valparaiso nearly knocked off defending state champion Warren Central at the Raymond James Hall of Fame Classic on Saturday. The Vikings bounced back with a narrow victory over Westview in the third-place game later in the day. Last week: 2 | Record: 8-2 Chesterton lost its first two games of the season in the Noblesville Tournament. The Trojans will try to get back on track Saturday night in a home conference game against Merrilville. Last week: 3 | Record: 7-0 | Conference record: 3-0 Kouts hasn't played since its 59-point win over Hammond Science and Technology on Dec. 19. The Mustangs will start the new year with a pair of nonconference games against Oregon-Davis and North Judson. Last week: 8 | Record: 7-3 | Conference record: 3-0 The Class 3A Cougars earned a 13-point win over Class 4A Fort Wayne North on Wednesday to snap their two-game losing streak. West Side will play another Class 4A opponent when it hosts Lowell on Tuesday. Last week: 9 | Record: 7-4 The Wolves bounced back in the Big Dipper Tournament after losing to Rich Central and Chicago Marshall. Michigan City won 73-32 over Chicago Bowmen in its next outing and squeezed out a one-point victory against Chicago Butler in its last game of the tournament Saturday. Last week: 6 | Record: 5-2 Crown Point narrowly fell to New Albany in Noblesville, and the Bulldogs could be a sneaky contender in the Duneland Athletic Conference. The Bulldogs have plenty of experience in close games — five of their seven contests have been decided by seven points or less, and a sixth yielded a nine-point overtime win. Last week: 4 | Record: 9-1 Munster came away with the Highland Tournament title in decisive fashion. The Mustangs won their three games by an average of 25.7 points per game. Last week: 5 | Record: 7-3 Merrillville reached the championship of the Huntington North Classic tournament but lost to the hosts in the final Saturday. The Pirates will have a chance to get back in the win column in a road conference matchup against Chesterton on Jan. 5. Last week: 6 | 6-2 | Conference record: 2-0 Washington Twp. picked up a 16-point win over Westville on Dec. 28 to close out the calendar year. The Senators have won three straight games. Last week: 10 | Record: 6-2 | Conference record: 3-1 The Eagles are up to 3-1 in the Greater South Shore Conference after last Friday's win over River Forest. This weekend's Hoosier Gym Tournament in Knightstown gives Lake Station a chance at a trophy, and the Eagles appear well on their way to a second consecutive winning season. Griffith, Hanover Central, Marquette Catholic, Morgan Township Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device. 