Best 30 Dreadlocks Hair Salon in Anniston, AL with Reviews - YP.com What are you looking for? YP - The Real Yellow Pages SM  - helps you find the right local businesses to meet your specific needs. Search results are sorted by a combination of factors to give you a set of choices in response to your search criteria. These factors are similar to those you might use to determine which business to select from a local Yellow Pages directory, including proximity to where you are searching, expertise in the specific services or products you need, and comprehensive business information to help evaluate a business's suitability for you. “Preferred” listings, or those with featured website buttons, indicate YP advertisers who directly provide information about their businesses to help consumers make more informed buying decisions. YP advertisers receive higher placement in the default ordering of search results and may appear in sponsored listings on the top, side, or bottom of the search results page. Extremely bad service.... spoke with the lady the day before and she told me to come in at 8 and told me the price of my style that I wanted would… From Business: Walk-Ins Welcome Or Call For Appointments, Handicap Accessible, We Have 9 Great Stylist Available So You Don't Wait. Spa Services Available: Tanning, Bikini Wax,… Awesome!!! will recommend anyone to come in very nice attitude and will give exactly as please and fast #iceslayhair Melissa is a wonderful stylist and an amazing person!  I tried other salons but Visions is the best. Don't hesitate to try it! My Mother is going through Chemo therapy and we heard that Monet has Wigs for cancer patients its a new thing their doing. I have to say this shop… You can't make an appointment. When I called to find out when my stylist would be there no one could tell me. I went in and got on a list. I waited… Stylist was outside store smoking with a  " friend " . I walked in the store and stood for 10 minutes before the other  " stylist "  acknowledged I was… Brandi was great.  I would recommend her to anyone and everyone. Great place would not go any wear else love it ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ From Business: Beauty and Spas Barbers Beauty and Spas Hair Salons Hair Stylists This place deserves no stars. Long story short after getting a sew in done by these people I had to go to another shop the very next day and pay to… I am a guy and I followed Fallon here and love it! Great shop and very nice group of stylists. True professionals. Went today for the first time and experienced the worst hair cut of my life. The mature white lady who cut my hair must learn how to trim. She… From Business: At Regis Salon in Oxford, our expert stylists are skilled in complex haircut, color and styling techniques. We provide personalized, customized services to make… We found 48 results Didn't find what you were looking for?  Please help others by helping us do better. 1030 Quintard Ave, Anniston, AL 36201  2019 Thryv, Inc. All rights reserved. YP, the YP logo and all other YP marks contained herein are trademarks of YP LLC and/or YP affiliated companies. All other marks contained herein are the property of their respective owners. 