Andrés Jara - Alster Legal Andrés is a lawyer from Pontificia Universidad Catolica of Chile, and awardee of the Luis Gutierrez Alliende Award as the best student of his class in the field of commercial law (2005). Master in Law and Business from Bucerius and WHU Hochschule für Rechtswissenschaft and Otto Beisheim School of Management, (MLB), Hamburg, Germany (2009). Master in Business Administration from Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile, (MBA), Santiago, Chile (2012). He acted as foreign lawyer at CMS Hasche Sigle, Hamburg, Germany (2009), associate attorney at Jara Del Favero Abogados (2005-2008), senior associate attorney at Guerrero, Olivos, Novoa y Errázuriz (2009-2011), legal superintendent at Glencore (2011-2013) and Chief Legal Officer of Aconcagua SA, the real estate business unit of Salfacorp SA. (2013-2015). He is also a professor of commercial law and CGCUC, and research associate at the Faculty of Law of the Pontificia Universidad Catolica of Chile since 2006. Additionally, he is a professor at the UC LLM, for the course Contemporary Challenges of the Chief Legal Officer, since 2015. Professor of the Entrepreneurship and Innovation MSc at the Adolfo Ibáñez University since 2016. Has numerous publications in the fields of corporate governance and commercial law, and has participated as speaker in a number of seminars, talks and conferences on entrepreneurship, open markets, legal innovation, technology and legal office management, among others. He is a member of the Bar Association of Chile, and a mentor for organizations like Endeavor Chile, NXTP Labs, Founder Institute, Fundacion Chile, Incuba UC, Mujeres Empresarias (Entrepreneur Women), 3iE, Chrysalis, Garage UAI and others. His expertise lies in providing legal advice and strategic consulting in corporate matters of different kinds; development, administration, coordination and management of companies’ legal departments, definition and implementation compliance policies, implementation of contractual models and good practices, creation and management of risk matrixes, crime prevention policies, advising directors and executives about the mitigation of legal risks, negotiating complex agreements, financing, partnerships, and new businesses. He also has extensive experience providing his clients with comprehensive advice on regulated markets, stock markets, venture capital financing, corporate governance, international project structuring, design of high-complexity financial products, M & A and others. Languages: Spanish, English and German Disclaimer   |   Terms and Conditions   |  © 2017 Alster ® Cerro El Plomo 5855, oficina 308, Santiago, Las Condes Chile · Phone: (+562) 227148748 ·  contacto@alsterlegal.com 