Innovative Approaches for the Prevention of Undernutrition | IFPRI : International Food Policy Research Institute Innovative Approaches for the Prevention of Undernutrition (PROMIS) is a three-year (2014-16) project funded by Canada’s Department of Foreign Affairs, Trade and Development (DFAT-D), that seeks to prevent both acute and chronic undernutrition in children in Burkina Faso, Mali, and Senegal. Tackling child undernutrition requires a dual approach consisting of prevention during the first 1,000 days (from conception to a child’s second birthday) and treatment of moderate or severe acute malnutrition (MAM/SAM) in young children. In practice, the prevention and treatment of undernutrition have been treated as two separate goals addressed with separate sets of interventions, programs, and delivery systems. This project aims to leverage existing program delivery platforms and develop cost-effective approaches that address both the prevention of undernutrition and the detection and treatment of SAM in young children. The project is being implemented by IFPRI, in close collaboration with Helen Keller International. The research and evaluation activities led by IFPRI will address the following three key objectives: The rigorous in-depth evaluations planned for Burkina Faso and Mali will build on IFPRI’s extensive experience conducting rigorous program effectiveness evaluations of complex integrated programs involving multiple sectors, internationally and in the region. In Senegal, we will focus on assessing the feasibility of integrating prevention and treatment in an urban and a rural setting; our evaluation in Senegal will thus focus mainly on process indicators – activities and outputs – to assess whether the activity can indeed be implemented in this setting. The knowledge generated by this work will provide critical information to guide global, regional, and national policies in scaling up nutrition.  Studies show mixed results for a program that coupled acute malnutrition screenings with dietary supplements.  International Food Policy Research Institute 1201 Eye St, NW Washington, DC 20005-3915 USA Phone +1 202-862-5600 Fax +1 202-862-5606 Email to IFPRI Skype ifprihomeoffice All IFPRI offices  COPYRIGHT  &  FAIR USE  |  PRIVACY  &  COOKIE POLICY Sign-up to receive email updates with latest news, publications, research results, events, and policy seminars. By clicking  ' OK, I agree '  you are giving your consent for us to use cookies. 