Dr. David Salar, DMD | West Boca Dentistry for Children, Boca Raton, FL Dr. David Salar is a board certified pediatric dentist who believes in providing dental care to children and adolescents in a gentle and  …read more Male 1447370382 West Boca Dentistry for Children 8903 Glades Road ,  Suite D-4 Boca Raton , FL 33434 It was my daughters first time, she is 3yrs old. She and I had a wonderful experience!   …read more I appreciate the fact that Dr. Salar wants to monitor my daughter &# x27;s molars for what MAY turn out to be cavities.  Her previous dentist in Atlanta stated they were in fact cavaties and should be treated right away.  It is always a pleasure to find a true professional who isn &# x27;t there just to take your money.  My daughter had no complaints about her exam, the staff were super friendly, we were seen promptly and there was plenty of parking.  I &# x27;m pleased with today &# x27;s visit!  …read more Very good. Seen promptly. Thorough report fr dentist.   …read more Highly Recommend.  …read more Dr. Salar and staff were very friendly, professional and caring. My daughter had a pleasant experience and left with a smile. :)  …read more Excellent.  …read more Staff is warm  &  very attentive to the children  &  whole family. The doctor is so thoughtful, kind  &  his words are warm and encouraging. I know we are in great hands here. AT  …read more It was very pleasant!  …read more Terrific!!  …read more  Dr. David Salar  is affiliated with West Boca Medical Center.  Dr. David Salar  works with  West Boca Dentistry for Children .  Dr. David Salar's office is located at  8903 Glades Road, Boca Raton, FL 33434 .  Dr. David Salar  is certified by American Board of Pediatric Dentistry.  Dr. David Salar frequently sees patients for Crown, Filling, Pediatric Dentist Consultation, Root Canal, and Wisdom Tooth Problem. You can  see other visit reasons  for Dr. David Salar on their profile.  Dr. David Salar  speaks English and Romanian. 11 patients have reviewed Dr. David Salar. The overall rating for this doctor is 4.91/5. They have a 4.91/5 rating for bedside manner and a 4.82/5 rating for wait time.  You can  read individual reviews and ratings  on their profile.  Dr. David Salar  is affiliated with West Boca Medical Center.  Dr. David Salar  works with  West Boca Dentistry for Children .  Dr. David Salar's office is located at  8903 Glades Road, Boca Raton, FL 33434 .  Dr. David Salar  is certified by American Board of Pediatric Dentistry.  Dr. David Salar frequently sees patients for Crown, Filling, Pediatric Dentist Consultation, Root Canal, and Wisdom Tooth Problem. You can  see other visit reasons  for Dr. David Salar on their profile.  Dr. David Salar  speaks English and Romanian. 11 patients have reviewed Dr. David Salar. The overall rating for this doctor is 4.91/5. They have a 4.91/5 rating for bedside manner and a 4.82/5 rating for wait time.  You can  read individual reviews and ratings  on their profile.  Dr. David Salar  is affiliated with West Boca Medical Center.  Dr. David Salar  works with  West Boca Dentistry for Children .  Dr. David Salar's office is located at  8903 Glades Road, Boca Raton, FL 33434 .  Dr. David Salar  is certified by American Board of Pediatric Dentistry.  Dr. David Salar frequently sees patients for Crown, Filling, Pediatric Dentist Consultation, Root Canal, and Wisdom Tooth Problem. You can  see other visit reasons  for Dr. David Salar on their profile.  Dr. David Salar  speaks English and Romanian. 11 patients have reviewed Dr. David Salar. The overall rating for this doctor is 4.91/5. They have a 4.91/5 rating for bedside manner and a 4.82/5 rating for wait time.  You can  read individual reviews and ratings  on their profile. 