Maria ' s Buena Cocina, Highland - Restaurant Reviews, Photos  &  Phone Number - TripAdvisor This wonderful restaurant is temporarily closed pending its move to nearby Highway Avenue in Highland. Watch for reopening in June or thereabouts (I’d guess). Best Mexican food around. This was my 1st visit  &  won ' t be the last. Mom is picky  &  she Loved it! Looking forward to their new location in downtown Highland.Great food - nice people! Authentic, homemade Mexican food at reasonable prices.  We were looking for local food when we found this, and it ' s great.  The carne asada and chicken mole were excellent. If you ' re in the Hammond area and want to avoid chains, eat here. Maria ' s is truly a hidden gem! A family run business where the service is excellent  &  friendly and the food is always great! We ' ve never be disappointed. We love the steak tacos and you have to try the farmer market tacos. You can tell they... More Anything on the menu here is delicious. I stopped for a quick lunch with my girlfriend and we got the chicken soup and a steak burrito. First of all this place is tiny with an open kitchen concept so you can watch the two owners... More This is a small, hole in the wall mom  &  dad restaurant type or place. The food is by far delicious in comparison to any Mexican restaurant in the area. Just a food you it when you visit your grandma or aunt...I highly recommend this... More Marias is great!!! If only more people knew she was there. This is such a gem. Fresh, hot, fast food and ALWAYS great. Maria and Nacho always make everyone feel at home. They are so friendly. This is definitely a must stop n eat. Everything about Maria ' s Buena Cocina says  " fresh. "   María and her husband Nacio are behind the counter of this modest diner, making the type of Mexican food they would serve their family.  Maria selects her produce from local vendors daily or brings it from her garden,... More There has not been a time that I went to Marias and not been greeted as soon as I walk in the door. Not to mention quick service and the food is always delicious!! It ' s kind of hidden away so most people don ' t see this... More Maria ' s is the best!   Not only is the food great, but Maria and her family make you feel at home.  The guacamole is not to be missed! 