Non starting  &  ASR light on - Skoda Octavia Mk II (2004 - 2013) - BRISKODA Forgot your password? Or sign in with one of these services By warweezil ,   4 February, 2017  in  Skoda Octavia Mk II (2004 - 2013) A couple of weeks back the car started to cut out  and be difficult to re-start. My OBD reader picked up the code for EGR valve, and true this was sticky with a very noisy motor I removed the valve and it did seem to be stuck closed, given the noise from the motor I opted to fit a new one rather than risk a used one, after this she ran better but started to suffer momentary "stalls" when driving with the EPC and engine management light coming on briefly and then going off when the engine powered up again. We put this down to fuel as another car was suffering similar symptoms that had been filled from the same source. I wasn't seeing the EPC light or the engine management light during these momentary "stalls".   However a couple of days ago the problem became much more pronounced and violent, and while taking the car over to work to put on the reader again it cut out and wont restart. I have noticed that now the ASR button and traction light are on, while trying to start the car yesterday the light went off briefly and the engine fired briefly but then the light came back on and we were back to not running.   The OBD code reader is unable to get a connection now repeated attempts have produced a "link failed" message - admittedly it is only a small basic reader, and next week Im trying to arrange someone to connect it to something a little better. I dont know anyone near me with VCDS so thats out  (one of the man drawbacks of living in a rural area)   Any wisdom out there about this would be most welcome. I'm starting to despair with this car, It ran like a watch on a recent 450 mile round trip, maybe this is the payback - Being reduced to driving the firms beat up and gutless Vauxhall Combi Diesel!     Sorry to say I'd rather believe all related to ecu problems... If you can find to a service another to try or a reprogram may resolve issues... When you switch on, does the battery light illuminate, and remain on until you try and start? When you switch on, does the battery light illuminate, and remain on until you try and start? The car is at work right now but as far as I can recall the dash lights all come on as normal and then go off all except battery and Traction control  and the ASR off button is lit up too. will check for certain tomorrow. The car is at work right now but as far as I can recall the dash lights all come on as normal and then go off all except battery and Traction control  and the ASR off button is lit up too. will check for certain tomorrow. OK, that should eliminate an issue with the alternator load sense wires. If they were broken the battery light wouldn't come on with the ignition.   Next I'd check the battery voltage, because the ASR will shut itself down if that's low. OK I can confirm that the battery light stays on while cranking along with Traction Control icon  &  "ASR Off" button being lit up. I have noticed a single alert tone when I crank the car over - I don't recall hearing it before.   The battery is fine, the car has a battery of around 70ah capacity (Well over the normal capacity fitment) and is cranking the car well, it has actually been on the workshop charger while I had a quick look at the car the other day. Not much to add. The car remains silent. we found a couple of blown fuses that relate to the ecu/obd systems, replaced them and checked every fuse in the car, removed the ecu and dried out the small amount of moisture around the plugs, still it wont communicate with any of 3 diagnostic sets (2 of which are Snap On professional sets known to be working) If it wasnt for the fact that the car is pretty straight and has a lot of MOT on it Id be draining it and breaking it.... but instead it looks like the ECU is off to be bench tested for defects.   Modern cars.... I hate them! To update, the car has now had an ECU overhaul, they found some evidence of water ingress and some corroded pins. One painful bill later, its been refitted - someone did try starting it but no joy - the ASR light is still staying on. Tomorrow I'm hoping to get a mate over with his snap on machine to clear codes and try to start it - assuming we are now able to communicate with the ECU. Wish me luck. After having the wiring checked, we arrived at a point where we knew the problem had to be in the ECU (despite the repair). I sent it back to BBA and after a test they pronounced it dead. i have to option of a full refund.... or adding a couple of hundred quid to my outlay and swapping it for a replacement with my cars "data" programmed on it (Mileage etc). The replacement comes with a lifetime warranty apparently.   I'm disappointed that at 70k miles a problem like this has occurred. I have to weigh up the pro's and con's of spending more on this car.     You need to be a member in order to leave a comment Sign up for a new account in our community. It's easy! Already have an account? Sign in here. No registered users viewing this page. BRISKODA is owned and operated by Summit 360 Ltd, registered in England  &  Wales, company number 05710517. We are registered with the Information Commissioner, registration number ZA187892, it details the purpose for which we process personal data. Disclaimer: BRISKODA is not an official SKODA site and is not affiliated to SKODA in any way.  Visit the  Official SKODA Website . BRISKODA are not directly responsible for information which maybe posted in this forum. All content is viewed and used at your own risk. We do not warrant the accuracy or reliability of any of the information. The views expressed herein are those of the individual contributors and not necessarily those of BRISKODA or SKODA. All trademarks and copyrights remain property of their respective owners. Copyright 2002-2019  SUMMIT 360 Ltd.  E. &  O.E. Powered by Invision Community Welcome to BRISKODA. Please note the following important links  Terms of Use . We have a comprehensive  Privacy Policy . We have placed  cookies  on your device to help make this website better. You can  adjust your cookie settings , otherwise we'll assume you're okay to continue. 