CC Unit 7, Complaints and Adjustments | Business Learn more about Scribd Membership Discover everything Scribd has to offer, including books and audiobooks from major publishers. A complaint letter informs the company that the customer is dissatisfied with the goods or services. A claim is a complaint to inform the company of the problem and suggest a fair compensation. An adjustment is the companys reply to the complaint/claim. 2 accounting errors 4 3. Make your complaint at once. Purpose: not to express anger but to get results. Therefore: avoid a rude, hostile or demanding tone. Do not assume that the supplier is automatically to blame. 5 5. 6. Opening State of goods in further details Explanation of the problem (optional) Enclosed documents Suggestions for solutions Closing 6 Opening Acknowledge the consignment: name of goods, order number, name of vessel, delivery dates Describe briefly the problem Opening We would like to inform you that the consignment of  was in damage. I am writing to complain about the consignment of  shipped by/ carried by/ shipped on board (name of vessel), arriving at (port) on (date)   which arrived at Sai Gon port on (date)  under/against Order No. P123/ the above order 8 Opening Upon the arrival of the consignment (goods) at the port, it was found (discovered) that  On opening the parcel received this morning we found that  When we opened the cases (we had the cases opened), it was found that  10 ... under (with/by) the supervision of an inspector (a surveyor) from Vinacontrol in Ho Chi Minh City ...with the presence of the representatives from the local Vinacontrol, the condition of the goods has been stated as follows. 11 Against 20 items ordered (stated in the invoice), the actual consignment consists of only 18 items. There is a difference between your invoice and the packing list. The actual consignment  In accordance (conformity) with our contract, the consignment must include, but we found The delivery consisted of  instead of  I asked for. 12 The goods are not up to our requirements (expectations). The goods do not tally with the samples. The consignment does not meet the standard we required. The quality is low. (inferior to/ below the standard) 13 Out of 20 items ordered (received), 2 items have been seriously broken (crushed/ dented). The boxes were damaged and looked as if they had been broken open in transit (during transportation). Case No. 12 under the above order was reported damaged. 14 The shortage was due to the mistake in packing. (due to careless/improper/inadequate/ poor packaging). I think the reason that wrong sizes have been sent to me is because I am ordering in metric sizes, and you are sending me sizes measured in feet and inches. 15 Enclosed documents To prove the situation (what we have said)  To support our complaint (case), we enclose herewith:  a Survey Report (SV) (Bin bn gim nh)  a Cargo Outturned Report (COR) (Bin bn d hng)  a Report on Receipt of Cargo (ROROC) (Bin bn nhn hng vi tu)  a packing list/ an invoice/ a Bill of Lading 16 to arrange to deliver the remaining items as soon as possible to send the replacements before (by)  to pick up the wrongly-delivered goods to offer a discount (a price reduction/ a credit for the next orders) to arrange shipment of the missing goods/ to arrange for repairs within (not later than)  18 Closing Express hope for a prompt and satisfactory solution of the problem We look forward to your sensible (acceptable/ satisfactory) solution. We hope you will look into (take up) the matter and have it solved immediately. We hope the matter would be put right in no time (at once). 19 Closing In case there is no satisfactory solution within a month, we have no choice but (we are obliged) to take legal action. We feel there must be some explanation for this delay and await your prompt reply. We hope to learn that you are prepared to make some allowance in these circumstances. I hope to receive a complete refund soon. 20 Please ensure that this sort of problem does not arise again. Unless you can fulfil our orders efficiently in the future we will have to consider changing to another supplier. 21 You must correct your mistake as soon as possible. You made an error on the statement. You dont understand the terms of discount. We told you to deduct discount from net prices, not CIF prices. 22 The mistake must be corrected as soon as possible. There appears to be an error on the statement. There seems to be some misunderstanding regarding terms of discount. Discount is deducted from net prices, not CIF prices. 23 The mistake could not have originated here, and must be connected with the despatch of the goods. 24 Practice 1 Practice 1 We are writing with reference to the above contract covering a purchase of 1,000 mirrors packed in one container, which arrived at Hai Phong port on 5 January 20__. (We received the consignment of 1,000 mirrors packed in one container against the above contract, which arrived at Hai Phong port on 5 January 20__.) 26 Practice 1 However, on unpacking the container under the supervision of the Customs and local Vinacontrols representatives, it was found that out of 100 cartons, 20 had (contained) broken goods, estimated at about 15% of the contract value, equivalent to US$2,500.00 (an equivalence of US$2,500.00). 27 Practice 1 We proceeded to have a Survey Report made and it confirmed our findings that this problem arose in transit (during transportation) and resulted from substandard (poor) packages which are not suitable for fragile goods. It appears that the packaging was not in conformity with our packing instructions sent to you before shipment. 28 Practice 1 On the strength (basis) of the Survey Report we would like to lodge (register) our claim as follows: + Damaged goods value US$ 2,500.00 + Inspection fee : US$ 150.00 + Total claim: US$ 2,650.00 Would you please pay the above sum by T/T to our account at Vietinbank on account No.  stated in the contract. 29 Practice 1 We would like you to pay due (proper) attention to the packaging of the next orders that contain fragile glass items. We look forward to your early settlement for this claim. Yours sincerely (Signed) Nguyen Phuong Director Enc. Documents required for the claim. 30 