Rimbey RCMP investigate serious collision on Highway 53 | Canada Police Report Rimbey, Alberta – (11:02 AM)  Emergency Crews have since cleared from Highway 53 and traffic has returned to normal. Early this morning Rimbey RCMP were dispatched to a single vehicle rollover. Investigation revealed the vehicle had left the roadway and rolled. Unfortunately, the driver and sole occupant, an 18-year-old male from Rimbey was pronounced dead on scene. Names will not be released and no further updates will be provided. BACKGROUND Rimbey, Alberta  Shortly after 5:00 A.M. on September 19, RCMP and emergency crews responded to a serious single vehicle collision on Highway 53. The collision has occurred near the intersection of Range Road 40, west of Rimbey. The highway is currently restricted to one lane due to the collision and emergency responders on scene. Motorists are asked to avoid the area if possible and utilize alternate routes. This detour is expected to be in place for several hours while the investigation takes place. More details about this collision will be released once they are known. Rimbey RCMP Rimbey, Alberta – (9:07 pm) Traffic is no longer being diverted on Highway 20, north of Township Road 442. At… Rimbey, Alberta – Rimbey RCMP are looking for public assistance in locating a stolen boat that was stolen sometime between… Rimbey, Alberta – The RCMP are investigating an armed robbery which occurred January 19, 2019 at the Rimbey Liquor Store.… Rimbey, Alberta – The RCMP are seeking public assistance in identifying a male following a break-in at the Rimbey Motor… Rimbey, Alberta – The RCMP in Rimbey identified some target offenders to the Wetaskiwin Crime Reduction Unit who were conducting… Rimbey, Alberta – A search warrant was recently executed by the RCMP in Rimbey. As a result, numerous vehicles, a… Rimbey, Alberta – RCMP advise that Patrick William Freeman (28) was arrested in relation to the homicide of Patrick Alexander… -  British Columbia  -  Alberta  -  Saskatchewan  - About  /  Contact   /  Terms  / Facebook  /  Privacy Copyright © 2001-2019 Canada Police Report Install this Web-App on your home screen: tap  icon  then  " Add to Home Screen " 