Community rallies to help little girl with a wish to live |North Coast Courier travel catalogues car biz property travel catalogues car biz property travel catalogues car Enjoy a stunning three-course dinner including entertainment and a chance to win amazing prizes at La Piazza this Saturday, all in aid of raising funds for little Ariella.  The Dolphin Coast community has been called to action to help a family s desperate fund-raising mission for their five-year-old daughter who was recently diagnosed with a rare and fatal tumour. Zimbali s Erin Limbert said she was heartbroken when she heard about the Durban-based Cocorozis family whose  spunky and vivacious  daughter, Ariella was recently diagnosed with Diffuse Intrinsic Pontine Glioma (DIPG)   a highly aggressive brain tumour. I immediately went onto their BackaBuddy fundraising page, an opportunity to donate towards research for clinical trials overseas and medical costs that her distraught parents, John and Emelia, are facing,  said Van der Merwe, who is a mother to two daughters. I created a WhatsApp group with my friends to request donations and the idea to host a fundraiser evolved to two events   a dinner and a golf day   to help the parents. The community in Ballito is incredibly giving and I am blessed to have amazing supportive friends. Her friend and fellow Ballito mom, Aimee Toweel said she had experienced the pain and suffering families go through when faced with the cruel battle of brain cancer. People cross our paths for a reason. Ariella and her parents have come into my life because we have certain things in common, not least that I am a mother to five girls, some of whom are a similar age to Ariella,  said Toweel, who is organising the golf day. The sunny, beautiful Ariella Cocorozis has an incurable tumour which usually develops rapidly with most children reportedly only surviving about nine months after diagnosis, while only ten percent survive for longer than two years. John and Emelia are brave and courageous and have inspired many people with their faith and trust in God. I have been humbled by their united coping mechanism and they deserve all the support and love we as a community can offer them during this battle. Get involved by buying your tickets to the stunning three-course dinner including entertainment and a chance to win amazing prizes at La Piazza, Ballito on Saturday, November 10 at 6pm. Book your table of ten people for R3500 or buy individual tickets at R350 per person. The dress code is smart casual and remember to RSVP via WhatsApp or SMS to Erin at 082 944 0055. Golfers, make sure to join in the Golf Day for Ariella at Umhlali Country Club on November 14. Tickets cost R2400 for a four ball and includes 18 holes of golf, a meal and a prize giving with fantastic prizes. To sponsor a hole or prize, contact Aimee at 083 417 9639. Do you want to receive news alerts via WhatsApp? Send us a WhatsApp message (not an sms) with your name and surname to 061 718 4438. Please read our  WhatsApp broadcast list disclaimer. Join the conversation on  Facebook ,  Twitter  and  Instagram Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Pinterest Email Print AddThis Sponsored Crawford College North Coast Sponsored Parenting Sponsored Sponsored Health, Wellness  &  Beauty Copyright   2019 Caxton  &  CTP Printers and  Publishers Ltd. www.caxton.co.za  |  www.localnewsnetwork.co.za  |  Terms and Conditions  |  Privacy Policy  |  We use cookies Follow these instructions to allow notifications: 