EPFO: Latest News on EPFO | Top Stories  &  Photos on Economictimes.com "We must go for global listings. We must attract global funding," Infosys co-fou... On its surface, 2019 was the difficult year that most of us anticipated.  Let's get smarter about money Drive Value Through Disability Inclusion India in 2030: safe, sustainable and digital Solutions for small business ET Family Business Awards TransUnion Cibil Hunt for the brightest engineers in India Gold standard for rating CSR activities by corporates  SEARCHED FOR: The Bill proposes setting up a social security fund using corpus available under corporate social responsibility. This fund will provide welfare benefits to all workers, including gig workers. As per the bill, millions of organised sector employees may soon have the option of reducing their provident fund contribution. The number of active members under EPFO, at present, are 4,50,60,972 (con... The ministry s proposal to corporatise the EPFO had faced severe criticism. In its latest ... The NSO report is based on the payroll data of new subscribers of various social security schemes run by the ESIC, retirement fund body EPFO and the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA). It has been releasing the payroll data or new subscribers data of these three bodies since April 2018, covering a period starting from September 2017. At present, workers are required to apply through their employers to get the universal account number (UAN), which enables them to avoid filing PF transfer claims on changing jobs. Now they do not have to depend on his or her employer for getting the UAN. The UAN remains the same throughout the life of a worker. FCI has appointed about two dozen local arrangers to help raise the money. New Bill gives employees option to reduce their PF contribution, resulting in higher take-home pay. The Employees' Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) is investing in ETFs (Rs 86,966 crore) based on Nifty 50, Sensex, Central Public Sector Enterprises (CPSEs) and Bharat 22 Indices. Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar told the Lower House that the EPFO does not invest in shares and equities of individual companies. EPFO is warning members via its website and social media handles regarding fake phone calls and is also advising them not to share personal details like PAN, Aadhaar, bank account or EPF account details like Universal Account Number (UAN). If you have a grievance related to your PF account like withdrawal, transfer and so on, then EPFO has a dedicated website called 'EPF I Grievance Management System' where you can file such complaints. You can also file them if you do not have UAN. The proposal to increase the superannuation age is expected to help a beneficiary grow his/her pension kitty. The report said that since the number of subscribers are from various sources, there are elements of overlap and the estimates are not additive. The NSO also said the report does not measure employment at a holistic level. The National Pension System (NPS) is a voluntary, defined contribution programme administered and regulated by PFRDA. Minutes of the meeting are yet to be issued, which will have to be approved by the secretary before the government s stand becomes official. The government had in the Union Budget 2015-16 gave option to EPFO subscribers to opt for NPS. The move triggered massive protests from trade unions. Minutes of the meeting are yet to be issued, which will have to be approved by the secretary before the government s stand becomes official. The government had in the Union Budget 2015-16 gave option to EPFO subscribers to opt for NPS. The move triggered massive protests from trade unions. Trending Now Popular Categories Hot on Web In Case you missed it ET Verticals More from our network Other useful Links services Copyright   2019 Bennett, Coleman  &  Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. For reprint rights:  Times Syndication Service 