Computer Science, or a Marketing Degree? : marketing I was initially thinking of majoring in Marketing with a business degree, but a CS degree seems much more versatile, and profitable. I really love selling stuff, but I have always had aspirations to create the next big App, program, and even a video game. I would have to learn Programming eventually to do any of this. What do you think? P.S About to start college. CS and do marketing as hobby! Both, if you can. I have a dual Marketing and Business Intelligence and Anayltics degree. BIA is a mixed bag of computer science, data analytics, database management, etc, so it &# x27;s not as in depth as a CS degree, but I did have an app coding class, so we did get pretty technical. Most business schools have some kind of technical ish degree. Look into combining these two passions and you can go far. Think about it like this: you &# x27;ll be able to talk to both computers and people. Incredibly valuable. Marketing is all about research and analytics play a huge role in that. Doing both allows you to do research on your own and be able to explain it to someone who isn &# x27;t as tech-savvy or knowledgeable as you are. I have never regretted doing both. It took a lot of work, but it stands you out from the crowd and you will reap the benefits of a dual major later. Could not agree more. I &# x27;m fortunate to work in a marketing role that gives me the time and tools to learn some basic CS skills but if you &# x27;ve got the chops for it, do the CS now.  That broadens your employment horizons significantly and keeps you from being pigeonholed. CS. If you have the aptitude. You can always go into marketing with a comp sci degree. But you can &# x27;t go into comp sci with a marketing degree. Again, that &# x27;s if you like the math / programming / logic component of CS. Notably, lots of CS / engineer grads end up going into sales or sales engineering which, if you like selling, can be a $200,000 per year job in America. Lots of travel and crap hours, but certainly a lot of money. Do CS major, marketing minor. Marketing can be learned as you use it once you get the basics. CS a lot harder to pick up - I &# x27;m a marketer. It pains me when dev people don &# x27;t understand simple basics of marketing and create things that regular people can &# x27;t use. On the other hand, it pains me that I can &# x27;t code. :-) I had this exact same dilemma when I was in school. I &# x27;ve always been an IT inclined person and did personal contract work for people during school. I choose marketing so that I would have more time to play music. Look at me now.... Marketing degree then learn coding and web dev on side. I studied math and ended up learning computer science at a marketing job CS If your aspirations are to code, go with a CS major and Marketing minor! Computer Science! Marketing degrees can be beneficial but you can get into a marketing career without one. And a lot of effective  " marketing "  is done by people without formal education. Another way to put it: You can probably run great ads with a marketing degree to drive people to your website, but once they &# x27;re there they won &# x27;t buy anything if the site is shitty. You have to have a good grasp on user design and behavior in the digital world to really be effective in the digital marketing world. Go with computer science, for marketing it &# x27;s as simple as taking someones online course and going through the free adwords training. You &# x27;ll learn everything you need to know and save thousands of dollars. CS. One is a real science, the other won &# x27;t teach you much. I &# x27;m sure that a lot of you use Instagram for building a brand, self-promotion or to push traffic to affiliate offers so I think this is going to help you - if I &# x27;m breaking the rules of this sub please delete this post. I &# x27;ve seen a lot of misconceptions and people sharing completely false info regarding hashtags so I &# x27;ve decided to write a full guide about Instagram hashtags and best practices. It &# x27;s a pretty long read and I &# x27;ve published two Youtube videos covering this completely if you want you can check it out here:  Ultimate Instagram Hashtag Series Since there are a lot of people who don &# x27;t like to learn by watching videos I &# x27;ve also decided to write a short transcript so that you can get the idea what &# x27;s in these videos and get some general info. What are you going to learn: Hashtag Basics How To Help Instagram Categorize Your Page To Get Suggested More Often How To Do a Proper Hashtag Research How Many Hashtags Should You Use What Is Skyscraper Hashtag Strategy  &  How To Use It How To Use Brand Hashtags Hashtags In Stories Hashtags In Bio The Best Place To Put Hashtags (Caption or Comment) How To Increase Your Chance Of Getting Ranked For Hashtags Banned Hashtags Mistakes You Should Avoid There &# x27;s also a full transcript available on my website, which you can  check out here . Hashtag Basics: I &# x27;m going to skip basics since I &# x27;m sure all of you are already familiar with basics but if you are not feel free to check my videos or read the article on my website. How To Get More Followers From Suggestions: First thing you need to understand is that you always want to use hashtags that are relevant to your niche. Instagram uses image recognition to scan your posts and see what’s actually on them. So your goal is to find hashtags that are closely related to the topic of your account. If you are running a theme or niche page like for example travel, with each new post that uses travel-related hashtags  you are letting Instagram algorithm know that your account is about travel and it will start pushing your account to more people that are interested in travel . With each new post, Instagram is basically learning more about your account and the exact category/ niche you are in so it will start recommending you to other people who showed interest in your niche and associating your account with other bigger pages in your niche. How Many Hashtags You Should Use: Now because of this when you start a new Instagram page you should find 25-30 really small (REALLY TARGETED) hashtags that are closely related to your niche. And in the beginning, just use those on the first several posts. If your account is in a really broad niche like just travel, where you post different destinations and all kinds of content than there are a ton of small hashtags that you can use. In this case, find several sets of these small hashtags and use different set on each post. But as I’ve mentioned already in my previous videos and articles you shouldn’t start the account in a broad niche like that because you will have a much harder time growing. I know a lot of people claim that you should only use up to 5 or 10 hashtags per post and if you use more Instagram will see it as spam, but that’s just not true. Just think of it, if IG wants you to use 5 hashtags only they wouldn’t set the limit to 30. I always use between 25 and 30 hashtags and you should too, because you have a chance to rank for each hashtag you use, and if you use 30 hashtags your chances of getting ranked increase by a lot. To rank for a certain hashtag your post needs to be related, and to receive  similar engagement in the same amount of time as the posts which are already ranked . How To Do Hashtag Research: Hashtag research is pretty simple but a bit time consuming, the good thing is you basically only need to do it once per each account that you have. You want to go to a broad niche hashtag like for example if you are in travel niche go to #travel if you are in the fitness niche go to #fitness and so on. Now let me show you exactly what you need to do. The account that I’m growing in my  0 to 10k followers challenge  is in a Nordic travel niche and if you want to see how I’m doing this step make sure to  watch the video . Video transcript: As you can see here you will find a list of related hashtags, check one of them and than again you will get a list of related hashtags. Now there are two things you want to write down for each of these hashtags total amount of posts and the lowest amount likes for the top nine posts. If you have time you can also write the average amount of comments but it’s not really necessary. So, here in this example as you can see, there are 348k total posts, and the average amount of likes is about 5k. The lowest amount of likes is 1.2k, if your post gets more than 1.2k likes within the first day you have a chance to rank for this hashtag. Now you want to find a lot of these related hashtags and write each of them down along with the total amount of posts, and the lowest amount of likes. Another way to find more related hashtags is to check each picture that’s ranking and see hashtags that they are using. The third way of doing this is to simply go to search and type your keyword and then go to tags and there you go. At the beginning of each account I usually just go with the second and third method, which saves me a lot of time. There are some websites that you can use for this, but I don’t really recommend that because almost everyone is using these and you are going to get similar hashtag sets to your competition, in case I find a good tool (paid or free) I will add the link to it here. Now depending on how broad is your niche you want to find from 30 for really micro niches to 120 for broader niches. You also want to find at least 15-25 general hashtags. In this example specific hashtags would be norway, norwaytravel, visitnorway and so on, these are hashtags that are really closely related to your topic. General hashtags are broader hashtags that are still related like for example travelinggram, traveltheworld, naturephotos and so on. Skyscraper Hashtag Strategy Now as I’ve mentioned already at the beginning of each account (first 9-10 posts) you should use about 25 small laser targeted hashtags that are as closely related to your niche as possible and that have from 1-100k total posts and add additional 3-5 general hashtags. This way you will let Instagram know what your account is all about so they can put you into the right category. After that, you should start using the skyscraper or staircase strategy. Skyscraper hashtag strategy is a pretty simple yet effective method to start harvesting the power of snowballing effect and  start going viral . You want to divide hashtags into 6 different groups. First group will be 5 hashtags that range from 5k to 50k total posts, second group 5 hashtags that range from 50k to 250k third group 5 hashtags that range from 250k to 1M in the 4th group you want to use 5 BIG general hashtags, in the 5th group you want to use 3-5 hashtags that are closely related to your actual post 5th group should be different each time since you are publishing different posts. And in the last group, you want to use 5 hashtags that are really closely related to you niche (it doesn’t matter how many total posts they have) and you want to use this group every time you post (this builds relevancy). When you combine the first 4 groups you get a  hashtag set , which should contain 20 hashtags. Now depending on how broad your niche is and  the posting frequency  you should have at least 2 hashtag sets and if it’s a really broad niche  &  you are posting several times per day you want to have 4 or 5 sets. If you post more than once a day you don’t want to use one set over and over again, especially if it’s a broad niche because Instagram can see it as spam. Now this really depends, I have an account for example where I’ve been using absolutely same hashtags over and over again just copy/pasting them for more than a year and haven’t saw any negative results, but I have a friend who got shadowbanned and once he switched to different hashtag sets he started seeing # reach once again. So just to be safe have at least 2 sets. How And Why This Works: Let me explain how and why the skyscraper strategy works: Group one contains smaller hashtags which are easy to rank for. If you rank for them you will get more exposure and increased amount of engagement, now with that increased engagement you have a chance to rank for bigger hashtags which are in group 2, this gives you additional exposure and engagement, with that you have a chance to rank for even bigger 3rd group, now once again you get additional reach  &  engagement which gives you a chance to rank for some of the hashtags from 4th group which are the biggest. Please note that if you have already established account with more followers and engagement you want to use different total posts range for each group, the example I used is for new or smaller accounts. In the skyscraper strategy, the most important group is the first one. In the first group, you want to have smaller hashtags that your account have a chance to rank for. So if your posts are usually getting from 50 to 100 likes you want the first group to have hashtags which have top posts that are also between 50 and 100 likes so you have a chance to rank for them and start the snowballing effect. Once you publish a lot of posts using different hashtag sets you are going to see which set is performing better and gets more reach and engagement and once you do you should use that set more often and discard the worst performing set. That &# x27;s all info from the first part of my YT series about hashtags and now let &# x27;s cover the second part. Again if you want you can watch the second part here:  Ultimate Instagram Hashtag Guide Part 2 Brand Hashtags: The brand hashtag is simply a hashtag that you invented. I always use my Instagram username as a brand hashtag. These work best on theme/ niche pages and there are two reasons to use them: To get free exposure and content To build more relevancy On repost pages, you can simply put your brand hashtag in caption saying for example “use #yourbrand if you want to get featured. People are going to start using your hashtag which will lead to more exposure and it’s also an easy way to discover content for reposting. Since only people in your niche are going to use this hashtag, and you are going to use it in each post this will build more relevancy for your page and Instagram will start pushing your account more as I’ve explained in part one. If you are using my skyscraper hashtag strategy brand hashtag is a part of the group 6. Hashtags In Stories: The best way to get more story views is with hashtags. From my experience stories without hashtags almost have no ability to rank on the explore page and can’t rank on the hashtag page. These are great sources to get more story viewers so you want to include hashtags in your stories as well. Just like with post hashtags it’s really important to use relevant hashtags for your stories. Hashtag limit for stories is 11 but I did some testing and it seems that 2-4 hashtags work the best when it comes to stories. I always include at least one hashtag that’s visible, and if you can’t incorporate more without ruining the look of your stories you can just add the rest by pinching them down so they almost become invisible. I’m going to make another video  &  article covering how to rank stories and best practices when it comes to Instagram stories, so stay tuned for that. Hashtags In Bio: Hashtags in BIO are used to build relevancy. I rarely use them because I haven’t seen much results from them and they can drive people off your page. On some pages, I use my brand hashtag in bio to encourage people to use my brand hashtags and even if someone clicks on it, they will go to my brand hashtag where most of the posts are mine so it doesn’t actually drive people off my page. I don’t recommend adding generic hashtags in your BIO since as I’ve mentioned it doesn’t have much effect and it can drive people off your page. Where To Place Hashtags (Comment or Caption) I was always adding hashtags in captions because it was just easier for me, and I thought there’s no difference in reach if you add them in the first comment, but recently we did some testing and it seems that hashtags in caption perform better than in the first comment. Instagram representatives also publically stated recently that it’s better to add hashtags in the caption. How To Increase Your Chances Of Getting Ranked For Hashtags Instagram is trying to fight spam really hard and it’s starting to affect hashtag performance as well. I’ve mentioned in my previous video that you should use from 25 to 30 hashtags since it gives you a better chance to get ranked and more exposure. However, on some accounts we’ve noticed that Instagram is limiting hashtag reach when we use 30 hashtags instead of 10 for example, but there’s a simple workaround which seems to boost hashtags performance. Try to include a few hashtags organically throughout your caption and then add the rest at the bottom of your captions like you usually do. I’ve started adding 4-6 hashtags organically in the caption and then the rest at the bottom and it improved my reach a lot on some pages. Another thing that seems to be working recently is to type all hashtags manually instead of copy/ pasting. We’ve seen huge improvements on some accounts when we typed everything manually instead of just copy-pasting. Some accounts are completely unaffected by this so you should test it out for yourself. I don’t think that Instagram is going to punish users for spamming with hashtags because everyone is doing it, but it seems that they are slowly starting to decrease the hashtag reach for some people that simply spam with hashtags and reward people that use them organically. And this is a great way to mix it up and get benefits from both approaches. On accounts that are affected by this (better performance when typing manually instead of copy-pasting) we’ve noticed that keyboard replacement trick is not affected so keep that in mind. Banned Hashtags There are some hashtags that are banned on Instagram and if you include some of them your post is not going to perform very well and if you are using them repeatedly you can get shadowbanned. The best way to find out if the hashtag that you want to use is banned is to actually go to the hashtag page and check it out. Page of banned hashtags looks like this and you should never use it. Make sure to check each of your hashtags manually to see if it’s banned because there are some really weird words that are actually banned (like for example #desk is currently restricted). You can check  my video  for more info on that. Common Mistakes When it comes to mistakes with hashtags the number one thing that I see people doing is using hashtags that are not relevant. I’ve already mentioned that you should only use relevant hashtags but I’m doing it again because it’s really important. Unrelevant hashtags can lower your trust score and lead to shadowban. Make sure that all of your hashtags are closely related to your post. Another thing that I see people do is that they use huge generic hashtags which they have ZERO ability to rank for. If you don’t know how to find smaller hashtags that you can actually rank for make sure to check the part one of this hashtag guide. I’ve seen people using hashtags like #follow4follow #likeforlike and so on, which is a really big mistake. These are spammy hashtags that attract fake engagement and followers who are not targeted and are not interested in your content which means they will never engage with your content. This will hurt your engagement rate in the long run and you should avoid hashtags like these completely. Finally, I’ve seen a lot of people that are shadowbanned because they use banned hashtags and they don’t even know about it. As I’ve mentioned make sure to check each hashtag manually to see if it’s banned and if you used some banned hashtags in the past make sure to edit and delete that hashtag from your previous posts. Bonus Tips I’ve mentioned that Instagram uses AI and image recognition to scan your posts and actually see what’s on them but sometimes machines make mistakes. Not a lot of people know this but you can actually use alt text to let Instagram know what’s on your pictures and videos. If you have time make sure to add keyword-rich alt text for your posts since it can really help you rank for hashtags much better especially if their AI made a mistake while scanning your image. Again, I’ve explained this much better in my video so if you want to find out more check it out. This is not exactly hashtag related, but I thought I should throw it in here, Use Location Tags it has potential to boost your reach, since IG is ranking posts on a location tag as well, and it can’t hurt you in any way so why not. This doesn’t make sense for all niches but it works really well for travel-related niches and local accounts. That &# x27;s it for now I hope you liked this and learned something new. If you have any questions feel free to leave a comment and I &# x27;m going to answer as soon as I can. I &# x27;m also going to start publishing a lot more ultimate guides and short tips + news about Instagram on  r/InstagramGrowthTips  so if you are into Instagram marketing and growing Instagram accounts consider following this sub. Thanks and sorry for any grammar mistakes, English is my 3rd language. Looking for the most ridiculous examples. This should be fun haha. My example; Client found out link building is  " bad " . So they decided to disavow ALL of their links... ALL. EVERY single one... against every bit of advice we gave.  It was soul destroying. . Can you guess what happened over the course of the next few months? :) Hey everyone, I want to help marketers and people building their brands through this subreddit. I &# x27;ve posted a few times and has received some great feedback and a lot of messages asking to sign up for an email list or anything where they can receive more content. Some popular posts of mine: Forget Digital Marketing, FB ads, SEO What I learned spending 100k on FB and Linkedin ads What marketing degrees dont teach you 5 things I learned in my first year runnin an agency After months of struggling, Im finally gettin clients Personally, Im not interested in building an email list (even though they &# x27;re proven to be very effective), I really want to give the content away here on Reddit because this place has helped me out so much and I just want to repay. But I wanted to ask, what type of content do people on here really want to see or learn more about? and FYI, I &# x27;m not going to be making content such as  " SEO tips for 2020 "  or  " 5 hacks for FB ads " . I want to really help people approach marketing in a different way and help them create better experiences and see more opportunities they can give to others. So basically what Im asking is, what type of content do you want to see and how would you like to view that content? Would you like long form written? audio? build a community together? According to the Brevet Group report, only 13% of customers trust salespeople. The more you have customer’s trust, the more your business will expand.  If you have effective sales strategies in place, 13% can be increased by manifolds. A good sales strategy will enable your sales team to understand the customers and take the right action that will act as an embrocation for their pain points. Before delving deeper into this topic, let’s understand first, “what is sales strategy?” A sales strategy is an approach to sell one’s product(s) and/or service(s) to bring in revenue and expand a business. It is an efficient plan on how to go about “sales”. While developing a sales strategy, the obvious goal would be growth in revenue generation. The sales strategy should be planned by keeping below these key elements in mind: Goal Relevant market/audience Buyer Persona Product offering Performance measurement Sales activities  While strategizing the action plan, the first thing you need to keep in mind is the “Goal”. Set it with the time frame such as the number of sales or the revenue you need to generate from sales for Q1, Q2, Q3, and Q4.  You need to do market research to find the target audience. By including this factor in your strategy will help you to get more sales. Knowing your buyer’s persona is the most significant element in the sales funnel. The basic information of the customers will provide you with ideas about your customers’ interests and needs. Followed by the customer profile, the product offering is another crucial phase of the sales strategy. However, customer profiles provide fair ideas if your product is suitable for them or not. The last two elements (performance measurement and sales activities) belong to the internal strategies that need to be implemented inside the sales team. Observe the performance of the sales team and find the points that will empower them to be active. Plan the sales activities according to their performance. Sales strategies might not and should not be the same for all organizations even if the products belong to the same niche. Different types of strategies work for different companies and it depends upon the nature of business. Here are the list of effective sales strategies: Start with specific niche markets Use lead scoring to prioritize your prospects Connect with the decision-makers Make Exciting your sales pitch Listen to your prospects Emphasize the risks and opportunities Develop the right mindset Go beyond business Reach out to SQL immediately Follow the PAS framework Target your Existing customers Make the prospect realize that it is a final offer Employ email automation Keep track of customers’ records Organize Healthy competition within the sales team Strengthen your Buyer’s persona Have a clear understanding of your clients Bring the USP to your customers with a free trial Align your sales and marketing team Run sales offer unexpectedly The sales strategy starts with targeting the audience. The efficient strategy is to target the specific audience initially such as the company that has small employee size, specific location and industry. This practice will open the door to pitch and implement your plan. Most of the marketers don’t want to target the small scale industry as they think it will limit the opportunity, but the fact is that you will be able to train your sales team according to the feedback you receive from your client. If you target big and renowned industries, it will not only be difficult to have feedback about your sales team but also, the conversion will be diminished. It is always better to target a specific niche market. While handling a huge volume of prospects, positioning the lead scoring into your sales strategy is most. It helps provide you the idea to whom you need to prioritize.   Lead Scoring is a system to rank your prospect and score him/her. As per the score, you can follow up and send reminders. For instance, you are connecting with a new prospect who is a decision-maker and you need to prioritize him to nurture. The score should be decided as per prospects’’ position, timeline (how soon s/he needs the product), type of solution, etc.. In the realm of B2B sales, a decision-maker occupies a vast arena. Therefore, targeting decision-makers should be a part of the B2B sales strategy. If you are connecting a manager who doesn’t have authority, it is kind of a waste of time for your sales team. Target the decision-makers to throw your baits. Another remarkable point in the B2B sales field is the way you approach. The approaching method to a customer (B2C) is completely different from the approaching method to a decision-maker (B2B). So, train your sales team with probable questions to be asked by the decision-makers with the tactful answer. Make a note of not limiting your sales strategy by connecting with a decision-maker and encountering his/her challenging questions. Building a relationship by understanding his/her pesky problems and providing possible solutions beyond your products and nurture him in a regular interval. Speaking with customers and building a relationship is an art. All sales reps may not have this art. In order to uplift their skills, train them on an effective sales pitch.  Categorize the types of customers (or clients) and prepare the script for each category. When it comes to pitching sales, bring your unique selling points without rattling off your existing customers and experiences. The first 90 seconds of your conversation is called the “elevator pitch”. Stress yourself to show the prospects that you understand their challenges and provide the solution for their pain point within the elevator pitch. Effective communication happens when both parties listen to each other and respond accordingly. Listening to your prospect will help you understand prospects’ interests and expectations. Most of the sales reps stress on particular points such as price, benefits of the products or services, the example of existing customers, etc. instead of understanding customer’s problems and providing the solution. This way of approaching the products/services throws the picture of compelling to the prospects for the products. Therefore, listening to your prospects is one of the most significant factors that should be included in the sales strategy. Highlighting risks and opportunities is one of the most effective ways to strengthen sales growth. While conversing with the prospect, bring the trending challenges and its probable risks, find possible solutions for their problems including your products and services. Also, don’t hesitate to let them know the risk of having your products or services. This will give them a picture that you are pretty much aware of the problems they are going to face and you have the solution for it. If they don’t think this way, they will not go for your product. It is better than withdrawing later. Most of the sales reps lose their patience by experiencing the rejections. The significant sales technique is to develop the mindset of your sales team not to consume the rejections. Once you plan sales call for the day, you need to set your mind that you are going to hear “no” multiple times. Instead of getting disappointed, train your mind to shift to the next lead. According to Tony Robbins, the business strategist, and philanthropist, a successful business has 80% determination (Psychology) and a 20% plan. Therefore, developing the right mindset is one of the most effective sales strategies. “Being helpful” concept always provides the trust relationship. While trying to sell the product, understand the lead’s problem and see if your product or service can help him/her. If not, be helpful, go beyond the business and suggest the proper solution. This may not provide you a sale at that moment but trust will be there.  It will help you to gain the leads’ referral or regain the same lead when s/he needs help from you.  Once you have all the information about a Qualified Sales Lead (SQL) if possible reach out to him/her immediately or within 24 hours. Most of the buyers do a plethora of research on the product they want. If you don’t reach out to the SQL early, s/he may encounter your competitors’ calls. One of the most effective strategies is to reach out to the SQL within 24 hours and give him/her a picture of your product or services that will be helpful for him/her. Your initial outreach email should be short and precise and ask permission to schedule a call within a day. As per Perry Marshall, author of  “80/20 Sales and Marketing ”, talking about the problem can deliver 3 to 10 times more responses than talking about products and services. When you highlight the problems and possible risks behind it, people will listen to you carefully.  The PAS framework associated with the three steps: P  – Problems A  – Agitation S  – Solutions According to this framework, stress on the problems your prospect is having and highlight the risks behind it. Finally, position your product or service as his/her best solution. Your sales strategy should include this concept to enable your sales growth.  Followed by the above information, I want to highlight that this is not to scare a lead by creating false problems and risks. Be genuine and make them realize regarding the problems, risks and bring them solutions. In order to hunt the new prospects, most of the companies ignore the existing customers. This is the biggest mistake they do. Targeting to your existing customers is one of the best sales strategies. Connect to your existing customers and get feedback from them. If there is anything pesky they are facing, sort it out. Build the trust relationship by providing post service.  This process will give you new prospects. Your customer may refer to his/her friends or relatives to your product. By nurturing your existing customers, you can seed the sales strategy. As per the psychology studies, we don’t take action until we realize that we are getting the things in the best offer. Therefore, creating urgency is an effective hack to convert your lead to the paying customers. There are a few points you need to mention to create urgency:  Limited offer  – Give them the picture of limited offer you are having which will get over soon. Price will increase soon  – After the month-end, this offer will end soon and the price will increase or any complimentary stuff will not be included. Give this kind of picture to the leads. Selected and prime customers –  Whatever you are offering to the leads, let them know that it is exclusively for him/her and a few customers are getting this offer. 24 hours discounts –  Provide them some discount and make it valid for 24 hours. Let me share my experience with the result of creating urgency. I attended a webinar last weekend on digital marketing and it was good. End of the webinar, the host provided a link to the attendees to enroll for the digital marketing course and the link was valid for 10 minutes with minimum price. More than 50 attendees enrolled for the course within 10 minutes. Creating urgency will provide you an amazing result.  Email automation is an essential part of sales and marketing. Employ the email automation to enable your sales team’s growth. It helps to expedite the activity of a salesperson by sending out the email automatically.  Outreach your customer through email automation tool but it should not look robotic. Humanize your automated email to personalize it. Then only your subscriber will reply. Also, your email should be sent out to the customers at a regular interval with new information or offers. Keeping track of every customer’s records is not an easy task. That is the reason 90% of customers think the salespeople contact them only for sales. If a salesperson uses the tracker and the information from the previous conversation, he can find the problems and the interest of the customer. This activity will give the impression that the salesperson prioritizes the customer and understand the problem. Develop the habit of keeping track of all customer’s previous records in your sales team and advise them to use it in the next conversation. Use any CRM to track and gain information regarding the customer you are dealing with. This will help you to judge his/her behavior in the sales funnel and act accordingly.  Equipping all facilities to your sales team doesn’t work sometimes. Empower them internally (motivate). Set up a lot of incentive plan to motivate them and conduct competition within the team to achieve the targets. Apart from the monetary aspect, set up the behavioral goals for your sales team to keep them motivated. This goal includes the number of events they have to attend per month and hosting the on one and ask for referrals. This activity encourages them to target the audience apart from outbound calls. These days, buyers are overwhelmed with the various options and entombed with emails and calls. In order to win the game, you need to understand the buyer’s problems and solutions. Design your buyer’s persona in such a way that will provide your sales team clear understanding on the below points: What are the challenges they are facing What are the probable solutions for it How soon they want to get out of the problems How do they prefer to communicate What information they need to make decisions Once you have a clear understanding of the above points, value them in each conversation. Personalize each problems and provide the solutions by positioning your product or services at the right time. Most of the sales reps do the mistakes of not understanding the customers. They apply the same techniques for all the customers that give the pictures of byhearting the scripts. While training your salespeople, train them to observe and understand customers they are talking with by asking a few key questions. Once they understand the customers, they can customize their responses and take actions accordingly. This is another effective strategy most of successful business apply. While providing a free trial to your customers, be wiser. Check how your competitors are offering free trials and make your trial different from them. It can be different when you provide free trials for a shorter period. When something is available for a short time, people will take action within the offer period. Also, make yourself different by showing up your USP (Unique Selling Point) and how that is helpful for your customer. Sales and Marketing teams always play the blame-shifting game. The sales team claims the marketing team is responsible for the loss of customers and vice versa.  When the information of a lead is handed over from the marketing team to the sales team, if something is missing, the sales team should query with the marketing team before contacting the lead. If not, misunderstandings will be created and it may result in losing a customer. Therefore, aligning your sales and marketing team is an important sales strategy. Align them by conducting frequent get-together or any team activities. Once in a month or two, take both teams for an outing to build a good rapport. When a company runs a sale on a particular occasion, it becomes a habit for the audience to wait till that particular moment to buy things. Don’t encourage such things. Too many promotions indoctrinate the audience to wait till the next offer. Offering discounts or any other special offer will grab your audience but making it unexpected will double the numbers of customers. Which one works for you? All the above-mentioned strategies are effective and proven. Pick any one strategy and try it for some time. Once you see the results, share it with us by commenting in the below box. More and more people are talking about Tik Tok as the next platform for marketing. Has anyone tried the platform yet ? Can you provide an insight as to how to approach the platform. Hello Marketers, Hope, you guys are doing great! So let me start this post by saying that I am interested in becoming a freelance marketing consultant, and that I live in a country in Asia. Here are several of my questions that I hope you guys are willing to enlighten: How did you find your first client? Which marketing services/skills have great demand in the market right now? How do you charge your service? Hourly? By the project? Can you walk me through your price setting process? What are your typical deliverables to your clients? What skills do  you personally  think is  100% must-have  to be a freelance marketing consultant? What channels do you mostly get your clients from? Do you run digital marketing? Lastly, if you don &# x27;t mind my asking, how much do you make per month? Any advice is greatly appreciated! Hello, I’ve been doing PPC and SEO for a while, as well as learned marketing fundamentals on its own via books, podcasts and certified courses. I’m also doing the AMA certification course next year. Right now I’m building my own portfolio, offering my services to local businesses. Main goal is to eventually work for myself, but it’s too early to escape the corporate life yet. Lately, my friend has been very discouraging. He’s said that no matter how good I am, I will NEVER work at a respected company in a high position if I don’t have a degree. This has put a lot of stress on me, as I’m really contemplating if I should go back to university. Has anyone had success without degree and going the “let me work speak for itself” route? I will appreciate all the replies! I work for a mid-size SaaS company with a basic content strategy. Over the last year, content has created 6 leads where digital advertising has created 500+ in the last year. The amount of effort to create content does not seem worth it? I have a bias against content marketing but I don &# x27;t want that effect my decision making (if possible). I feel that many marketers produce content because other marketers do the same but yet have always received middling results. They are a software that digitizes every aspect of the personal training business and retains it all in one app. Functions include, but are not limited to: Client management Scheduling workouts Exercise demo videos Tracking metrics for their clients (weights used, PR ' s, body fat percentage change, BMI, weight gain/loss, etc) Dietary plans In app invoicing Custom branded app/website for trainers/gyms. In app messaging Appointment scheduling Custom physical activity readiness questionnaires Business reports for trainers / gyms (finance tracking, etc..) Essentially it allows personal trainers/gyms to cut out a lot of admin work so that they can focus on growing their business or do other more valuable things. So like I said they are new and from my time spent in the first and second round of interviews and general market research I ' ve done, there is definitely a lot of work to be done. It sounds like they are very open minded and are looking for some fresh ideas. However, based on my limited experience in the industry, I ' m not sure what questions to ask as I don ' t really know what things are held as higher/lower priorities as different things pay off in different time-frames. They seem to want me to focus on Google Ads, keyword analysis, Social media ads, SEO etc. Which makes sense but as we know this is only a small part of what the term digital marketing means. Based on my brief analysis of it, they also have a lot of work that needs to be done in the field of brand awareness and offering more value to their customers then just the product. For example: their Instagram is lacking (which is an important variable in this market). They don ' t seem to have any social media content plans so all of their social media posts are ad-hoc! their blog needs work (SEO, content, linking to other sites, collabs, etc...). As of right now, they are just articles to read on a somewhat bland looking page. as far as I ' ve seen they don ' t have any real video advertising/content The copy on their landing page needs work The app takes a little getting used to since there ' s a bit going on and there ' s no onboarding videos Their custom exercise videos are a bit low quality And probably many other things I haven ' t seen yet. So my real question is, how do I go about suggesting these things/bringing ideas up without stepping on any feet (or the least amount of feet possible)? How should I prioritize these tasks? Thanks for your help! Hello Reddit! I ' m relatively new in online advertising and have only used IG influencers to promote my products, which proved to be successful so far. This, however, is not a scalable model (as far as I ' m aware), so I ' m beginning to lean towards FB marketing. I ' m not sure how to start though, as I have very little experience with Facebook ads. I have a Pixel installed with over 150 conversions, so I guess the next logical step would be to set up a conversion campaign. How should it look like? Is this even a correct path? Are there any legit gurus out there? Thanks:) Edit: sent from mobile, excuse the formatting! I have been tasked with promoting a Christmas Eve service, and I have already done Facebook, Instagram, Google, YouTube, and Bing. But the person I am in contact with told me to look into Nextdoor because someone told them to use it. First off, I have never used it so I am not familiar with the platform itself. Second, I don ' t see churches listed in the examples of  " local businesses "  on their page. Should I look further into it, or just say that it isn ' t worth their budget? 222k Members 2.5k Online Mar 23, 2008 Cake Day 