What’s the difference between mezcal and tequila? - The Globe and Mail The subject who is truly loyal to the Chief Magistrate will neither advise nor submit to arbitrary measures. Agave plants growing near the town of Santiago Matatlan in the southern Mexican state of Oaxaca, the primary home of mezcal production. Reuters This article was published more than 2 years ago. Some information in it may no longer be current. Find your bookmarks by selecting your profile name. The question What's the difference between mezcal and tequila? The answer Story continues below advertisement There are several differences, though the most conspicuous from a flavour perspective is mezcal's smokiness. Both spirits come from Mexico and are distilled from agave, a plant that looks like a giant pineapple. Whereas mezcal can be made from any of several dozen species, tequila relies on just one, the blue agave, accounting for some of the flavour peculiarities. That particular species happens to grow well in the soils around the city of Tequila in the western Mexican state of Jalisco, and that's the heart of tequila country. Production of mezcal, on the other hand, while widespread, is strongly associated with Oaxaca in the south. They tend to do things a bit more rustically down Oaxaca way, too. While tequila producers tend to bake or steam-cook the agave plant's core, or  piña , prior to fermenting the juice, for mezcal the agaves are roasted in the ground in fire pits fuelled with wood. That's where the smokiness comes from. But there are other flavour differences. Mezcal also tends to be earthier, while I find tequila to lean more toward the vegetal-herbaceous side of the spectrum. Generally speaking, mezcal production also is a smaller-scale affair, so the drink, which has become trendy in North America in recent years, enjoys more of the cachet associated with craft spirits or microbrewed beer. Mezcal finally also is shedding its reputation outside Mexico as little more than tequila's brutish backwoods half-brother, an image mainly fuelled by the worm. As a marketing ploy, producers in the past took to bottling their mezcal with a tiny souvenir, the larva of a moth known to feed off the agave plant. If you see one in a bottle today, rare though the sight has become, leave it on the store shelf; the local frat boys will need it at their next party. The best mezcals are vegan-friendly. E-mail your wine and spirits questions to Beppi Crosariol. Look for answers to select questions to appear in the Wine  &  Spirits newsletter and on The Globe and Mail website. Welcome to The Globe and Mail’s comment community. This is a space where subscribers can engage with each other and Globe staff. Non-subscribers can read and sort comments but will not be able to engage with them in any way.  Click here to subscribe . If you would like to write a letter to the editor, please forward it to  letters@globeandmail.com . Readers can also interact with The Globe on  Facebook  and  Twitter  . Welcome to The Globe and Mail’s comment community. This is a space where subscribers can engage with each other and Globe staff. Non-subscribers can read and sort comments but will not be able to engage with them in any way.  Click here to subscribe . If you would like to write a letter to the editor, please forward it to  letters@globeandmail.com . Readers can also interact with The Globe on  Facebook  and  Twitter  . Welcome to The Globe and Mail’s comment community. This is a space where subscribers can engage with each other and Globe staff. We aim to create a safe and valuable space for discussion and debate. That means: Comments that violate our community guidelines will be removed. Read our community guidelines here Discussion loading ... Read  most recent letters to the editor . Continue Reading  Copyright 2019 The Globe and Mail Inc. All rights reserved. 351 King Street East, Suite 1600, Toronto,  ON  Canada, M5A 0N1 Phillip Crawley, Publisher 