Douglas Harger Obituary - Yost - Gedon Funeral Home  &  Cremation Services LLC Douglas Richard Harger Visitation Memorial Service Facebook Twitter Email AddThis Douglas Richard Harger, 51, died on June 19, 2016 at the Geisinger Hospital Wilkes Barre. He was born in Clearfield Penna on June 27, 1964. Douglas attended local schools and graduated from Jersey Shore High School in 1982 and attended the Penn State University before entering the U.S. Army where he proudly served for 12years, he obtained the rank of Staff Sergeant and served for a year in Korea. When he returned to the states he became an Army recruiter and was based in Georgia and Florida. Douglas was the project manager for Department of Defense for eight years in Iraq where he was in charge of building the US Embassy and over saw many project for the First Iraqi and the First Kuwaiti Construction Companies. Douglas loved to travel and enjoyed going to and living in other countries. Most recently he and his partner David Matschke owned and operated D and D Clydes a farm where they raised Registered Clydedales and Newfoundland Dogs. Douglas was working at the time of his death as an advisor to Harger Utility Contracting Inc. of Lock Haven. Douglas was the son of Daniel ( Sherrie Burgin) Harger of Lock Haven and Donna Hoy ( Duane ) Batschelet Sr of Jersey Shore. He is survived by a sister ElizaBeth ( Steven) Moore of Antes Fort, a brother Duane ( Dusty) Batschelet of Lock Haven and brother David ( Kimberly) Harger of Avis. He had an extra brother, Rev Dr. Prakash Megi Gurung and family of Maryland He also leaves many cousins and many nieces and nephews as well as leaving his constant companion his dog Frank. Memorial Services for Douglas R. Harger will be held on Sunday June 26, 2016 at 2:00 pm in the Yost Gedon Funeral Home  &  Cremation Services LLC, 121 W. Main St. Lock Haven Pa., with full military honors to follow. Family and friends will be received in the funeral home one hour prior to the services. Interment will be in the North Bend Cemetery at the convenience of the family. In lieu of flowers, memorial will be accepted to the Clinton County SPCA or the Horse of Hope. Online thoughts and memories can be made at www.yost-gedonfuneralhome.com You have items in your basket.  Click here to review and/or checkout Send Flowers Order directly from our recommended local area florist via our website and save on wire service fees and delivery charges to our funeral home. Browse Selection Send Chocolates Express your condolences by sending a beautiful selection of chocolates, handcrafted in the USA.   Browse Selection Veteran Flag Cases We are proud to offer the finest heirloom-quality products to the families of our nation ' s veterans.   Browse Products Bereavement Products A collection of books and bereavement products carefully designed to assist with the grieving process.   Browse Products Click the button to generate a printable document containing all condolences submitted Condolence Booklet ELEGANCE AND SIMPLICITY STANDING SPRAY was sent by Pat . CONDOLENCES FROM THE STEINBERG FAMILY 