The Whole Refn Show Wrestling Podcast https://wholerefnshow.podbean.com/feed.xml Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Tumblr AddThis The weekly wrestling podcast that calls it right down the middle. Hosted by wrestling superfans Perry Smith  &  Daryn Beasley. It's WAR!! It's war on Wednesdays, #dearlisteners! And we don't mean your morning commutes... NXT and AEW are going head-to-head (HEAD-TO-HEAD) on hump day nowadays, and it's a real deal ratings war in the making. There will be casualties, winners and losers. But us? We are all winners. Our heroes Daryn and Perry, winners both, are here to discuss this new rivalry as well as SmackdownLive on FOX, Hell in a Cell 2019 and the upcoming "Crown Jewel" special on the WWE Network on Halloween! Trick or treat gets an all new flavor in the deserts of Saudi Arabia. What do our heroes think about Lio Rush getting paid in purple gold? Jericho's aged presence on the "hot" "new" product? Cain Velazquez's "dad bod?" Who is DOA (not the Disciples of Apocalypse)? Who doesn't channel enough magic  &  demons? And who drops in at the Accountability Crib? You may be surprised at how NOT outraged the boys are about the end of the Rollins/Fiend Hell in a Cell match... only one way to find out! Listen to the latest, greatest episode of the ONLY wrestling podcast that calls it right down the middle, The Whole Ref'n Show! Peace in the Middle East! Friends, wrestling fans, #dearlisteners, the drought is over! Our heroes are back! Daryn and Perry return with their much-ballyhooed podcast, the ONLY wrestling podcast that calls it right down the middle, and they’re here to save the day! Buckle up; after a month off, the boys are so potent your ears get pregnant! Pregnant with #wrestlenewsandwrestleviews!! The boys have so much to talk about, like AEW crowning an old champion as a new champion, the impending arrival of Dynamite, the impending Smackdown of FOXTV, the arrival of NXT on USA, SummerSlam, Clash of Champions and FEST Wrestling’s 3rd year anniversary! WOW! It was a busy month. Daryn and Perry will deliver like the couple of beautiful geniuses they are. Welcome them back with a download, a subscription, a 5-Star rating  &  a review. Back and better than ever! We love you! It's a special episode of The Whole Ref'n Show this week, as our FEST Wrestling: XMas in July 3 REVIEW features a very special guest, FEST Wrestling ring announcer, Charles Volkert! Yes, sweet, sweet Charles lends his silky-smooth vocals and plugged-in wrestlethoughts to Daryn and Perry's breakdown of the latest, greatest independent wrestling show around! We have wanted Charles on the show for a long time, so it was great to have him aboard to lend his insider thoughts from INSIDE the ring at FEST; from Jason Cade's outrageous action, to NOT seeing the FEST Tag Team Championships get ganked, to creating his own FEST-related formal attire, Charles brings some fun, cool, different stories to TWRS in addition to his contributions to the coverage of XMas in July 3 (and also there's the Mojo Rawley story, so you know Daryn's into it). Yes, our heroes Daryn and Perry take you down to Hogtown for every bit of the happenings in the wild world of FEST Wrestling. It may be the most in-depth review of a FEST show to-date! You DO NOT want to miss it. Every blue sky must have some gray clouds, however, and we are sad to have to cover the passing of wrestling legend among legends, Harley Race. But fear not, our mourning is a celebration, so listen in to all the career achievements of one of the most influential professional wrestlers to ever live! Of course there's the news ticker and SO MUCH MORE on this (and every) episode of the ONLY wrestling podcast that calls it right down the middle, The Whole Ref'n Show!!! So many wrestles, so little time! It is the wrestling card packed-ed-est episode of The Whole Ref'n Show yet, #dearlisteners! Our heroes Daryn and Perry review AEW Fight for the Fallen, Evolve 131 and WWE Extreme Rules. The boys also PREview FEST Wrestling: XMas in July 3! So, from the home of AEW, Jacksonville, Florida, to the ECW Arena, and a lot of points in between, it's a tour de Atlantic Coast in the wrestling world this week. How did the apparently entirely "elite" roster perform in that city on the river? Is Kenny Omega transitioning into an American performer well? What is the deal with The Dark Order? And why are there two "Librarians?" At the crossroads of Swanson and Ritner, how did wrestling evolve in a den of innovation? What did our boys think of the likes of Josh Briggs, AR Fox, Austin Theory and JD Drake? Listen here! There's also news this week: our heroes discuss the ups and downs of the RAW Reunion from Tampa, Florida. It was a weird show, right? And as for FEST!? Daryn and Perry bring the tea on the boys and girls of FEST Wrestling, prognosticating on EFFY vs. Jordynn Grace, Saieve al Sabah vs. Simon Grimm (for the FEST Wrestling World Championship), and SO much more! It's a TIGHT, THICK episode, all ooey-gooey with #wrestlenewsandwrestleviews, so DO NOT MISS!! It's your only shot. It's your best shot. It's the ONLY wrestling podcast that calls it right down the middle!  What a wrestleweek it is! AEW is filling up the Wi-Fi, running Fyter Fest and Fight For the Fallen just two weeks apart. Our heroes Daryn and Perry are going to look back at one and forward to the other. WWE has a busy week in the city of brotherly love, with the WWE Network airing Evolve Wrestling's 10th anniversary show live from the ECW Arena on Saturday night, and the Extreme Rules PPV, also in Philly, on Sunday evening! This means that WWE is pitting the (WWE-backed) Evolve show against All Elite Wrestling's third PPV outing... and people are pissed. Daryn and Perry discuss all this ballyhoo and brouhaha, along with discussing WWE's debut at the ESPY awards and the status of Heyman and Bischoff's impending ascensions. It's a week heavy on in-ring competition, and most of it is absolutely free (if you have the WWE Network, which, yes, technically is not free). So, download and hear the boys discuss the virtues of all this weekend's performers, the ins and outs of these companies' booking, lots of pop tunes from the last 70 years and so much, much more! You wanted the best, you got the best (but not the "Beth")... it's the ONLY wrestling podcast that calls it right down the middle! With enemies like these, who needs friends!? Vince McMahon looks to two erstwhile enemies to turn his company around. It was announced this week that WWE had named Paul Heyman and Eric Bischoff the respective Executive Directors of RAW and Smackdown, shoot creative positions designed to turn around a flagging product! You KNOW our heroes Daryn Beasley and Perry Smith have beaucoups to say about this matter! I mean, the boys are back in town! If AEW wanted a war, and Vince decides to unleash the lieutenants, then this could get real good real quickly! In other news, Paul Heyman comes up again as Tommy Dreamer tells an extremely disturbing story about his plans for Paul Heyman once upon a time. You DO NOT want to miss that discussion. The boys also discuss this weekend's AEW Fyter Fest and its co-creator, Kenny Omega's recent mean-tweets to WWE. It's the postmodern dilemma of all postmodern dilemmas... do we care about who is wrestling on the AEW card Saturday in Daytona or do we care about what Kenny Omega, the Executive Vice President of AEW, thinks about his corporate competition's shady international political and economic dealings? Why do we follow wrestling so closely as adults? One good reason we do relates to the old adage of "that's why they play the game." In this instance, it means that even though WWE Stomping Grounds had no chance to be a great wrestling card, it kind of was! Daryn and Perry went head-to-head last week making their picks for this card from Tacoma, Washington. Tune in to find out how they did! As ever, these #wrestleboys know their stuff and they are the ONLY wrestling podcast that calls it right down the middle! So, #dearlisteners, go nowhere else for your #wrestlenewsandwrestleviews. Look no further than The Whole Ref'n Show! News, news, everywhere news this week on the ONLY wrestling podcast that calls it right down the middle, The Whole Ref'n Show! Scarlett Bordeaux double-dips in the headlines, looking for a new wrestling home (and it probably won't be AAA). AEW tightens the reigns on the bucking bronco Jon Moxley, and Sami Callihan takes a step closer to combining global calamity with MOX. Shane McMahon (and only he) wants the WWE Championship for himself. Bret Hart and Corey Feldman are making a movie together (about 25 years too late). And there is truly A LOT more headlines this week. And you know that means our heroes Daryn and Perry are going to deliver the #wrestlenewsandwrestleviews. The boys also take the time to go head-to-head, making picks for WWE Stomping Grounds. As you know, #dearlisteners, the fun and laughter never stops on TWRS, and neither does the infotainment! So, wherever you're absorbing this week's episode, be one with the heroes. Be one with the headlines. Be one with the Schweppes... There is a distinct international flair to this episode of the ONLY wrestling podcast that calls it right down the middle, as our heroes Daryn and Perry discuss the mega wrestling events that took place in Saudi Arabia and Osaka, Japan! Of course we are talking about WWE Super Showdown and NJPW Dominion. The boys tackle these two super-shows, discussing the controversial Saudi visit for Vince and friends... and it doesn't end with the political decision-making. No, you will hear our take on Goldberg vs. The Undertaker and the underwhelming 50-man Battle Royal. But over in Osaka, with the likes of gaijin Jon Moxley, Will Ospreay and Chris Jericho and Japanese superstars like Kazuchika Okada, Jushin Thunder Liger, Hiroshi Tanahashi, Tetsuya Naito  &  the rest of Los Ingobernables, there was a spectacular wrestling show! Also in the news, "Swerve" Shane Strickland is given a new name down in NXT, TMZ jumps to a conclusion (gasp!) about the wrestling future of John Cena, and oh yeah, speaking of NXT  &  NJPW, Kenta sheds his Hideo Itami persona and returns to Japan at Dominion. Also, in honor of Pride month, father's day AND his birthday, "The Feminist Icon" Effy is spotlighted by Daryn and Perry on this episode. The boys take the opportunity to revisit their relationship with "The Golden Boy of Grabass," exploring the growth of his career before our very eyes and the major impact he has made on the independent wrestling scene, nationwide, and how it is growing every day. Listen in as the boys reminisce about the first time Effy was ever on The Whole Ref'n Show, and how even then there were signs of what was to come. Happy days to you, Effy! And to our #dearlisteners, this is another DO NOT MISS episode for the straight tea in #wrestlenewsandwrestleviews (also, it's the anniversary of the whole Lazenby thing... hahaha). Listen this! Choosey wrestling fans choose The Whole Ref'n Show for their #wrestlenewsandwrestleviews! And why? Because our heroes Daryn and Perry got moxie like Jon Moxley, who has been letting it all hang out since appearing in AEW. And he does NOT have the nicest things to say about WWE! Our heroes tackle that subject in the news, as well as yet another controversial WWE trek to the deserts of the Middle East for this week's SuperShowdown! Also in the news, TAFKA Marlena takes a gun to the Tampa airport like a dum-dum, and WWE takes its first step at another type of showdown, this one going head-to-head with AEW in August. Tune in to hear all about it. But that is far from all, #dearlisteners! The boys discuss both AEW Double or Nothing and NXT Takeover XXV, breaking down every match on both cards, in terms of wrestling, personnel, relevance and prestige; because that is where we are now. In the new wrestling war, every match matters. And you may be surprised which way the pendulum swings this time around. Turn on, tune in and drop out, kiddos, it's the ONLY wrestling podcast that calls it right down the middle! It's a look forward to Double or Nothing and a look back at Money in the Bank! Either way, the wrestling world is telling us that money is the root of all good! So give us some of your money, because we know you love your heroes, Daryn and Perry and the ONLY wrestling podcast that calls it right down the middle! So how about how awful the boys did on their head-to-head!? Yikes! Sad but true. It just goes to show you that even a knowledgeable podcast like TWRS can be confounded by the backward-ass booking of the WWE. Brock Lesnar wins a MITB match he's not in!? Sheesh. Well, in other news, we find out WHY Ruby Riott has not been in the rightful spot of contender on WWE television! We get some more unfortunate details surrounding the death of Ashley Massaro. And WWE news is rampant (even in a week where AEW is the squeakiest wheel), with their new atrocious looking 24-7 Belt, their mysterious new "3rd Hour of Doom" and plenty of scuttlebutt about Saudi Arabia! As always, the very best and most fair #wrestlenewsandwrestleviews emanate from THIS very podcast, #dearlisteners, so turn nowhere else except The Whole Ref'n Show! Play this podcast on Podbean App Social share Share episode link Code and preview More options Player color Code and preview More options Player color Or, just button color Code and preview More options Color Size Social share Share podcast link Code and preview More options Color Size 