Separation of transition metals on a poly-iminodiacetic acid grafted polymeric resin column with post-column reaction detection utilising a paired emitter–detector diode system - ScienceDirect ScienceDirect The selectivity, retention and separation of transition metals on a short (2 mm × 50 mm) column packed with a poly-iminodiacetic acid functionalised polymer 10 μm resin (Dionex ProPac IMAC-10 ® ) are presented. This stationary phase, typically used for the separation of proteins, is composed of long chain poly-iminodiacetic acid groups grafted to a hydrophilic layer surrounding a 10 μm polymeric bead. Through the use of a combination of a multi-step pH and picolinic acid gradient, the separation of magnesium, iron, cobalt, cadmium, zinc, lead and copper was possible, followed by post-column reaction with 4-(2-pyridylazo) resorcinol (PAR) and absorbance detection at 510 nm using a novel and inexpensive optical detector, comprised of two light emitting diodes with one acting as a light source and the other as a detector. Column efficiency for selective transition metals was in excess of  N  = 10,000, with the baseline separation of seven metal cations in  < 3 min possible under optimised conditions. Detection limits of between 5 and 81 μg/L were possible based upon a 50 μL injection volume. In the last decade high performance chelation ion chromatography (HPCIC) has received recognition as a useful analytical tool for the analysis of complex samples  [1] ,  [2] . The chelation or coordination ability of corresponding stationary phases has resulted in significant increases in the separation selectivities shown for alkaline earth, transition metals and lanthanides, over those exhibited for alkali metal cations, usually present at excessively large concentrations in complex samples. Iminodiacetic acid (IDA) functionalised chelating ion-exchangers have demonstrated both excellent selectivity and efficiency in HPCIC. The chromatographic performance of chelating ion-exchangers depends strongly on the type of functional groups, grafting chemistry to the surface and on structural properties of matrix. Polymeric substrates, such as porous poly(methacrylate)  [3] ,  [4] ,  [5] ,  [6] , poly(styrene-divinylbenzene)  [5]  as well as particulate and monolithic silica  [7] ,  [8]  functionalised with IDA groups have been successfully applied in HPCIC. However, some of these phases, for example, TSK-Gel Chelate 5 PW (Tosoh, Japan) or Iminodiacetic Acid Polyol Si-100 (Serva, Heidelberg, Germany), were originally designed for ligand-exchange chromatography (LEC) or immobilised metal chelation chromatography (IMAC). The main problem with most commercially available chelating substrates for applications in HPCIC is their low hydrolytic stability, especially in acidic eluents, which are usually used for the separation of metal cations. Their macro-porous structure is also more favourable for the separation of bulky molecules of peptides and proteins. Recently, Dionex Corporation introduced a novel high-resolution phase, ProPac IMAC-10, consisting of 10-μm, nonporous poly(styrene-divinylbenzene) beads (55% DVB) coated with a cross-linked poly(acrylate) hydrophilic layer with covalently bound poly-IDA groups. The metal ion capacity of the resin is about 80 μmol Cu(II) per 250 × 4 mm i.d. column or 40 μmol Cu(II)/g  [9] . The interesting feature of this particular type of chelating resin is its ability to reversibly form surface bound nano-particles (through multi-point interactions between the cation and the flexible long chain poly-IDA functionality), incorporating a variety of selected transition metals, which can be conveniently interchanged in order to alter its selectivity for peptides and proteins. Moreover, due to its polymeric nature, it is stable over a wider pH range of 2–12. The aim of this work was to evaluate this unique surface chemistry for the high-performance separation of metal ions and to investigate the effect on the poly-IDA structure on the efficiency of the chelation exchange process. All reagents were of analytical grade or higher. The chloride or nitrate salts of the transition metals manganese, iron, cobalt, cadmium, zinc, lead and copper were purchased from Sigma–Aldrich (Gillingham, UK). All analytes were prepared to a stock concentration of 1000 mg/L in 0.1% nitric acid. Working standards were prepared daily. The post-column reagent (PCR) used for detection of Al(III), was 0.264 mM Chrome azurol S (CAS), 50 mM 2-( N -morpholino) ethanesulfonic acid (MES) pH 6.0 (with NaOH) and 2% (w/v) Triton X100 (Sigma–Aldrich). For all other metals, the PCR used was 0.4 mM 4-(2-pyridylazo) resorcinol (PAR) in 0.5 M NH 3  adjusted to pH 10.5 (Sigma–Aldrich). For stationary phase preparation, EDTA, HEPES buffer and sodium chloride were used (Sigma–Aldrich). Eluents were prepared using nitric acid (70%), picolinic acid (99%) and potassium chloride (Sigma–Aldrich). Ultra pure water used for standards, mobile phases and PCRs was delivered by a Milli-Q water purification system with a specific resistance of 18.5 MΩ cm or greater (Millipore, Bedford, MA, USA). All separations were carried out using a Dionex DX500 chromatography system comprising of a GP50 gradient pump, an AD20 UV–vis absorbance detector and an LC25 chromatography oven (Dionex, Sunnyvale, CA, USA). A 50 mm × 2 mm i.d. Dionex ProPac IMAC-10 column was used as the analytical column. For the effect of temperature on Al(III) separations, a 150 mm × 4 mm i.d. Dionex ProPac IMAC-10 was used. PCR was delivered via a T-piece connection prior to detection modules with a Dionex IP20 pump set to 0.3 mL/min. Two mobile phase components were used consisting of 0.25 mM nitric acid and 10 mM KCl (A); and 15 mM nitric acid, 10 mM KCl and 0.4 mM picolinic acid (B). For isocratic separations, 100% A was used except for more heavily retained Pb(II) and Cu(II) where 100% B was used in separate runs. The optimised gradient consisted of a stepwise profile at  t  = 0 min from 100% A to 10% B for 1 min, then 10–15% B for 0.45 min and stepped to 100% B at 1.45 min for 2.55 min. Re-equilibration time was 3 min. The flow rate was set to 2.5 mL/min and injection volumes were 50 μL. All ProPac IMAC-10 stationary phase characterisation was carried out using the standard AD20 variable wavelength UV–vis detector set to 510 and 590 nm for metal-PAR and for metal-CAS, respectively. A subsequent comparison with the fabricated LED cell was then carried out using two antagonistically oriented Kingbright LEDs (Taipei, Taiwan) with wavelength maxima of 507 and 621 nm and were fused using a previously described procedure  [10] ,  [11] . The IMAC stationary phase was first washed with 50 mM EDTA and 0.5 M NaCl, pH 7 overnight at 0.3 mL/min to remove all possible metal contamination to allow separations using the free poly-IDA functionalities. The column was then rinsed with 20 mM HEPES, 0.5 M NaCl and 0.5 M imidazole at pH 7.5, again overnight at 0.3 mL/min. The column was then equilibrated with 15 mM nitric acid for a further 2–3 h. The overall effects of acid concentration, ionic strength, ligand type and column temperature in HPCIC have been documented for the separation of transition metals on standard IDA-based phases  [1] ,  [2] ,  [12] . However, the unique flexible structure of the surface grafted poly-IDA groups on this new resin meant it was important to re-evaluate these parameters to identify if such structural orientations had observable effects upon overall column selectivity and efficiency for transition metals. Initially, a solution of all analytes was injected under isocratic conditions using a simple eluent of 0.25 mM nitric acid at a flow rate of 1 mL/min. The observed retention order of Mn(II), Fe(II), Co(II), Zn(II) and Cd(II) ( Fig. 1 (a)) correlates well with known stability constants of corresponding IDA complexes, confirming the retention primarily through chelation. The only exception observed was the stronger retention of Cd(II), forming less stable surface complex (log β 1  5.71), than Zn(II) (log β 1  7.15). This is also different from the separation selectivity observed for other IDA-functionalised stationary phases. Both Pb(II) and Cu(II) were retained  > 3 h. Fig. 1 . Isocratic separations of transition metals on the IMAC-10 column with eluents of (a) 0.25 mM HNO 3 , (b) 0.25 mM HNO 3  + 7.5 mM KCl and (c) 0.55 mM HNO 3  + 7.5 mM KCl at a flow rate of 2.5 mL/min with spectrophotometric detection at 510 nm using PAR. Elution order: 1 = Mn 2+ , 2 = Fe 2+ , 3 = Co 2+ , 4 = Zn 2+  and 5 = Cd 2+ . Signals offset by 0.1 AU in (a) and (b) for clarity. Upon investigation of the effect of 0.25–15 mM nitric acid ( n  = 13), it was observed that retention times decreased rapidly with relatively small increments of nitric acid concentration ( Fig. 2 ). Linear plots of log  k –log  C  were obtained for all metals and dependences were parallel, showing that selectivity did not change with eluent concentration. Partial resolution was achieved for Mn(II) and Fe(II) for eluents containing ≤1.05 mM nitric acid. It was clear that the IMAC phase displayed optimum selectivity at 0.25 mM nitric acid in the eluent for the isocratic separation of Mn(II), Fe(II), Co(II), Cd(II) and Zn(II), although Pb(II) was strongly retained until concentrations of  > 3.5 mM nitric acid were employed. A 15 mM nitric acid eluent (∼pH 1.8) allowed relatively rapid elution of Pb(II), though Cu(II) was still heavily retained outside any practical working range. Retention of aluminium was also investigated over a range of nitric acid eluents from 0.9–3.0 mM at ambient temperatures (21 °C). Again, log  k –log  C  dependencies were linear and Al(III) eluted as a very broad peak after Cd(II). As was expected for a triply charged cation, the effect was more pronounced with Al(III) in comparison to other metals and is reflected in a slope of 2.99 (all others 1.64–1.91) showing an obvious selectivity change above a concentration of 2.4 mM nitric acid in the eluent. Fig. 2 . Retention factor of transition metals with respect to nitric acid eluent concentration in bilogarithmic scale. Column temperature 21 °C. Column efficiency depends strongly not only on the particle size, but also on the structure of particles. The absence of pores in the ProPac IMAC-10 should improve efficiency specifically relating to the mass-transfer ratio, but an outer polymer layer with flexible reactive chains may counter this effect, particularly where multi-point interactions are involved. As a result, it was of interest to investigate efficiency. Flow rates of 1 mL/min revealed backpressures  < 1000 p.s.i., allowing scope for investigation of increased flow rates for rapid separations. Using a 0.25 mM nitric acid eluent containing 10 mM KCl to reduce simple ion exchange interactions, a linear velocity of ∼0.8 cm/s (∼1.2 mL/min) was optimum for the least retained analyte Mn(II), with subsequent loss of efficiency at higher flow rates ( Fig. 3 ). The maximum column efficiency, as calculated from the peak of Cd(II) was approximately 10,000 theoretical plates/m. Clearly the efficiency exhibited by the grafted poly-IDA phase is less than that exhibited by phases modified with a mono-layer of surface-bonded IDA ( Table 1 ). This is likely to be attributed to the ability of the flexible poly-IDA chains to form metal complexes involving more than one IDA group, and the density of the surface IDA groups resulting from the grafted poly-IDA structure. Fig. 3 . Van Deemter curves for ProPac IMAC-10 column. Eluent: 0.25 mM nitric acid–10 mM potassium chloride. Column temperature set to ambient (measured as 21 °C). Table 1 . Comparison of column efficiency (theoretical plates per metre) of different IDA-functionalised columns Eluents :  a 0.25 mM HNO 3 –10 mM KCl;  b 10 mM nitric acid;  c 10 mM HNO 3 –0.2 M KCl;  d 15 mM HNO 3 ;  e 7.25 mM HNO 3 –10 mM KCl;  f 30 mM HNO 3 –0.5 M KCl. Apart from a relatively minor reduction with Fe(II), the more heavily retained transition metals showed no discernable loss in efficiency up to a linear velocity of 2 cm/s (3 mL/min). Backpressures at this flow rate were ∼2700 p.s.i. and hence a flow rate of 2.5 mL/min was chosen to improve the resolution slightly for Mn(II) and Fe(II) whilst preserving the working lifetime of the column. Use of this flow rate resulted in the isocratic elution of five transition metals in  < 15 min. Retention times for Pb(II) were  > 25 min and Cu(II) was completely retained. Increasing retention with increasing temperature generally indicates chelation as the dominant retention mechanism over concurrent ion exchange modes on IDA phases for transition metals  [13] ,  [14]  and this effect was observed here upon examination of van’t Hoff plots ( Fig. 4 ). The retention of Fe(II) was affected sufficiently more at the higher temperatures to allow resolution from Mn(II). These dependences are similar to earlier studies with an IDA–silica column  [13] ,  [15] . Using slopes (−Δ H / R ) of linear plots ln  k –(1/ T ) calculated by linear regression, it is possible to calculate heats of adsorption in accordance with the van’t Hoff equation: ln k = − Δ H R T + Δ S R + ln φ . ln k = − Δ H R T + Δ S R + ln φ . Calculated Δ H  values are −8.3, −10.3, −7.8, −2.5, −6.8 and −52.4 kJ/mol for Mn(II), Fe(II), Co(II), Cd(II), Zn(II) and Al(III), correspondingly. These values are several times higher than those reported by Bonn et al.  [15] , Tria et al.  [16]  and by Paull and Bashir  [13]  ( Table 2 ) and are comparable with standard enthalpy changes for the complexation of iminodiacetic acid  [9] . As mentioned above, these relatively high Δ H  values reflect the high flexibility of the poly-IDA chains in the bonded layer of the ProPac 10-IMAC resin. As a result of this flexibility, chelation ion-exchange kinetics of the system were affected, observable above through efficiency measurements. Fig. 4 . van’t Hoff plots for all metal ions. Eluent: 0.25 mM nitric acid–10 mM potassium chloride with a flow rate of 2.5 mL/min (for Al(III): 7.25 mM nitric acid–10 mM KCl, 1.5 mL/min). Table 2 . Heats of adsorption of transition metal cations on different IDA-functionalised substrates as calculated from ln  k – f (1/ T ) plots Eluents :  a 0.25 mM HNO 3 –10 mM KCl;  b 10 mM citric acid, pH 2.58;  c 10 mM HNO 3 –20 mM KCl;  d 30 mM HNO 3 –0.5 M KCl;  e 7.25 mM HNO 3 –10 mM KCl. Resolution of the Co(II)–Cd(II)–Zn(II) triplet was optimised for isocratic separations at a temperature of 40 °C, which also allowed sufficient separation of Fe(II) from Mn(II). Variations in column temperature caused dramatic changes in both Al(III) retention and column efficiency ( Fig. 5 ). It is well known that an increase in column temperature can improve the peak efficiency of Al(III)  [17] , but the dependence found here shows a maximum at ∼65 °C, to approximately 1200 plates/m (inset  Fig. 5 ) followed by a sharp decrease. It should be noted that the same maximum was recently observed for an IDA–silica based column  [16] . Similar effects were noted for Cd(II) with a broad maximum at ∼55 °C with increased peak fronting at higher temperatures. Efficiency for Fe(II) was higher at lower temperatures, but eluted close to the void and could be the reason for high  N . However, as temperature increased, Fe(II) peaks became increasingly tailed. It was also observed that at higher temperatures that the Zn(II)–Cd(II) peak pair could be well separated. Fig. 5 . The effect of temperature on efficiency of Fe(II), Co(II), Cd(II), Zn(II) and Al(III) peaks using the 150 mm × 4 mm ProPac IMAC column. Eluent: 7.25 mM nitric acid–10 mM KCl, flow rate 1.5 mL/min. Concentrations: Fe(II) = 0.75 mg/L; Co(II), Cd(II) and Zn(II) = 2.5 mg/L; Al(III) = 50 mg/L. Inset: separation of Fe(II), Co(II), Zn(II) and Al(III) at 65 °C (peaks 1–4, respectively). Post-column reagent for peaks 1–3 = PAR at 510 nm and peak 4 = CAS at 590 nm. The use of KCl in the eluent  [12] ,  [18]  allowed significant alteration of selectivity for Cd(II) through ready formation of dissolved chloro-complexes (log β 1  = 1.59  [9] ). A change of retention order with Zn(II) at a concentration of ∼3 mM was observed ( Fig. 6 ). The effect of ionic strength on retention of Pb(II) was not investigated. Retention for all species decreased overall with increasing KCl concentration, most likely through the emergence of chelation as the dominant retention mechanism. It was found that a 7.5 mM KCl + 0.25 mM nitric acid eluent allowed sufficient isocratic separation of 5 transition metals in  < 12 min at flow rate 2.5 mL/min ( Fig. 1 (b)). Increasing nitric acid concentration allowed the separation time to be reduced to  < 4 min without any significant loss in resolution ( Fig. 1 (c)). Fig. 6 . Effect of addition of KCl to the eluent on the retention factors of metal ions. Eluent: 0.25 mM HNO 3 . Excessive retention of Cu(II) relative to other species, even at low eluent pH, highlighted the applicability of dynamic elution based on chelation using a ligand with higher formation and stability constants than IDA. Picolinic acid has been extensively used to form dissolved metal complexes with particular selectivity for Cu(II) and to a lesser extent Co(II)  [2] ,  [19] . The addition of 0.4 mM picolinic acid to the eluent containing 15 mM nitric acid and 10 mM KCl reduced retention time from 14.5 to 0.7 min. Due to possible buffering capacity of picolinic acid (p K a1  = 0.95 and p K a2  = 5.21  [9] ), the acidity of the modified eluent decreased and may have explained why the elution of Cu(II) with picolinic acid was not possible in a convenient timeframe with lower concentrations of nitric acid. It was clear that an eluent gradient was required to separate all seven metals in a convenient timeframe. A multi-step profile gradient of 0.25–15 mM nitric acid, 0–0.4 mM picolinic acid and a constant 10 mM KCl concentration (optimised for gradient separations only) allowed elution of all species in  < 3 min. Observed peaks for Cu(II)–picolinic acid were relatively broad in comparison to other peaks. A distortion in the peak shape of Mn(II) was observed especially at higher sample concentrations and was possibly due to overloading combined with close elution to the void. Elevation of temperature showed that Mn(II)–Fe(II) resolution improved as expected from 1.0 to 1.4. The Co(II)–Cd(II) peak pair showed only a slight reduction in resolution from 1.4 to 1.3 from 30 to 45 °C. An operating temperature of 38 °C was finally selected. The optimised separation of all species using the standard IC detector is shown in  Fig. 7 (a). Fig. 7 . Comparison of signals obtained from (a) a standard modular photometric detector (relative to absorbance scale) and (b) the fabricated PEDD cell (relative to normalized discharge time scale) for the optimised separation of 0.15 mg/L Mn 2+ , 0.6 mg/L Fe 2+ , Co 2+ , Cd 2+ , Zn 2+ , 6 mg/L Pb 2+  and 1.2 mg/L Cu 2+  with both scales normalized to the Mn 2+  peak. Eluent A: 10 mM KCl–0.25 mM HNO 3 ; Eluent B: 10 mM KCl–15 mM HNO 3 –0.4 mM picolinic acid. Gradient conditions: 0–10% B for 60 s; 10–12% B for 27 s; 100% B at 87 s and hold for 153 s. Re-equilibration time: 2.5 min. PCR: 0.4 mM PAR, 0.5 M NH 3 , pH 10.5. The use of paired emitter–detector diodes (PEDDs) for performing analytical colorimetric measurements has been developed in recent years and shown to be surprisingly sensitive, with excellent signal-to-noise characteristics, despite the simplicity of the concept  [20] . It involves measuring the time taken for the photocurrent generated in a reverse-biased LED to discharge an initial capacitive voltage (typically +5 V; μs to ms domain), which in turn depends on the absorbance of light by the medium between the diode emitter and the diode detector  [21] . Therefore, the detector LED does not measure the photocurrent generated directly to classify the signal as absorbance, but is analogous to it. The sensitivity and noise rejection characteristics arise from matching the emission waveband of the emitter to the absorbance of the analyte, and on the integration of the signal over a fixed time interval during the measurement cycle  [22] . Previous work in our laboratory has shown application of such a detector in high performance separations  [10] ,  [11] . By using the 507 nm LED in forward bias and a 621 nm LED in reversed bias, it was possible to detect any metal-PAR species passing through the 5.0 mm × 1.3 mm i.d. flow cell. The measured bandwidth at half height of the emitter LED was ∼30 nm. An overlay of this emission spectrum with both the absorption spectra of the uncomplexed PAR reagent solution and a mixture of PAR and Mn(II)–PAR is shown in  Fig. 8 (b). Adequate separation of  λ max  values for the Mn(II)–PAR complex and free PAR reagent, together with the close proximities of  λ max  for both the LED emission and the Mn(II)–PAR spectra at ∼500 nm ( Fig. 8 (a)) meant that good sensitivity could be expected, with little absorbance background from the reagent. Signal strength, including noise, could be controlled via a variable resistor on the input pin of the emitter LED and was optimised at 1.6 KΩ. Unlike with previous work, the unsmoothed raw signal for a maximum unit sampling frequency of 43 Hz was analysed for its suitability to rapid separations. Injection of a single standard of 2 mg/L Fe(II) using the starting mobile phase allowed the ∼10 s wide peak to be viewed in detail ( Fig. 8 (b)). This showed that noise deviation was too significant to be used in its raw state, but deviated by exactly 32 ms in most cases, which obviously resulted from a defined source and most likely from environmental pickup within the circuitry. Using a relatively simple nine-point moving average algorithm, this noise could be eliminated almost entirely with minimal peak distortion and maximised signal-to-noise ratios. Fig. 8 . (a) Normalized absorption of PAR reagent and Mn(II)–PAR complex (conc. Mn 2+ : 2 mg/L) as well as emission maximum and bandwidth (30 nm) of 507 nm emitter LED and (b) raw data obtained from PEDD cell (grey) and fitted nine-point smoothing algorithm for optimal noise reduction. The performance of the cell for rapid separations was investigated relative to a standard modular detector used for the optimisation of separation conditions ( Table 3 ). The PEDD showed excellent linearity for all species (using peak height) with correlation coefficients of  R 2  ≥ 0.99 in all cases. Comparison of chromatograms obtained using both detectors ( Fig. 7 (a) and (b)) showed that the PEDD was subject to slight band broadening with loss of resolution of Co(II)–Cd(II)–Zn(II) and was possibly due to the dead volume of connector tubing and also from its configuration after the AD20 detector in series. Sensitivity to metal-PAR species also varied. The PEDD was somewhat less sensitive to Pb(II)–PAR, but slightly more sensitive to Fe(II)–PAR. However overall, both detection modes performed similarly at the mid-low μg/L level without the need for any sample preconcentration. Table 3 . Comparison of performance data for PEDD and a standard photometric detector Concentration ranges : Mn 2+ : 0.0125–0.5 mg/L; Fe 2+ , Co 2+ , Cd 2+ , Zn 2+ : 0.05–2.0 mg/L; Pb 2+ : 0.5–20 mg/L; Cu 2+ : 0.1–4.0 mg/L; all for  n   =  9 data points. Based on a signal to noise ratio of 3:1 measured from six replicate blank injections of ultra pure water followed by the lowest concentration of the linearity range for  n  = 3 replicates. It was found that ProPac IMAC-10 stationary phase revealed similar chelating properties to that of other IDA-functionalised substrates for application in HPCIC. The main feature of this phase was the possibility to obtain fast separations of five metal ions under isocratic conditions and seven in under 3 min with gradient elution. A new simple and low cost PEDD system was compared with a standard photometric detector for the detection of separated metal ions in the form of PAR-complexes after post-column reaction. No significant loss in sensitivity of detection was observed. The obtained results demonstrated a clear possibility for miniaturisation and simplification of high-performance chelation ion chromatographic systems. Elsevier We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content and ads. By continuing you agree to the  use of cookies . Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. or its licensors or contributors. ScienceDirect ® is a registered trademark of Elsevier B.V. 