Penny Hardaway on the time Michael Jordan wore Air Flight Ones over his own Concord 11s The Undefeated It’s the only time that Jordan wore another player’s shoe in an NBA game Michael Jordan had a nickname for Anfernee Hardaway — and it wasn’t Penny. “He called me ‘Kid,’ ” said Hardaway, at 47  the head coach of the University of Memphis  men’s basketball team. It’s been 25 years since Hardaway decided to forgo his senior year at the school — where he’d emerged as a consensus first-team All-American, averaging 22.8 points, 8.5 rebounds, 6.4 assists and 2.4 steals a game as a junior — to declare for the 1993 NBA draft. The 6-foot-7, silky smooth point guard had game like Magic Johnson’s, but with far more athleticism. He was taken at No. 3 overall by the Golden State Warriors, a pick that was traded to the Orlando Magic on draft night in a blockbuster deal for the top overall selection,  Chris Webber . Alongside a young and dominant big man in  Shaquille O’Neal , Hardaway became the floor general of the future in Orlando. But during the 1993-94 season, his first year in the NBA, he never got a chance to lace  em up against the greatest hooper on the planet. That’s because on Oct. 6, 1993, a month before Hardaway’s rookie debut,  Jordan announced his (first) retirement  from the game of basketball to mourn the tragic murder of his father, James Jordan, and pursue  a major league baseball career . As Jordan grinded in the minors with a bat and cleats, the 22-year-old Hardaway caught his attention on the hardwood. Michael Jordan wearing Penny Hardaway’s Nike Air Flight Ones during Game 3 of the 1995 Eastern Conference semifinals. The game marked the first and only time in Jordan’s career that he wore another player’s shoe. Photo by Nathaniel S. Butler/NBAE via Getty Images It all began during Hardaway’s rookie season, when all you had to do was look at his feet to know that he had the ultimate co-sign from His Airness. Hardaway, who was signed to Nike, asked if the brand would make him custom pairs of Air Jordan 9s. Jordan obliged, which made the Magic point guard  one of the first players in the NBA  (outside of Jordan himself) to wear player-exclusive (PE) Air Jordans. Remember — it wasn’t until 1997 that Nike officially launched the Jordan Brand, and Jordan hand-picked  the first five players  to endorse his products. Hardaway received pairs of  Jordan 9 PEs , in black and white, accented with Magic blue and his No. 1 stitched on the heel of each shoe. “I really liked the shoe,” Hardaway said from his team s practice facility in Memphis, Tennessee, where he still has one of the original pairs of PEs in the attic of his house. “I liked the look. So I’d asked if I could start getting those with my number. It was pretty cool, actually.” Come Hardaway’s second year in the league, he was the face of the  Nike Air Flight One , as the brand crafted his first signature shoe, the  Air Max Penny 1 , which wouldn’t debut until late 1995. In March of that year, Jordan returned to the NBA after a 17-month retirement to once again play for the Chicago Bulls. Yet by then, there had been two big changes in the culture of the league. First, Jordan had switched from No. 23 to No. 45, which he wore while playing in the minors. And the Bulls were no longer the beast in the East. The Magic, led by the player Jordan knew was next up, emerged as the conference’s top seed heading into the 1995 playoffs. The fifth-seeded Bulls advanced to face the Magic during the Eastern Conference semifinals that postseason. And Game 1 on May 7, 1995, yielded one of the most iconic sneaker debuts: Jordan broke out the  “Concord” Air Jordan 11s  — the first shoe in basketball history to incorporate patent leather. The Concords would ultimately become the culture’s grail after they first dropped at retail in November 1995. But Hardaway got his hands on them early. “I remember asking for a pair right before that series started,” Hardaway said of the Concords, which the Jordan Brand rereleases Saturday — with the No. 45 on the heels for the first time. “I got some and wore them to games throughout the whole series. … I was in awe of how great the shoe looked. The patent leather on there was unreal. It was futuristic, you know? That shoe was phenomenal.” During his 1993-94 rookie season, Penny Hardaway wore player exclusive editions of the Air Jordan 9 — including in this game between the Orlando Magic and Washington Bullets on Jan. 29, 1994. Photo by Focus on Sport/Getty Images Hardaway recalls wearing his Concords (which had No. 23 on the heels, not No. 45 like Jordan’s pair) in practice during the series, but he said he never considered rocking them in a game. “It wouldn’t have felt right,” he said. Perhaps that’s because there was some drama surrounding the shoe. After debuting them in Chicago’s 94-91 loss to Orlando in Game 1, Jordan wore the Concords again in Game 2. But this time with his No. 23 jersey, to which he’d returned, likely in response to the shade heard  round the basketball world — “No. 45 is not No. 23.” — delivered by Orlando’s Nick Anderson in the locker room after the series opener. “You kind of thought that was gonna happen. We whispered things like, ‘At some point during the playoffs, he’s gonna come out in 23’ — and he did,” Hardaway said. “Nick and I have never talked about his comments. But M.J. doesn’t miss anything. He’ll use anything as motivation. … It was about …  This is who I am. I’m not No. 45. That was baseball. Now I’m back to being who I am: No. 23.  And he had a monster game in Game 2.”  Jordan dropped 38 points , with 7 rebounds, 3 assists, 4 steals and 4 blocks, propelling Chicago to even the series at 1-1. After two games in the Concords, Jordan was slapped with a $5,000 fine by the NBA for wearing the primarily white shoes, which violated the league’s uniform guidelines by not conforming to his team’s jerseys or footwear. So before Game 3, Jordan had a decision to make. With a primarily black version of the Air Jordan 11 not yet available to him, which sneakers would he wear? Jordan could’ve returned to the Air Jordan 10 or any of his other iconic silhouettes. But instead, Jordan paid homage to the kid — taking the court for Game 3 at Chicago’s United Center in a pair of Hardaway’s Nike Air Flight Ones. Darius Leonard on love, loss and second chances Read now Why Major League Baseball s rule changes on marijuana matter Read now The NFL and Colin Kaepernick are done with each other Read now “It was very weird,” Hardaway said. The story of Jordan and the Air Flight Ones has often been chronicled — but the tales contrast. Some say he  borrowed a pair  of Hardaway’s personal shoes. Others detail  an agreement between Jordan and Hardaway  for the greatest of all time to wear the youngster’s kicks. The question is, how did Jordan  actually  get a pair of the Air Flight Ones — especially on such short notice? “He’s Michael Jordan. He was the man. He didn’t ask me for them. He just told Nike to give them to him,” Hardaway said. “He said, ‘Hey, man, give me some of the kid’s shoes.’ I thought, Of course … how many pairs do you need? Do you need mine? It was like,  That’s Michael Jordan   wearing MY shoes.  ” Jordan apparently wore them on one condition — without Hardaway’s “1 Cent” on the heel tab of each shoe, which he allegedly cut off before playing. Yet to this day, Hardaway can’t confirm that part of the story. “I didn’t notice he cut the 1 Cent tab off,” he said. “I haven’t noticed it’s gone in the older pictures. I just notice the shoe … but maybe he did.” With Hardaway’s shoes on his feet, Jordan dazzled in Game 3 with a  series-high 40 points . And on that night, he made sneaker history in another player’s shoes — which would never happen again in Jordan’s career. It’s a moment Hardaway says he’ll always cherish. “We all know that Michael Jordan is one of the fiercest competitors ever. He’s not gonna wear just anybody’s shoe … he wouldn’t do that for a lot of people,” Hardaway said. “For him to do that for me, it was the ultimate level of respect.” Aaron Dodson is an associate editor at The Undefeated. Often mistaken for Aaron Dobson, formerly of the New England Patriots and Arizona Cardinals, he was one letter away from being an NFL wide receiver. Her new film is a meditation on black love and what it means to matter in the world Lena Waithe writes what she knows. We see a nugget of her life — only a nugget, mind you, although an important one — in the new film,  Queen  &  Slim , which opens Wednesday. It’s probably better to call it a relatable quality that really gets to the crux of this unlikely romantic caper about two strangers on a first date gone horrific. Queen (Jodie Turner-Smith) and Slim (Daniel Kaluuya) meet on a dating app. They have a lackluster first dinner. They get stopped by a cop and things escalate quickly. One of them accidentally kills the cop in self-defense. They go on the run. The police camera footage is released. They become martyrs. The idea was initially presented to her by writer James Frey, author of  A Million Little Pieces . Frey cornered Waithe at a  Hollywood Reporter  party where her then-fiancee (now wife), Alana Mayo, a production executive, was being celebrated. “I have an idea for a movie that I can’t write,” she said he told her. Waithe, a scriptwriter/actress/producer who created Showtime’s  The Chi , listened. And her ears perked up. “I was like, ‘Wow, OK, great. You can’t write that,’ ” she told him after hearing the idea of two black people killing a cop in self-defense and going on the lam. “ ‘But I think I can.’ “He had an outline and a title and I was like, ‘I hope you don’t mind, but I want to do away with the outline. I want to do away with the title, and I just want to take that feed and, like, run with it.’ And I was like, ‘Look, I’m a fair person. I would share storyline credit with you, but I want to just write the thing and do my thing with it.’ He was like, ‘Fair enough, have at it.’ ” Waithe said she wanted it to be an odyssey about blackness, a meditation on black love and what it means to matter in the world. She wanted a reverse Underground Railroad story, to follow her characters from the North to the South as they tried to keep safe while being hunted. “Do you have to bend the world to matter or can you just exist in it?” she said she asked herself. “And it was also just about what we celebrate when it comes to blackness: our lives versus our deaths. Martin Luther King and Malcolm X are my North Stars. She would be more like Malcolm X. He would be more like MLK. And by the end of it, that they would have swapped places.” And that’s where she found her own connection. “The things that I was ruminating on — because I am a public person — I think that whole thing of just becoming something that they didn’t realize. People projecting something onto them for them just being themselves was the thing that I really related to,” she said. “I became this cultural figure just by being gay and black and proud of it.” Writers Aziz Ansari (left) and Lena Waithe (right) accept the outstanding writing for a comedy series award for  Master of None  during the 69th Annual Primetime Emmy Awards at Microsoft Theater on Sept. 17, 2017, in Los Angeles. Photo by Lester Cohen/WireImage In 2017, Waithe became the  first black woman to win an Emmy  for comedic writing for the “ Thanksgiving ” episode on Netflix’s  Master of None . The story chronicled her own coming-out story, and she was encouraged to write it by series creators Alan Yang and Aziz Ansari. The episode was directed by Melina Matsoukas, who has earned Grammy and MTV Music Video awards for music videos she’s directed for artists such as Beyoncé and Rihanna. “She entrusted me with her very personal story. It was a story of a black lesbian coming out on television. And it was a historic moment. I knew we hadn’t seen that before and I knew I had to be a part of it. She entrusted me with that and we really grew to formulate a really trusting relationship,” Matsoukas says now. While they were working on that episode, Waithe mentioned that she was working on  Queen  &  Slim  and asked whether Matsoukas would be interested in directing her first feature film. Matsoukas kindly told her she wouldn’t commit to a thing until Waithe was done with the script. “I only want to be moved by the words, and I never want my relationships to dictate the work that I commit myself to,” Matsoukas said. It was worth the wait. “It was so provocative, it was really political. It had something to say. And it was this beautiful love story at the same time. It was just also a great piece of cinema and really entertaining,” said Matsoukas. Matsoukas found the story to be gripping. And unlike anything she’d seen before — a love story with two black leads set against a contemporary backdrop of racial strife and political unrest. “I hadn’t seen two dark-skinned people fall in love on screen, or be represented in this way, in such layers and nuances. I haven’t seen a genre-bending love story where black people are in it,” she said. “Like we don’t really live in one space. When people are like, ‘Oh, what kind of film is this?’ It’s hard for me to answer that. Because we aren’t one genre. It starts out as a rom-com and it immediately quickly moves into a horror story. And then it becomes this beautiful dramatic love story that has a lot of comedy in it as well. And I feel like it’s a true reflection of how we experience life and all the different spaces that we have to live in.” That’s exactly why  Daniel Kaluuya  wanted to be part of it. Waithe jokes that the Oscar-nominated actor ( Get Out ) cast himself in the film after having read her script. “You just rarely see people handling really serious issues in such a joyous, loving, caring, humorous way. It was simple. It’s one of those ideas, because why didn’t anyone else think of it?” he said. Kaluuya first met Waithe at a screening of  Get Out , which was released in 2017, the same year Waithe collected her Emmy. He’d recently read the pilot for  The Chi  and marveled at how talented she was. “I prayed that she was the same person writing that was in  Master of None ,” he said. “When I saw her, I came up to her. I was just like, ‘Listen, I think you’re really talented,’ and then she was like, ‘Wicked, wicked, wicked.’ Then, she brought this idea based on Bonnie and Clyde. I said, ‘Wow. That voice on a Bonnie and Clyde narrative? I would want to read that.’ ” It’s the way that she tells the story of black folks that he finds so captivating. “When I read that episode of  The Chi , I just knew that’s not common. It’s not common to have that tone in that environment where everyone would make it really heavy-handed and really depressing. She has a tone that’s light, humorous, and joyous, amongst that, because she actually enjoys the people that she’s writing about,” Kaluuya said. From left to right: Lena Waithe, Janelle Monae and Melina Matsoukas attend the  Queen  &  Slim  premiere at AFI Fest 2019 at the TCL Chinese Theatre on Nov. 14 in Hollywood. Photo by Michael Kovac/Getty Images for AFI In  Queen  &  Slim , Waithe introduces us to two civilians who choose to survive despite impossible odds. The whole country is looking for two black cop killers who may or may not be hiding in plain sight? Well, that’s a thing. “I just couldn’t believe it hadn’t been done before. You know, that we would be the first who were to show black people killing cops,” Waithe said. “But also, I couldn’t have imagined that, from when I wrote the script a couple of years ago, that the situation would become worse. I keep saying, when I hear about black people being killed in their homes by police officers — in the comfort of their homes — this is publicity I do not want for this movie. It’s so scary how much more relevant the script has become. And my mission is to humanize black people as much as possible because there’s nothing I love more than us. I love black people unconditionally. And I want us to live long and victorious lives. “I think everything I sit down to write is sort of that. Even if it’s something light, like  Thanksgiving . It was me healing a wound a little bit with that episode. And I think people kind of could feel it a little bit,” she said. “I’m laying myself very raw and bare. And so the reception to me is not just about, ‘Oh, critical acclaim,’ but it’s more about, ‘Oh, you’re seeing me, but in looking at me and my stuff, you’re seeing yourself.’ ” This isn’t just entertainment for her. It’s so much more. “When you get held up and someone has a gun to your head, the advice people give is for you to tell them something personal about yourself. So that way they, then, are less likely to kill you. So I want to make black people as personal as I possibly can, so that way they stop killing us,” she said. Kelley L. Carter is a senior entertainment writer at The Undefeated. She can act out every episode of the U.S version of  " The Office, "  she can and will sing the Michigan State University fight song on command and she is very much immune to Hollywood hotness. The real Hooded Justice is finally revealed, and his origin story is a doozy “The past is never dead. It’s not even past.” — William Faulkner, Requiem For a Nun This Extraordinary Being , the sixth episode of  Watchmen , tells the origin story of Hooded Justice, one of the Minutemen, the masked vigilantes who precede the Watchmen. In doing so, it offers both a critique and celebration of American cinema, effortlessly weaving tribute with condemnation that reaches all the way back to 1915, the year  The Birth of a Nation  was released. The Birth of a Nation,  of course, was director D.W. Griffith’s notoriously racist film that both revolutionized the art of filmmaking with its technical innovation and served as a piece of propaganda so powerful that it  resurrected a dormant Ku Klux Klan  and provided the aesthetic blueprint for its real-life costuming, and justification for the group’s racial terrorism. When Griffith died in 1948, a devoted friend was so stricken that she collapsed in grief at his memorial service. So close were the two that her children referred to Griffith as “Papa.” The friend was Madame Sul-Te-Wan, a black actress whose friendship with Griffith began when he hired her as a maid for the white actresses at Fine Arts Studios, which is where he shot most of  The Birth of a Nation . Angela Abar (Regina King) sees the world of her grandfather, Will Reeves, with Nostalgia, the drug that allows those who take it to re-experience the past. Mark Hill/HBO It’s a strange, wholly American relationship, this festival of mutual admiration that took place between Sul-Te-Wan, who was an aspiring actress when they met, and Griffith, whose limited view of black people continues to reverberate through media, including, if you ask  Watchmen  graphic novel writer Alan Moore, comic books and their screen adaptations. This week, Moore’s thoughts on the matter, which he shared in a 2017 interview with Brazilian writer Raphael Sassaki for  Folha de São Paulo , resurfaced, thanks to a  blog that published  an English translation of it. “Save for a smattering of non-white characters (and non-white creators) these books and these iconic characters are still very much white supremacist dreams of the master race,” Moore told Sassaki. “I think that a good argument can be made for D.W. Griffith’s  Birth of a Nation  as the first American superhero movie, and the point of origin for all those capes and masks.” Sister Night (Regina King) begins to feel the effects of her grandfather’s Nostalgia pills, which allow her to subconsciously travel through his memories. Mark Hill/HBO Co-written by Cord Jefferson and showrunner Damon Lindelof, and directed by  Lost  alum Stephen Williams, episode six provides a story that makes sense of Moore’s words, all while expanding on the show’s themes of generational trauma, and the way that race complicates the ideas about power and vigilantism that Moore was exploring in the original  Watchmen  comic series. It picks up with detective Angela Abar (Regina King) locked in a jail cell at the Tulsa, Oklahoma, police department. The department’s interim chief, FBI special agent Laurie Blake (Jean Smart), has taken her into custody. But before anyone can subdue her, Angela swallows all of her grandfather’s Nostalgia pills. Nostalgia pills allow those who take them to revisit old memories that have been harvested. Once Angela takes them, she’s transported back to 1938 as her grandfather, Will Reeves (Louis Gossett Jr.), is being inducted into the New York Police Department. Could there  be  a more ironic name for a drug that lets black people relive the past? Captain Metropolis (left) introduces Hooded Justice (right) as the newest member of the Minutemen, the vigilante crime-fighting unit that preceded the Watchmen. Mark Hill/HBO Once it fully enters the realm of black and white, the episode becomes a gorgeously surreal exploration of the trauma we inherit without fully knowing it. Perhaps nothing, except reliving it, will get Angela to realize that her running from the past (“let Saigons be Saigons!”) is a retread of the instinct that once doomed her grandfather to a life filled with rage. As Angela settles into her temporary existence as Will, she sees what he sees and feels what he feels: his anger, his fear, his frustration with his fellow officers who are white, and then with the white Minutemen who refuse to fight for his cause the way he fights for theirs, even as they see themselves as heroes and protectors of the innocent. Though Williams includes shots of Angela in Will’s NYPD uniform, the young officer is chiefly depicted by Jovan Adepo, who gives Will an uncanny sense of restraint interrupted by bouts of righteous violence. Will is a man who learns to grow accustomed to sublimating his emotions to save himself, but he still seethes with the resentment of its necessity. Will quickly learns that “trust in the law” may be his hero, Bass Reeves’ favorite saying, but it doesn’t have much use coming from the mouth of a black man in real-world America. When he arrests a white man for throwing a Molotov cocktail through the window of a Jewish delicatessen, the man is freed within hours. The white officers gesture at one another with a mysterious sign. White supremacy has not just infiltrated the NYPD, Will discovers, it runs it. A scene from  American Hero Story ,  Watchmen’s  show-within-a-show, which depicts Hooded Justice (center) as a white man. Mark Hill/HBO “This spook is accusing me of a horrendous crime,” Will’s collar tells the white precinct officers. “Who are you going to believe, me or him?” As Angela walks the streets of 1938 New York, she’s haunted by the Tulsa of 1921. Everywhere she turns, she’s met by the ghost of her great-grandmother, Will’s mother, playing the piano in the movie theater the day of the attack. Williams renders these ghostly images in color to distinguish them from the history into which Angela has been dropped. A police car drives away, dragging two black corpses behind it by rope. It’s a stunningly original way of illustrating post-traumatic stress, but nothing quite tops Williams’ use of  Matrix- like visual effects incorporated into a noir-style story when Hooded Justice jumps through a window after thwarting the Klan’s mesmerism plans. Hooded Justice in a scene from  Watchmen . Mark Hill/HBO The story of how Will becomes Hooded Justice leaves no stone unturned. He gets his costume of black hood and noose from his white colleagues, who kidnap and lynch him to scare him out of arresting white supremacist criminals. When Hooded Justice makes the daily papers, Will meets Nelson Gardner, the blond leader of the Minutemen who fights crime as Captain Metropolis. And while Will is married to a back journalist who deifies Ida B. Wells, he’s helpless when it comes to resisting his attraction to Nelson. “Why fight alone, when you can have true companionship?” Nelson asks Will, suggestively proffering a hand. Will’s complicated relationship with Nelson helps us to imagine how Sul-Te-Wan could have been so devoted to a man as racist as Griffith, and how African Americans continually get drafted into projects that diminish their own humanity (see: America). Both Griffith and Nelson had power and access that their black friends did not, which, for Sul-Te-Wan and Will, led to relationships that were inherently fraught with compromise and compartmentalization. Even as Nelson makes apologies for the racism of the rest of the Minutemen, he engages in it too, introducing Hooded Justice to the press while standing next to a poster of the group taking down a cartoonishly ghoulish black bank robber. When Will uncovers a racist conspiracy being enacted by his white fellow officers, Nelson dismisses it. “So the Klan is using mind control? Do you know how ridiculous that sounds?” he scoffs, leaving Will to fight white racial terrorism by himself. Nelson, Good White Man that he is, has bought into a pathology that declares black people as uniquely violent and inherently destructive. “You’ll have to solve black unrest all on your own,” he tells his lover, invoking the specious red herring of “black-on-black crime” before it became labeled as such. The Klan’s diabolical plan for getting black people to kill themselves and destroy their own communities by mesmerizing them with moving images may seem far-fetched, especially when Will refers to it as a “conspiracy.” But as metaphor, it is an apt illustration of the points James Baldwin makes in  The Devil Finds Work , and which resurface in  Raoul Peck’s documentary  I Am Not Your Negro .  The result is the same, in either instance: the destruction of a people, of history, of legacy, of truth. In both his book-length essay and in Peck’s documentary, Baldwin argues how film can work as a mechanism of white supremacist gaslighting, not just because of the way that black and indigenous people were depicted in it, but because of the lies white people told —  and continue to tell  — about themselves. (Baldwin called Doris Day and Gary Cooper “two of the most grotesque appeals to innocence the world has ever seen.”) Baldwin’s assessment of the lies of  The Defiant Ones  (1958) could just as easily apply to  Green Book  (2018).  The Defiant Ones  starred Tony Curtis and Sidney Poitier as two escaped prisoners, shackled together, who must learn to cooperate if they are to survive on the lam. Wrote Baldwin: Black men do not have the same reason to hate white men as white men have to hate blacks. The root of the white man’s hatred is terror, a bottomless and nameless terror, which focuses on the black, surfacing, and concentrating on this dread figure, an entity which only lives in his mind. But the root of the black man’s hatred is rage, and he does not so much hate white men as simply want them out of his way, and, more than that, out of his children’s way.  No black man, in such a situation, and especially knowing what Poitier conveys so vividly Noah Cullen knows, would rise to the bait proffered by this dimwitted poor white child, whose only real complaint is that he is a bona-fide mediocrity who failed to make it in the American rat-race. But many, no better than he, and many much worse, make it every day, all the way to Washington: sometimes, indeed, via Hollywood. It is a species of cowardice, grave indeed, to pretend that black men do not know this. And it is a matter of the most disastrous sentimentality to attempt to bring black men into the white American nightmare. Liberal white audiences applauded when Sidney at the end of the film, jumped off the train in order not to abandon his white buddy. The Harlem audience was outraged. This Extraordinary Being  is illustrative of how and why Lindelof’s approach to  Watchmen  works so well. He’s  called it  an “extrapolation” of Moore’s original comic rather than a traditional adaptation. That choice has allowed the series to embody the spirit of Moore’s work while exploring a theme that’s wholly absent from it: race. It’s not so different from what makes a great biopic performance, in which an actor chooses to focus on the key element of the person the actor is portraying and build from there instead of recreating a person with gimmick-laden imitations. Episode six is brimming with Moore’s trademark skepticism about superheroes and his ideas about how media both reflects and perpetuates an American culture of white supremacy. Just as Bass Reeves was erased from popular culture with a white Lone Ranger played by Clayton Moore and later, Armie Hammer, so too was Hooded Justice. When the identity of Hooded Justice is finally revealed in  American Hero Story  —  Watchmen’s  show-within-a-show, which the officers of the Tulsa police department follow obsessively — he’s a white guy, not a black man who paints on a white mask. Like the  1619 Project ,  Watchmen  pushes its audience to question the passive acceptance of white objectivity, leaving it to wonder, in the words of one Wade Tillman: Is anything true? Soraya Nadia McDonald is the culture critic for The Undefeated. She writes about pop culture, fashion, the arts, and literature. She ' s based in Brooklyn. Speakers from Oprah to Ta-Nehisi Coates remembered an ‘earthy and funny’ friend With over 3,000 people gathered to celebrate the gallant life of Toni Morrison at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York City Thursday, the attendance was evidence of what we lost in her death, but also proof of what she gave us with her life. Though the makeup of the audience reflected Morrison’s limitless reach, it was the concentration of black women bedecked in their most elegant finery — posh without the pretension — that gave the room its juice. Accompanying many of them were young black girls — daughters, granddaughters, little sisters, cousins, nieces, and mentees. If this was a memorial for anyone, it was for the scores of black women and girls who weren’t seen until Morrison made them visible in her writing. A person looks through the program before the start of the Celebration of the Life of Toni Morrison on Nov. 21 at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York. AP Photo/Mary Altaffer The speakers, including Oprah Winfrey, musicians Toshi Reagon and Andy Bey, and writers Jesmyn Ward and Ta-Nehisi Coates, reflected on the friend, mentor, mother, and woman who understood that a career, no matter how acclaimed, would never be a substitute for a full life. “Everyone knows what kind of writer Toni was,” close friend and cultural critic Fran Lebowitz said at the memorial, “But not everyone knows what kind of friend Toni was.” Lebowitz recalled a time when Lebowitz received a bad review and Morrison reached out to her. Lebowitz said that Morrison was the type of friend who’d call you and read her bad reviews to you — not to dim your light or overshadow your pain with hers — but to remind you to shine in your own glory. Much like what Lebowitz shared with us about what Morrison had done for her, it was in this same cathedral, at James Baldwin’s funeral, more than 30 years ago, that Morrison would share what Baldwin had done for her. “Our crown has already been bought and paid for,” Morrison recalled Baldwin telling her, “all we have to do is wear it.” While it’s tempting to believe that Morrison’s wisdom was a means of her own invention, she was passing on what was given to her. Lebowitz’s pivot from the public Morrison who the world read on the page to the private Morrison who few knew and loved — produced a wellspring of intimate insights and anecdotes from the other speakers that rivaled her fiction. Kevin Young, director of the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture, talked about the time he went to the movies with Morrison and Angela Davis. “Whenever I tell this story, people always ask me: What movie did y’all see?” Young said to laughter, “ The Five Heartbeats .” “Up close,” Young continued, “Morrison was earthy and funny.” “I once rang Toni [Morrison] to see if she might write something for [ The New Yorker ],” editor David Remnick shared with the audience, “ ‘I can’t, honey,’ she said. ‘I’m baking a cake.’ ” As someone who only knew Morrison as a writer, I laughed because Remnick’s story made me aware of how much there was to know about her. Those who knew Morrison laughed, but for a different reason: They knew whatever she did was going to get her full attention. Morrison, who died Aug. 5 at the age of 88, was the author of 11 novels, six children’s books, and a host of nonfiction works — from essay collections to anthologies. She’d cultivated, groomed and edited some of the most prominent voices of the Black Arts Movement in novelists such as Toni Cade Bambara and Gayl Jones, boxing champion Muhammad Ali and activist Angela Davis. She won the National Book Critics Circle award in fiction for her third novel,  Song of Solomon , in 1977. Ten years later, she won the Pulitzer Prize for fiction for her fifth novel,  Beloved . In 1993, she was awarded the Nobel Prize in literature. And, in 2012, she received the Presidential Medal of Freedom. Though these accomplishments suggest a life valued solely for Morrison’s artistic output, her ability to be present in multiple places, in multiple people’s lives at the same time speaks to the gift she gave so generously. And it was that gift of herself that affirmed who was at the memorial and why. Even after the executive editor of Knopf Doubleday, Erroll McDonald, wished everyone a good night, many of the black women and girls stayed with one another, sharing why they knew Toni wasn’t gone. Because  they  were still there. Yahdon Israel is an educator, entrepreneur, editor, writer and founder of Literaryswag, a cultural movement that intersects literature and fashion to make books cool. He teaches creative writing at The New School and City College. He is the former editor-in-chief of Brooklyn Magazine. He has written for Avidly, The New Inquiry, LitHub, Poets and Writers and Vanity Fair. And he hosts the Literaryswag Book Club, a Brooklyn-based subscription service and book club that meets every last Wednesday of the month. She’s focused on giving us a show, not just a beautiful performance With her eight Grammy nominations, Lizzo’s time has finally arrived. She scored three nominations for the song “Truth Hurts,” including record of the year, song of the year, and best pop solo performance. “Exactly How I Feel,” with a Gucci Mane feature, is nominated for best R & B performance. “Jerome,” a rhythm and blues breakup song, earned her a best traditional R & B performance nod. The deluxe edition of  Cuz I Love You  is up for album of the year, and the original edition is nominated for best urban contemporary album. Her best new artist nod completes the set, making Lizzo the most nominated artist of the 2020 Grammy Awards. But the woman who everyone thinks of as the female breakout star of 2019 actually has been planting earworms in our cultural consciousness for about half a decade. She even worked with Prince back in 2014, when she lived in Minneapolis. Lizzo performs at Victoria Warehouse on Nov. 11 in Manchester, England. Photo by Shirlaine Forrest/WireImage As a longtime Lizzo fan, it’s nice to see her to get this level of validation. I learned about the performer in 2015 when I watched her music video for “My Skin.” She appears on screen as a brown-skinned girl with a frizzy blown-out Afro. She stands in an empty warehouse space, forcing the viewer to focus on her. There is no narrative arc here — the tension comes solely from the lyrics of the music she presents to us. “ I woke up in this, in my skin ,” she croons. “ I can’t wash it away, you can’t take it from me .” Her words resonated with me — as many things as I could change about myself, I couldn’t escape the vessel that bound the tissues, vessels and fat together — my skin. Her subsequent songs were about her journey toward loving herself and understanding her place in the world, things that she knew others could relate to. A good Lizzo performance leaves you with a little more confidence and greater appreciation for the emotional depth we all contain. Lizzo performs at O2 Academy Brixton on Nov. 7 in London. Photo by Matthew Baker/Getty Images From her concerts to her 2019 BET Award performance, Lizzo acts as a female minister taking us to the church of self-acceptance and unconditional self-love. “I just want everyone to remember, if you can love me, you can love yourself, every single day. If you can love my big black ass at this tiny, tiny desk, you can love yourself. Can I get one more hallelujah?” she adds at the end of her  NPR Tiny Desk Concert . She understands the traditions that she is working in, melding a bit of riot grrrl (signaled by the title of her 2015 album  Big Grrrl Small World),  a little bit of gospel, and a lot of personality into her stream of consciousness rhymes backed by syncopated dance and a bumping bass line. Fat girls, black women and the LGBTQ contingent have been rocking with Lizzo for years. She gave us the “love yourself” vibe we all needed before body positivity was in fashion. A year ago  Vanity Fair  asked,  Has 2018 Killed the Pop Star?  If the era of the global superstar is gone, something better has appeared in the phenomena’s wake, filled by Spotify streams and niche cult followings. Performers aren’t pressured to be all things to everybody, which leaves a musician like Lizzo to be radically herself. “My mere existence as a musician is activism,” Lizzo said  in an interview with Great Big Story  in 2017, and I believe she’s right. Ten years ago, Adele was the plus-sized musician of the moment with 18 Grammy nominations and subsequent wins in the best new artist category. She has won 15 Grammys. Still, Lizzo’s nominations hit differently — perhaps because she is an entertainer, focused on giving us a show, and not just a beautiful performance. In 2009, when Adele took over America’s airwaves, there were contingencies on who she could be. The magazine covers featuring Adele seemed to only photograph her from the  waist up . By contrast, on Lizzo’s  September  Elle  cover,  the singer’s full body is shown. She demands that we see all of her, and deal with it. She is willing to wear those bright colors and bold prints big girls have been told for years to stay away from. She highlights instead of concealing and is unapologetic about her proclivity for twerking while playing her flute. I am not sure that mainstream media has seen a plus-sized performer like her, garnering viral success while resisting the industry’s pressures to fit a certain mold, along with its expected phenotype. Her ascension doesn’t come without its hiccups — she  is being sued by a delivery service driver  whom Lizzo accused of stealing her food and there is  a controversy about the songwriting credits  for “Truth Hurts.” But even with these sidesteps, it is hard to refute that Lizzo is one of 2019’s musical supernovas. Lizzo is out here living her truth. And as messy and incomplete as her blueprint may be, she’s encouraging her listeners to lift one another up in a world that is filled with so much toxicity, division, and uncertainty. Yeah, it may only be pop music to some ears, but for the people who follow her on social media and memorize her lyrics, she is something of a talisman, reminding us never to accept second best ( I will never ever ever be your side chick ), allowing us to explore underdeveloped parts of ourselves ( What the f— are f—ing feelings, yo? ) and reminding us that we already have the “juice” ( I was born like this, don’t even gotta try/ I’m like chardonnay, get better over time ), we’ve just got to let it out. Lizzo’s music was around before the intersecting worlds of body positivity and social media vulnerability made her popular, and hopefully she’ll be around after those trends wane. Either way, she’ll probably have some Grammys to show for it. Latria Graham is writer, editor and cultural critic currently living in Spartanburg. Her interests revolve around the dynamics of race, gender norms, class, nerd culture, and—yes, football Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy  and Safety Information/ Your California Privacy Rights / Children's Online Privacy Policy  are applicable to you.  2019 ESPN Internet Ventures. All rights reserved.  Interest-Based Ads .  Cookie Policy . Powered by  WordPress.com VIP .  About Nielsen Measurement . 