Michael Opton - Business Development and Marketing Director - Terrascapes Landscape Design | LinkedIn Go-to senior executive with proven managerial, membership development, product development, marketing, and analytical skills.  Superior track record in growing revenue and taking products and services from concept to profit in spheres of membership, consumer and business information websites, and business-to-business publishing. Areas of expertise include marketing planning and execution, website development and analysis, content development, editor/author relationships and team leadership Specialties: Non-profits, web development, publishing, product innovation, branding and sales, customer loyalty, competitive analysis, vision. Aug 2012   –  Present 7 years 5 months Needham, MA Oversee development and implementation of marketing  &  sales plan. Tools in play include website marketing, SEO, Google Adwords, direct mail, social media, and strategic ad placements. Worked with owner to streamline and systematize lead through proposal process. Success can be measured by the substantial growth Terrascapes has experienced in past three years. The company has increased staff size from one designer to now employing three designers, a project manager, and four fine gardeners.  Oversee development and implementation of marketing  &  sales plan. Tools in play include website marketing, SEO, Google Adwords, direct mail, social media, and strategic ad placements. Worked with owner to streamline and systematize lead through proposal process. Success can be measured by the substantial growth Terrascapes has experienced in past three years. The company has increased staff size from one designer to now employing three designers, a project manager, and four fine gardeners.  Jan 2008   –   Aug 2012 4 years 8 months 900 Washington Street Key administrative director during 2008-2010 restructuring of the Society. Worked in all areas of administration including finance/accounting, marketing, web development, membership, customer service, and IT. Worked with trustees, overseers, staff, and volunteers to bring Mass Hort back to a viable and stable organization. After hiring of Executive Director, I assumed the role of Director of Membership and Marketing. Increased membership participation from 3,500 to over 6,000 members over the course of two years. Responsible for all marketing, social networking, web development and event promotion. Key administrative director during 2008-2010 restructuring of the Society. Worked in all areas of administration including finance/accounting, marketing, web development, membership, customer service, and IT. Worked with trustees, overseers, staff, and volunteers to bring Mass Hort back to a viable and stable organization. After hiring of Executive Director, I assumed the role of Director of Membership and Marketing. Increased membership participation from 3,500 to over 6,000 members over the... Key administrative director during 2008-2010 restructuring of the Society. Worked in all areas of administration including finance/accounting, marketing, web development, membership, customer service, and IT. Worked with trustees, overseers, staff, and volunteers to bring Mass Hort back to a viable and stable organization. After hiring of Executive Director, I assumed the role of Director of Membership and Marketing. Increased membership participation from 3,500 to over 6,000 members over the course of two years. Responsible for all marketing, social networking, web development and event promotion. Oct 2006   –   2008 2 years Partner in a consulting team that helped small to medium-sized companies launch or improve commercial websites.  Services include strategic planning, site architecture analysis, search engine marketing (natural and paid), focus group research, partnership and affiliate building programs, website development, content development and competitive research. Partner in a consulting team that helped small to medium-sized companies launch or improve commercial websites.  Services include strategic planning, site architecture analysis, search engine marketing (natural and paid), focus group research, partnership and affiliate building programs, website development, content development and competitive research. Oct 2000   –   Oct 2005 5 years 1 month Key upper management team member providing direction and oversight for a wide variety of profitable web and print-related products and services.  Directly responsible for all material published in nine printed publications and on five distinct websites with a combined visitorship of over 3.2 million per month. Key upper management team member providing direction and oversight for a wide variety of profitable web and print-related products and services.  Directly responsible for all material published in nine printed publications and on five distinct websites with a combined visitorship of over 3.2 million per month. Jan 1995   –   Sep 2000 5 years 9 months Developed and marketed industry-leading business-to-business publications that were important tools for comparative financial analysis and executive networking. Products included the Nevada Gaming Almanac and the Gaming Business Directory, Developed and marketed industry-leading business-to-business publications that were important tools for comparative financial analysis and executive networking. Products included the Nevada Gaming Almanac and the Gaming Business Directory, 1990   –   1994 4 years 1989   –   1989 1984   –   1985 Activities and Societies: Entrepreneur Club, Talent Show Manager, T-Bird Rhythm Section Band Member Focus on Marketing Focus on Marketing Sep 2014 Environment The Ecological Landscape Alliance advocates for environmentally responsible stewardship of land and natural resources in landscaping and horticultural practices of both professionals and the public. As the Treasurer, I produce monthly reports detailing the fiscal health of the organization. I also help create budgets, ensure vendor payments are timely, and analyze trends. I use my marketing experience to increase member and program revenue. The Ecological Landscape Alliance advocates for environmentally responsible stewardship of land and natural resources in landscaping and horticultural practices of both professionals and the public. As the Treasurer, I produce monthly reports detailing the fiscal health of the organization. I also help create budgets, ensure vendor payments are timely, and analyze trends. I use my marketing experience to increase member and program revenue. A preview of what LinkedIn members have to say about Michael: I had the pleasure of working with Michael after his company was purchased by ours.  With his direction and tenacity along with a tremendous understanding of the industry and client base we were able to design and launch an award winning online system that took the industry by storm.  Michael is an excellent executive and an asset to any organization. I had the pleasure of working with Michael after his company was purchased by ours.  With his direction and tenacity along with a tremendous understanding of the industry and client base we were able to design and launch an award winning online system that took the industry by storm.  Michael is an excellent executive and an asset to any organization. I had the pleasure of working with Michael at MassHort.  Michael is a skilled marketing professional and entrepreneur.  He is particularly even-keeled weaving a myriad details into deliverables.  Michael patiently managed and trained volunteers to assist reaching the organizations goals.  He created a wonderful productive working environment, he would be a great asset to any organization.  Micheal is analytical, creative and diligent. I had the pleasure of working with Michael at MassHort.  Michael is a skilled marketing professional and entrepreneur.  He is particularly even-keeled weaving a myriad details into deliverables.  Michael patiently managed and trained volunteers to assist reaching the organizations goals.  He created a wonderful productive working environment, he would be a great asset to any organization.  Micheal is analytical, creative and diligent. 5 people have recommended Michael Join now to view Join to view Michael’s full profile 