Faculty and Staff   LUCES Dr. Ernesto Pierre Silva joined the faculty of the Department of Foreign Languages (DFL) as Assistant Professor of Spanish in the fall of 2005. He teaches all levels of Spanish, including upper-division and graduate courses that carefully analyze Spanish and Latin American culture through literature and film. He is currently jointly-appointed with the Interdisciplinary Studies Department (ISD) and also teaches for the American Studies (AMST/MAST) program. He is a native of Peru, moved to the United States in the 1980s, and is now an American citizen. With an undergraduate degree in English and Comparative Literature, he switched to Spanish Literature for his MA and PhD, receiving both degrees from the University of California at Irvine. Dr. Silva has taught at UC-Irvine, Chapman University, and the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. By training and experience, his area of research focuses on contemporary Spanish/Latin American film, literature, philosophy, critical theory, theater, cultural studies, translation, and immigration. His most recent research concentrates on the plight of immigrants—to Europe and the USA—as portrayed in film, literature, and media outlets. He believes that literature and films are cultural productions meant to provoke lively discussions about the relationship between fiction and reality. Additionally, he does comparative analyses of literary and filmic texts. Presently, Dr. Silva is promoting cultural awareness of global events through a series of book reading, film screenings, presentations, and other cultural events on and off campus. Additionally, he is also focusing on helping Latin@ students enroll at KSU and complete their university education. To achieve this goal he has created the LUCES (Latinos United in Commitment to Educational Success) initiative dedicated to tutor students and take them to Latin America to reconnect with their roots as well as build long-lasting, sustainable connections between the two cultures. His experience in directing study abroad programs has helped him also in networking with colleagues and organizations globally. He has co-written a book of interviews titled  Cine e ideología en América Latina: el caso de Venezuela  and coedited a  Special Issue of the Journal of Global Initiatives: Peruvian Trajectories of Sociocultural Transformation . Dr. Silva’s work has been recognized by having received the Pillar of Achievement Award at Golden West College; the University of California President’s Fellowship; the Third Prize in the International Literary Contest José Martí for his paper on the works of Mario Vargas Llosa; the Bronze Award for Excellence (awarded by New Realities, Louisville, Kentucky) for translating an educational manuscript for the University of California at Irvine; the Graduate Opportunity Fellowship, awarded by the University of California at Irvine; the National Hispanic Scholarship Award; the Pre-Graduate Mentorship Fellowship, awarded by the University of California at Irvine; the UC-Irvine Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship; the Donald and Dorothy Strauss Endowed Scholarship, awarded to a Community College Transfer Student; the First Thomas Heaney Scholarship, awarded by the English Department for the best essay written in English; and the Volunteer Diploma, awarded by the Tutorial Center at Golden West College, for excellence in service as Master Tutor in History and Philosophy. Chief Diversity Officer and Professor of Curriculum Studies Email :  emalewsk@kennesaw.edu Erik L. Malewski is Chief Diversity Officer and Professor of Curriculum Studies at Kennesaw State University. Prior to his appointment, Malewski was Associate Professor of Curriculum Studies at Purdue University where he conducted research and taught courses focused on diversity, multiculturalism, equity, and global issues in education. Malewski has held leadership roles in national and international research organizations and is well published in prominent journals and texts. He has worked in educational equity, private industry, social service, and diversity consulting prior to his role at Kennesaw State University. As faculty, Malewski studied the effects of international cross-­‐cultural experiences on undergraduate students’ cultural perceptions. He also engaged in synoptic study of the direction of the curriculum field and examined the implications of conceptions of ignorance for teaching and learning. Along with a colleague, Malewski developed a study abroad program in Honduras for teacher education students and a hybrid place-­‐based and virtual field experience program. Under his mentorship, Malewski’s graduate students received national recognition for their research, including the prestigious American Educational Research Association’s Outstanding Dissertation of the Year Award. Malewski has published numerous books, articles, and chapters focused on domestic and international diversity issues. Prior to his faculty appointment, Malewski served as the Senior Diversity Advocate within the Office of the Vice Provost for Educational Equity at The Pennsylvania State University where he also taught courses in African and African American Studies and Health and Human Development. Prior to that he worked for Illinois Institute of Technology and Paul Robeson High School through a partnership grant focused on teaching graphic design to high school students. He also worked in private industry for AT & T as an organizational manager. Malewski arrived at Kennesaw State University in 2012 after a national search for a new head of diversity. Originally from metropolitan Detroit, Malewski holds a doctorate in curriculum from The Pennsylvania State University, where he also earned a masters degree in higher education administration. His bachelors degree is from Loyola University Chicago in Interpersonal, Intercultural, and Organizational Communication. 