Lagos Speaker, Rt. Hon. Adeyemi Ikuforiji Is New Aare Of Ketu Kingdom | Ovation Magazine T he worth of any man (and of course any woman) is the impact such person has made on humanity.  One individual whose contributions to humanity, both in his Epe community, where he was born 55 years ago to the family of Chief Murtala Atanda Ikuforiji and Alhaja Ibironke Ikuforiji(Nee Shabi) as well as Lagos State, where he has been the longest-serving Speaker of the House of Assembly, cannot be quantified; is the Rt. Hon. Adeyemi Sabit Ikuforiji. No wonder, most people who knew him in his adolescence and teenage years, especially at the Local Authority Central School, Epe and Epe Grammar School, Epe; where he set a new record in the old Epe Division by breaking a four-year jinx as the only candidate that obtained Division 1 out of the 105 students that sat for the examination in 1975, have not found his political ascendancy a fluke. To these people, who also followed Mr. Speaker’s rise in the private sector before service to humanity and politicking came calling in 2003, Rt. Hon. Ikuforiji is indeed a round peg in a round hole! It is safe to conclude therefore that, Mr. Speaker’s adroitness in managing the Legislative arm in Lagos State, has contributed a great deal to the successes that have been a recurring decimal in the State, since the latter part of the era of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and especially, that of Governor Babatunde Fashola (SAN). After all, accolades and encomiums being showered on the Executive arm of the State, would not have been merited, if the State’s Legislators have failed in their duty to enact good laws for the progress and sustainable development of Nigeria’s most economically-viable State. It was therefore a home calling for Rt. Hon. Ikuforiji when he went to Ketu kingdom in Epe to receive one of the highest Chieftaincy titles in the community, Aare Alaketu of Ketu Kingdom. Alongside his amiable and resourceful wife, Pastor (Mrs.) Olumayowa Abeke Ikuforiji, their entrance into the RCM Primary School, where the installation by the HRM Oba Adegboyega Adefowora took place, was regal! Led by the Boys Brigade band whose drum beats and songs could be heard over a mile from that venue, the Aare and Yeye Alaketu of Ketu Kingdom went round the venue to greet friends, associates, politicians, traditional rulers as well as wellwishers within and outside the community. After greeting and acknowledging cheers, the Aare and Yeye Aare Alaketu went to pay homage to the Oba Alaketu of Ketu kingdom, Oba Adegboyega Adefowora. Thereafter, they sat down on the royal seat. OVATION learnt that the events planners, B Events which is owned by Bola Awosika and been contracted to make the event a grand one had been on ground, one week, planning assiduously and erecting the magnificent Marquee which was also beautifully decorated. Awosika , who is used to planning such A-list events, has already gotten in touch with other stakeholders to make the event a memorable. Four caterers were contracted Oval Tart , Demo Kitchen as well as Creative Food and Cocktails . Gbemi Deserts was also on stand-by as well as Fruitful Wago and Veggies whose fruit baskets were irresistible. King of Small chops, Laredo also lent his weight and Events Watch ensured the venue was fully secured. The installation ceremony attracted the celebrations within and outside the State. The Speaker of Ogun State, Rt. Hon. Suraj Ishola Adekunbi, who was dressed in a flowing white Agbada and his counterpart from Oyo State, Rt. Hon. Monsurat Sunmonu were around to support their Lagos State counterpart, whose other 39 Honourable members led by the Deputy Speaker, Hon. Musibau Kolawole Taiwo. In fact, the Chairman of the Committee on Information in the House, Hon. Olusegun Olulade, who was installed as the Otunba Mayegun of Ketu kingdom, days before, had gotten to the venue as early as 7 am to ensure that the place was set for the installation. Read Full Magazine Published since 1996, OVATION International was born inLondon, United Kingdom. It was conceptualized by the Publisher, Chief DeleMomodu, a tried and tested journalist and high-profile Editor who was driveninto exile by the General Sani Abacha Government in Nigeria.sThe magazine was a child of circumstance because rather thantake the short route of eking a living through engaging in menial jobs, Momodudecided to stick to his area of core competence: Journalism.His desire was to publish an African magazine for Africansand create a forum where the real picture of Africa would be presented to theworld. Find out more 