O.O. Howard House | Venue, Vancouver | Get your price estimate Event Center Accommodates up to 2000 guests Style - Build Copy 5 Ceremony / Reception Indoor / Outdoor 750 Anderson Street ><span>Vancouver, WA 98661< span> Situated on the famed Fort Vancouver National Site, the O.O. Howard House provides a stunning historic setting for weddings hoping to evoke the gracious ambiance of a gentler age. This stunning home was built in the late 19th century for Civil War General Oliver Otis but is used as the headquarters of the Fort Vancouver National Trust today. This lovely venue is ideal for intimate weddings that hope to channel the property’s inherent vintage charm. Say your “I do’s” on the expansive front lawn surrounded by the finest native flowers, with the gorgeous historic architecture serving as a singular backdrop to your first kiss as spouses. Continue the jubilant celebrations outdoors, hosting a gracious yet tight-knit affair in the home’s finely landscaped courtyard. This open air space can be enhanced with customized decor and string lights. There is also an elegant meeting room available if you prefer to celebrate the occasion indoors.  The rental fee ranges from $100 to $500 for a reception and includes 1 hours of event time excluding set up and clean up time. Same rental fees apply for a ceremony. Additional hours can be arranged for a fee of $100/hr. A refundable security deposit of $250 is required. Please note, there is a 4 hour minimum applied to all events. Please note, The Refundable Damage Deposit may increase for larger parties. Venue can be rented in 4, 7, or 12 hour time blocks with the prices that vary, inquire with venue for details.  -  Bride &# x27;s dressing area -  Dance floor -  Tables and chairs provided -  Venue set up and clean up -  Kitchen for prep only -  Parking can be arranged -  BYO alcohol -  General liability insurance required -  No rice, birdseed, confetti, etc. -  Choose from a list for catering -  Amplified music OK indoors and outdoors -  Smoking outside only -  Alcohol must be served by licensed bartender/caterer -  Music must end by 10:00PM -  Bride &# x27;s dressing area -  Dance floor -  Tables and chairs provided -  Venue set up and clean up -  Kitchen for prep only -  Parking can be arranged -  BYO alcohol -  General liability insurance required -  No rice, birdseed, confetti, etc. -  Choose from a list for catering -  Amplified music OK indoors and outdoors -  Smoking outside only -  Alcohol must be served by licensed bartender/caterer -  Music must end by 10:00PM Don &# x27;t miss out! Message this venue now to check their availability and receive more information. No commitment required. Price this venue to get your customized estimate, no strings attached Price this venue to get your customized estimate, no strings attached 