Colleen Wenke: Blazing a Trail for Women in Real Estate - Pace website We re proud to continue our Pace  Common Ground  campaign for Gender Equality! This time, we salute another pioneering woman in real estate:  Colleen Wenke . Colleen is Senior Vice President, Head of Development and Construction at  Taconic Investment Partners . Since beginning her career at Taconic in 2001, she has been responsible for or directly involved in developing or repositioning over 2 million square feet of commercial space. And like all of our Common Ground women, Colleen has paved a successful path for so many others to follow. Colleen Wenke Taconic Investment Partners is a fully integrated owner, operator, and developer of commercial and residential real estate. Since 1997, Taconic has successfully acquired, developed, redeveloped, and repositioned over 12 million square feet of office, mixed-use, and retail space and more than 4,688 units of for-sale and multi-family housing, with a focus in New York City. In her role at Taconic, Colleen is responsible for asset management, construction, and development projects. Her responsibilities include project management, design development, contract negotiations, portfolio strategy, marketing, leasing, and sales. Colleen earned her Master of Science in real estate with a dual concentration in finance and development from New York University and graduated magna cum laude with a Bachelor of Arts in psychology from Boston College. She is an active member of the New York Building Congress, Professional Women in Construction, the Young Real Estate Professionals of New York, and the Advisory Board of New York University’s Schack Institute of Construction Management. What a pleasure to chat with Colleen for our Common Ground campaign. We were impressed to hear about her career, her role models, and her advice and encouragement for other women. Take a few moments to watch any or all of her featured videos below. Pace Branding and Marketing 6 subscribers Subscribe Pace Common Ground: Colleen Wenke Segment 2 - Role Models Info Shopping Tap to unmute More videos Your browser does not currently recognize any of the video formats available.  Click here to visit our frequently asked questions about HTML5 video. More videos on YouTube Share Include playlist An error occurred while retrieving sharing information. Please try again later. Watch later Share Switch camera 0:00 0:00  /  Live An error occurred. Try watching this video on www.youtube.com , or enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser. Pace Branding and Marketing 6 subscribers Subscribe Pace Common Ground: Colleen Wenke Segment 5 - Changes in Gender Equality in the Industry Info Shopping Tap to unmute More videos Your browser does not currently recognize any of the video formats available.  Click here to visit our frequently asked questions about HTML5 video. More videos on YouTube Share Include playlist An error occurred while retrieving sharing information. Please try again later. Watch later Share An error occurred. Try watching this video on www.youtube.com , or enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser. Pace Branding and Marketing 6 subscribers Subscribe Pace Common Ground: Colleen Wenke Segment 6 - #TimesUp Info Shopping Tap to unmute More videos Your browser does not currently recognize any of the video formats available.  Click here to visit our frequently asked questions about HTML5 video. More videos on YouTube Share Include playlist An error occurred while retrieving sharing information. Please try again later. Watch later Share Switch camera 0:00 0:00  /  Live An error occurred. Try watching this video on www.youtube.com , or enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser. Pace Branding and Marketing 6 subscribers Subscribe Pace Common Ground: Colleen Wenke Segment 7 - Milestones Info Shopping Tap to unmute More videos Your browser does not currently recognize any of the video formats available.  Click here to visit our frequently asked questions about HTML5 video. More videos on YouTube Share Include playlist An error occurred while retrieving sharing information. Please try again later. Watch later Share Switch camera 0:00 0:00  /  Live An error occurred. Try watching this video on www.youtube.com , or enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser. Pace Branding and Marketing 6 subscribers Subscribe Pace Common Ground: Colleen Wenke Segment 8 - Looking Ahead Info Shopping Tap to unmute More videos Your browser does not currently recognize any of the video formats available.  Click here to visit our frequently asked questions about HTML5 video. More videos on YouTube Share Include playlist An error occurred while retrieving sharing information. Please try again later. Watch later Share Switch camera 0:00 0:00  /  Live An error occurred. Try watching this video on www.youtube.com , or enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser. Thanks to Colleen for sharing her experience, her unique perspective and insights, and her encouraging words and advice. We are proud to feature her as part of our Pace  Common Ground  Trailblazers series. Here’s to every achievement earned, every milestone passed, and every glass ceiling shattered! © 2018 Pace  