Melee Sheik + Bouncing Fish = ? | Smash Amino Hey Rapha Fans! Today, we're going to talk about one of the most notable characters in Smash and a buff that could potential rocket her to broken status. As you all know, Melee Sheik is one of the best characters, ever, in Smash. One of, if not the, best defensive players ever, a near perfect shield, an iconic chaingrab, Edgeguarding beast, a broken aerial set and a moveset so easy that nearly anyone can learn her. Now amidst all these amazing traits, she has one of the worst recoveries in the game and probably the worst in the top tiers (Marth and Falco come close but I think Sheik's is worse). And it is true that her game is extremely punishing, it can be read because she doesn't have a lot of options. If you can keep her slightly spaced, she usually will get beat. Moving ahead a few years, Sm4sh Sheik is still a beast. She has lost a few potent weapons since Melee (Broken FAIR and her devastating chain grab for example) but something interesting has changed. For the first time in history, Sheik and Zelda are two different characters. Hence, Sheik has gained a new Down-B: Bouncing Fish. A flying reverse layout kick that is fabulous for combos, mixing up her movement and massively aiding her recovery. My question is this: would this new Bouncing Fish turn Melee Sheik from a Middle/Low S Tier beast into a broken SS Tier Monster. Would her combo game be so broken as to possibly have her banned, would her recovery be so chaotic has to being nearly impossible to edgeguard? Comments commencing . . . 3 . . . 2 . . . 20SS confirmed she'd be way broken imagine f-tilt by the ledge yo di in, you eat another f-tilt you DI away, and she can get a bouncing fish Into Smash?Join the community. Into Smash?Join the community.   This website saves cookies to your browser in order to improve your online experience and show you personalized content. Read our  Privacy Policy  and  Cookie Policy  to get more information and learn how to set up your preferences.  