The Oak of Weeping The Oak of Weeping George Everard ,     1871 " Now Deborah, Rebekah's nurse, died and was buried under the oak below     Bethel. So it was named Allon Bacuth. "  Genesis 35:8  We see a company of mourners. They are standing near a     tree, beneath whose shadow they have laid the remains of an aged woman. She     has been Rebekah's nurse. It is likely that she came with her from     Mesopotamia, and had lived with her many a long year. She is spared to see     the children and grand-children of her mistress grow up, and now in her old     age she has been called to her rest, and is buried in Bethel, amidst the     tears and lamentations of a family that had long known her worth.  The oak tells its own tale. It was called Allon Bacuth,     or the Oak of Weeping ; and it tells how greatly Deborah was prized by     Jacob's household, and how her death was felt to be a family misfortune, a     sad and painful loss. She was doubtless precious in God's sight likewise.     Her name and the grief caused by her death are written on the page of Holy     Scripture for our instruction.  " The memory of the just is blessed! " The example of Deborah bears especially upon those who     have the charge of children. As far as I know, it is the only mention of a     nurse in Scripture, except for the mother of Moses, who was bidden by     Pharaoh's daughter to take the child and nurse him for her. Such a position     has an importance distinct from that of any other servant. If you have the     charge of the young, remember that  your words and your every day life     will have a lasting influence upon them . For hours together you are in     the place of a parent. In little matters, and often in greater ones, you     have a power to enforce obedience to your wishes. Hence  you are     continually molding the character of the little flock around you. If in any case you act without right principle, who can     calculate the harm you may do to them? I will not speak of the injury that might come to their     health  through any neglect on your part — how a limb might be     injured, or an accident might prove their death. But  consider how     impressible are the minds of the young . You may  pollute  them by a     word lightly spoken. You may terrify them by threats which you do not mean.     You may make them deceitful by teaching them to hide their own faults or     yours. You may destroy their confidence in their parents by speaking of them     in a way that you ought not. If you are selfish, or slothful, or yield to an     unruly temper — they may learn to walk in your crooked footsteps. But rather strive to follow in the path of Deborah. Be     thoroughly conscientious. Act always in the fear of God. Let your conduct be     the same in the absence, as in the presence of the mistress. If she should     come in unexpectedly, let it not be necessary that you should change your     voice or manner. Consider the real interest and welfare of the children,     rather than their present gratification, or your own ease and comfort.     Combine firmness with love. Never let them have their own way, when they     wish to do wrong. Never let a serious fault, a lie, or an act of positive     disobedience pass by without being punished. Yet strive also to brighten     their young lives with the  sunshine of perpetual kindness . Avoid     rough handling and hasty words when you are upset. Find out little ways of     making them happy, and never frighten them with ghost-stories or the like. Teach them in spare moments short prayers, or Scripture     texts, or hymns; and when you kneel down in prayer for yourself, mention the     names of each of the little ones before the mercy-seat. If only you have the love of Christ in your heart, who     can tell how wide an  influence for good  you may thus exert? Who can     say but someone of those whom you now strive to nourish with the sincere     milk of the Word, may through your instructions and prayers become a     blessing to tens of thousands? Only consider the influence exerted by the Earl of     Shaftesbury in improving the condition of the poor in London and elsewhere;     and what was the source and origin of it all? Thus he writes to one who had     sought information:  " My daughter has asked me to tell you something about     the dear and blessed old woman (her name was Maria Millas) who first taught     me in my earliest years to think on God and His truth. She had been my     mother's maid at Blenheim before my mother married. After the marriage she     became housekeeper to my father and mother, and very soon after I was born,     took almost the entire care of me. She entered into her eternal rest when I     was about seven years old; but the recollection of what she said and did and     taught me, even to a prayer that I now constantly use, is as vivid as in the     days that I heard her. The impression was, and still is very deep that she     made upon me; and I must trace, under God, very much, perhaps all, the     duties of my later life to her  precepts  and to her  prayers . " Another example might be given of a nurse whose efforts     for the good of those under her care were crowned with much success, and     several of whom became very earnest Christians. In early days, when about     fifteen, she found peace with God through the Savior's blood. She thus     speaks of herself: " On hearing the words of twenty-fifth Psalm sung in     church, the words, 'Good and gracious is the Lord' sounded so sweet to me,     and melted my heart with a sense of pardoning mercy. " After many trials she found a comfortable home. She spent     many hours in communion with God. Walking with her mistress's child, she     loved to meditate on the Savior's love.  " Every day, "  she would say,  " was to     me a Sabbath, and every Sabbath like a communion day. "  Then her master and     her mistress died, and she manifested a most unselfish spirit in bringing up     the  orphan family . All day long she would labor for them, and then     spend sometimes half her night in prayer for their spiritual well-being. She fell asleep in Jesus after a life spent in serving     God, and declared with her dying breath, her confidence in the Word of God:     " There is not one promise of this blessed book which can be experienced     in life, but I have experienced it. Not one has failed. " May your life, dear reader, be spent in the same happy     service. May your last testimony be, like her's, a witness of the faithful     love and care of God. Go labor on; spend and be spent —      Your joy to do the Father's will:      It is the way the  Master  went,      Should not the  servant  tread it still? Go labor on; 'tis not for nothing:      Your earthly loss is heavenly gain;      Men heed you, love you, praise you not:      The Master praises — what are men?  Go labor on; your hands are weak,     Your knees are faint, your soul cast down;     Yet falter not: the prize you seek      Is near — a kingdom and a crown.  Toil on, and in your toil rejoice;     For toil comes rest, for exile home:      Soon shall you hear the bridegroom's voice,      The midnight cry, " Behold I come! " 