DIRT Launches Seasonal Summer Menu Inspired by Light, Fresh Flavors and Locally-Sourced Ingredients - STAY FIT 305 Select Page Posted by  STAY FIT 305  |  May 27, 2016 Miami Beach’s “fine food fast” casual eatery and wellness bar,  DIRT , debuts a new menu with the warmer weather of the Summer months in mind. The menu is rooted in seasonality, using many local ingredients to create light yet satisfying dishes filled with crisp refreshing flavors and vibrant colors. “One of the things I feel makes us different is that although we are a healthy restaurant, we are all about flavor first. When I create the dishes for the menu, I think first about what ingredients are in season and use as many vegetables as possible. Then I think about what those ingredients pair well with, and finally I choose the highest quality sustainable products I can source,” says Executive Chef Nicole Votano, creator of the new Summer menu at DIRT. “I am very excited about our new seasonal options on this menu. At DIRT, we love to showcase ingredients from local farms, vendors, and artisans. I am particularly looking forward to shining a bright light on both JoJo Tea and Harpke Farms. It was designed with efficiency in mind, with the idea of staying true to our ‘fine food fast’ roots,   says Votano. Featured breakfast items on the new menu include the  Seasonal Breakfast x Harpke Farms , a collaboration between DIRT and the local Harpke Family Farms. Inspired by Spring’s bounty of green vegetables and mushrooms, pasture-raised eggs are cooked over easy and served over your choice of quinoa or farro, along with fresh peas, asparagus, local mushrooms, and aged Parmigiano Reggiano. Guests who order the cult favorite Avocado Toast may gravitate to the new  Goat Cheese + English Pea Toast ; a thick slice of multigrain bread from Zak the Baker is grilled to perfection and topped with whipped goat cheese and lemon-scented peas, then sprinkled with toasted pumpkin, sunflower, and hemp seeds. The  Hazelnut Chia Seed Parfait  is a comforting and decadent option for breakfast, or any time of day. Espresso- and hazelnut-scented Greek yogurt is layered with a maple-chia seed pudding and topped with dried Sicilian oranges, toasted hazelnuts, and cacao nibs to create a bite filled with familiar flavor and lots of texture. The  Chimayo Chili Bowl  is Chef Votano’s all-vegetarian chili dish. It’s a hearty combination of onions, peppers, zucchini, sweet potato, and heirloom beans stewed with a blend of smoky spices thoughtfully sourced from La Boite, a custom spice blender based in New York. The chili is served over a bed of bright green gluten-free bamboo rice, topped with Greek yogurt, sharp cheddar, jalapeno jack cheese, and spring onions. The Seasonal plate is always a favorite at DIRT, and the  Spring Plate  does not disappoint. Crisp broccolini is grilled and tossed with a touch of lemon and chili flakes, then served on the side of roasted red and Yukon gold potatoes which are smashed with Greek yogurt, olive oil, and fresh herbs. The dish is offered with your choice of protein and garnished with more vegetables in the form of shaved carrots and radishes. “I’m really enjoying the Spring Plate, maybe even more than the Autumn and Winter Plates. It’s hearty yet refreshing, and it’s the type of high-quality, well-executed dish that you’d expect at a sit-down restaurant, in keeping with our goal to elevate the type of food that a counter-service restaurant can serve”, says Co-Founder and General Manager Jeff LaTulippe. The  Berkeley Beets  sandwich (or collard wrap) is inspired by Northern California. With each bite you’ll find another layer of complexity. The bread is slathered with smashed avocado, French feta, and golden raisins, then braised beets are layered with shaved fennel, sliced cucumber, and wild arugula. Finally, all of the veggies are drizzled with lemon vinaigrette, making this an undeniably vibrant and complex sandwich. A unique offering on the new menu is the  DIRT x JoJo Tea Salad by Tico . Local greens from Sun Fresh Farm  &  Ranch are tossed with broccolini, English peas, asparagus, heirloom carrots, and sautéed mushrooms. The salad is then lightly tossed with JoJo s fresh matcha green tea and lemon vinaigrette and spiked with a blend of toasted pumpkin, sunflower, and hemp seeds. A topping of Parmigiano Reggiano finishes the salad off on an earthy note. More of a seasonal classic, the  Santorini Salad  is DIRT’s take on a classic Greek salad. Inspired by the simplicity of the Mediterranean diet, the base is a quick swipe of harissa-spiked hummus topped with tomato, cucumber, and farro, crunchy sprouted chickpeas and lentils, olives, and feta, then tossed with an herb vinaigrette featuring mint and fresh oregano. Proteins can be added to any dish, making them ideal for recharging after a workout. Options include butcher’s cut steak, quinoa-crusted fish of the day, free-range orange basil chicken, sprouted chickpeas and lentils, or cage-free eggs. Signature dishes and top sellers that are mainstays on the DIRT menu include the  DIRTy Steak + Cheese, Avocado Toast, Nourish Bowl, CLEAN Bowl,  and  the Curried Cauliflower Bowl. New beverages on the menu include the  Matcha Green Tea Latte  and  Lavender Latte , flavored with Sonoma lavender syrup and inspired by Chef Nicole’s visits to Napa Valley. Colorful, refreshing additions also include a  Blueberry + Orange Blossom + Mint Soda , made with DIRT’s house-made simple syrup; a  DIRTy Palmer , DIRT’s take on a traditional Arnold Palmer, with a blend of grapefruit juice, Madagascar vanilla, and chamomile and rooibos teas; and a  Dragon Fruit Lemonade , with fresh-squeezed lemon juice, house-made vanilla simple syrup, dragon fruit, and alkaline water combining to make a bold, magenta-colored lemonade for summer. Guests who enjoy Bulletproof coffee can now order a cold, thirst-quenching  Bulletproof Smoothie  just in time for Miami’s hottest months. A curated selection of locally sourced craft beer and sustainable wines from small European vineyards can also accompany lunch or dinner. DIRT also makes homemade baked goods and desserts in-house every day, ranging from gluten-free peanut butter cookies, almond and orange cake (a traditional recipe from Sevilla, Spain), chocolate chip cookies, vegan brownies, and  “ Bulletproof Balls”,  made with 70 percent dark chocolate, house-made granola, Sunwarrior organic plant protein, and Bulletproof XTC Oil. DIRT is now open for service and delivery  Monday  through  Friday  from  10 a.m. to 10 p.m. , and  Saturday  and  Sunday  from  9 a.m. to 9 p.m. Share: STAY FIT 305 is a local fitness news site dedicated to all things health and wellness in South Florida - where to train, who to train with, tips from the pros, healthy places to eat, events happening around town, and more. November 25, 2019 November 19, 2019 November 14, 2019 November 13, 2019 © 2019 Stay Fit 305 