Face Painting Calgary - Entertainment Agency - Balloon Twister Calgary Face Painting Calgary - Entertainment Agency - Balloon Twister Calgary       Check out our services and meet some of our amazing entertainers!!      Check out our services and meet some of our amazing entertainers!! Check out our services and meet some of our amazing entertainers!! Check out our services and meet some of our amazing entertainers!! Check out our services and meet some of our amazing entertainers!! Check out our services and meet some of our amazing entertainers!! A children’s event can never be complete without the face painter. Everyone including kids and adults love to get transformed through face painting Calgary services. We use superior quality, water based paint approved for use on face. The makeup will be applied according to the local health regulations. We can also paint arms and hands based on the party theme. A party cannot be complete without balloons. At Encore Events, we take the concept to the next level by providing balloon twisting and balloon art works - the kids cannot be happier than this. Select the colors of your choice and we will transform them into amazing shapes. Balloon twisting can enhance the party tempo further when combined with face painting.  We are your full-fledged entertainment company in calgary specializing in Balloons, Magic, Circus, Variety Arts, and other party essentials for weddings, festivals and other events targeted of all age groups. We have our team of entertainers for creating unique events. Besides, we also provide professional coordination for the perfect and finest catering services. Top 4 most requested services for summer of 2014 When it comes to themed parties, especially those involving kids, face painting is our most requested service. We have highly skilled, experienced and creative face painters who can paint anything from the check to creating full face designs. We use only the safest paints for your kids’ skin. Our face painter Calgary are experienced and regularly trained in the latest creative designs too. www.encoreevents.ca/face-painters We receive balloon twisting services for almost all of our kids’ party entertainment services. We provide all types of balloon items – from the simplest ones to the highly complex ones. You will be amazed by how fast our team can transform a simple balloon into a flower, monkey, dog, dragon, bunny or bird. To learn more click here:  www.encoreevents.ca/balloon-twisters You may be having a grand wedding celebration or a stampede event, we can arrange for the most entertaining bands for your event. All you have to do is inform us about the music genre you need and the kind of event it is and we will book the best bands for you.Learn more here:  www.encoreevents.ca/bands Kids love bouncy castles and they have become an integral part of any children’s parties. We can make bouncy castles of all shapes and sizes. We could also create bouncy castles for weddings, christenings, shopping centers, and gala events. We offer a variety of themed castles for various occasions. Learn more here:  www.encoreevents.ca/event-rentals Below you will find the latest posts from our blog.  Having a magician in a birthday party, a corporate event or a wedding could be a unique experience for your guests. Magicians are some of the most talented and “unbelievable” performers, and there is hardly any other form of entertainment that could beat magic. Magicians make the perfect entertainers for kids’ parties. It is one [ ] Everyone including kids and adults love the spectacle of a clown, leave alone the performance and magical tricks. Clowns are perfect entertainers for birthday parties. They are fun and entertaining and can bring together all members of the family. So if you have kids-focused party, make sure to have one or more clowns performing at [ ] Parties are some of the most awaited occasions for kids of almost all age groups. The next time you organize a birthday party or any other event involving kids, make sure to have balloon twisting artists. Balloon twisting is safe and fun way for everyone, from kids to adults, to be entertained at a party. [ ]  Give us an Encore by calling us at : 1-587-436-7866 Email:  info@encoreevents.ca  Phone: 1-587-436-7866 Copyright 2014 Encore Events  &  Entertainment. All Rights Reserved. 