Chance Perdomo Height, Age, Girlfriend, Family, Biography  &  More Chance Perdomo  (born October 19, 1996) is a British Actor and Model from London, United Kingdom. He is famous for his role as  Ambrose Spellman  in  Chilling Adventures of Sabrina  (Netflix original series). Furthermore, the 22-year-old Actor also acted in  Killed by My Debt (2018)  as Jerome Rogers. In February 2018, it was announced that Perdomo cast in the series as the main role of Ambrose Spellman. The Netflix series is based on  American comic book series  published by Archie Horror. Moreover, the other casts of the show are: This Handsome Actor was  born  on the 19th of October 1996 in London, United Kingdom. Hence,  Chance Perdomo s age  is Twenty-two (22) years old in 2018. The information about his  father, mother, brother,  and  sister  are not yet disclosed but we will update you soon. Furthermore, the actor originally auditions for the role of Jughead Jones on The CW s series  Riverdale . But unfortunately, he was not able to get the role. Moreover, Roberto Aguirre-Sacasa (American playwright and screenwriter)was so impressed by his audition that he wrote Ambrose Spellman character with Chance in mind. As per  relationship , the actor never revealed anything about his  girlfriend  on the internet. But we assume that Chance is possibly  single  and focusing on his career. Netflix 11M subscribers Subscribe Chilling Adventures of Sabrina | Official Trailer | Netflix Info Shopping Tap to unmute If playback doesn ' t begin shortly, try restarting your device. More videos Your browser does not currently recognize any of the video formats available.  Click here to visit our frequently asked questions about HTML5 video. More videos on YouTube Share Include playlist An error occurred while retrieving sharing information. Please try again later. Watch later Share Copy link An error occurred. Try watching this video on www.youtube.com , or enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser. Current ye@r  * Leave this field empty 