20 Best paralegal (6 month contract) jobs in London Bridge Station (Hiring Now!) | SimplyHired Sign In or Create Account Refine Your Search Job Type Sort by Date Added Distance We prefer candidates with at least 6 months experience however candidates without experience who are driven and committed will also be considered. Previous paralegal or legal assistant experience in Personal Injury or Clinical Negligence is essential. We are seeking an experienced, confident, proactive,… 6 months+ experience as a paralegal, within either an in-house or private practice environment. We are actively recruiting for experienced paralegals. This will be an initial 6 month contract on a full time basis. We would like to hire a paralegal for our award winning Family team. In respect of new emerging technologies, smart legal contracts, contextualised commerce, gaming. This includes assisting on a variety of department and firm… The contract is for 6 months and will offer fantastic experience. Have experience working as a Corporate Paralegal. Supporting the legal team and business team. International law firm seeks paralegal for six month fixed term contract role. Previous paralegal experience is not necessary. The ideal candidate will have a Law degree or equivalent and 6 months of exposure working in commercial Litigation. Assisting associates on a daily basis. They are looking to recruit a paralegal on an initial 6 month contract to join their award winning Family department. Our client is a Mayfair-based law firm; You will be a Conveyancing Paralegal (circa 6 months &# x27; experience). Training Contracts are potentially available down the line. Our client, a renowned US law firm are seeking a Paralegal to join their Arbitration department on a 6 month fixed term contract. 6+ months Paralegal exposure in a Residential Property / Conveyancing from a highly respected institution. Our client, an National Law Firm, is looking to hire… 6+ months previous Immigration Paralegal experience. Our client, a highly regarded International Law Firm, is seeking an experienced Paralegal to join their… The ideal candidate will have 6 months experience in a similar role. Our client, a highly prestigious International Law Firm are looking for a paralegal to join… Candidates that have completed the LPC and have minimum 6 months experience working within Construction Law are most of interest. Our client, a top London law firm based in the heart of Mayfair is seeking an experienced paralegal to join their Family department on an initial 6 month… Our client, a highly prestigious UK-Based International Law Firm, is seeking a Risk and Compliance Paralegal to join them on a 6 month contract. Preparing, maintaining and updating legal documents and contracts, in relation to GDPR and other relevant data protection/privacy legislation worldwide. Paralegal position at a well known Private Equity Firm in London. Assisting with preparing responses to any legal queries that arise in relation to the business… You will be a Conveyancing Paralegal (6 months experience). They currently have 3 Paralegals doing Training Contracts with them. 