Congenital Myasthenic Syndrome Due to Choline Acetyltransferase Mutations in Infants: Clinical Suspicion and Comprehensive Electrophysiological Assessment Are Important for Early Diagnosis - Robertino Dilena, Angela Abicht, Paola Sergi, Giacomo P. Comi, Alessio Di Fonzo, Giovanna Chidini, Federica Natacci, Sergio Barbieri, Hanns Lochmüller, 2014 You can be signed in via any or all of the methods shown below at the same time. Sign in here to access free tools such as favourites and alerts, or to access personal subscriptions I don't have a profile I am signed in as: '+$user.attr('name')+' With my free profile I can: If you have access to journal content via a university, library or employer, sign in here I am signed in via: my institutional subscription Sign in via:  Shibboleth Sign in via:  Open Athens Signed in via:  a federated identity Sign in via:  Shibboleth Sign in via:  Open Athens my institutional subscription With institutional access I can: If you have access to journal via a society or associations, read the instructions below Access to society journal content varies across our titles. If you have access to a journal via a society or association membership, please browse to your society journal, select an article to view, and follow the instructions in this box. Contact us if you experience any difficulty logging in. Some society journals require you to create a personal profile, then activate your society account I am signed in via: my society or association my society or association With society access I can: Need Help? Contact SAGE You are adding the following journals to your email alerts Contents If you have the appropriate software installed, you can download article citation data to the citation manager of your choice. Simply select your manager software from the list below and click on download. If you have the appropriate software installed, you can download article citation data to the citation manager of your choice. Simply select your manager software from the list below and click on download. Share this article via social media. The e-mail addresses that you supply to use this service will not be used for any other purpose without your consent. Email a link to the following content: Your email has been sent! All fields are required Sharing links are not available for this article. For more information view the  SAGE Journals Article Sharing  page. Create a link to share a read only version of this article with your colleagues and friends. For more information view the  SAGE Journals Sharing  page. Please read and accept the  terms and conditions  and check the box to generate a sharing link. I have read and accept the terms and conditions View permissions information for this article Explore More Congenital myasthenic syndromes are inherited disorders caused by various defects in neuromuscular transmission. Although the typical presentation is fatigable weakness with prominent cranial involvement, neonates can lack these hallmark manifestations, and in those with choline acetyltransferase gene mutations, basal electrophysiological testing can yield negative findings. The authors report the case of a male infant presenting at birth with oculomotor and bulbofacial weakness, hypotonia, clubfoot, and severe respiratory insufficiency. Electromyography showed myogenic signs, and basal repetitive nerve stimulation yielded negative findings. Since age 6 months, the infant had progressively improved, acquiring autonomous respiration. Prolonged subtetanic repetitive nerve stimulation disclosed a marked decremental response compatible with suspected congenital myasthenic syndrome with episodic apnea. Genetic testing identified 2 novel choline acetyltransferase mutations (R470X, F580C). Keeping a high clinical suspicion of this rare condition and undertaking early comprehensive electrophysiological assessments including prolonged repetitive nerve stimulation (10 Hz for 5 minutes) can expedite the diagnosis. Click the button below for the full-text content 请点击以下获取该全文 24 hours online access to download content If you have an individual subscription to this content, or if you have purchased this content through  Pay Per Article  within the past 24 hours, you can gain access by logging in with your username and password here: article book data external-link info-round info-round external-link 