' Beautiful Secluded Coastal Maine Island cottage Rental '  Four Season - Deer Isle Ricky Property #  427167 This property is centrally located on the Island. This Island is famous for there lobsters, Our lobsters are harvested year round by our Independent lobstermen. Stonington is known for it &# x27;s abundance in supply of lobsters and shipped all over the world. Lobster Nutrition Facts (Courtesy of the Maine Lobster Council): As delicious as Maine Lobster tastes, it &# x27;s hard to believe that it &# x27;s actually a healthy protein. Once for ounce, lobster is actually lower in calories and fat than skinless chicken breast! For those watching their cholesterol, lobster is comparable to skinless chicken breast. Lobster meat also includes many beneficial vitamins and minerals that increase brain activity, promote healthy bones and maintain healthy nerve cells. Check-in :  4:00 PM Check-out :  10:00 AM No parties/events No smoking Pets allowed Children allowed Max guests: 6 100% refund if canceled at least 60 days before arrival date.  We had a wonderful time at the cabin. We enjoyed the beautiful scenery and Bar Harbor. We had a very positive experience. The online listing needs to have the Spa/whirlpool removed as a feature. That was disappointing when that wasn &# x27;t there. The shower needs a new showerhead. Other than that the house was very nice, clean and quiet. Deer Isle was beautiful and the people were very friendly. We enjoyed the time we spent there. Could have used more toilet paper and hand soap My family and I really enjoyed our stay on Deer Isle. The cottage was everything we expected from the description and more. My favorite part was sitting on the front porch with my coffee and listening to the wind in the trees. Our dog enjoyed the stay as well. The cottage was secluded enough that she could roam freely and be safe. We contacted the owner once before we traveled he answered right away and said if we needed anything to call. We needed nothing. The cottage was clean and the property well kept. It’s alittlle more than an hour to Acadia and Bar Harbor where we spent two of our days. The island was nice because it did not have the crowds of Bar Harbor. Very well cleaned and maintained. Perfect for a family. We spent a lovely, relaxing week in this cottage. Everything we needed was available. Each day we explored different areas, from Blue Hill, Stonington, Castine and even the Sow &# x27;s Ear winery. Hiking at Acadia, Barred Island and then spending quiet time watching the fireflies from the front porch. A great time! x 