Quebec ' s Crown prosecutors and government lawyers walk off job - The Globe and Mail The subject who is truly loyal to the Chief Magistrate will neither advise nor submit to arbitrary measures. Quebec Crown prosecutors demonstrate in front of the province's hall of justice in Quebec City on Tuesday. Jacques Boissinot/The Canadian Press/Jacques Boissinot/The Canadian Press This article was published more than 8 years ago. Some information in it may no longer be current. Find your bookmarks by selecting your profile name. Quebec's Crown prosecutors and government lawyers say they didn't want to strike. In fact, they didn't even want the right to strike when it was awarded to them eight years ago. Now that they have it, however, the lawyers say they have no choice but to use it. About 450 Crown prosecutors and 1,000 civil lawyers and notaries walked off the job for the first time on Tuesday, claiming they are the worst paid and most overworked in the country. Story continues below advertisement The Quebec government is considering legislation to order the lawyers back to work, saying it can't afford to meet their demands. The prosecutors and other lawyers say that the government's plan all along has been to bring in back-to-work legislation. "What we are witnessing here is a play where the government has pretended to negotiate throughout the fall and literally forced us into a strike position in order to have a excuse to legislate us back to work," said Christian Leblanc, president of the Quebec Crown Prosecutors Association. Salaries and workload are at the heart of the dispute. Quebec prosecutors have argued for years that they are underpaid and overworked compared with prosecutors across the rest of Canada. "This is an historic day. This an opportunity for this government to fix an administration of justice that is broken," said James Chaffee, president of the Canadian Association of Crown Counsel. The Quebec justice system, he said, has been chronically underfunded for years. "Quebec is particularly untenable. ... This is maybe the worst place for a prosecutor to work in Canada. It's the worst pay with the highest workload and the poorest working conditions," Mr. Chaffee said. The lawyers are demanding parity with lawyers in the rest of Canada. They've asked the government to set up a mechanism headed by an independent arbitrator to eliminate the 40-per-cent gap in pay that separates Quebec prosecutors and government lawyers from what those in the rest of the country are paid. Story continues below advertisement "Forty per cent is a very conservative estimate. Our figures show that it is even higher than 40 per cent," said Marc Lajoie, president of the Quebec Civil Lawyers and Notaries Association. According to Quebec government statistics, the starting salary for a Crown prosecutor in Quebec is $42,000, compared with the national average of $58,000. The maximum salary in Quebec is slightly more than $100,000 after 15 years of service compared with the national average of $140,000. The gap is even bigger when compared with Ontario, where salaries range from approximately $76,000 to $215,000. Justice Minister Jean-Marc Fournier acknowledged there is a problem with the way lawyers have been treated but insisted that the government does not have the money to fill the salary gap with the rest of the country. The government urged the prosecutors and other lawyers to return to the bargaining table but hinted that the province's courts cannot remain paralyzed for any great length of time. "There is disruption in our system of justice with this strike," Mr. Fournier said. "I don't want to light any fire ... We aren't trying to settle 30 years [of disparity]in one moment. But we are doing everything we can with the means we got." There was no indication from either side when or if bargaining will resume. Story continues below advertisement Welcome to The Globe and Mail’s comment community. This is a space where subscribers can engage with each other and Globe staff. Non-subscribers can read and sort comments but will not be able to engage with them in any way.  Click here to subscribe . If you would like to write a letter to the editor, please forward it to  letters@globeandmail.com . Readers can also interact with The Globe on  Facebook  and  Twitter  . Welcome to The Globe and Mail’s comment community. This is a space where subscribers can engage with each other and Globe staff. Non-subscribers can read and sort comments but will not be able to engage with them in any way.  Click here to subscribe . If you would like to write a letter to the editor, please forward it to  letters@globeandmail.com . Readers can also interact with The Globe on  Facebook  and  Twitter  . Welcome to The Globe and Mail’s comment community. This is a space where subscribers can engage with each other and Globe staff. We aim to create a safe and valuable space for discussion and debate. That means: Comments that violate our community guidelines will be removed. Read our community guidelines here Discussion loading ... Read  most recent letters to the editor . Continue Reading  Copyright 2019 The Globe and Mail Inc. All rights reserved. 351 King Street East, Suite 1600, Toronto,  ON  Canada, M5A 0N1 Phillip Crawley, Publisher 