Playing for Keeps - Jill Shalvis - Hardcover Join to find the hottest teen books, connect with your favorite YA authors and meet new friends who share your reading interests.  Visit EpicReads.com » Read new romance book reviews, posts from your favorite authors, samples, exciting digital first publications and e-book specials. Visit AvonRomance.com » Visit the official Harlequin book site. See the newest novels, discuss with other book lovers, buy romance books online. Visit Harlequin.com » Get a  free  e-book from  Book perk  by  Jill Shalvis On Sale:  01/22/2019 $ 26.99 Spend $49 and get FREE shipping on HC.com by Jill Shalvis We'd love you to buy this book, and hope you find this page convenient in locating a place of purchase. The broadest selection of online bookstores. The links will take you to the Web site's homepage. From there you can navigate to the title you are interested in. Interest-specific online venues will often provide a book buying opportunity. Click here for a list of interest-specific sites grouped by category. If you are located outside the U.S., the best way to order online is to choose from the following bookstores listed by region and country. FIRST TIME AVAILABLE If you’re planning on falling in love… When it comes to the confident, charismatic Caleb Parker, Sadie Lane feels the spark—the kind that comes from rubbing each other the wrong way. She’s yoga pants, he’s a suit. She’s a tattoo artist, he’s a straight-laced mogul. But after they accidentally co-rescue an abandoned dog from a storm, Sadie sees a vulnerable side to the seemingly invincible hottie. you’d better be sure… Caleb doesn’t  do  emotions. Growing up the underdog, he’s learned the hard way to build up an impenetrable wall. Perfect for business. Disastrous for relationships. He’s never worried about it before—not until he finally gets behind Sadie’s armor and begins to fall. … someone is there to catch you. Both guarded and vulnerable, Sadie and Caleb are complete opposites. Or are they? Shocked at their undeniable connection, can they ever admit to wanting more? That all depends on what they’re each willing to risk. by  Jill Shalvis by  Sally Thorne by  Kathleen Tessaro by  Patrick O’Brian by  Sue Moorcroft by  Jill Shalvis by  Sally Thorne by  Kathleen Tessaro by  Patrick O’Brian by  Sue Moorcroft by  Jill Shalvis by  Sally Thorne Copyright © 2019 HarperCollins Publishers. All rights reserved. Site Powered by  Supadu Daily bookish finds, fantastic deals, giveaways, and more.  Plus, download a free e-book just for signing up! Click below to redeem your free e-book from BookShout. Use promo code  BookperkFree . Thanks for signing up! Before you claim your free e-book, tell us more about what you like to read so we can send you the best offers and opportunities. What kind of books do you like to read? Would you like to receive any of the followingnewsletters? 