River Park Stadium - SimCity 4 Buildings - Simtropolis Forgot your password?'> Forgot your password? Or sign in with one of these services A community dedicated to the SimCity series, Cities: Skylines and other city-building games. By  coultharda This is my latest stadium, 'River Park Stadium'. The design of the stadium is inspired by the Rheinpark Stadion in Vaduz, Liechtenstein, but as with all my stadiums based on something real-life, it's not completely accurate to its counterpart. The ground is suitable for larger semi-professional or small professional football teams, and perhaps even the national team of a small nation.   Stats * Plop Cost = 7500 * Monthly Cost = 100 * Bulldoze Cost = 250 * Power Consumed = 150 * Water Consumed = 150 * Pollution = V.low garbage. * Lot size = 5x6   I hope someone finds this useful in some way. You need to be a member in order to leave a review Sign up to join our friendly community. It's easy! Already have an account? Sign in here. Unknown date Unknown date Unknown date Unknown date Unknown date Unknown date Unknown date Unknown date Unknown date Unknown date Unknown date Unknown date Unknown date Unknown date Unknown date Unknown date Unknown date Unknown date Unknown date Unknown date Unknown date Unknown date Unknown date Unknown date Unknown date Copyright © 2003 - 2019 Simtropolis.com. All rights belong to their respective owners. Powered by Invision Community Thank You for the Continued Support! Simtropolis relies mainly on member donations to continue operating. Without your support, we just would not be able to be entering our  15th year  online!  You've really help make this a great community. But we still need your support to stay online. If you're able to, please consider a donation to help us stay up and running, so that we can help keep bringing SimCity players together to share our creations. Make a Donation, Get a Gift! Expand your city with the best from the Simtropolis Echange. Make a  donation  and get one or all three discs today! By way of a " Thank You " gift, we'd like to send you our  STEX Collector's DVD . It's some of the best buildings, lots, maps and mods collected for you over the years. Check out the  STEX Collections  for more info. Each donation helps keep Simtropolis online, open and free! Thank you for reading and enjoy the site! More About STEX Collections 