Feyline (5e Race) - D & D Wiki You can help D & D Wiki by finishing and/or adding flavor to this page. When the flavor has been changed so that this template is no longer applicable please remove this template. If you do not understand the idea behind this page please leave comments on this page's  talk  page before making any edits. Edit this Page  |  All stubs Feyline look like elves with cat ears, pointed fangs and a tail much like a cat. They also have varying appearance between subraces. Jungle feyline tend to have thinker hair and eyes that are the same color as humans or elf's but in a cat-like pattern. Moon feyline tend to have thin soft hair and eyes that are metallic or gem-like in appearance with a cat-like fur pattern. Black feyline tend to look like drow with cat ears, tail and fangs appearing more like a tiger than any other feyline and they always have piercing yellow eyes Male:  Sagreass, Eiko, Tomas Female:  Tamae, Shino, Nikki Feyline are the result of a elf and a cat-like race procreating. Ability Score Increase .  Your  Dexterity  score increases by 2 Age .  Feyline reach maturity at early age of 16 and live to the old age of 900 Alignment .  Feyline are normally of a happy disposition from inherit a passion for jokes dancing singing and merriment. From there, as a result, they tend towards chaotic alignments. Size .  Feyline range from 4 foot to 6 foot tall, they are Medium Speed .  Your base walking speed is 30 feet. Darkvision .  Accustomed to forests and the dark skys, you have superior vision in dark and dim conditions. You can see in  dim light  within 60 feet of you as if it were  bright light , and in  darkness  as if it were  dim light . You can't discern color in  darkness , only shades of gray. Cat's Terminal Velocity.  You always land on your feet when falling. As a result, you can't fall prone as a result of falling and you have resistance to fall damage. Cat Nap.  You can sleep for 4 hours and gain the same benefits that a human does from 8 hours of sleep. Fey Ancestry.  You have advantage on saving throws against being charmed, and magic can't put you to sleep. Keen Senses.  You have proficiency in  Perception . Languages .  You can speak, read, and write Common and Elvish Subrace .  Feyline are borne in litters. The elf parent affects the likelihood of which Feyline are borne to the family. You can roll d100 on the Feyline Child Table to decide each child. Ability Score Increase .  Your  Dexterity  score increases by 1. Cat's Claws.  Your claws are natural weapons, which you can use to make unarmed strikes. If you hit with them, you deal slashing damage equal to 1d4 + your  Dexterity  modifier per claw. For the purposes of attacking with both claws; your claws count as light weapons, though you may not take any free actions on your turn if you choose to do so. The damage increases to 1d8 +  Dexterity  per hand at level 12. You also gain a climbing speed equal to your movement speed. Feline Hunter.  As a cat, you naturally are very good at hunting and are able of hide even when you are only lightly obscured by foliage, heavy rain, falling snow, mist, and other natural phenomena including low light. You are proficient in Stealth. Ability Score Increase .  Your  Intelligence  score increases by 1 Illusion of the Moon.  You know the  minor illusion  cantrip.  Intelligence  is your spellcasting ability for it. Skill Versatility..  You gain proficiency in two skills of your choice Ability Score Increase .  Your  Wisdom  score increases by 1 Bad Luck Magic.  You know the Friends cantrip. When you reach 3rd level, you can cast  ray of sickness  once with this trait and regain the ability to do so when you finish a Long Rest. When you reach 5th level, you can cast the  moonbeam  spell once with this trait and regain the ability to do so when you finish a Long Rest.  Wisdom  is your spellcasting ability for these Spells. Superior Darkvision..  Your darkvision has a range of 120 feet. Back to  Main Page 5e Homebrew Races 