Not Forgotten  Macclesfield War Memorial Book | Remembering Macclesfield ' s Great War: www.macclesfieldreflects.org.uk Art historian and Macclesfield Reflects member Geoff Archer has published a new book The book shows the wide range of war memorials produced in Macclesfield and the surrounding villages, ranging from simple plaques or tablets, through statues, stained glass windows, obelisks, crosses and crucifixes, to more utilitarian memorials such as halls, hospitals and alms houses. It aims to provide some explanation of the processes of commemoration, of the social and artistic contexts in which memorials were planned, and of the intended meanings and interpretations of what was produced. 170 page A5 softback book, over 130 photos, price £7.50 The book may be purchased at Macclesfield Reflects events, at the Visitor Information Centre at Macclesfield Town Hall, or by  contacting Geoff via his website . You may also download, print and send  this order form  to reserve your copy for collection. Macclesfield Reflects and Cheshire Villages Great War Society member Harry Carlisle has produced a 133 page A4 illustrated softback book, They Responded to the Call of Duty, giving a background to the names listed on the Macclesfield Park Green World War II war memorial, and an addendum which gives information about casualties with… Macclesfield Reflects and Cheshire Villages Great War Society member Harry Carlisle has produced a 668 page A4 illustrated book,  " For the Freedom of us all " , giving a background to the names listed on 32 WWI war memorials from towns and villages in north-east Cheshire. Most have photographs and other details sourced…   The Family History Society of Cheshire, Macclesfield Group presents a talk  " Not Forgotten "  by Geoff Archer How, why, for whom, and by whom, were local war memorials produced. at 7.30pm on Tuesday 22nd October 2019 at the Salvation Army Hall, Wellington St, Macclesfield SK11 6PH (entrance opposite Churchill Way car… Your email address will not be published.  Required fields are marked  * Comment Name  * Email  * Website This site uses Akismet to reduce spam.  Learn how your comment data is processed . 