United Airlines restrictions on batteries - Air Travel Forum - TripAdvisor I am flying United in 4 weeks time from Sydney to LA and onwards In my carry on I will have a PMP, a small laptop, a digital camera and a video camera .. am I allowed to carry spare batteries for all of these items Especially the laptop and music player as I know that 1 battery wont last 15 hours Thanks Abbey yes there was some talk in the travel press a few months ago about some weird battery policy they thought of putting into effect where each battery had to be in a separate zip lock (I swear, there is some vast right wing conspiracy to boost the sale of baggies!) so that they couldnt rub together and explode - but in all my travels with multiple appliances and extra camera batteries I ' ve never been asked about batteries. Carry some extra baggies with you just in case, if you ' re worried.  At airport security, the laptop is the only thing you have to remove from your bag and put on the conveyor in its own tray. I remember reading about that, but I haven ' t been questioned about batteries I have carried, either.  Here is a link I found about the new policy that took effect January 1, 2008:  safetravel.dot.gov/whats_new_batteries.html Basically it sounds like they have 1) prohibited large shipments of lithium batteries from being transported in cargo and 2) required passengers to keep lithium batteries in their carry-on (not checked luggage) and they need to be secured in their original packaging or otherwise protected from their metal parts from touching each other or other metal. It sounds like you would have no problem carrying most smaller battery sizes, like AAA or aa batteries - but larger  ' power pack '  batteries might be limited in how many you can take. You can read more about that here:  http://safetravel.dot.gov/larger_batt.html Best of luck with your trip, -Noah they arent enforcing that law in my experience... they ' re so much more focused on whether you have a 4 oz bottle of shampoo than whether there could be bomb components in your bag!  When I came back from Mexico City 3 wks ago (all hand luggage gets hand inspected at the gate before you board) with multiple power pack type batteries all they cared about was whether there were tiny tubes of liquid hidden in the small outer pockets of my daypack!  -:- Message from TripAdvisor staff -:- This topic has been closed to new posts due to inactivity. We hope you'll join the conversation by posting to an open topic or starting a new one. To review the TripAdvisor Forums Posting Guidelines, please follow this link:  http://www.tripadvisor.com/pages/forums_posting_guidelines.html We remove posts that do not follow our posting guidelines, and we reserve the right to remove any post for any reason. 