Yarn: error: no such option: --dev · Issue #4005 · yarnpkg/yarn · GitHub GitHub is home to over 40 million developers working together to host and review code, manage projects, and build software together. Have a question about this project?  Sign up for a free GitHub account to open an issue and contact its maintainers and the community.   By clicking  Sign up for GitHub , you agree to our  terms of service  and     privacy statement . We’ll occasionally send you account related emails.     Already on GitHub?     Sign in     to your account   Following  this article  I am trying to add react environment in my fresh Laravel application. When I run  yarn add --dev react react-dom  It gives me the following error: Usage: yarn [options] yarn: error: no such option: --dev I am using: NodeJS:  v0.10.46 yarn:  0.16 Ubuntu:  15.10 Please help me to get ride of this problem. Thank you Can you please state yarn and node versions? Just to be sure, your Ubuntu is 17.04 correct? Also seen on SO.  https://stackoverflow.com/questions/45430645/ignite-error-how-to-solve-this# I can't find a "no such option" message anywhere in the current release of yarn. Possible dupe of  #3377 ? Closing this issue since the original creator has not provided any additional version information in 2 weeks. It also seems to work fine in current Yarn versions, so I suspect they just have a really old version. We can re-open this is a specific version is added to the bug description. You probably installed yarn using this: $ apt install cmdtest Use this instead: $ npm install --global yarn Hi first of all, thanks everybody, I have updated the question, please can you check now. @aqeelcodeenterprises  - as  @rally25rs  says "I suspect they just have a really old version" 0.16 is almost a year old. not old for a car, but old for software :) "  Before creating an issue please make sure you are using the latest version of yarn. " I don't see any helpful to use  /usr/local/bin/yarn You just need to use  sudo   before the command line. npm install --global yarn I used this, but nothing has changed 