17 Best Brunch Spots in Boston to Enjoy Every Weekend By entering your email address you agree to our  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy  and consent to receive emails from Time Out about news, events, offers and partner promotions. Thanks for subscribing! Look out for your first newsletter in your inbox soon! By entering your email address you agree to our  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy  and consent to receive emails from Time Out about news, events, offers and partner promotions. Thanks for subscribing! Look out for your first newsletter in your inbox soon! icon-search By entering your email address you agree to our  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy  and consent to receive emails from Time Out about news, events, offers and partner promotions. Thanks for subscribing! Look out for your first newsletter in your inbox soon! icon-search icon-chevron-right icon-chevron-right icon-chevron-right icon-chevron-right icon-chevron-right Weekends are for indulgent, extended brunches accompanied by a steady stream of mimosas and bloody marys. The best Boston brunches can be found at casual local hangouts as well as fine dining destinations. Is there a better way to start your day   or keep the party going   than a killer brunch? We think not. Either way, a sustaining brunch is exactly what you need after a long night spent drinking at the  best bars in Boston , dancing at the  best clubs in Boston , rocking out at the  best live music spots in Boston . RECOMMENDED: Full guide to the best restaurants in Boston Brunch the day away with a curated feast. Start with morning favorites such as delectable donuts from Union Square Donuts or egg sandwiches and smoked fish platters from Mamaleh's, then move on to heartier options from the likes of Craigie Burger and Ms. Clucks Deluxe. The rare restaurant that offers brunch seven days a week, this welcoming Southie hangout has developed a reputation for sinful brunch treats. Eye-catching eye-openers include Fruity Pebbles pancakes and short rib poutine (rosemary truffle fries, bone marrow gravy, smoked short rib, mozzarella, sunny-side up egg, crumbled bacon, and shaved truffle). If there s a big game on, expect the place to be packed. One of the city's most creative weekend brunches is served at this popular South End hangout. What is a sunrise poutine, you ask? Oh, just a heart-stopping pile of sunny-side eggs, fries, cheese curds, savory gravy and smoked ham. Other highlights include a hangover burger (topped with fried Babybels, spicy pickles, and a sunny-side egg), and a dish of fried chicken and pancakes that comes with black pepper maple butter and Vermont maple syrup. For more than four decades, this refined Harvard Square restaurant has set the local standard for farm-to-table dining. Sunday brunch service offers a decidedly grownup affair (no hangover hash here). Culinary gems include brown butter parsnip soup, strawberry-buttermilk pancakes, and a Scituate lobster roll. Come summer, a seat on the garden terrace is one of the most coveted al fresco brunch options in Cambridge. One of the city s coolest dim sum brunch scenes can be enjoyed on weekends at this South End stalwart. Local couples and packs of culinary enthusiasts gather to share selections from the lengthy menu, much of which veers into vegetarian and vegan territory. Inviting options run the gamut from delicate fresh rolls and lemony shrimp dumplings to wild boar dan dan noodles. Refreshing cold salads provide a nice counterpoint to fiery dishes such as spicy tofu bao. Chef-owner Michael Scelfo churns out some of Cambridge's most inventive weekend brunch offerings. Pickled corn pancakes jockey for attention alongside the likes of hickory smoked pig tails with cheese crisps, grits, and a soft poached egg. Lighter options include local burrata with spring onion jam, or what's billed as the "ubiquitous" kale salad, featuring shaved fennel, pistachio, and lemon. Plus, the bar's Szechuan Bloody Mary provides a textbook hair-of-the-dog option for those in need. Is there a more civilized way to enjoy your citrus-cured salmon Benedict than while gazing out onto the Public Garden? Midi s weekend brunch service leans classically French, with oysters, charcuterie and artisanal cheeses serving as lead-ins to "les croques" (madame or monsieur), beet gnocchi, or bavette steak frites. If someone's treating, pick out a bottle of Sancerre to pair with one of the seafood towers; the grand plateau features oysters, clams, shrimp cocktail, Chatham mussels, crudo, and salmon poke. Be prepared for a long, yet totally worth-it line on the weekends. Jamaica Plain s Little Dipper offers an out of this world brunch experience. On their cosmic-themed menu you'll find comforting and familiar breakfast options as well as indulgent sandwiches. No matter which dish you choose, don t forget to look up and admire the rocket ships hanging from the ceiling. For an Italian-accented Sunday brunch, make a beeline to this hot spot in the South End's Ink Block complex. Menu highlights include bucatini carbonara, pork belly and potato hash, and a mortadella sandwich with muffaletta relish. S trawberry cream cheese donuts, cinnamon buns, and mixed berry pop tarts are just some of the sweet treats on offer. Whenever the weather allows, opt for a table on the sunny sidewalk patio. A local gem for nearly 30 years, this family-owned restaurant is beloved for its huge portions of American breakfasts with a Portuguese twist served on the cheap. Every entr e comes with fresh fruit or a bowl of cream of wheat, though we highly recommend you choose the latter, a sweet and creamy dish with its own cult following. The vine-covered patio makes this spot a popular choice when the weather is warmer. Puritan's Sunday brunch service is a social affair, with crowds of youthful Cambridge residents splitting pitchers of mimosas, bloodies, and Aperol spritzes. Chef-owner Will Gilson preps an inviting brunch menu: popular options include sourdough griddle cakes with honey butter, and beet-cured salmon atop an everything bialy. Housemade pastries run the gamut from pesto monkey bread and twice-baked cashew croissants to sugar-and-spice donuts. Warning: as one of Kenmore Square s most popular weekend brunch spots, Island Creek Oyster Bar gets packed to the gills whenever the Sox have an afternoon home game. The seafood-centric menu satisfies savory hankerings for smoked salmon, fried clams, and most notably the kitchen's award-winning lobster roll. Those looking for a classic start to the day can opt for cinnamon French toast or an egg white frittata. Promising to satisfy champagne wishes and pastry dreams,  this Fort Point restaurant offers one of the neighborhood's most elaborate Sunday brunches. The pastry team's homemade selection of sweet treats changes frequently; items may include strawberry shortcake and salted caramel doughnuts. An assortment of plates small (kale caesar salad, toad in the hole) and large (lobster gnocchi, french toast with blood orange marmalade) ensures there's something for every appetite. Head to the Seaport for a most unique weekend brunch option; where else can you have moussaka alongside champagne tray service? Meze plates (zucchini crisps, a tzatziki trio) demand attention alongside classic breakfast faves. The breakfast gyro (scrambled eggs, grilled halloumi, loukaniko, and florina pepper coulis wrapped in a pita) is a house favorite. When the weather allows, the breezy outdoor patio is a great spot for people-watching. This Inman Square haunt may be the only spot in town to offer brunch on both Sundays and Mondays. The odd timing might cater to restaurant industry workers, but anyone can stop by to enjoy fried chicken and buttermilk waffles topped with hot pepper syrup. Other temptations: a brunch burger topped with chocolate-covered bacon, and blueberry French toast made with Texas toast, malted whipped cream, cobbler cookie crumble, and maple syrup. The bar whips up a bevy of creative booze-forward drinks for hair-of-the-dog types. Befitting a modern steakhouse, Boston Chops pulls out all the carnivorous stops during its Sunday brunch service. We're talking a dish of brisket, shank and tongue hash, served with fries, cheese curds, gravy, and a poached egg. Steaks, tartare, and burgers are on offer, as are classics such as French toast, eggs Benedict, and several different variations of the Bloody Mary (including one with smoked beef tongue). Waypoint invites Sunday brunchers to indulge their seafood obsessions while the sun's out. Celebratory types eschew fresh oysters or smoked and salted peel-and-eat shrimp in favor of the inventive caviar service, complete with plankton and white corn blinis. Other nautically-inspired brunch offerings include a potato latke Benedict topped with lobster, an everything bagel pizza topped with smoked whitefish, and a plate of chicken-fried oysters and waffles featuring buttermilk-bacon gravy and roasted apple honey. For a historically-minded Sunday brunch, look no further than East Cambridge s Loyal Nine, where the kitchen reinvents New England classics for modern-day palates. This approach translates into a rare opportunity to start your day with an order of sweet corn samp (a traditional porridge featuring poached egg, roasted rainbow carrots, confit mushrooms), or eggs baked in a cast iron with parsnip, squash, and thyme cheese sauce. Check out the best breakfast restaurants in America and treat yourself to a healthy breakfast or a boozy brunch [title] Paid content By entering your email address you agree to our  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy  and consent to receive emails from Time Out about news, events, offers and partner promotions. Thanks for subscribing! Look out for your first newsletter in your inbox soon! By entering your email address you agree to our  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy  and consent to receive emails from Time Out about news, events, offers and partner promotions. Thanks for subscribing! Look out for your first newsletter in your inbox soon!  2019 Time Out America LLC and affiliated companies owned by Time Out Group Plc. All rights reserved. Time Out is a registered trademark of Time Out America LLC. By entering your email address you agree to our  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy  and consent to receive emails from Time Out about news, events, offers and partner promotions. Thanks for subscribing! Look out for your first newsletter in your inbox soon! 