Tim Stevener, MBA - Director, Interventional X-ray Business, Shimadzu Medical Systems, USA - Shimadzu Medical Systems USA | LinkedIn High-performance Senior Management executive with MBA and 20+ years’ visionary leadership in global business strategy, marketing and sales, project management and customer relationship management for healthcare industry. Combine technical and clinical expertise to create innovative solutions that drive revenue. Strong communication skills with proven success in motivating teams to exceed goals on time and in budget. Shared by  Tim Stevener, MBA Liked by  Tim Stevener, MBA Shared by  Tim Stevener, MBA May 2016   –  Present 3 years 8 months Cleveland/Akron, Ohio Area 15 years 3 months Nov 2003   –   Apr 2016 12 years 6 months Field business manager responsible for driving the business of Interventional Xray products for the region: Leadership achievements:   • Orchestrate $12M interventional x-ray business for Virginia region; coach and manage regional sales team of six to grow interventional x-ray business, exceeding goals and expectations.   • Collaborate on several special projects for interventional x-ray business senior leadership, such as regional forecasting model and regional business planning template, fulfilling project objectives. • Completed EMBA degree while simultaneously overseeing successful expansion of Regional iXr business, developing strong ability to multitask and maximize efficiency.  • Manage team of indirect reports, ranging from six to nine account managers. Business Strategy achievements: • Partner with OnePhilips team members in cross-functional teams to develop and implement new strategic business opportunities, achieving 70%+ market share to date.  • Create strategy and business plan, including development of new strategic interventional x-ray customers, establishing sustainable relationships with growing customer base. Marketing  &  Sales achievements:   • Honored as Philips' Pinnacle Board recipient 2004 for placing in top 10% in sales in North America. • Achieved 142 % to plan in last fiscal year during EMBA studies, delivering high performances. • Developed field sales marketing tools for presentations and competitive marketing. Field business manager responsible for driving the business of Interventional Xray products for the region: Leadership achievements:   • Orchestrate $12M interventional x-ray business for Virginia region; coach and manage regional sales team of six to grow interventional x-ray business, exceeding goals and expectations.   • Collaborate on several special projects for interventional x-ray business senior leadership, such as regional forecasting model and regional business planning... Field business manager responsible for driving the business of Interventional Xray products for the region: Leadership achievements:   • Orchestrate $12M interventional x-ray business for Virginia region; coach and manage regional sales team of six to grow interventional x-ray business, exceeding goals and expectations.   • Collaborate on several special projects for interventional x-ray business senior leadership, such as regional forecasting model and regional business planning template, fulfilling project objectives. • Completed EMBA degree while simultaneously overseeing successful expansion of Regional iXr business, developing strong ability to multitask and maximize efficiency.  • Manage team of indirect reports, ranging from six to nine account managers. Business Strategy achievements: • Partner with OnePhilips team members in cross-functional teams to develop and implement new strategic business opportunities, achieving 70%+ market share to date.  • Create strategy and business plan, including development of new strategic interventional x-ray customers, establishing sustainable relationships with growing customer base. Marketing  &  Sales achievements:   • Honored as Philips' Pinnacle Board recipient 2004 for placing in top 10% in sales in North America. • Achieved 142 % to plan in last fiscal year during EMBA studies, delivering high performances. • Developed field sales marketing tools for presentations and competitive marketing. Feb 2001   –   Oct 2003 2 years 9 months Responsible for managing P  for North American Radiographic and General Xray Businesses: Management achievements:   • Promoted to Business Unit Director, General X-Ray Business as result of outstanding track record as Business Unit Director, Radiography Business. • Participated in global business forecasting “Carousel meetings” to set global business goals. • Hired, coached and managed team of 8 direct and indirect reports. Business strategy achievements: • Achieved $188M GXR business in Philips North American Sales  &  Service Region, exceeding expectations.  • Developed strategic market plans for diverse portfolio of x-ray products and managed introduction of new products into North American market in timely manner. • Traveled twice annually to participate in global strategic planning, meeting corporate leaders in Hamburg, Germany to develop North American strategy and business forecasting Marketing  &  Sales achievements:   • Supervise budget planning and tracking Sales and Marketing Management, meeting projected numbers and reducing expenses to exceed goals.  • Research and develop pricing strategies to introduce new products in marketplace, resulting in new price strategy and increased sales. • Developed marketing materials for new products being introduced. Responsible for managing P  for North American Radiographic and General Xray Businesses: Management achievements:   • Promoted to Business Unit Director, General X-Ray Business as result of outstanding track record as Business Unit Director, Radiography Business. • Participated in global business forecasting “Carousel meetings” to set global business goals. • Hired, coached and managed team of 8 direct and indirect reports. Business strategy achievements: • Achieved... Responsible for managing P  for North American Radiographic and General Xray Businesses: Management achievements:   • Promoted to Business Unit Director, General X-Ray Business as result of outstanding track record as Business Unit Director, Radiography Business. • Participated in global business forecasting “Carousel meetings” to set global business goals. • Hired, coached and managed team of 8 direct and indirect reports. Business strategy achievements: • Achieved $188M GXR business in Philips North American Sales  &  Service Region, exceeding expectations.  • Developed strategic market plans for diverse portfolio of x-ray products and managed introduction of new products into North American market in timely manner. • Traveled twice annually to participate in global strategic planning, meeting corporate leaders in Hamburg, Germany to develop North American strategy and business forecasting Marketing  &  Sales achievements:   • Supervise budget planning and tracking Sales and Marketing Management, meeting projected numbers and reducing expenses to exceed goals.  • Research and develop pricing strategies to introduce new products in marketplace, resulting in new price strategy and increased sales. • Developed marketing materials for new products being introduced. May 1988   –   Jan 2001 12 years 9 months Responsible for managing P  for a small worldwide medical imaging business: Management achievements: • Oversaw P  business of $15M Radiology Business, representing 70% of company revenue. • Managed development, manufacturing, sales and service of business segment and InfiMed sales network, including direct, dealer and VAR distributors.  • Led development and introduction of new Digital Radiography product line, driving revenue growth. • Hired, coached and managed team of 14 direct reports, increasing productivity.  • Delivered presentations at international sales meetings and developed extensive knowledge on global business. Business Development achievements:   • Built $15M Radiology Business in vertically integrated manufacturing company, resulting in stronger and more profitable business.  • Initiated new international sales and distribution channels in Asia, South America, and Western Europe. • Coordinated OEM contracts and development of new business opportunities, including OEM agreements for domestic and international market expansion. • Spearhead sales through direct and distributor distribution network, building contacts for future growth. • Negotiated significant contracts with a large Xray company ($4.5M) and an interbnatoinal distributor of x-ray generators and imaging products • Managed OEM contract with our largest customer worth $5M annually • Designed and developed four new imaging product lines, winning praise from senior management. Responsible for managing P  for a small worldwide medical imaging business: Management achievements: • Oversaw P  business of $15M Radiology Business, representing 70% of company revenue. • Managed development, manufacturing, sales and service of business segment and InfiMed sales network, including direct, dealer and VAR distributors.  • Led development and introduction of new Digital Radiography product line, driving revenue growth. • Hired, coached and managed team of 14... Responsible for managing P  for a small worldwide medical imaging business: Management achievements: • Oversaw P  business of $15M Radiology Business, representing 70% of company revenue. • Managed development, manufacturing, sales and service of business segment and InfiMed sales network, including direct, dealer and VAR distributors.  • Led development and introduction of new Digital Radiography product line, driving revenue growth. • Hired, coached and managed team of 14 direct reports, increasing productivity.  • Delivered presentations at international sales meetings and developed extensive knowledge on global business. Business Development achievements:   • Built $15M Radiology Business in vertically integrated manufacturing company, resulting in stronger and more profitable business.  • Initiated new international sales and distribution channels in Asia, South America, and Western Europe. • Coordinated OEM contracts and development of new business opportunities, including OEM agreements for domestic and international market expansion. • Spearhead sales through direct and distributor distribution network, building contacts for future growth. • Negotiated significant contracts with a large Xray company ($4.5M) and an interbnatoinal distributor of x-ray generators and imaging products • Managed OEM contract with our largest customer worth $5M annually • Designed and developed four new imaging product lines, winning praise from senior management. Aug 1979   –   May 1988 8 years 10 months 2009   –   2011 Activities and Societies: Executive MBA Program Executive Master of Business Administration, Focus:  Leadership  &  Strategy; 3.97 GPA, 2011 Sample modules:  Global Challenges, Organizational Culture, Team Building  &  Leadership International study:  Traveled with class to Cape Town and met with business leaders to learn how business is conducted in South Africa. Executive Master of Business Administration, Focus:  Leadership  &  Strategy; 3.97 GPA, 2011 Sample modules:  Global Challenges, Organizational Culture, Team Building  &  Leadership International study:  Traveled with class to Cape Town and met with business leaders to learn how business is conducted in South Africa. 1984   –   1988 Minor in Management of Information Systems Minor in Management of Information Systems 1977   –   1979 A multiple video data bus architecture permits high speed data transfer among the various circuit elements of a fluoroscopic imaging processor. This permits simultaneous acquisition, storage, display and image enhancement of high resolution of high resolution. i.e. 2K x2K images. A memory interface circuit compresses the video data for storage in bulk memory. The processor support several high-resolution monitors which can respectively display radiographic images from different subjects, so that review and diagnosis can occur remotely. A multiple video data bus architecture permits high speed data transfer among the various circuit elements of a fluoroscopic imaging processor. This permits simultaneous acquisition, storage, display and image enhancement of high resolution of high resolution. i.e. 2K x2K images. A memory interface circuit compresses the video data for storage in bulk memory. The processor support several high-resolution monitors which can respectively display radiographic images from different subjects, so... A multiple video data bus architecture permits high speed data transfer among the various circuit elements of a fluoroscopic imaging processor. This permits simultaneous acquisition, storage, display and image enhancement of high resolution of high resolution. i.e. 2K x2K images. A memory interface circuit compresses the video data for storage in bulk memory. The processor support several high-resolution monitors which can respectively display radiographic images from different subjects, so that review and diagnosis can occur remotely. Developing a new value chain to meet the changing customer demands by modifying our value propositions for various customer segments and increasing our value across the entire customer lifecycle. Developing a new value chain to meet the changing customer demands by modifying our value propositions for various customer segments and increasing our value across the entire customer lifecycle. A preview of what LinkedIn members have to say about Tim: I had the pleasure of being on Tim ' s team during our first year of the EMBA program at VCU.  Tim is charismatic and well-versed in business, as evidenced by his success in the program and his leadership skills.  He is also a diligent worker, dedicated to our team ' s projects and to providing the best quality results.  I look forward to opportunities to work with Tim in the future. I had the pleasure of being on Tim ' s team during our first year of the EMBA program at VCU.  Tim is charismatic and well-versed in business, as evidenced by his success in the program and his leadership skills.  He is also a diligent worker, dedicated to our team ' s projects and to providing the best quality results.  I look forward to opportunities to work with Tim in the future. I had the pleasure of being a classmate of Tim’s in our Executive MBA program at VCU. Tim was always willing to share his unique insight into group and class discussions which made learning and the program more valuable to us all. His ability to relate to people and share his ideas and insights make him a great collaborator and an asset to any team. I’ve also seen how Tim’s ability to relate to customers makes him valuable not only to his company, but the customers they serve as well. I think Tim strives to give the customer what they need in order to be successful, which creates success for everyone involved. I’m glad to know Tim, count him as a friend, and hope to work with him again in the future. I had the pleasure of being a classmate of Tim’s in our Executive MBA program at VCU. Tim was always willing to share his unique insight into group and class discussions which made learning and the program more valuable to us all. His ability to relate to people and share his ideas and insights make him a great collaborator and an asset to any team. I’ve also seen how Tim’s ability to relate to customers makes him valuable not only to his company, but the customers they serve as well. I... I had the pleasure of being a classmate of Tim’s in our Executive MBA program at VCU. Tim was always willing to share his unique insight into group and class discussions which made learning and the program more valuable to us all. His ability to relate to people and share his ideas and insights make him a great collaborator and an asset to any team. I’ve also seen how Tim’s ability to relate to customers makes him valuable not only to his company, but the customers they serve as well. I think Tim strives to give the customer what they need in order to be successful, which creates success for everyone involved. I’m glad to know Tim, count him as a friend, and hope to work with him again in the future. 6 people have recommended Tim Join now to view Join to view Tim’s full profile 