10 Best Perfumes of 2017 - ELLE Editors Share Their Signature Scents ELLE may earn money from the links on this page. We smell nice. What does an ELLE editor smell like? Bottle our scents and you've got an intoxicating mix of "laundry and heaven," Alber Elbaz, and a fragrance that fishes for compliments so you don't have to. These 10 picks are our all-time favorite perfumes. Take a whiff.  It's a lesser known fact that you can't walk too far in downtown NYC without a whiff of someone wearing Le Labo Santal 33, but I have fallen in love with the floral woody scent of Rose 31. I've become so addicted that even though I refuse to leave the apartment without a few sprays, I make sure to carry a travel size for the moment I hop off the subway. Despite its rose notes, the scent itself is not flowery in fact its musk and wood notes make for an ambiguous scent that can (and should) be worn by men and women. I will probably shed more than a few tears when I finally run out.   Emily Tannenbaum, ELLE Social Media Editor Le Labo Rose 31, $180;  nordstrom.com I know it's SO on the nose to be a bookish person who picks a fragrance that's literally called "Book." I'm sorry about that. But I'm not sorry about praising this warm, spice-laden scent, which conjures up the mental adventure of a book rather than a musty library; it contains my must-have notes of amber and sandalwood, to make this reader feel more sophisticated than she might actually be.   Estelle Tang, ELLE.com Culture Editor Commodity Book, $105;  sephora.com I just love the bright citrus notes in this. I'm a fan of fruity, feminine scents so I always feel like this is an automatic perk-me-up whenever I wear it (and for whoever I'm wearing it around.)   Alyssa Bailey, ELLE.com Associate Editor kate spade new york Live Colorfully Eau de Parfum, $75; sephora.com This scent is magically both warm and fresh--I know, it's confusing, but somehow it's true. This is at once the perfume that inspires people to ask "what is that scent?" when they hug you and a smell you never get sick of.  Sally Holmes, ELLE.com Executive Editor Le Labo Bergamote 22, $180;  net-a-porter.com Does anyone else miss Alber Elbaz? Since exiting the fashion world he's been living his best life on  IG , but I'm keeping him close to my heart with this bottle. In partnership with Fr d ric Malle , a brand dedicated to creating and promoting scents by famous perfumers, is this new launch. It's a deep, jasmine scent with an earthy, natural top note. So it's floral, feminine, and has a touch of innate sensuality, just like Alber's pined after sense of design.   Justine Carreon, ELLE.com Associate Market Editor Alber Elbaz par Fr d ric Malle Superstitious Parfum, $255;  barneys.com So I don't know much about this strangely named perfume other than that my friend wore it once and I could not get over it. She smelled like laundry and heaven and I don't know what else but it was so seductive. The name is so weird and suspect that I always forget it, then I text or email her approximately every three months so I can remember what it is and that I need to buy it.  Leah Chernikoff, ELLE.com Editorial Director Le Premier Parfum by Coolif e, $175; bycoolife.com I like more manly smelling scents so when I came across this one I was in heaven. It's the only one I actually remember to put on. And if I were more diligent about it I'd call it my "signature fragrance."   Nikki Ogunnaike. ELLE.com Senior Fashion Editor Elizabeth  &  James Nirvana Black, $85; sephora.com This is a sweet, but not too sweet, and you don't smell it everywhere: The worst is when you fall in love with a trendy fragrance and everyone is wearing it. Plus, the matching lotion (which I layer on when I really want the scent to last) is a putty, taupe color, which feels against-the-grain in a way I really appreciate.   Leah Melby Clinton, ELLE.com Senior Editor of Branded Content Valentino Valentina, $120; bergdorfgoodman.com Poison Girl is the millennial daughter of Dior's 1985 hit, Poison. It's young, attention-seeking, and photogenic. Housed in a bubblegum pink bottle, the newish juice is a mix of Sicilian Sweet Orange, Calabrian Bitter Orange, Neroli, Grasse Rose, Vanilla and Tonka Bean notes a juicy, sweet, super-addictive fragrance that I've been wearing since it came out in January.  Julie Schott, ELLE.com Beauty Director Dior Poison Girl, $60; dior.com This scent is distinct, bold, and complex (think floral, woodsy musk). Guys love it - which makes sense since it is a unisex fragrance.  It's not for the faint of heart, but for me it was love at first spritz!  Mariel Tyler, ELLE.com Photo Editor Tom Ford Black Orchid, $120; tomford.com 