Pumping and Dumping of Altcoins: A Crypto World Scam - iftiCrypto Have you ever heard of   Pumping and Dumping  of altcoins or cryptocurrencies?? Well, it s quite common in crypto-industry. In this article, I will be explaining various things related to altcoin pumping and dumping. Along with that, I will also explain  why you should STAY AWAY from such Altcoin Pump and Dump Schemes and Groups. Contents  [ show ] First of all, once again,  all cryptocurrencies apart from Bitcoin are called Altcoins.  There are hundreds of coins available in the market, many of them are not even available in big exchanges like Bittrex, Binance, etc. Since there are 100s of coins, many of them are exploited easily. So what is altcoin Pump and Dump?? Pumping and Dumping is basically a method by which  a group of people starts buying (pumping) an altcoin in large number such that its price increases by a huge margin and later start selling the coin as soon as it reaches a high price. This way the price starts falling back down to where it was (dumping). Let me put all this in detail!!! Suppose I want to pump an altcoin  ABC which is priced at $0.1.  To do that, I will first accumulate a huge number of ABC coins. That means I will buy a HUGE NUMBER OF ABC coins.   Now to pump it, I will  spread a fake news  about ABC coin in a way that  everyone starts buying it.  I can spread the news on Facebook, WhatsApp, Telegram Groups and other social media channels.  Usually, there are  dedicated pumping groups  where the members are told about the coin name and they all start buying together.  That s called Pumping.   If everyone (members of the group or people to whom the fake news is spread) is buying it and no one is selling it,  the prices of ABC coin will start increasing rapidly. More and more people (even regular traders and newbies) start seeing ABC coin rising and they also start buying it, thinking that it will rise even more. Now Let s suppose the price of ABC coin reaches $0.8 in 1 minute. Since the price is increased, I and other pump group members will start selling the coin to book profits (Because we know that the prices are being pumped and are not naturally increased).  This is called dumping of a coin.   Since the majority hold of that coin was with pump group members, the price will start falling down as soon as the group members start selling it.  After everyone sells their coin, the prices reach back to where it was initially ($0.1). In many cases, the price may even reach under the initial rate.  This way,  the group of people who entered when the price was low will make huge profits  while  those who bought later thinking that the coin was naturally increasing will lose a huge amount of money.  I hope you understood the process!!! That s basically how this thing works. Usually, there are various dedicated Pump and Dump groups with 1000s of members who take part in pump and dump. And that s how it works out. These groups can easily pump a small coin by 1000-1500% within few seconds. As I said, these pumps are organized by dedicated groups, here s a snap of a Telegram group. The group name is hidden on purpose.  Anyways, this way, they send out messages before the pump. The snap shows a group of 4300 members. It is good enough to pump a small coin. As you can see, they announced  TAB Coin  to get pumped. TAB is a very small coin with a very small volume so it was easy for them to pump it with the help of 1000 members. The next snapshot shows the price of TAB coin when the pumped it. The coin was at around  0.00000499 BTC  and they pumped it all the way up to  0.00002950 BTC.  If you do the maths,  that s around 600% increase within minutes.  The people who entered late lost all the money while only a few members along with the group owners make the most of money. That s how it works. There are tons of examples, but I don t think it is important to share. My aim was to just let you know about Pumping and Dumping with some real stats. Now the question is, is it legal?? No, it is not Illegal!! In fact, nothing is illegal in crypto.  But wait !!! It s unethical, its fraud, its scam, it s cheating, its disrespecting and so on!!! Moreover,  there are more chances of losing money in the game of pumping and dumping.  So if you are new to crypto trading,  STAY AWAY  from Pump and Dump activities. Once again, I strongly suggest you, stay away from it. I hope that that the next heading help you understand more. Are you thinking that in pump and dump if a coin can get increased by 1000% then you can make huge money? The answer is  BIG NO!! Let me explain this in points. There are many more negatives to it. I hope you understood all the downsides to it. You can always look for certain things to make sure if a coin is pumped or if a coin is increased naturally. Here are few points to keep in mind: Moreover, with time, you can easily identify such pumping behaviors by just looking at the charts. Anyways, that all I have in this article. So if you are new to crypto, avoid such pump groups and activities.  Focus on trading good altcoins  and you will start seeing much better returns. Thank you! You have successfully subscribed to our newsletter. Crypto Market is Quite Volatile and Risky. We do not want you to blindly invest money in Bitcoin, Altcoins or any ICOs. Always do your own research before buying any coin. Don t consider our articles as Investment Advices unless specified. 