Awesome | Lakeside Presbyterian Weekday Preschool On behalf of the Lakeside Presbyterian Church family and the Weekday Preschool staff, I would like to welcome you to Lakeside Presbyterian Church Weekday Preschool. We take very seriously the trust you have placed in us to care for and nurture your child during the time he or she is enrolled in one of our weekday programs. We look forward to working with your child and you during this important period of their development. We are committed to the belief that our program is at its best when it is a shared experience. Parent involvement is critical to the success of your child's educational experience. We encourage you to be an active participant. You will be better able to understand the curriculum of all of our classes when you are involved. Teachers and parents need to keep the lines of communication open in order to share in formation and exchange ideas that will make this experience the very best it can be. We want this time to be a growing and learning experience for all of us; parent, child and teacher. Together, it will be! Thank you for giving us the opportunity to share this very special time in your child's life. Thank you for choosing Lakeside Presbyterian Church Weekday Preschool Programs. Celeste Lawton Weekday Programs Director Mrs. Lawton came to Lakeside Presbyterian Preschool in 2000 when she started substituting. She began teaching Preschool and Pre-K shortly after and three years later, began working with Mrs Amrhein as the Assistant Director.  She took over as Director of the program in 2015. Having sent 5 of her children through the program (and even meeting her husband here), Mrs. Lawton knows the school inside and out. "The most awesome preschool in Richmond, with some very awesome children. Oh, and the teachers are great!" - Barbara K. Lakeside Presbyterian Church 7343 Hermitage Road Richmond, Virginia 23228 (804) 261-7942 Email Us! Lakeside Presbyterian Church Weekday Preschool is located off Hermitage Road between Woodman and Staples Mill. The Weekday Preschool Program is a Christian outreach ministry of Lakeside Presbyterian Church for young children and their families. Total enrollment capacity is 100 children. The pupil/teacher ratio is 12 weeks to 2 years: 1 teacher for every 4 children 2 years:  1 teacher for every 6 children 3 years: 1 teacher for every 8 children 4 years: 1 teacher for every 12 children Parents play a very important role in the life of the Weekday Preschool. Parents are encouraged to visit and participate in everyday as well special activities. Siblings and extended family are invited to participate in special activities held during the year. Currently parents must provide an AM/PM Snack and daily lunch,  AM/PM Snack  and a Friday lunch will be provided beginning June 8.  In September of 2015 AM/PM snack and daily lunch will be provided.  All weekday programs meet the annual requirements for Religious Exemption as set by the Virginia Department of Social Services and are insured by Church Mutual Insurance Company. The school ha a non-discrimination policy and admits students of any race, color and national or ethnic origin. Copyright  2019 Lakeside Presbyterian Weekday Preschool. All rights reserved.  Sitemap . 