Choppies   GREAT VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY User or Email * Password * Choppies GREAT VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY Choppies Bakery offers the best breads and pastries  of all varieties such as Buckwheat bread Sweet bun and more…. Our fruit-filled, sugar coated, powdered, glazed, and dipped  pastries complimented with beverages We bake fresh wheat bread and which is made with 0 trans-fat ingredients and has less calories. The traditional brown bread has the least calories which goes great with a nice cup of coffee… Whatever you need our Deli hast it! This department hosts and array of traditional and international foods that will have you wanting more. Nothing like a warm bowl of Choppies goodness on a winter’s day . Fruit and vegetable departments are traditionally key departments for Choppies. As soon as you enter our store you get a first impression of freshness and it brings an exciting shopping experience to you. We offer the quality and the choices you want. You can explore a wide fresh variety of fruit and vegetable products in our stores. We strive to provide consistent and reliable farm fresh products to meet your needs.  We also offer a wide variety of  Frozen Vegetables, Salad Greens, Fresh Herbs, Canned Vegetables and , Fresh-Cut Vegetables Botswana beef is world famous! What makes Botswana Beef really different from the others? The cattle are reared in a unique eco system. The landlocked country boasts various floodplains and copious amounts of wild bush areas throughout the country ensuring that cattle farmers are able to use natural farming methods to rear their cattle, making Botswana beef lean and flavorful. Choppies has exclusive arrangements with Botswana Meet Commission (BMC) to avail farm fresh meet in our all stores. We also partner with local farms to source variety of meats perfect for a enthusiastic home cook. Choppies Clothing department has all the items you could possibly need to outfit your entire family. With clothes for men and women in standard and extended sizes, plus a full collection of clothes for babies and children of all ages, we’ve got all your clothing. Our objective is to offer you an assortment of well-priced clothing at good quality and great prices.  Our aim is to have something for you and all your family, all ages and sizes.  The objective is for us to bring to you all the clothing basics you need for each season.  Goods/services from Choppies Store are worth the price paid Read More Read More Read More Read More Delivered by  FeedBurner Choppies is the leading supermarket chain in Africa. The supermarket retail offering includes leading international food brands and fast moving consumer goods (FMCG) products as well as Choppies’ own private label for value-minded consumers. CHOPPIES ANNOUNCES FINANCIAL RESULTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2017. DOWNLOAD THE INVESTOR PRESENTATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 