Chase Freedom Unlimited Credit Card Review - The Points Guy Cookie Notice We have placed cookies on your device to help make this website better, in accordance with our       cookie policy. Your Privacy Strictly Necessary Cookies Performance Cookies Preference Cookies Targeting Cookies More Information Privacy Preference Centre Active Always Active This post contains references to products from one or more of our advertisers. We may receive compensation when you click on links to those products. Terms apply to the offers listed on this page. For an explanation of our Advertising Policy, visit  this page . The no-annual-fee  Chase Freedom Unlimited  is a perfect card for beginners and advanced award travelers alike. With a fixed 1.5% return on all purchases, cardholders don t need to keep track of bonus categories. If you pair this with a card that earns Ultimate Rewards points, you can convert your rewards into fully transferable points, doubling their value.  Card Rating*:  Hidden behind a shiny plastic design and advertising that focuses on cash back, the  Chase Freedom Unlimited  packs a mighty punch. At first glance, it seems like a fairly tame card with a  traditional  sign-up bonus, cash-back focus and no bonus categories, but there s a lot more to it when you dive under the hood. In fact, not only does the Freedom Unlimited consistently stay near the top of my wallet, but it s also my  first recommendation to people just starting  to dip into the world of travel rewards. When I was in college, I found that this simple card with no annual fee was also much easier sell to my friends looking to build credit. So let s take a look at what makes this card so deceptively great. If you re new to points and miles, the Chase Freedom Unlimited can be an amazing card to start with. Approval is relatively easy and the card helps you build a relationship with Chase so you can eventually get some of the issuer s more valuable cards, such as the  Chase Sapphire Preferred Card  or  Chase Sapphire Reserve . The Freedom Unlimited has  no annual fee , so it s a card you can keep open for many years without paying a penny for it — and the rewards you earn with the card never expire as long as you keep it open.  The card offers 120-day  purchase protection  and  extended warranty protection  that  extends eligible manufacturer s warranties  by an additional year. Keep in mind the Freedom Unlimited is subject to  Chase s 5/24 rule , which means the bank will automatically reject applicants who ve opened five or more cards in the last 24 months. But if you have any slots left with Chase, this card is great for everyday spending, helping you mop up extra points on purchases that don t fit cleanly into a specific bonus category. Further reading:  The best credit cards for everyday spending The current sign-up bonus on the  Chase Freedom Unlimited  is $150 after spending $500 on purchases in the first three months. That may not sound like the most impressive sign-up bonus in the world, but the thing to keep in mind is that with the Freedom Unlimited,  all your cash back can be transferred into  Chase Ultimate Rewards points  — but only if you already have an Ultimate Rewards earning card, such as the  Chase Sapphire Preferred ,  Chase Sapphire Reserve  or the  Ink Business Preferred . With these cards, you can transfer that $150 cash back into 15,000 Chase Ultimate Rewards points and use them in the Ultimate Rewards portal. You get what you pay for when it comes to card benefits, and since the Chase Freedom Unlimited has no annual fee, it s not surprising that it doesn t offer many perks and benefits. Still, there are a few nice features: Note that the Freedom Unlimited charges a 3% foreign transaction fee, so this is not the best card to take with you on an international vacation. With the Chase Freedom Unlimited, you don t have to keep track of bonus categories, watch your spending or worry if certain merchants  code the way you d expect them to . The card earns a flat 1.5% cash back on all purchases with no limits or caps. Long term, 1.5% isn t bad for a straight-up cash-back card — but it also isn t great. Frankly, if you re only interested in a credit card that earns  cash back , you ll do better with a  Citi® Double Cash Card , which offers a higher  2% cash back on all purchases  (1% when you buy plus 1% when you pay). Citi now allows cardholders to  convert their cash back to ThankYou Points  via a linked ThankYou account. You can redeem the cash back earned on your Chase Freedom Unlimited as a statement credit and direct deposit into most U.S. checking and savings accounts, or in the Ultimate Rewards portal for travel, shopping at  Amazon.com  or buying gift cards. However, you can maximize your  Chase Freedom Unlimited  cash back if you also have one of three other Chase cards — the  Chase Sapphire Preferred Card , the  Chase Sapphire Reserve  or the  Ink Business Preferred Credit Card . With these cards, you can convert your Chase Freedom Unlimited cash back across these three cards and turn them into full-fledged  Ultimate Rewards points. Simply by combining the  Chase Freedom Unlimited  with the  Sapphire Reserve  you will vastly improve your return on this card. In that case, you ll earn 1.5x points for all spending on the  Chase Freedom Unlimited  and redeem those points at a minimum rate of 1.5 cents each with the  Sapphire Reserve  at the  Chase travel portal , thereby guaranteeing yourself an effective 2.25% return (1.5 points per dollar multiplied by 1.5 cents per point = 2.25 cents per dollar). In either case, you re already getting more value per point than the 1 cent each you d get by redeeming them for cash back. But then there s another possibility: By  transferring your points  to Chase s amazing  airline and hotel partners , you ll open up ultra-high-end redemptions that would be almost impossible to get otherwise, such as  Lufthansa first-class flights to Europe  or even  Singapore Suites to Asia . The ability to get this sort of premium-cabin redemptions is why  TPG values Ultimate Rewards points at 2 cents each  and also why the  Chase Freedom Unlimited  is a key part of both the  Chase trifecta  and the  Chase quartet  of credit cards, making it part of the most powerful combination of cards you can have in your wallet. There are two cards that give the Chase Freedom Unlimited a run for its money by offering a way to earn valuable transferable points without paying an annual fee. The first is the  Chase Freedom,  which currently offers a $150 sign-up bonus after you spend $500 on purchases in the first three months. The Freedom and Freedom Unlimited cards are remarkably similar — the main difference is earning structure. The Freedom Unlimited earns unlimited 1.5% cash back, while the  Chase Freedom  earns 5% cash back on your first $1,500 in purchases in  rotating categories that change every quarter  (again, the cash back comes as 5x Ultimate Rewards points). While 5x is certainly better than 1.5x, the $1,500 cap and changing categories can make it tough to fully maximize the Freedom s benefits. You ll have to look at your own spending patterns to see whether the Freedom or the Freedom Unlimited makes sense for you. Further reading:  Chase Freedom vs. Chase Freedom Unlimited: Which card is right for you? The other obvious competitor is the Amex EveryDay® Credit Card from American Express. This no-annual-fee card offers a 10,000-point welcome bonus after spending $1,000 in purchases in the first three months, and earns 2x on your first $6,000 in spend at U.S. supermarkets each year, then 1x. One major advantage that the EveryDay card has over the Freedom Unlimited is that you can transfer points from the EveryDay card to  American Express  airline and hotel partners  without needing to have any other Amex cards. The other unique benefit of the EveryDay card is that you ll earn a 20% bonus on your points when you make 20 or more purchases in a billing cycle, but that still falls short of the flat 1.5x rate that the Freedom Unlimited earns unless you re mostly making small purchases at grocery stores.  TPG values Amex Membership Rewards points at 2 cents each , so you ll get the same value per point with either card. The information for the Amex EveryDay® Credit Card has been collected independently by The Points Guy. The card details on this page have not been reviewed or provided by the card issuer. One final competitor is the  Discover it® Miles . Even though this card doesn t earn transferable points, it does have a sign-up bonus that competes with the Freedom Unlimited. In particular, the Discover it Miles offers  1.5 miles per dollar spent  but matches your miles at the end of your first year. While the Freedom Unlimited only offers 1.5% cash back, the Discover it Miles will match all of your first year spending. However, Discover it Miles are only worth  1 cent each , with no opportunity to boost their value. Premium cards like the  Chase Sapphire Reserve  offer  an incredible amount of value;  it takes pages to describe all the  perks, bonuses, benefits and redemptions options . That s definitely not a complaint, but there s something to be said for simplicity. The  Chase Freedom Unlimited  is a great card for  everyday, non-bonus spending , and can provide incredible value when paired with a premium Chase card. So if you re just starting out with credit cards and want to get going quickly by building up valuable travel points, the Freedom Unlimited is a card that should probably be high on your list. Here s the link to apply for the  Chase Freedom Unlimited All photos are by The Points Guy staff. SIGN-UP BONUS: $150 after spending $500 on purchases in the first 3 months. TPG'S BONUS VALUATION*:  $150 CARD HIGHLIGHTS:  No annual fee + earn 1.5% cash back on all purchases *Bonus value is an estimated value calculated by TPG and not the card issuer . View our latest valuations  here . Editorial Disclaimer: Opinions expressed here are the author s alone, not those of any bank, credit card issuer, airlines or hotel chain, and have not been reviewed, approved or otherwise endorsed by any of these entities. Disclaimer: The responses below are not provided or commissioned by the bank advertiser. Responses have not been reviewed, approved or otherwise endorsed by the bank advertiser. It is not the bank advertiser s responsibility to ensure all posts and/or questions are answered. Group Group Group Group Many of the credit card offers that appear on the website are from credit card companies from which  ThePointsGuy.com  receives compensation. This compensation may impact how and where products appear on this site (including, for example, the order in which they appear). This site does not include all credit card companies or all available credit card offers. Please view our  advertising policy page  for more information. Editorial Note: Opinions expressed here are the author s alone, not those of any bank, credit card issuer, airlines or hotel chain, and have not been reviewed, approved or otherwise endorsed by any of these entities. TPG-Secondary-Digital The credit card offers that appear on the website are from credit card companies from which ThePointsGuy.com receives compensation. This compensation may impact how and where products appear on this site (including, for example, the order in which they appear). This site does not include all credit card companies or all available credit card offers. Please view our  advertising policy page  for more information. Editorial Note: Opinions expressed here are the author s alone, not those of any bank, credit card issuer, airlines or hotel chain, and have not been reviewed, approved or otherwise endorsed by any of these entities. 