Classes: Stringing Classes for everyone at The Twisted Bead  &  Rock We offer a variety of classes at The Twisted Bead  &  Rock Shop. Below is a list of our stringing classes, which are perfect for beginners and skilled jewelry-makers alike. If you see a class you re interested in, see our  class schedule  to sign up for the next class. If there s a class you re interested in that s not scheduled, call us at 410-956-5529 or fill out our  contact form  and let us know which class you re interested in and a couple of days that you could come in for the class. Please include your name and contact information in your message. basic beading class at the twisted bead  &  rock shop   While creating a professionally finished bracelet, students will receive an overview of the basic tools, findings, design techniques, and the proper way to crimp on beading wire. In addition, students will learn to do quick and easy stretchy bracelets. Students will select their own materials and leave with two completed bracelets. Class fee: $20 + your choice of materials Average class time: 1.5 hour Reserve your class today! illusion necklace class at the twisted bead  &  rock shop Students will create a unique, one-of-a-kind necklace using a mono-filament and NO crimps. While using a wide range of light-weight materials to create a beautiful necklace to take home, students will also learn some design principals. Please arrive 15-20 minutes early to select your materials. Class fee: $30 Average class time: 2 hours Reserve your class today! A customizable, geometric pattern of three strands of Swarovski Crystals creates this stunning bracelet that is sure to turn heads. Studends will learn how to crimp and use wire guards, spacers, and connectors. Students will leave with a finished bracelet. Class fee: $25 Average class time: 1.5 hours Reserve your class today! In the Catholic tradition, the sacrament of Confirmation is almost as meaningful as that of Baptism. This day is when a Catholic consciously awakens to his or her faith by his or her own accord. The rosary is traditionally used to provide a physical method of keeping count of the number of Hail Marys said. The fingers are moved along the beads as the prayers are recited. Students will create a meaningful rosary for their selves or a loved one. Class fee: $25 Average class time: 1.5 hours Reserve your class today! Choose your beads and coordinating leather to make this cool bracelet. You don t need any special tools for this instant gratification piece of jewelry. You will learn to finish the bracelet with a leather loop and bead. Students will leave with a finished project. Please arrive early to select your materials. Class fee: $20 + materials Average class time: 1.5 hours Reserve your class today! Create this high fashion wrap bracelet in the style of Vietnamese designer Chan Luu. Students may use gemstones, wood/bone, or glass beads, and their choice of leather in various sizes and colors. Choose from a single, double or triple wrap bracelet. We will finish a single wrap in class. If you choose to do more than one wrap, you will have to complete it outside of allotted class time. Class Fee: $30 + materials Average class time: 1.5 hours Reserve your class today! Learn the method used for centuries to traditionally knot freshwater pearls with silk cord. You will work with a mix of beads and pearls. This technique is best taught with only one to two students, so please call to schedule a class. Class fee: $30 Average class time: 2 hours Reserve your class today! View All Events 9 Lee Airpark Dr, Edgewater, MD 21037 Phone: (410) 956-5529 Email:  thetwistedbead@gmail.com We are still adding items, but our online store is up and running! Please call if the item you're looking for is not online, or if you have any questions.  Dismiss 