Top 10 Best Adventure PS4 Games Today - ReinoFeed The PS4, following its predecessor – the PS3, is definitely the best console for gamers. It features a huge library of different games with various genres for players to explore. Our list below features the  best adventure games PS4  that would make it easier for you to choose between hundreds of different titles.  God of War PS4  (as we mentioned earlier in our  Video Game Explorer series ), one of the most expected titles, has not disappointed us. It comes with stunning graphics, an entirely new game mechanic, and a whole new world and storyline to explore. While still consisting of brutal and violent battle scenes, the pace has been reduced with lots of changes. Following the game, you will find that these changes are perfectly fit in the contexts. Along with that, interesting puzzles and breath-taking fights will make God of War PS4 a must-play if you’re looking for the best adventure PS4 games. Monster Hunter  fans often say: “If you want to know why many people love Monster Hunter, you have to play it”. And yes, spending hours playing Monster Hunter is just amazing. The game has huge maps to explore with countless giant monsters and evil gods for you to fight with. You can go solo or form a team to deal with tough targets. On top of that, you can never run out of fun as there isn’t short on things to do in Monster Hunter. The game might not be the most approachable title, but definitely one of the most addictive ones. After playing  Persona 5 , I found out that high-school life was not as boring as it was in real life. You will start the game as a new high-school student in Tokyo. But you will soon realize that you have the ability to penetrate through people’s subconscious mind. And such power is used to deal with villains and bring them back to justice, making you a true hero who is loved by every student at the school. But that’s not all of it, you will also have the chance to experience the life of a high-school student. Hanging out with friends, studying the old lessons, and even a little romance would make the game so addictive for gamers. This game set you in a future world where the earth is basically rampaged by robots and machines. You will play as a “female” robot named Nier who is on her adventure to unfold a twisted revelation that involves the whole story. It’s not a straightforward adventure-action game where all you will do is “beat-em-up”. Instead, the game focuses more on solving problems and revealing mysteries. And if you think you’re that type of gamers, then  Nier: Automata  is definitely one of the best adventure PS4 games to play. The game focus on details which explain its success. If you’re familiar with the series, you can probably think of what this game is about. Not only exciting, breathtaking actions, the game also has lots of running, jumping, and puzzle solving. These are distinctive factors of Uncharted. But it’s is how the studio handles the small details that make the game so impressive. Apart from that, the well-written storyline also makes the game quite interesting for gamers to play. The Witcher  series has always been a solid choice for open-world gamers. It’s like Skyrim but with a much better combat system. You will be playing as Geralt, the Wicher, in his latest adventure. The main story is as exciting and thrilling as it can get, while the quest system will blow your mind. There are countless of different scenario which you can achieve by select different items in dilemmas. With this game, you will never run out of things to do. It has been exactly two decades from the day when Lara Croft’s first adventure. Hence, you can expect awesome stuff from this  20 Year Celebration s Edition . The game takes place in Siberia where Lara explore the lost city of Kitezh in her quest to fulfill her father’s work. With the new platforming and zip-lining, players will experience a completely different height compared to the old version. Plus, the difficult-but-addictive puzzles and substantive combat will prompt you hours and hours playing this game. The famous  GTA 5 , which is also everyone’s favorite on the PS3 and PC, has come to the current-gen hardware. The game doesn’t come with fancy graphics updates or improvements in gameplay, but it is in the replay value of GTA itself. Do you remember how much time you’ve spent on GTA Vice City or Liberty City? In an open world, there are tons of different things for you to explore. If you haven’t played the game yet, you must give it a try right now. And if you’ve played GTA 5, you will never feel like a re-run when playing this game on your console. Just like the title, there will be no short on blood-spilling scenes in  Bloodborne . The game is based on the Souls series with the same fundamental elements and features. But Hidetaka Miyazaki and his co-workers have intensified the effects and details to make this game a gore-soaked masterpiece. It’s definitely worth playing if you’re a Dark Souls fan, but you should also consider if you’re panicky. Also, you should want to check out the  tips for defeating 6 great bosses in Bloodborne . Featured in our list of  20 best graphics games for PS4 ,  Horizon Zero Dawn  is one of the most successful game titles that deserves a slot on our list. Adventure gamers might find Horizon Zero Dawn quite familiar to Uncharted and Tomb Rider with an immersive open world. On the other hand, the gameplay has a little bit of  God of War  and Far Cry elements, making it wonderful to spend hours playing. Moreover, you will have access to a huge craft system with countless items you can make using the most basic ingredients. If you love Far Cry, this would definitely satisfy you. On the other hand, it’s not a simple game for anyone who is looking for an easy win. There are thousands of different titles which have been and will be released on Sony’s console. So, we’ll keep our selection as comprehensive and up-to-date as possible. As for now, please enjoy these best adventure PS4 games, while we’re looking for new cool games for you to play. Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Current ye@r  * Leave this field empty 