Cyclic AMP (cAMP) and cAMP Receptor Protein Influence both Synthesis and Uptake of Extracellular Autoinducer 2 in Escherichia coli | Journal of Bacteriology Advanced Search Bacterial autoinducer 2 (AI-2) is proposed to be an interspecies mediator of cell-cell communication that enables cells to operate at the multicellular level. Many environmental stimuli have been shown to affect the extracellular AI-2 levels, carbon sources being among the most important. In this report, we show that both AI-2 synthesis and uptake in  Escherichia coli  are subject to catabolite repression through the cyclic AMP (cAMP)-CRP complex, which directly stimulates transcription of the  lsr  (for “ luxS  regulated”) operon and indirectly represses  luxS  expression. Specifically, cAMP-CRP is shown to bind to a CRP binding site located in the upstream region of the  lsr  promoter and works with the LsrR repressor to regulate AI-2 uptake. The functions of the  lsr  operon and its regulators, LsrR and LsrK, previously reported in  Salmonella enterica  serovar Typhimurium, are confirmed here for  E. coli.  The elucidation of cAMP-CRP involvement in  E. coli  autoinduction impacts many areas, including the growth of  E. coli  in fermentation processes. Follow #Jbacteriology @ASMicrobiology ASM journals are the most prominent publications in the field, delivering up-to-date and authoritative coverage of both basic and clinical microbiology. About ASM | Contact Us | Press Room ASM is a member of Copyright   2019  American Society for Microbiology  |  Privacy Policy  |  Website feedback Print ISSN: 0021-9193; Online ISSN: 1098-5530 Thank you for sharing this Journal of Bacteriology article. NOTE: We request your email address only to inform the recipient that it was you who recommended this article, and that it is not junk mail. We do not retain these email addresses. We use cookies on this site to enhance your user experience. By clicking any link on this page you are giving your consent for us to set cookies. 