Gunday movie review: Ranveer Singh and Arjun Kapoor sizzle on screen | India.com Ranveer Singh and Arjun Kapoor star in the latest Yash Raj Production  Gunday  and they pull it off in a typical masala style Bollywood movie.The director Ali Abbas Zafar, whose last release  Mere Brother ki Dulhan  received only a lukewarm response makes a good attempt at action drama  Gunday . Gunday is about friendship, love, betrayal. Ranveer and Arjun are styled differently – they are quirky and don’t mind flaunting their hot bods, you won’t mind the weird outfits. Priyanka’s closet doesn’t do justice to the era in which the film is set. Ali Abbas Zafar has done a great job with his cast. It’s certainly worth watching ‘coz Gunday isn’t a serious film which makes you leave the theatre with a heavy heart and neither a typical masala entertainer nor ‘the happily ever after’ kinda rom-com.  Read the Bollywoodlife review here Gunday  is great for those who love the romance, and the melodrama along with the action. The younger generation will definitely enjoy the movie. Especially the dialogues written by Ali Abbas Zafar, Sanjay Masoom. The entire look and feel of the movie is of 80s Bollywood. It s like travelling back in time, where there were no metro-sexual heroes and toned modern heroines. It is not a Valentine’s Day date, but the men should make a day out to celebrate their friendship with this movie. Though the film has nothing new to offer, one can watch it for nostalgia’s sake!  Read the full Zee News review here. For breaking news and live news updates, like us on  Facebook  or follow us on  Twitter  and  Instagram . Read more on  Entertainment  Latest News  on  India.com .  Malaika Arora And Ujjwala Raut at Loggerheads Over Arbaaz Khan on MTV ' s Show? Read on Panipat Box Office Collection Day 7: Arjun Kapoor-Kriti Sanon   s Historical Drama Falls Flat, Mints Rs 25.68 Crore Panipat BO Collection Day 6: Arjun Kapoor-Kriti Sanon ' s War Drama Continues to Fall, Collects Rs 24.18 Crore Panipat BO Collection Day 5: Arjun Kapoor-Kriti Sanon ' s War Drama Underperforms, Mints Rs 22.48 Crore Published Date: February 14, 2014 4:35 PM IST Updated Date: February 14, 2014 6:21 PM IST Story in Audio Copyright © 2019. Zee Entertainment Enterprises Limited. All Rights Reserved. 