Balhousie Primary School Review and Catchment Area | School Guide Label_parents_4 This pupil heat map shows where pupils currently attending the school live.  Local Authority Contact  How have we plotted this pupil heat map? This School Guide heat map has been plotted using official pupil data taken from the Pupil Census collected by the Scottish Government. The data tells us where pupils lived at the time of the last Pupil Census (released annually in December). Our heat maps use groups of postcodes, not individual postcodes, and have naturally soft edges. All pupils are included in the mapping (i.e. children with siblings already at the school, high priority pupils and selective and/or religious admissions) but we may have removed statistical ‘outliers’ with more remote postcodes that do not reflect majority admissions. For some schools, the heat map may be a useful indicator of the catchment area but our heat maps are not the same as catchment area maps. Catchment area maps, published by the school or local authority, are based on geographical admissions criteria and show actual cut-off distances and pre-defined catchment areas for a single admission year. This information is provided as a guide only. The areas from which pupils are admitted to a school can change from year to year to reflect the number of siblings and pupils admitted under high priority admissions criteria. 3 steps to help parents gather catchment information for a school: See  Pupil heat maps FAQs  for more information about the source of pupil heat map data.  Once logged in via Facebook, you’ll be able to add your review OR Write your review, add your email and submit Sign in with your email address If you are a representative of this school register your details  to sign up for a free noticeboard. Registered users can add photos, news and download your school’s Certificate of Excellence 2019/20. If you would like to register for a different school, click here Register to add photos, news and download your Certificate of Excellence 2019/20 *Official school administrator email addresses (eg office@yourschool.co.uk). Details will be verified. Questions? Email  noticeboard@schoolguide.co.uk We're here to help your school to add information for parents. A member of the School Guide team will verify your details within 2 working days and provide further detailed instructions for setting up your School Noticeboard. For any questions please email noticeboard@schoolguide.co.uk From The Blog Due to number of reforms to GSCE reporting introduced by the government in 2014, such as the exclusion of iGCSE examination results, the official school performance data may not accurately report a school’s full results. For more information, please see  About  and refer to the section, ‘Why does a school show 0% on its GSCE data dial? In many affected cases, the Average Point Score will also display LOW SCORE as points for iGCSEs and resits are not included. Schools can upload their full GCSE results by registering for a  School Noticeboard . All school results data will be verified. Connect with School Guide Once logged in via Facebook, you’ll be able to add your review OR Write your review, add your email and submit Register with your email address Another email has been sent to 