Lee Latchford-Evans - Wikipedia Lee Latchford-Evans  (born 28 January 1975) [ 1 ]  is an English  singer ,  dancer ,  stage actor ,  personal trainer , and one of the five singers of the British pop group  Steps . From Ellesmere Port, Evans was born as Lee Latchford Evans, with his middle name Latchford taken from footballer  Bob Latchford  of  Everton F.C. , as his father was a lifelong  fan  of the club. He began using his middle name professionally to differentiate himself well-known comedian  Lee Evans . For a time he was known as Lee Latchford before adding a hyphen between his middle name and surname. Before going into music, Evans was an aspiring footballer and had trials with several football clubs. He starred in a school production of  Grease  as a pupil at  Sutton High School  and went on to the Cheshire School of Dance and Drama, now part of  West Cheshire College . [ 2 ] In 1997, Evans became a member of the pop group  Steps ; they went on to sell 14 consecutive Top 5 singles (a feat for a British act, at the time, bettered only by the Beatles), sold more than 20 million records worldwide. They announced their split on Boxing Day 2001. His role in the group was mostly choreographer and providing backing vocals, and he rarely sang lead on the songs. However, he did perform lead on "Turn Around" (which he co-wrote) and the two verses of  5,6,7,8 . Evans has appeared in  London 's  West End  starring in  Grease ;  A Charmed Life  as part of London's Sitcom Trials, and he made his debut at the  Fringe Festival  in  Edinburgh  in August 2009 in the production of  Wolfboy . He played the Prince in Rotherhams Pantomime version of  Snow White  in 2010. Latchford-Evans has appeared in the  reality television  shows  The Games ,  Fear Factor ,  I'm Famous and Frightened! ,  The Match  and went on to win  Commando VIP . In 2006, he appeared in a new reality show on  MTV ,  Totally Boyband . This show was from the same creators as the show  Totally Scott-Lee , which featured his ex-colleague  Lisa Scott-Lee  and her family. In 2008, he appeared as part of Team Ant on  Ant and Dec's Saturday Night Takeaway . He also appeared on  Never Mind The Buzzcocks  in October 2010.  Steps  have announced that they will be filming a four-part documentary for  Sky Living , which will be aired late September 2011. He appeared in  Ten Dead Men  (2008)  produced  by  Phil Hobden , and also appeared in Britflick  Cash and Curry  playing the villain, Casper Warrington-Boothe. Evans is married to Kerry-Lucy Taylor. They both appeared in  OK! Magazine  in June 2011. They announced their engagement in March 2012. They married on 10 November 2012, and their wedding featured in November's edition of  OK! Magazine  with Steps bandmates Lisa, Faye, H and Claire on the front cover as well. Evans is a qualified personal trainer and owner of fitness web magazine. [ 3 ] 