Amanda Holden &# x27;s Brow Secret: Plus, Get Her Look For Much Less Move out of the way Cara. Theres a new kid in town. Amanda Holden has reportedly spent big bucks to achieve a fuller eyebrow look. Adored by bloggers and celebrities alike with notable brow devotees, such as Paloma Faith, the luxe brow grooming process is clearly sticking around. But with so many excellent products out there, you don't need to spend big like Amanda to achieve the look. Amanda Holden Regular brows just aren't cutting it in an era where the the verging-on-monobrow reigns supreme. But this new trend for all things bushy comes with a price tag, and a hefty one at that. Amanda admits to forking out £40 every month for the 'High Defintion' process. So what are we getting for £40 a month? The HD aka 'high definition' treament is a process of seven steps. Seven steps that will take our feeble, regular and, lets face it, over plucked and unloved brows to ones that desevere their own headlines. The first step in achiving bold brows like Cara is to have a consultation. A one-to-one session with a stylist who will determine which brow shape will suit your face. When it comes to brows its not a one size fits all policy. After a quick discusion, it's on to the tinting - the stylist will mix up a dye to suit your hair colour. After a minute or two, the dye is removed and 'Voila!' thats step two completed. Then, the step thats not for the squeamish amongst us. Time for the waxing. Your brows will be swiftly waxed into the shape that has been determined will suit your face. That's not the end of it. The next step to trim those babies up. And then, post-trimming, a little bit of threading to create the final, perfect shape. When you're done, you'll be armed with a bundle of information about after-care that you can carry out at home - as if that £40 plucking, preening and tinting wasn't enough! Other fans of the treatment include previous X factor judge  Tulisa Contostavlos and even Amandas co-worker  Alesha Dixon!  Get The Look For Less Like most of us, if you're on a budget and can't afford a monthly £40 eyebrow habit, there is another way. Here is our handy guide: The first step is to prep yourself with a good pair of tweezers like the  Tweezerman (£20.95) . They're pricey but they will last you a lifetime, unlike the HD treatment. When armed with a pair of tweezers it's easy to get carried away. We've all been there. But stick to plucking purely the hairs that stray from the pack. Your natural brow shape will always be the best brow shape for your face (love your brows!). For those of us with slightly wilder brows, try getting them threaded. A word to the wise: avoid the mainstream salons. Why? Because they love to charge a premuimin on a relatively quick and inexpensive treatment. Once your brows are all groomed and you're feeling good, it's times to fill them in. Now, this is the slightly controversial area in the world of brows. We all want them to a look a little more defined, but what we don't want is them looking like garden slugs - think the scouse brow. I recommend using a brow palette like  Sleek's brow kit (£8.49).  This two-in-one combo consists of a setting powder, that you use to gently define your shape. And a wax to keep those hairs from moving. So, save your pennies and get the eyebrows that dreams are made of with the alternative way. We would love to hear your brow tips and tricks so send us a tweet to  @YLifestyleUK  [ Exciting New Beauty Products - January And February 2015 Launches ] [ Multi-Purpose Beauty Products: 9 Amazingly Versatile Budget Buys Under £9 ]  