Vantaa cuts apartment prices HELSINKI FINLAND Twitter Facebook Vantaa is decreasing apartment construction costs by loosening rules. Myyrmäki will see the construction of so-called cost-effective houses in a “Finnish record-breaking pace”. Vantaa wants to become a city where people can afford to live. The city has begun to implement several measures for curbing apartment construction costs with Deputy Mayor  Juha-Veikko Nikulainen  (NCP), who is in charge of land use. A record-breaking number of over 2,000 apartments are set to be built. The city has granted more building permits for this year than in a decade. One of the fresh cost-effective abodes is Kaunis Bertta, which was completed in Myyrmäki late last year. It is a chunky 8-storey building that had smaller costs due to restricted parking spots, for example. Due to relaxed parking norms the parking garage fits the bottom floor, and the apartment building was located on a small supplemental building plot. “We were drawn to the practicality of this apartment: there is no wasted space within the 61 square metres, and the apartment works well for two people,” describes fresh returnee  Heikki Linsiö . He is originally from Helsinki. He moved back to Vantaa from Pieksämäki with his wife to spend his retired years. He did not have to pay a Helsinki-level price for his home. “Having a warm space in the basement is a luxury, as I am used to having to dig the car out of the snow. Though due to the small plot there are no guest spots,” Linsiö describes. Construction company NCC, which was in charge of Bertta’s construction, benefited from Vantaa’s policy of speeding up apartment zoning. The city first put a tender for the plots among the construction companies, and then worked on the plans together. Kaunis Bertta was accompanied by two similar cost-effective houses. According to the development director of the venture at NCC  Ilkka Alvoittu  the entire construction project appears to be completed within three years. “The city of Vantaa, if any, can claim its promise on inexpensive apartments. The working process must be record-breaking in Finnish history.” Vantaa’s momentum in executing inexpensive apartments is increased by the fact that there are many suburbs built in the 1970s for supplementary construction. Although the Berttas are mass produced, like many suburban houses, they have been made more interesting by varying the locations of windows and balconies. “The mistakes of the horrendous 1970s will not be repeated, and the cityscape is looked after,” Alvoittu observes. Kivistö, which is close to the railway and still in its early phase, is one of the areas where Vantaa now requires one parking space per 130 living square metres. This cuts the apartment’s price by 5,000-20 000 euro. Last year the average price per square metre in new apartment buildings was 4,964 euro, and 3,824 euro in terrace houses. “With the opportunity to jump in a bus or walk to the store within a kilometre’s radius, fewer cars are required,” Nikulainen ponders.  A recent residen of a Boklok house  Luukas Raatikainen , 19, is nevertheless very happy with his car. The young man does not move around the quiet area of Kivistö much, but “reaches his girlfriend in Martinlaakso within seven minutes”. “We moved here with my mother and sister from a semi-detached house in Martinlaakso. I went to get the lottery ticket from Ikea through which we entered the apartment contest.” The new apartment has three bedrooms and a combined living room-kitchen. “After the army I will most likely move to a rental apartment in Vantaa with my girlfriend. It is a utopian thought to look for an apartment in Helsinki. It is too expensive.” The expenses of Skanska and Ikea’s Boklok house model were reduced on this plot by the fact that the city sold the land for a cheaper price. Researcher of urban economy and living  Seppo Laakso  believes in the functionality of Vantaa’s policy. “Vantaa already holds the image of being the place of residence for normal, working middle-class people.” Once the ring rail line is completed in 2015, a huge zone where apartments and working places can be interlaced into an urban environment will be available. Laakso believes that Vantaa should be careful not to produce a simplistic image in the minds of those seeking apartments. High quality is also essential. “There is the risk of Vantaa losing well-earning residents who work in Aviapolis, for example. It is also worth offering ‘neater’, more expensive apartments.” KUVATEKSTI: Peitsitie 12-14, Kivistö. The house is built on the basis of Skanska and Ikea’s idea. Based on a survey made in Sweden in the 1990s that inquires how much Swedish people wish to pay living costs. Completed in December 2013. The two-storey row house has apartments of 44-72 square metres. The average square metre price is 3 400 euro. Standard materials. A common yard sauna. An inexpensive block plot purchased from the city. Lottery luck favoured Luukas Raatikainen, for the family got to buy a home from Kivistö, Vantaa. Also Into the dog has settled on Peitsitie. KATJA KUOKKANEN, MARJA SALMELA -  HS ANNIKA RAUTAKOURA  - HT IMAGE: BENJAMIN SUOMELA  © HELSINGIN SANOMAT Helsinki Times is the very first leading English language publication in Finland established in 2007, covering Finland related news on daily basis. A weekly print edition of Helsinki Times was published from March 2007 up until Feb. 2015. At the moment Helsinki Times is an online only publication. Readers are mainly expats, diplomats and other international individuals, businesses and groups residing in Finland. Visitors are also tourists, individuals and businesses interested in Finland from all around the world. © ABYZ OU. All rights reserved.    Terms of Use  |  Privacy Policy 