MERCEDES BENZ SLK AMG SPORT R172 FRONT BUMPER *GENUINE MERCEDES PART* [19C] for sale online | eBay Current slide 1 of 1- Top picked items The lowest-priced item that has been used or worn previously. The item may have some signs of cosmetic wear, but is fully operational and functions as intended. This item may be a display model or store return that has been used. See details for description of any imperfections. What does this price mean? This is the price (excluding postage) a seller has provided at which the same item, or one that is very similar to it, is being offered for sale or has been offered for sale in the recent past. The price may be the seller's own price elsewhere or another seller's price. The 'off' amount and percentage signifies the calculated difference between the seller's price for the item elsewhere and the seller's price on eBay. If you have any questions related to the pricing and/or discount offered in a particular listing, please contact the seller for that listing. It ' s the average selling price of an item over the last 90 days. When you were looking at a particular item or comparing items, you may have selected  See more  or   See more like this. There may be more ways to buy this item, such as placing a bid or making an offer. Select  See details  to view any other purchasing options. Ratings and reviews only apply to products. If you ' d like to learn more about a particular seller, check their feedback profile to see how others have rated them. We show similar products that might interest you. For example, you may be able to save on a previous model, or you may want to upgrade to a newer model. To help you compare options and find the best deal, we ' ve grouped items by condition—for example, brand new, nearly new, and pre-owned. It ' s the average selling price of an item over the last 90 days. When you were looking at a particular item or comparing items, you may have selected  See more  or   See more like this. There may be more ways to buy this item, such as placing a bid or making an offer. Select  See details  to view any other purchasing options. Ratings and reviews only apply to products. If you ' d like to learn more about a particular seller, check their feedback profile to see how others have rated them. We show similar products that might interest you. For example, you may be able to save on a previous model, or you may want to upgrade to a newer model. To help you compare options and find the best deal, we ' ve grouped items by condition—for example, brand new, nearly new, and pre-owned. Current slide 1 of 4- Compare similar products Current slide 1 of 1- People who bought this also bought Current slide 1 of 4- Best-selling in Bumpers  &  Rubbing Strips Trending price is based on prices over last 90 days. Current slide 1 of 2- Save on Bumpers  &  Rubbing Strips Current slide 1 of 1- You may also like 