In-Depth Review of AOC Q2778VQE 27 inch LED Large Computer Monitor | AOC India AOC has unveiled new large computer monitor which offers a 2560 1440 QHD Display and 16:9 aspect ratio with good color reproduction of 16.7 million colors. This best LED monitor comes with 27 inch size and offers two times the resolution of Full HD, this large computer monitor can offer two Full HD videos on the screen at the same time without compromising its color details and clarity. Not more than that, this best led monitor also offers fastest response time of 1ms that makes this  large computer monitor  a good choice for gamers. This  best gaming monitor  uses a 27 inch TN (Twisted Nematic) panel that delivers fastest refresh rate and worse viewing angles than IPS display. Nowadays, Modern TN panels can attain a good rated 170 degrees horizontal and 160 degrees vertical viewing angles which produce best image quality and color gamut. Use of TN technology allows for a 1ms refresh time which easily beats IPS screens. Hence, this 27 inch led monitor avoids serious ghosting effects while gaming and watching videos. This 27 inch led monitor comes in a glossy black design and offers Eco friendly LED backlights where it fulfills sustainability certificates such as Energy Star 6.0, TCO 6.0 and EPEAT Silver. The AOC monitor uses a LED backlit LCD panel like most of the monitors uses nowadays while featuring ultimate performance at low power consumption. When it comes to connectivity, this best LCD monitor has D-Sub, DVI, HDMI and DisplayPort (single each). Unfortunately, It does not have USB port otherwise every aspects of this  best budget monitor  is up-to the mark. Moreover, It also features flicker free technology which will not constrain eyes and very suitable for gamers who do gaming more than 5 to 6 hours continuously. This best budget monitor comes with 350 nits brightness and a dynamic contrast ratio of 80,000,000:1 with standard refresh rate of 60HZ. When it comes to pricing, AOC Q2778VQE 27 inch LED Large Computer Monitor is available at best budget buy for $250 on  amazon.com . Amazing range of AOC Monitors from 21 inch to 28 inch blows the mind of people with its best budget price In  " AOC India " Hands on Review of AOC Q2781PQ IPS QHD LED Monitor In  " AOC India " Hands on Review of New AOC I2769Vm 27 inch IPS LED Full HD Monitor In  " AOC India " Your email address will not be published.  Required fields are marked  * Comment Name  * Email  * Website Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email. View Full Site Powered by WordPress.com . 