Afternoon Tea Week   Magnumlady Blog I found out this week is Afternoon Tea week, there really is a celebration for everything these days. I thought I d do a recap of the Afternoon Teas that I have been to here in Ireland. Lena s Tea Rooms in Carrick-on-Shannon, Co. Leitrim . This gorgeous cafe is a hidden gem, priding itself in the finest home-made cakes and freshly made sandwiches. You will be served your choice of tea or coffee along with a selection of sandwiches using different types of bread, savoury muffins and mini quiches also make up the extensive platter. Fresh scones and a variety of cakes top off this impressive Afternoon Tea. Ashford Castle, Cong, Co. Mayo . Feel like a princess as you step into the stunning Ashford Castle. Enjoy a decadent Afternoon Tea overlooking Lough Corrib. Choose from a wide variety of teas, or coffee. For something extra special why not go for Champagne? A variety of delicate sandwiches and petit fours as well as a selection of scones fresh from the oven make up this special treat. It s the most expensive of the ones I ve been to but you are paying for the location with this one. Eala Bhan, Sligo . Located on the banks of the Garavogue River in the heart of Sligo town. Enjoy your Afternoon Tea whilst watching the swans glide by. What a way to spend an afternoon! The chocolate mousse is amazing and I loved the selection of open sandwiches and bagels. Eala Bhan serves the largest selection of both sweet and savoury food that I ve seen for an Afternoon Tea and there s no problem if you can t eat it all, they ll happily box it up for you to bring home. Knockranny House Hotel, Westport , Co. Mayo. The most stunning views I think I’ve ever seen, you relax as you watch the clouds drift over the majestic Croagh Patrick Mountain. You ll get a selection of open sandwiches and gorgeous sweet treats. Tea, coffee or hot chocolate is served in silver pots, it s like being in a movie. Glencar TeaShed , Glencar, Co. Leitrim. Located right beside Glencar Waterfall, this is the perfect spot for tourists. We had miniature Oreo cheesecake, a Mint Aero traybake, a delicate coffee cake and my absolute favourite a lemon drizzle cake. Everything was just delicious and the lemon cake was the nicest I’ve ever tasted. Also a selection of sandwiches, salad and even grapes. Also a wonderful range of herbal teas too. Lough Erne Resort, Enniskillen, Co. Fermanagh . The only one that I didn t really enjoy, a very small selection of food and nothing special. The tea selection was amazing though and it is a lovely place. This is the only one I wouldn t visit again. I thought I d had more Afternoon Teas than I have! I guess I ll have to work on that list. Have you got any you d recommend? Afternoon Tea at Ashford Castle In  " Days out " Glorious Goodies at Glencar teaShed In  " food " Afternoon Tea at Knockranny House Hotel Westport In  " food " I went once in Ashford Castle and it was beautiful! Expensive but it was special! Comment Name  * Email  * Website Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email. This site uses Akismet to reduce spam.  Learn how your comment data is processed . 