World Chess Championship: Carlsen and Caruana go to tie break after a dozen draws | News | DW | 26.11.2018 We use cookies to improve our service for you. You can find more information in our data protection declaration. Sudden death will decide the 2018 competition after Magnus Carlsen and challenger Fabiano Caruana drew all 12 of their games. The decisive bout will be played on Wednesday; its format could favor Carlsen. Three-time defending champion Magnus Carlsen had been neck and neck with American Fabiano Caruana ahead of their latest match, which once again resulted in a tie. Game 12 of 12 ended in a draw after 31 moves, with Carlsen — who had been enjoying a clear time advantage — offering a draw that Caruana accepted. Many observers were surprised that Carlsen offered a draw while appearing to have the upper hand, including former chess champion Gary Kasparov, who felt the Norwegian might be losing his nerve. The pair also eked out ties in their first 11 world championship games, meaning they stand level in the championship stakes on six points each (with half a point awarded to each player for each draw). The 27-year-old Carlsen — nicknamed the "Thor of Chess" — has been seeking to cement his reputation as one of history's greatest players of the game. Caruana, aged 26, is the first American to compete for the title since chess legend Bobby Fischer in 1972. In the playoff on Wednesday, the pair will face each other in the best of four rapid games. If still tied, they would compete in two "blitz games" in which each player would have only five minutes. Should the players still be level, the championship would go down to a single "Armageddon"  match, the format of which guarantees a winner. Carlsen could be favorite in the tie-break, considering that he also holds titles in speed and blitz chess, while Caruana's recent record in speed chess has been poor. Read more: World Chess Championship: What's wrong with Magnus Carlsen? In addition to the prestige of winning the title, the pair are also battling over a €1 million (£880,000) cash prize. American Western actor John Wayne (right) was an enthusiastic chess player. German film diva Marlene Dietrich (left) is said to have always traveled with a huge chess board. The board game was particularly popular among Hollywood stars in the 1930s to 1950s. Dietrich and Wayne are pictured here in 1942 on the set of the film "Pittsburgh."  Humphrey Bogart, as café owner Rick Blaine (left), sits intently at the chess board. The classic scene in "Casablanca" (1942) remains unforgettable. Bogart was an avid chess player off camera as well. He got lessons from US chess champ Herman Steiner.  German poet and director Bertolt Brecht, pictured here around 1942, regularly played chess. After fleeing the Nazis, he lived in exile in Denmark. During the summers of 1934, 1936 and 1938, he was visited by his friend Walter Benjamin, who was living in exile in Paris, and the two would duel each other at the checkered board together every day.  Chess is not only popular in films, but also in comics — like this edition of Lucky Luke. The Western hero drawn by Belgian cartoonist Morris is famous for drawing his pistol faster than his own shadow can. But speed isn't necessarily an advantage when it comes to playing chess.  British musician Sting, founder of the band Police, went up against Russian chess champion Garry Kasparov in New York in 2000. Their match was even broadcast on Times Square. The duel was a charity meant to raise money for a rain forest protection organization that Sting had supported.   Author: Klaudia Prevezanos (kbm)  Caruana, an Italian-American from Miami, earned his shot to play Carlsen by  winning the Candidates Tournament  earlier this year in Berlin. Send Facebook Twitter google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink  https://p.dw.com/p/37w45 Garry Kasparov, Magnus Carlsen, Levon Aronian are just a few of the top chess players David Llada has photographed. Ahead of the World Chess Championship, he discussed with DW how chess combines sport, art and science. (07.03.2018) As chess world champion Magnus Carlsen defends his title against Fabiano Caruana in London, here are a few celebrities, from Bob Dylan to Marlene Dietrich, who could join them in a game. (08.11.2018) American chess grand master Fabiano Caruana won the candidates tournament in Berlin and will now challenge world champion Magnus Carlsen in November. The Norwegian is looking to make his third title defense. (27.03.2018) World champion Magnus Carlsen is without a win and struggling to find top gear at the World Chess Championship in London. DW chess expert Holger Hank offers five possible reasons why he can't get it going. (20.11.2018) Chess world champion Magnus Carlsen is defending his title against Fabiano Caruana in London. But they're not the only chess players worth watching. Artists like Sting also enjoy the game. (11.11.2016) World champion Magnus Carlsen is without a win and struggling to find top gear at the World Chess Championship in London. DW chess expert Holger Hank offers five possible reasons why he can't get it going.  Magnus Carlsen is on form again. The Norwegian will face his World Championship rival Fabiano Caruana at the Grenke Chess Classic tournament in Baden-Baden and Karlsruhe. A big young talent is set to represent Germany.  After a series of tense draws over the last few weeks, reigning champion Magnus Carlsen stepped up to win 3-0 in the deciding tiebreakers on Wednesday in London. The Norwegian has held the world title since 2013.  © 2019 Deutsche Welle | Privacy Policy  | Legal notice  | Contact |  Mobile version 