When you're an intermediate learner... - Duolingo ... it's often difficult to know what resources to invest in. I've been very happy with this one in the past: http://multilingualbychoice.blogspot.com.es/2016/10/hoping-for-fast-progress-with-slow.html Hope it'll work as well for my French as it did for my Spanish. Of course, no ONE resource is going to 'make you fluent' - a mix of different ones is best, including our beloved Duolingo :) Here are some free resources that I have used for French in the past: Le journal en français facile:  http://savoirs.rfi.fr/fr/apprendre-enseigner/langue-francaise/journal-en-francais-facile Français avec Pierre:  http://www.francaisavecpierre.com/ France Bienvenue:  https://francebienvenue1.wordpress.com/ L'avie de Marie + Balades podcasts:  http://www.podclub.ch/sendungen/l-avis-de-marie-f There's also a lot of content on  http://lingq.com/  that you can grab for free. Thanks very much for sharing these :) And for some grammar training I discovered this site:  http://www.francaisfacile.com/guide/index.php?niv=3 Great, thank you so much :) it's true i'm learning french and i use this one  https://nativefrenchspeech.com/en  i don't pay for much things in language learning unless it's really excellent Same here. And once you've made it through the intermediate swamp, then there's not much point in paying for teaching material. Then you just spend your money on films, novels and other stuff to enjoy in the target language ;-) Thank you for posting this! I too have been caught in that terrible wasteland of "intermediate learner" for a long time (I studied French for a year at university, so my skills are much higher than my Duolingo level suggests, but still not stellar). I get bored easily with beginner materials and the usual suggestion of reading children's books, but I'm not quite at a level where I can read "grown-up" books without it requiring a lot of effort. And my listening comprehension is... not good. I have considered investing in News in Slow French before, so maybe I'll take a closer look. Do you have any other suggested resources for either French or German? I really want to get these two languages to a point where I feel comfortable using them, and I am willing to throw money at the problem lol. Thanks! :) Hi there! I find that the first five books are difficult to get through, and then it gets a lot better. I never start reading books until I'm well into intermediate level. Far too frustrating when you're still a beginner. Not a big fan of kid's books either - they just don't hold my interest.  For French, try  https://lingvist.com  - it'll reinforce what you're doing with DL, and it's (still) free. I found it very useful. It also teaches a bit of colloquial French - the notes are hilarious at times.  For German, maybe this:  http://www.nachrichtenleicht.de   - great for learning current affairs vocab, when you're at a stage where mainstream news sites are still a bit too hard to understand. Also free of charge.  Good luck! Upwards and onwards :) Thanks so much! :)  It's such a frustrating place to be stuck, and I've been struggling to figure out how to get over this hump. I've been reading  nachrichtenleicht.de  for a few weeks now, and I really like it! I especially like that they have audio for the article as well, which really helps my listening skills. I'll check out  lingvist.com  too!  Part of my problem with reading is that I enjoy science fiction, but I don't always trust my comprehension, because the situations are so unusual (I'm usually correct, even when I doubt myself, but I spend more time than I'd like looking things up in the dictionary). I need to find some more "casual" books to read first, but preferably not the usual suggestion to read Harry Potter translated into French haha. Thank you again for your helpful suggestions! :) Le Petit Prince is science fiction ;-) That book was my biggest problem lol! I kept thinking things like: "Why is he asking about drawing a sheep? That doesn't make sense, I must be misunderstanding..." Turns out I understood perfectly, the book was just very strange haha. I've never read it in English, though, so perhaps I will have better luck if I choose something that I can read in both languages. Then I won't doubt myself so much. ;) that  is cool site for german i've been always thinking of trying german  but i seriously don't know where to start with this language never studied a language with cases before There's tons of free material out there - and you've got Duolingo, so that's a good place to start :) Good luck! 