Boston Couples Justin and Katie Bill - West Brookfield, MA Together for three years...Married November 18, 2017 in Spencer, Mass. New Massachusetts residents as of 2016 from Michigan and currently located in West Brookfield. Living the wedded bliss with our two fur-children, and looking forward to many happy years together to come!!  Tucker and Natalie Antell - Boston, MA We are so very lucky to have found each other. We didn't like each other for the first couple of years of working together, but then one thing led to another and it ended in a marriage and now running a business together (a wedding band in Boston). She supports me in everything, and I am truly blessed to have her by my side. This picture is framed in our living room, and it captures a truly special moment when we got up on stage to join our band for the final song of the night during our wedding reception. We are lucky enough to be able to do this every weekend (minus the wedding dress) and I couldn't imagine life without her! Karen and David Arrighi - Bridgewater, MA This mini-collage is from our wedding on February 11, 2011. This year we will celebrate being married for seven years and being together for 23 years. That's not a typo - we were together for 16 years before we got married! Joeana and David Bush - Boston, MA We met almost two year ago. Our first date was a picnic in the Blue Hills with the view of our beloved city, Boston. We both love the city but I love to hike so I thought I would share this special place. We have been together since that day. We met online, we have taken dancing lessons together and we make each other smile. We work so well as a team and make amazing food together. What we love is that we finish each other’s.. sandwiches. We also introduce each other to new things like coffee ( he never had a cup of coffee until we met). We both support each others dreams and goals, he is the missing piece that I thought I would never find.  Filip and Kim Cerny - Hull, MA We married young and started a family young. We have had many obstacles in our relationship. We're learning from each other every day, and as long as we don't forget to laugh and love and respect, it makes our bond even stronger. We have proven that young love lasts. John and Robyn Chaney - Revere, MA We met in college in 1992, and shared in a year-long relationship before severing it, eventually losing contact. It would be eight years before we met again. Our date was on Valentine's Day, 2000, where we kicked off the start of our rekindled romance. We were then married on Valentine's Day, 2004...The sweetest part of my journey is that my husband loves bringing home flowers, just because, and I've never met anyone who loves chocolate more than he does. We truly get to live in the spirit of Valentine's Day every waking moment. Michael and Kathy Conrad - Pelham, NH What makes us a remarkable couple would be that we share the same birthday. She will tell you, of course, that I am two years older to the day. However, with that being said, two Aries are not supposed to get along, LOL. What is truly remarkable, being Aries, is we never argue...She’s my best friend; we are at a stage in our lives where we are travelling and enjoying life. Last year when she turned 50, she declared it as “The Year of Kathy” so we traveled somewhere almost every month. Josh Dolan and Laura Kinney - Holliston, MA We live in Holliston, Mass. with our three cats and a dog. We had our first kiss down by the Boston Harbor and return to this spot whenever we can; we took our engagement photos here by the harbor back in the fall. We met six years ago this month and are getting married on March 17! Micéal Duffy and Saba Wahid- Boston, MA We met in Boston on St. Patrick’s Day three years ago and are now getting married in Ireland this April 2018, just a couple months away! Alexandra and Patrick Foley- South Yarmouth, MA We met in high school and became the best of friends. We realized we couldn’t live this life without each other and have been together ever since! We are coming up on our seven year dating anniversary on February 14th and just celebrated our first year of marriage in September! Patrick is my absolute best friend. There’s no one in this world that I love more than him. We have been through so much together, including job loss, chronic sickness, living with our parents (most of this happened in our first year of marriage) and more. Finding love in this life is rare and hard to come by. I am so blessed to have found the love of my life. Christina Jones and Mike Webb - Brockton, Mass.  He's not just my boyfriend. He's my best friend and confidant. He makes me smile and laugh and really makes me feel special. We just bought a house together and have big plans for our future! I'm truly grateful to have him in my life. Katie McKenna and Andrew Simpson - Westport, MA My birthday is on Valentine’s Day and he is the kind of guy that will make Valentine’s Day super special -- and then another day for my birthday to recognize both. He involves my kids in so many ways; he is super thoughtful and kind and I can’t say enough about him . He couldn’t represent a more special Valentine or a more special person! He has changed my life. I’m a single mom. He helped me restart my business. He is the most considerate, generous person that I’ve ever met . Every time I hear the song "Perfect" by Ed Sheeran I think of him. Steve and Jan Misarski - Millbury, MA We met in high school, when Steve was dating Jan's best friend. We met again in college -- and the rest is history. We have been married for 34 years.We have four incredible children and a brand new grandson. We are blessed and still crazy in love. Julie Morris and Joe Nitche - Chelmsford, MA Joe and I have been together for six years and are getting married in June. We are each other’s best friend and soulmate. He is the best person I know. We love camping, the beach, biking, and thoroughly enjoy being Cub Scout leaders in our son's pack! Rob and Kayla Newton - Bellingham, MA We just got married this past September 8th. We planned our rehearsal dinner to be in a bar so we could watch the Patriots' first game of the season, and realized early in the football season my husband's team (the Jaguars) and my team (the Patriots) were both playing well enough to make it to the playoffs. In November, we decided to skip Christmas and wait for the playoffs and get tickets to the Pats-Jags game because we were both so confident in our teams. Low and behold both teams made it to the AFC Championship game and we bought nosebleed seats and had the best time! We made a promise to be civil and really work through the toughest day in our young marriage. Even though the Jags lost Rob was a great sport and the Pats losing the Superbowl.  Tiffany and Samantha Piascik - Londonderry, NH  Married 2.5 years. We met and fell in love right away. We got married a year later in California and moved to New England to raise a family. We love to rescue dogs, are currently fostering a child, and are planning to have our first baby.  We are best friends and enjoy many adventures together. Most importantly, we never give up on each other. Peter and Valerie Ricardi - Keene, NH Married 26 years...Three daughters...Two grandsons..Blended family...I am partially disabled using mobility accomodations. Pete is a prostate cancer survivor, one year retired and consulting parttime as a railway consultant. We are not the cutest couple or sweetest couple or even most remarkable couple but we are happy, resilient, blessed and thankful for 26 years of memories, both good and bad. Looking forward to the next 27 years! Chris and Pam Ricevuto - Melrose, MA This is a picture of my husband Chris and me a few months ago while we were celebrating our friend's wedding!  We've been married for five years and have two beautiful little girls, one crazy golden retriever, and a cozy home in Melrose, Mass. Life couldn’t be crazier, but we’ve never been happier! Meg Rubadou and Alex Rudi - Taunton, MA and Westwood, MA We met in 2016 when I was competing for my second time for the title of Miss Taunton. This title has been a dream of mine since I was in high school. Alex graduated from Massachusetts Maritime Academy in 2017, but in 2016 he signed up to be an evening gown escort at the Miss Taunton Pageant. When he showed up, he had no idea that the girl he would be escorting across the stage would fall head over heels for him four months later. This past November, on my 4th try, I finally won the title of my dreams. Alex was in the audience during my win and I am so greatful to have him by my side throughout my journey. Kins and Adit Shah - Lowell, MA We were high school sweethearts, and we got married two years ago on Valentine’s Day. This Valentine’s Day, it will be 12 years of our togetherness and we are expecting our first little one in June. 