Technical Performance Scores in Congenital Cardiac Operations: A Quality Assessment Initiative - The Annals of Thoracic Surgery Mendeley Facebook Twitter Email AddThis Presented at the Forty-eighth Annual Meeting of The Society of Thoracic Surgeons, Fort Lauderdale, FL, Jan 28–Feb 1, 2012. Plum Print visual indicator of research metrics Mendeley Facebook Twitter Email AddThis Fig 1 Impact of technical performance scores by risk category–mortality. Of a total of 6 deaths, 5 were in the high-risk group (RACHS [Risk Adjustment for Congenital Heart Surgery] categories 4–6). One death could not be assigned to a RACHS category. Three deaths were in technical performance class 3 and 1 was in class 2. Two patients could not be assigned a technical score. (NA = not applicable.) Fig 2 Mortality stratified by technical performance scores (p = 0.001). Fig 3 Impact of technical performance scores by risk category–length of stay (LOS). (RACHS  =  Risk Adjustment for Congenital Heart Surgery.) Fig 4 Technical performance by RACHS risk group. (RACHS  =  Risk Adjustment for Congenital Heart Surgery.) Fig 5 Distribution of technical performance scores. Fig 6 Distribution of technical performance class 3 by surgeons (n = total number of patients operated on by specific surgeon). Technical performance in congenital cardiac operations and its association with clinical outcomes was previously examined in infants and neonates. The purpose of this study was the development and implementation of a system for measuring technical performance in the majority of congenital cardiac operations to be used as a surgeon's self-assessment tool. Using the methodologic framework piloted at our institution, measures of technical performance were created for more than 90% of all congenital cardiac operations. Each operation was divided into multiple subprocedures to be assessed separately. Criteria for technical scores were created using a consensus panel of senior clinicians and were based primarily on the predischarge echocardiographic findings and need for early postoperative reinterventions. This system of procedure modules was then piloted by prospectively assigning technical scores to all patients undergoing operations. Thirty modules were created covering more than 90% of the cardiac operations performed. One hundred eighty-five patients were enlisted. One hundred one (54.6%) cases were scored as class 1 (highest), 46 (24.9%) cases as class 2, 22 (11.9%) cases as class 3 (lowest); 16 cases (8.6%) could not be scored. The results were further analyzed by RACHS (Risk Adjustment for Congenital Heart Surgery) categories and outcomes. Valve-procedure–specific criteria were calibrated to reflect specific echocardiographic measurements. The development and implementation of a broad technical performance self-assessment system for congenital cardiac operations is possible. Based on this scoring system, the impact of a less than optimal (2 or 3) technical score depends on case risk category, with higher mortality in the higher risk group, and increased resource use for lower risk procedures. Click to get updates and verify authenticity. 