Hubcap (G1) | Teletraan I: The Transformers Wiki | Fandom Everybody likes  Hubcap . He's friendly, always has a clever joke or compliment ready, and is generally a nice, fun, affable bot to be around. On the other hand nobody actually  trusts  Hubcap. It's not his devotion to the Autobot cause that's the concern (mostly), but his ulterior motives for his friendship and jokes and the like. He is at his core a con artist, and everyone's a bit on their guard around him. Some think he's this way to cover for deficiencies or to stay in a postion well above his actual aptitude level... or maybe he just likes tricking people. He doesn't seem to have made many enemies with his tricks and scams, though; quite the opposite. So perhaps it is all mostly harmless.  No-one doubts that he's got  very  good audio receptors, though, capable of picking up incredibly weak signals, which is why he's part of the Autobot communications hub. One can only guess as to what he might  do  with all he hears in that position, though.  Hubcap is part of the group who arrive to back up  Powerglide , who is defending a dog that had been cruelly experimented on by the Decepticons from being hunted and captured by the  Combaticons . He and the other Minibots combine with Powerglide in their vehicle modes thanks to the experimental energies within the dog, and spin furiously, smashing through  Bruticus ' chest and out the other side in a flying drill attack.  No, seriously.  Hubcap is among the group of new recruits seen failing to take on the Auto-Combatant training drones on  Cybertron  after  Shockwave 's rule was toppled.   Black Sunshine Hubcap was among the mourners at  Bumper  and  Fastback 's funeral at the Security Services HQ in  Kaon , appropriately standing next to  Bumblebee  and  Cliffjumper .   Megatron Origin issue 3  He later served at an Autobot communications post, trying to radio through to  Iacon  for reinforcements during Megatron's "everything burns" offensive. In the end, the area was so devastated that Hubcap and the Autobots only requested evacuation from the area instead of new troops, leaving  Kaon  under Decepticon control.   Megatron Origin issue 4 Despite, or because of these events, he was also listed as a potential candidate for a mission that was ultimately given to  Wheelie .   Spotlight: Wheelie Gone Too Far 