Top 7 Yoga Classes in Downtown, Vancouver | ClassPass Share this list at  Stretch Studio Alignment Hatha classes are slower-paced but still require concentration and effort. Gentle doesn ' t mean easy. They will gradually stretch, strengthen, and build outer and inner balance. Both beginner and advanced practitioners… read more This class was lovely and welcoming, it would ' ve been especially great for beginners (but still had more complex adaptations). Kent was gentle and relaxing. Very beautiful studio… read more at  YYOGA - Downtown Flow This slower practice emphasizes a balance of postural alignment and breathing techniques to stretch and strengthen your body with gentle transitions and minimal weight bearing on your hands. Jason was great. Very hands on and created a relaxed atmosphere with his quirky jokes. at  One Yoga A weekly class focused on developing your AcroYoga technique through playful connection and communication with others. In this class we will encourage you to base, fly and spot. We will build on foundational knowledge and… read more Always a phenomenal experience. Sasha, you ' re the best . This is how yoga should be practiced and taught  at  Oxygen Yoga and Fitness A 60 minute class fusing fitness based movements (think mini fast + furious) followed by vinyasa-style yoga for a good stretch and cool-down. This class is perfect for getting your workout in and also to achieve the benefits… read more Not for the faint of heart! Dont think I have ever sweat so much in my life but it was fantastic and was the best start to my day. Loved the first 30 mins as intense fast and furious… read more at  Oxygen Yoga  &  Fitness West End Practice with mindfulness, body awareness, and with focus on core engagement in this 60-minute well rounded class.  Start your day feeling stronger, more stable, and balanced. Power Core Vinyasa moves through a carefully… read more Great teacher, great class. But the studio should definitely hire someone to sit upfront to check the other members in. Ten minutes before the class there was a group of us waiting… read more at  The Practice Studio MAT CLASS. YOGA. STRETCH. LENGTHEN. RELAX. RECOVER.Connect your body to your breath through a series of flow yoga movements to increase flexibility and mindfulness. Combine recovery, stretching, meditation and light resistance… read more Great recovery class after a week of weight training.  at  Steve Nash Fitness AntiGravity Aerial Yoga provides a workout that allows you to stretch and strengthen without stressing your joints or compressing your vertebrae. *Available at DTSC only. Lucy is very attentive and welcoming which make the class great for people who have no previous experience in training in aerial yoga or circus and seasoned practitioners alike… read more This list is based on ClassPass reviews and popularity. Top classes and studios are updated frequently. Did we mention... Good for relaxation, full-body-stretch and flexibility. Good for arm-strength, core-strength and full-body-strength. Good for leg-strength, back-strength and shoulder-stretch. Good for arm-strength, shoulder-stretch and chest-stretch. Good for chest-strength, leg-strength and back-strength. Good for core-strength, back-strength and leg-strength. Good for core-strength, glute-strength and leg-strength. Good for back-stretch, shoulder-strength and leg-strength. Good for leg-stretch, arm-strength and leg-strength. Good for full-body-strength, leg-strength and balance. Good for relaxation, flexibility and leg-stretch. Good for core-strength, leg-strength and balance. Good for full-body-strength, full-body-stretch and flexibility. Good for back-stretch, leg-stretch and flexibility. Good for leg-strength, leg-stretch and flexibility. Good for leg-stretch, back-stretch and flexibility. Good for flexibility, full-body-stretch and relaxation. Good for shoulder-stretch, relaxation and flexibility. Good for arm-strength, leg-stretch and core-strength. Good for leg-strength, core-strength and chest-stretch. Join our list and we’ll send you a guide to the best fitness studios nearby. 