Services - Harmony Physiotherapy Wolverhampton physiotherapists - Dedicated to caring for you Wolverhampton physiotherapists - Dedicated to caring for you Wolverhampton physiotherapists - Dedicated to caring for you With over 15 years of experience in assessment, diagnosis and treatment of musculoskeletal complaints we offer a wide range of services to help in the elevation and management of pain. We will always carry out a thorough assessment this allows us to diagnose the joints, nerves, muscles, ligaments that are contributing to your problem. We will discuss with you your treatment goals and options, this may be with hands-on treatment such as manipulation and mobilisation or something like acupuncture. This will always be combined with an exercise programme for you to carry out at home along with advice on subjects such as posture. You will also be shown the best ways to prevent recurrence and given a programme which is tailored to your needs. Our spinal treatments help with reduction of pain and return to function following prolapsed disc, sciatica, scoliosis, localized or generalised back and neck pain and/or stiffness, referred arm and leg pain, and headaches of spinal origin Our joint treatments help with reduction of pain, and return to function for painful and/or stiff joints e.g, tennis elbow, golfers elbow, wrist tendonitis, carpal tunnel syndrome, bursitis, anterior knee pain, housemaid’s knee, osteoarthrosis of knees and hips and ankles etc. The shoulder is a highly mobile joint, with heavy reliance on the muscles around it to function properly. Diagnosis of shoulder injuries involves obtaining a detailed history and a thorough assessment of movements.  Examples of sources of shoulder pain are shoulder impingement syndrome/rotator cuff, frozen shoulder. Our treatment will be targeted at reducing pain, and utilising appropriate exercises to specifically strengthen and loosen the shoulder Our team are experienced in the protocols/ stages required for a safe successful return to fitness following joint replacement, spinal surgery, fracture and other surgeries. Our team manage strains, sprains, and bruising to tissue such as may typically occur in the muscles, tendons and/or joints.  We are adept at pain relief for sports injuries as well as the rehabilitation back to the activities you enjoy. Foot pain and injury is extremely common. Foot pain can be sourced from local structures such as muscles, ligaments, bones and joint or it can be referred from other sources including your lower back and other systemic diseases. Common sources of foot pain include plantar fasciitis, bunion, heel spur and ankle injuries. Our pregnancy physiotherapy services have been specifically designed to help new mums and ‘mums to be’ about their ever changing body during their childbearing year and to give them the confidence and tools to safely exercise during this challenging time in their lives. Many women will suffer with aches and pains associated with their pregnancy which may affect them in a number of ways.  Lower back pain, pelvic pain and stress incontinence are just a few of the problems that women may suffer from during their childbearing years and the affects can last long after the arrival of their baby. Physiotherapists with specialised training in this area are in an ideal position to educate, advise and treat women on safe exercising during this time. We offer a wide range of treatment techniques however all treatment regimes are tailored to your needs.  Physiotherapy treatment can include one or a combination of the following: Mobilisations or manipulations are carried out by a therapist using their hands or a device to apply a controlled force to a joint moving it beyond its passive range of motion.  The goal of the treatment is to relieve pain and improve physical functioning. These massages are used to alleviate pain by focusing on treatment of specific muscles that are causing symptoms. Soft tissue massage uses slower, deeper strokes with a more intense pressure as compared to Swedish massage.  Fascial release techniques are hands on techniques where a low load (gentle pressure) is specifically applied to help elongate fascia and release tension. Acupuncture is a treatment derived from ancient Chinese medicine. Fine needles are inserted at certain sites in the body for therapeutic or preventative purposes .  Western medical acupuncture is the use of acupuncture following a medical diagnosis. It involves stimulating sensory nerves under the skin and in the muscles of the body. This results in the body producing natural substances, such as pain-relieving endorphins. It s likely that these naturally released substances are responsible for the beneficial effects experienced with acupuncture Strapping tape and Supportive taping  is commonly used by physiotherapists to: Rigid taping is commonly used in taping or strapping is often referred to as  sports tape  or  athletic tape  and is most often a rigid style of strapping tape. Kinesiology tape is an improved version of elastic sports tape that acts to dynamically assist your muscle function. These two exercise forms can be a great way to help improve abdominal and back strength, balance,co-ordination, flexibility and posture. At the heart of these methods is the aim to encourage you to take control of your body once more in order to achieve a healthier lifestyle. If you have any queries about the services we offer and whether physiotherapy can help you, contact us. 