The Grey ' s Anatomy Season That Changes Everything - TV Fanatic According to a new poster released by ABC for the upcoming sixth season of  Grey's Anatomy , this will be "the season that changes everything." We feel like they've used that tagline before, or something similar, but then again, it is kind of true every year! It's a pretty cool poster in any case. Check it out below, and follow the link to our  Grey's Anatomy video  section for a couple of new promos for the upcoming season premiere ... Steve Marsi  is the Managing Editor of TV Fanatic. Follow him on  Google+  or email him  here . Ten days, we posted the  first promo  for the upcoming sixth season of  Grey ' s Anatomy . Now ABC has released a second promo, which like the first contains a mixture of footage from the previous season ' s gripping finale and clips from this month ' s premiere. Season Six debuts with a two-hour episode September 24 at 9 p.m. Here ' s a quick sneak preview of some of what ' s in store for us then ... [video url= " http://www.tvfanatic.com/videos/greys-anatomy-season-6-promo-2/ "  title= " Grey ' s Anatomy Season 6 Promo #2 " ]    [/video] Steve Marsi  is the Managing Editor of TV Fanatic. Follow him on  Google+  or email him  here . MEREDITH: "You don't get to call me a whore. When I met you, I thought I had found the person that I was going to spend the rest of my life with. I was done! All the boys and all the bars and all the obvious daddy issues, who cares? I was done. You left me. You chose Addison. I'm all glued back together now. I make no apologies for how I chose to repair what you broke. You don't get to call me a whore." DEREK: "This thing with us is finished. It's over." MEREDITH: "Finally." DEREK: "Yeah, it's done." MEREDITH: "It is done." CRISTINA: "There's a club. The Dead Dads Club. And you can't be in it until you're in it. You can try to understand, you can sympathize. But until you feel that loss... My dad died when I was nine. George, I'm really sorry you had to join the club." GEORGE: "I... I don't know how to exist in a world where my dad doesn't." CRISTINA: "Yeah, that never really changes." Top Shows Archives  2019 TV Fanatic| About Us | Copyright Inquiry | Privacy Policy | Contact Us  2019 TV Fanatic 