If only black America could work together as well as the NBA champion Warriors The Undefeated Yet, professor Michael Eric Dyson says,  black folks are a league, not a team The  Golden State Warriors will hold their victory parade in Oakland, California, on Tuesday , celebrating the franchise’s third NBA title in four years. This season’s accomplishment was heralded as the triumph of a great team and teamwork. The Warriors are a team of stars, superstars, young players, veteran players, strong personalities and unique talents. They overcame internal issues through teamwork and an intense focus on winning. After the final game June 8, a few players  hinted that internal pressures and undisclosed distractions  had made 2017-18 a particularly vexing campaign. Yet, the Warriors survived to win their third title since the 2014-15 season. As we celebrate the 50th anniversary of tumultuous 1968, I find myself wondering whether far-flung black America could use the Warriors  brand of teamwork to achieve a championship in an atmosphere of clickbait self-centeredness and narcissism. The civil rights movement was a testament to the bravery of a few and the concerted action of many. Just as the Warriors had their issues, there were tensions and rivalries with the movement but the brutality and persistence of white supremacy were often enough to force alliances. “We’ve always had disagreements and scuffles,”  professor Michael Eric Dyson said  during a recent conversation. “We’re going to have skirmishes. All black people don’t have to agree with all black people in order for black people to succeed.” We were discussing Dyson’s new book,  What Truth Sounds Like: Robert F. Kennedy, James Baldwin, and Our Unfinished Conversation About Race in America .  The book centers on a 1963 conversation between Robert F. Kennedy and a group of handpicked black celebrities and activists about the smoldering racial tensions in America. Kennedy became annoyed when his guests offered a no-holds-barred assessment of racism, including the Kennedys’ culpability. The book’s overarching themes were the need to speak truth to (white) power and the need for white power to listen. I told Dyson that I felt African-Americans spend far too much time persuading the white power structure to listen. I used a sports team analogy, suggesting it was like Tyronn Lue, the Cleveland Cavaliers coach, going to the Golden State locker room before a game and asking Warriors coach Steve Kerr to take his foot off the Cavaliers’ neck. Why should he? They are opponents. Just as Lue worked tirelessly, and ultimately unsuccessfully, to devise a strategy to defeat the Warriors, more time and energy is needed to get our own locker room, the black team’s locker room, committed to winning. That’s because racism is deeply rooted and an omnipresent opponent. We must do everything it takes to achieve victory: prison reform, police accountability and economic justice. We must be as committed to the proposition of teamwork toward this end. Dyson accepted the metaphor of the black team but argued that African-Americans are far too diverse and varied to be a single team. “Black folks are a league, not a team,” he said. On top of that, he argued, you have to figure out who’s on your team. Everybody who is your color isn’t on your team. Regardless, great teams bolster the NBA. The majority of franchises are in disarray. Some teams are talent-laden yet never win. Some, such as the New York Knicks, the NBA’s most valuable franchise, don’t have to win to turn a profit. Some black “teams” are like that as well, where individual success is valued over collective success. The beauty of Golden State, and before that a franchise like San Antonio, is understanding the vision of collective gain vs. individual gain. I raised the issue of teamwork and great teams with David West, the Warriors’ 37-year-old veteran forward. West has played 15 NBA seasons, having come into the league in 2003. West has been with four teams, has been in the playoffs but did not win a title until he joined Golden State in 2016. He has won two titles with the Warriors. David West of the Golden State Warriors poses for a portrait with the Larry O Brien NBA Championship Trophy after defeating the Cleveland Cavaliers in Game 4 of the 2018 NBA Finals on June 8. Jesse D. Garrabrant/NBAE via Getty Images West said the most important element for Golden State this season, and for successful teams in general, was “the ability to put aside personal agendas for the time that we are together. When we go to practice, guys aren’t bringing their issues into practice. Guys aren’t bringing their own ‘I’m going to do it my way’ into the group environment.” West mentioned the Warriors’ morning music locker-room playlist as a small but poignant example of the give-and-take that forms the backbone of a successful team. “Usually, wherever you go, the young guys rule the music,” said West, who played with New Orleans, Indiana and San Antonio before joining Golden State. At Golden State, the distribution of music is generationally diverse, from Jordan Bell, the 23-year-old center, to West. The music is a thread that connects generations and sensibilities. “You might hear Earth, Wind  &  Fire and Kool  &  the Gang one morning. You hear Michael Jackson another morning, and you might hear Kodak Black the next morning,” said West. Talent matters and continuity matters. But there are teams that have talent and continuity that do not win. On the team or in the movement, teamwork requires selflessness and sacrifice that might mean putting oneself in danger or at risk to achieve a greater good. Each generation, of players or activists, must decide what is that greater good. What is the connective thread? The common denominator? On the sports team, the thread is winning. On the black team, the thread varies from generation to generation. In his book  Exchanging Our Country Marks: The Transformation of African Identities in the Colonial and Antebellum South , historian Michael Gomez writes about Denmark Vesey’s insurrection of 1822 when people of African descent “born in either Africa or the Americas, coalesced for the purposes of realizing a common objective.” Gomez pointed out that even free blacks cast their lot with those in legal bondage “after sober assessment revealed that their own status was precarious if not illusory. In Vesey’s failed rebellion, the unifying element was religion, although that ultimately was not enough to overcome social and ethnic differences. In 1968, we were unified by the brutality of a deeply racist system determined to sustain itself. In 2018, sports and high-profile sports stars making statements and taking stands have become a unifying thread. The NFL champion Philadelphia Eagles, largely because of the protest of black players, did not go to visit the White House. The Warriors twice have said they would not attend if invited. West said social consciousness seeped into the Golden State locker room, where there were several conversations over the past two seasons about whether to protest during the playing of the national anthem.  There were agreements and disagreements, but nothing got in the way of the ultimate quest to win a third NBA title. Darius Leonard on love, loss and second chances Read now Why Major League Baseball s rule changes on marijuana matter Read now The NFL and Colin Kaepernick are done with each other Read now “Black people have to give up the notion that we have to be unified in order for us to have progress,” said Dyson. “We do not.” Commitment is more crucial than consensus. Whether achieving an NBA title or the endless quest for freedom and justice, there must be a commitment to achieve collective victories. The Warriors  parade Tuesday, their third in four years, is a testament to dedication, vision and the power of teamwork. William C. Rhoden, the former award-winning sports columnist for The New York Times and author of “Forty Million Dollar Slaves,” is a writer-at-large for The Undefeated. Contact him at william.rhoden@espn.com. The crowning of four black women in major pageants defies the legacy that privileges European standards of beauty in the pageant industry For the first time in our collective history, four black women have been crowned in each of the major beauty pageant titles: Miss America,  Miss USA, Miss Teen America , and now, Miss Universe. The crowning of these women has defied the long standing legacy that privileges European standards of beauty in the pageant industry. In 1977, more than 40 years ago, Miss Trinidad and Tobago Janelle Penny Commissiong was declared the most beautiful woman in the world when she was crowned the first black Miss Universe, but I didn’t know it. I was too short to reach the television knob, and too young to stay up for prime-time television, so I was unaware of Commissiong and the way she shattered the glass ceiling of universal beauty standards. Two years later, I found myself in the play area for girls in kindergarten. I met a best friend who looks like a brunette Barbie doll. Barbie is the drugstore pop-culture beauty I know. The best friend’s name is Carrie. And because my mother does not do the cooking in our house, my imagination has a hard time imagining my body in an apron or the role of homemaker like Barbie. Soon after I came to realize that I must have resembled a “Christie,” the black Barbie doll with skin the shade of a chocolate ribbon. These memories of kindergarten kicked up like dust when Zozibini Tunzi was crowned Miss Universe on Dec. 8 in Atlanta. She is African. Her skin is black. It collects all the colors of the rainbow and confronts the legacy of colonies in our world. Tunzi’s hair is not a mask of femininity, but a crown that frames her regalness. Her very existence and her role as Miss Universe are personified as anti-colonial – she defies the scripts of what is normal and subverts the suggested hierarchies of ideal femininity. During her win, she stated, “may every little girl see their faces reflected in mine.” “I grew up in a world where a woman who looks like me, with my kind of skin [dark] and my kind of hair [short and tightly coiled], was never considered beautiful,” Tunzi said. The Miss Universe 2019 pageant is another example of how popular culture is expanding ideas about beauty beyond industry norms and the legacy of empires. My kindergarten self wished I knew of Tunzi sooner. For generations, traditional references to universal beauty standards have privileged European standards that are often associated with race and a history of European countries occupying and claiming other countries as their property, privileging lighter skin, blond hair, longer hair, small noses and thin body frames. Considering that the Miss Universe corporation described Tunzi as “a proud advocate for natural beauty,” I am not sure if the pageant industry plans to be more open to standards of beauty that are inclusive of the global majority. Hopefully, Tunzi’s win is not an exception to the pageant industry’s commitment to expanding beauty norms. Still, her crowning is a clear indication that the pageant industry will interrogate its long-standing commitment to celebrating beauty standards that mirror a Eurocentric standard of beauty. A change may be near. DaMaris B. Hill is the author of A Bound Woman Is a Dangerous Thing: The Incarceration of African American Women from Harriet Tubman to Sandra Bland, The Fluid Boundaries of Suffrage and Jim Crow: Staking Claims in the American Heartland, \Vi-zə-bəl\   \Teks-chərs\(Visible Textures). Similar to her creative process, Hill’s scholarly research is interdisciplinary. Hill is an Associate Professor of Creative Writing at the University of Kentucky. The paperback of A Bound Woman Is A Dangerous Thing will be released on January 14, 2020.  Dr. Manhattan makes a gorgeous sacrifice in the name of love In the universe of HBO’s  Watchmen , the wound, it turns out, is the place where the blue light enters. Apologies to Rumi for the  bastardization of this lovely quotation . It couldn’t be helped. A God Walks Into Abar  gives us several crucial missing pieces before what I imagine will be an epic showdown between the Seventh Kavalry, Lady Trieu, and those remaining who know about the Cyclops plan and are determined to thwart it. But the best thing about this episode is the story of how Angela Abar and Cal came to be a couple in the first place. So let’s begin with the love story of the Abars and that Rumi quotation. Angela has one giant wound: She’s lost everyone who she ever cared about. Her parents were murdered by a Viet Cong sympathizer-turned-suicide-bomber after the conclusion of the Vietnam War, which resulted in American statehood for the previously independent country. Upon learning that she had a grandmother who wanted to raise her, Angela was left with no place to turn except the orphanage where she was raised because grandmother June died the same day the two were supposed to depart for a new life in Tulsa, Oklahoma. And so Angela nurses her wounds with state-sanctioned violence/vengeance (she becomes a cop), distance (she doesn’t seem to have any friends), and control (even when a literal god tells her they’re going to end up together for 10 years, she’s incredibly skeptical). Dr. Manhattan, then, is Angela’s blue light, her salve, her reason for allowing herself to be vulnerable, to love, and to be loved in return. He’s kind of perfect for her, at least on the surface. Who could possibly be a better match for a woman whose heart keeps getting broken by unpredictable circumstances than a time-bending god who knows about everything before it even happens? A time-bending god who knows about everything before it even happens. Angela Abar (Regina King) was a police officer in Saigon, Vietnam, before she moved to Tulsa, Oklahoma. Mark Hill/HBO Once Angela assents to dinner with Dr. Manhattan, and later, a full-blown relationship, she realizes that his ability to see and experience the future is a downer. I’m so impressed by the way co-writers Jeff Jensen and Damon Lindelof committed to falling down the rabbit hole of what it means to be in a modern relationship with a superhero. These romantic entanglements tend to be ultimately unfulfilling for the civilian partner, especially if that partner is a woman. There’s an inherent power imbalance, one that I wrote about when discussing  Luke Cage’s relationship with Claire Temple . If Dr. Manhattan can see, know, and experience everything before it happens, Angela quickly becomes robbed of her own sense of agency. She’s in a relationship in which she has no control. “If you know everything that’s going to happen, what is there to be afraid of,” a frustrated Angela asks Dr. Manhattan, “what is there to risk?” And so the sacrifice Dr. Manhattan makes, in the name of love, is to give up the very thing that makes him, well, Dr. Manhattan, thanks to a device Adrian Veidt created with just this situation in mind. Dr. Manhattan gives up the very thing humans seem to be addicted to most: power. It might be one of the most romantic gestures I’ve ever witnessed in a television show. The penultimate episode of  Watchmen , directed with stunning tenderness by Nicole Kassell, mirrors Dr. Manhattan’s galaxy brain in that both are running on multiple and concurrent tracks. The first, the microtrack, was the Abar relationship. Now let’s zoom out and look at the macro view: Dr. Manhattan wins the Vietnam War for the United States at the request of President Nixon. He turns himself into a 100-foot-tall, one-man weapon that lays waste to the Viet Cong army, resulting in Vietnam’s statehood. Of course, there can be no war without unintended consequences, and Dr. Manhattan is indirectly responsible for the deaths of Angela’s parents — his actions in Vietnam provided the motive for the suicide bomber who killed them. In one lifetime, Jon Osterman goes from refugee fleeing tyranny to reluctant and regretful agent of American imperialism.  It’s all rather Einsteinian. Woe is Dr. Manhattan . Like the rest of the series, episode eight carries the through line of  Watchmen  graphic novelist Alan Moore’s skepticism toward the idea of superheroes and the unforeseen havoc their actions create. But it also provides a path to redemption, one that is paved with love. Besides learning from the mistakes he made as a boyfriend to Laurie Blake, Dr. Manhattan comes to similar conclusions about allowing himself to become a hired gun for the U.S. defense department. And his remorse for both converge in one person: Angela. Dr. Manhattan’s biggest departure from the God he learns about in the Bible he’s given as a boy in 1936 may be that he is, in fact, quite fallible. What’s more, he’s capable of regretting his actions. It’s obvious that Dr. Manhattan is contrite about his role in the Vietnam War, in which he becomes the deified equivalent of a nuke. I think Dr. Manhattan is also introspective about his previous relationship with Laurie. We know how she feels about it, thanks to the voicemail message she leaves for him in one of Lady Trieu’s Mars phone booths. She’s been forsaken by a god who was seemingly cold, unfeeling, and distant, even if he was all-powerful. He creates an Eden on the moon of a planet (Jupiter) that shares a name with Laurie’s mother, Sally. Dr. Manhattan, it would appear, feels bad about the way he left things with his ex. If the Dr. Manhattan who destroyed the Viet Cong and Laurie’s heart is Old Testament blue god, then the one who gives up his omniscience for the woman whose life his actions inadvertently destroyed is most certainly New Testament. But now that he’s been sucked into the Seventh Kavalry’s teleporter, what will become of Tulsa and the country at large? Can Adrian Veidt save the world now that it appears to need him again? Preferably without killing 3 million humans as collateral damage this time? Stray, but maybe important observations:  Soraya Nadia McDonald is the culture critic for The Undefeated. She writes about pop culture, fashion, the arts, and literature. She ' s based in Brooklyn. The first African American band to receive the prestigious honor turned the high-powered audience into fans at a dance party WASHINGTON —  Earth, Wind  &  Fire  was a definitive part of  LL Cool J ’s childhood soundtrack in Queens, New York. Now he was hosting the 42nd Annual Kennedy Center Honors, which featured the landmark ensemble as one of its five esteemed guests. “I remember my mother doing the vacuum dance to all [their] songs,” LL (James Todd Smith) told The Undefeated while laughing. The “ Mama Said Knock You Out ” MC became hip-hop’s first Kennedy Center honoree in 2017. “[She’d] be like, ‘C’mon, Todd!’ I’d look at those little lines in the carpet … Man, I’m so happy for Earth, Wind  &  Fire. They deserve it so much.” Sunday night, Washington paid homage to a sterling lineup of creatives. Along with Earth, Wind  &  Fire, other honorees were actress Sally Field, singer Linda Ronstadt, the creators of the children’s television series  Sesame Street,  and conductor/composer Michael Tilson Thomas. Celebrities in attendance included Ben Vereen, Herbie Hancock, Carrie Underwood, Audra McDonald, Lars Ulrich of Metallica, Garth Brooks, Lucy Liu, Kenneth “Babyface” Edmonds, Cedric the Entertainer, Steven Spielberg and more. But with all due respect, the night belonged to the group that was the last to be honored. Top row from left to right: Philip Bailey, Verdine White and Ralph Johnson of Earth, Wind  &  Fire, Abby, Big Bird and Elmo. Bottom row from left to right: conductor and musical visionary Michael Tilson Thomas, singer Linda Ronstadt, actress Sally Field, and  Sesame Street  creators Joan Ganz Cooney and Lloyd Morrisett were recognized for their achievements in the performing arts during The 42nd Annual Kennedy Center Honors on Dec. 8. John P.Filo/CBS That’s because, for nearly 50 years, they’ve had the trademark on turning a black tie event into a bona fide party. After all, one doesn’t sell more than 100 million records worldwide and not know how to own a room. On the Kennedy Center stage, fans, collaborators and, most importantly to them, friends such as David Foster and David Copperfield, told stories of working with the legendary group. John Legend (“Can’t Hide Love”), Cynthia Erivo (“Reasons”), Ne-Yo (“Shining Star” and “Sing A Song”) and The Jonas Brothers (“Boogie Wonderland”) ran through a few of the group’s best known anthems. It was the only time all night that members of the audience were on their feet for all of the performances. In a room boasting a surplus of celebrities, policymakers and prominent philanthropists, the bottom line read the same: Earth, Wind  &  Fire was the straw that stirred their drink. With eight No. 1 hits, eight platinum albums, seven Grammys, a Class of 2000 induction into the Rock  &  Roll Hall of Fame, a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame, and Lifetime Achievement Awards with the Grammys, ASCAP, NAACP and BET, Earth, Wind  &  Fire is a one-of-one. Their impact spans generations and genres. The group has been  sampled more than 600 times  by artists such as Drake, Cam’ron, Queen Pen, TLC, Young Thug, Missy Elliott, Mac Miller and more, with more than 200 covers of their songs. And for the second consecutive month, surviving original members Philip Bailey, Verdine White and Ralph Johnson found themselves back in the nation’s capital. In November, the Smithsonian’s National Portrait Gallery  unveiled a 1978 photo of the group . Earlier this summer,  Bailey told The Undefeated  that being honored by the Kennedy Center “ranks among the highest” of all the accolades the group has received. Dating to its infancy, founder Maurice White (who died in 2016) was adamant that the group never sought to be embraced by the masses — but rather they would embrace them. Their music serves as a crockpot of styles, ranging from rhythm and blues, soul, big band and swing to jazz and classical. The diversity in their music was reflected in the look of their generations of fans. “Funk!” exclaimed actor Tom Hanks when asked about his earliest memories of Earth, Wind  &  Fire. Moments earlier, the two-time Academy Award winner joyfully embraced and chatted with the group’s members on the evening’s red carpet. “There isn’t a person alive that, if [Earth, Wind  &  Fire] are playing in the other room and you don’t find yourself [grooving along] just a little bit on the backbeat … God bless Earth, Wind  &  Fire.” “I loved dancing to them when I was a young person. Singing along throughout my lifetime and now my 21-year-old daughter — she’s more thrilled than I am to be here tonight. That kind of impact is amazing,” said Kennedy Center president Deborah Rutter. “The spectrum of all the music they have brought into their performances. But the way they perform them, the dance moves, the live show. It’s the full package.” Throughout the audience, couples danced and crooned to one another. Maybe it was their way of connecting to the music that defined the earliest stages of their relationship. Or maybe it was that the music, if only for a few seconds, evaporated any other concerns in their lives. Had it not been for a full band and backup singers already on stage, the crowd itself was ready and willing to take on the responsibility of an impromptu choir. Everyone knew the words. That included House Speaker Nancy Pelosi — who received a resounding ovation earlier in the night. Pelosi, from her elevated seat, smiled and swayed back and forth while singing along to “Boogie Wonderland.” Kennedy Center Honors host LL Cool J on Earth, Wind  &  Fire: “I’m so happy for Earth, Wind  &  Fire. They deserve it so much.” Photo by Scott Suchman The groove that exists in Earth, Wind  &  Fire’s DNA is difficult to quantify and even harder not to be touched by. This was White’s vision and why his spirit felt present. As the crowd and performers ran through a king’s ransom of hit records, White’s being loomed large. It’s also worth noting how unusual this moment was. For the most part, individual singers and songwriters get Kennedy Center Honors. Earth, Wind  &  Fire is just the fourth musical group to receive one of the most prestigious titles in the arts, following The Who in 2008, Led Zeppelin in 2012 and The Eagles in 2016. They also are the first African American band to receive the distinction. “They should’ve been honored,” said musician Aaron Neville, who was in attendance. “They’re a world staple.” Closing the show out with Earth, Wind  &  Fire was both a marathon and inspiring victory lap. They received two standing ovations, both of which lasted well over a minute with audience members screaming their adoration for Bailey, White and Johnson. The show concluded with a karaoke-style session of “September” with Legend, Nick Jonas, Ne-Yo and Erivo all having their chance to run through one of the most beloved songs in music history. As yet another decade of Earth, Wind  &  Fire’s legacy makes way for the next, Sunday night in Washington proved the group is forever linked to the history of sound. As true a supergroup as there ever was, they’re ambassadors of fun, diversity and, not to be forgotten, love. The 42nd Annual Kennedy Center Honors airs on CBS Dec. 15 at 8 p.m. EST. Justin Tinsley is a culture and sports writer for The Undefeated. He firmly believes “Cash Money Records takin’ ova for da ’99 and da 2000” is the single-most impactful statement of his generation. We spoke to three members of the first all-black sketch team of the Upright Citizens Brigade Theatre The members of Astronomy Club want Magical Negroes to know something: It’s time to reclaim your dignity! That’s the message of one of the strongest sketches from the first and only all-black performance team of the Upright Citizens Brigade Theatre. UCB is one of the major feeders for  Saturday Night Live . Its founding members include Amy Poehler, Adam McKay, and Matt Walsh. Astronomy Club was formed in 2014, and the group performs live in New York. Now, the Astronomy Club, the team of Shawtane Bowen, Jonathan Braylock, Ray Cordova, Caroline Martin, Jerah Milligan, Monique Moses, Keisha Zollar, and James III has a six-episode sketch series, executive produced by Kenya Barris, premiering Friday on Netflix. Here’s a peek at what’s coming: Netflix Is A Joke 533K subscribers Subscribe Magical Negro Rehab | Astronomy Club: The Sketch Show | Digital Exclusive | Netflix is a Joke Info Shopping Tap to unmute If playback doesn ' t begin shortly, try restarting your device. More videos Your browser does not currently recognize any of the video formats available.  Click here to visit our frequently asked questions about HTML5 video. More videos on YouTube Share Include playlist An error occurred while retrieving sharing information. Please try again later. Watch later Share Copy link An error occurred. Try watching this video on www.youtube.com , or enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser. In the series, the group plays play eight strangers thrown together in a house,  Real World -style, all from different backgrounds and experiences. I spoke with Braylock, Milligan, and James III about the new show and their podcast,  Black Men Can’t Jump . This interview has been edited and condensed for length and clarity. How have your relationships as performers evolved since you first started working together?  Jerah Milligan:  Each time we perform, we get a deeper understanding of who we all are as comedians. There is an improv element to us with the podcast, we’re having a conversation and we go on rants, but we can read each other. We know what types of things are going to push each other’s buttons and I think that is what makes it fun, and exciting. Jonathan Braylock:  When Astronomy Club first started, I think one of the joys of being in that group and doing improv was that most of us had done improv primarily with white people. That’s just the nature of the improv community, especially in terms of theaters like the Upright Citizens Brigade. It wasn’t the first time any of us had improvised with other black people, but it was the first time we had gotten to be on a house team with just black people and we were able to make jokes and references that we knew we would get but maybe before when we had made that reference, when we were on a team with non-people of color, that those people did not get. It was so fun, but as we evolved, we knew each other’s personalities more. Even though we all share this black background, we’re not a monolith. We have different shades and there are different things that James will like. He likes terrible movies and I like great movies. James III:  That’s rude. We didn’t need to say that. The movies I like are great too. Jonathan:  Jerah likes to say that he gets passionate. Some people might call it anger, but that’s a stereotype. Jerah:  I’m a person of the people. Jonathan:  James has a lot of joy and he gets really excited about things. When he gets excited, he does a lot of movement. You can’t see it on the podcast but he’s moving his hands a lot and we’re like, ‘OK, there’s James over there.’ Jerah:  I feel like these friendships haven’t been manufactured. No one’s forcing us to stay together, no one’s like, ‘You got to talk to John and Bray every day.’ I talk to them in the morning before I talk to my own mother and I’m cool with that. That’s not a problem, that’s fun. We’re stuck together in a wonderful way and that allows us to do things and say things and bounce around that you may not have been able to in a regular writers room. I love  SNL,  but those people were put together. They don’t know what Braylock was like when he was growing up. I’ve heard those stories. They don’t know what James will watch when he gets home after work. I’ve seen that and I think that is the beauty of us. It’s like a fam-fam, for real. From left to right: Comedians Jerah Milligan, James III, and Jonathan Braylock star in  Astronomy Club: The Sketch Show  and host the podcast  Black Men Can’t Jump . Viktor Erik Emanuel There’s a comfort among you guys when it comes to the ways that you make fun of yourselves. I’m thinking of the sketch where you guys ostracize Braylock for being light-skinned. Jerah:  He fine. He’ll be all right. Jonathan:  I love that we get to play with perceptions of ourselves and maybe even our own insecurities or fears of other people’s perceptions of us in our comedy because, one, none of us take ourselves too seriously. Even though I am the leader. Jerah:  Here we go. This is happening on an interview. Jonathan:  No, I mean you have to be able to joke about that stuff because as human beings — none of us are perfect. We all make mistakes, we all have things about ourselves that we like or would like to improve and if you can’t have that self-awareness of yourself, I don’t know how effective you can really be calling out society or other people or culture. James:  Whatever it is that’s going on with us and the faults that we may have, we’re in this business that is such a public and such a present thing that if we don’t talk about those things, somebody else will. Jonathan:  True. James:  You have to beat them to the punch and if we don’t put it out there that way, we could crack underneath the weight of our own self. Jerah:  I am perfectly perfect as a human but what I do is I relate to the people. I like to pretend like I know what folks are. When people see me they think I’m relatable to them because I’m one of them. It’s really just a deep mind game that you just have to figure out what should I make fun of to be relatable to other people. James:  But all of it is a lie, you’re saying, Jerah? Jerah:  Listen, I didn’t say it was a lie. What I said, it was a part of the system to get people to understand I’m part of the people. You know what I mean? It’s an inception but for real life. You’re welcome. James:  Wow. Comedians Jerah Milligan, Jonathan Braylock, and James III, star in ‘Astronomy Club’ and host the podcast ‘Black Men Can’t Jump.’ Viktor Erik Emanuel I feel like sketch comedy and improv attracts a very specific type of weirdo.  Jonathan:  Sketch is a fun way to do a lot of different things. You can explore a lot of different characters, you can explore a lot of different types of comedy and talk about a lot of different subject matter because that’s the nature of sketch. We have sketches in which we get to play famous characters in movies like the Magical Negro Rehab and then there are times where we get to play ourselves. There’s one where I get to be a vampire, so all of that is superfun and we get to make commentary on different things. You guys have managed not to get sucked into the endless vortex of politics. Was that a deliberate decision and if so, why? Jerah:  Some of our teammates are from Canada, some are from the suburbs, some are from the ‘hood and it’s hard to have a unique voice on politics. Almost every type of comedy form is talking about politics and unless you’re going to come into that space and say something drastically different, then why do it? Why would I want to talk about that dude who’s racist? I don’t want to give that guy more attention. There’s so many things we can do to make ourselves look better. Again, we can make fun of Braylock for being light-skinned. That is a black community thing. We can talk about cooking chitlins and things like that because that’s for us. I don’t want to talk about something that is only affecting us in a negative light. It’s like, for what? It doesn’t serve any purpose. James:  That just was never the lane that we were in as a group. Jonathan:  Sometimes it feels like when people of color do comedy, they have to talk about politics. You have to talk about race. We say this on our podcast all the time. Why can’t we also just do funny for funny’s sake? We are goofy, too. We can do silly faces, we can have jokes that don’t have a political agenda behind them. From left: Jonathan Braylock, James III, Shawtane Bowen, Jerah Milligan, Caroline Martin, Keisha Zollar, Monique Moses and Ray Cordova in a scene from ‘Astronomy Club.’ courtesy of Netflix What have you learned from Caroline, Keisha and Monique? James:  Caroline is a person who will admit her upbringing was more white than black. It’s so fascinating because she will be learning slang phrases on set or when we give her a script. What is so interesting is her kindness when it comes to checking me on things that I’ve said. I try my best to not be offensive or sexist, but there are certain things that men have learned that we don’t even know contributes to sexism. Caroline is really good about being like, ‘Hey, you got to cut that out.’ And Keisha’s really good about it too. She will tell you, ‘I’m not doing that. That’s racist. That makes no sense.’ Mo is interesting because she comes from Canada, so her racial experience is different than what my upbringing is here in America, I am ‘the world is black and white,’ where she’s like, ‘No, I understand that but there is this gray area here that we have to be understanding about.’ She’s good about trying to see things from all aspects. Is there an example? James:  I remember when we were writing the Netflix show, we would have people read certain parts and then Caroline was like, ‘Hey, I’m noticing that you guys keep making me the girlfriend or love interest. It may be more important to see a woman with darker skin in some of these parts.’ That was something that she said, not something that Mo had to come out with or Keisha. She’s like, ‘No, man. We should make sure that people are seeing black women in all different types of parts on this show,’ and that’s kind of what we made sure to do going forward from that point. Jerah:  There was a lot of care when working with them and making sure that the female voices of the team aren’t squandered or pushed aside, because I do think that them being black women in comedy, it was very important that they were like, ‘We are here. We are not going anywhere.’ Keisha taught me to speak my mind on stage. She will say whatever the f— comes to her mind. I’ve always looked up to that and I’ve always admired that. Monique is such a celebratory performer and I learned to celebrate not only myself as an individual but me as a black man, to celebrate that while I’m on stage or working with her. Caroline is one of the greatest character performers I’ve ever seen. What I look up to about her is how to really be big, really go for that character. Those three are fantastic. Is anything off-limits? Jerah:  The first thing that comes to my mind is I think a lot about the unarmed black people being shot thing and I specifically remember a conversation with Jerah about this sketch that I was working on that’s about a new toy that’s being marketed to black kids that’s a new superhero and it’s a white guy who is a superhero. He can’t get shot, he can reach for his wallet and he’ll be fine. I remember talking to Jerah about this and he would say, ‘I don’t think talking about unarmed black people being shot is funny even if the butt of the joke is something else.’ It’s not off-limits to me, but it’s precious and needs to be taken care of and I remember that discussion with Jerah as being very important because it made me think about ‘am I sending the wrong message?’ Jonathan:  As a comedian, I think any subject should be able to be tackled and satirized and viewed through a comedy lens; am I the right person to tackle that subject? For a lot of matters, I probably am not. I just don’t have the experience, the knowledge, perspective, the POV to tackle certain issues. I wouldn’t say it’s off-limits to me because perhaps I could collaborate with somebody who can fill in those gaps, I wouldn’t tackle certain subject matters like, say, relating to LGBTQ or women’s issues or other people of color like the Asian community or the Middle Eastern community because I’m not a part of that community. Jerah:  I can’t make fun of trans people. That makes no goddamn sense. No matter what angle I come to, I’m not a part of that community. I should not be making fun of a community that I’m not in. It’s just disrespectful to me and every time someone’s like, ‘I can say what I want.’ No, you’re an idiot. You are personally refusing to change because you don’t want to and that is a problem that we have. James:  I think that there’s a dangerous saying that people throw around, it’s ‘funny is funny.’ It’s dangerous because funny is also subjective and also what is funny to you is not necessarily going to be funny to me. People would say that it’s OK, but because we have such a large platform to put our voices out there and we should be careful, we should be cognizant of what we’re saying, how is it going to land. It really just sounds like good manners. Jerah:  Treat humans how you want to be treated. It’s so simple. Jonathan:  If you have the privilege of speaking to large audiences at once, you should be responsible with that privilege. Sometimes people forget, not everybody gets to have a show, not everybody gets to have a comedy special. There’s an artistic responsibility to do the best art and comedy you can, but there’s also a social responsibility knowing what’s going on in the world to not to be disparaging of other people, especially when you’re a part of a community that is disparaged. Soraya Nadia McDonald is the culture critic for The Undefeated. She writes about pop culture, fashion, the arts, and literature. She ' s based in Brooklyn. Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy  and Safety Information/ Your California Privacy Rights / Children's Online Privacy Policy  are applicable to you.  2019 ESPN Internet Ventures. All rights reserved.  Interest-Based Ads .  Cookie Policy . Powered by  WordPress.com VIP .  About Nielsen Measurement . 