Polk Audio PSW1200 Subwoofers user reviews : 4.7 out of 5 - 12 reviews - audioreview.com 4.7 /5 REVIEWS  4.7  QIKRATE 0.0 WEB 0.0  Own this? Help your community  and rate it. (Tap a star to rate) REVIEW SCORE 12  REVIEWS 4.7 OUT OF 5  Own this? Help your community  and rate it. (Hover and click on a star) ?/5 DESCRIPTION   Dual 12", 350-watt subwoofer bass,bass,bass, this sub is heavy,very heavy,moving around can be a problem. I bought this sub on clearence at the wiz for 350 right before it was discontinued.polk makes great subs and this one is a monster,the bass this baby puts out is incredable,it shakes my entire house 3/4's the way up.sounds good with music and really good with movies.my only complaint is its weight, moving it is a pain but other than that its great. bass,bass,bass, this sub is heavy,very heavy,moving around can be a problem. I bought this sub on clearence at the wiz for 350 right before it was discontinued.polk makes great subs and this one is a monster,the bass this baby puts out is incredable,it shakes my entire house 3/4's the way up.sounds good with music and really good with movies.my only complaint is its weight, moving it is a pain but other than that its great. Obscene Bass Bigger than a breadbox. Simply put, you do not need this much bass. I however wanted this much bass. I think this product is discontinued, but if you can find it, buy it. I was unhappy with other subs I looked at, they all gave out at some level...your ears will give out way before this does. This sub should come with an option to buy your own bail money futures, it is a noise violation waiting to happen. Similar Products Used: Infinity entra sub Obscene Bass Bigger than a breadbox. Simply put, you do not need this much bass. I however wanted this much bass. I think this product is discontinued, but if you can find it, buy it. I was unhappy with other subs I looked at, they all gave out at some level...your ears will give out way before this does. This sub should come with an option to buy your own bail money futures, it is a noise violation waiting to happen. Similar Products Used: Infinity entra sub Way more than what you need and can scare you while looking at movies. Polk doesn't sell it anymore and you will get a visit from the police while testing it's limits. The PWS1200 is for people that would rather drive a Viper than a Porsche. Both are fast but in a different way. Let's just say I had a little visit from the police because while testing it's potential I made some of my neighbors dishes fall out of their cabinets. The PSW1200 is great for music and super for DVD 5.1 Dolby digital movies. The PSW1200 is way more than what you need but so is the Viper. Way more than what you need and can scare you while looking at movies. Polk doesn't sell it anymore and you will get a visit from the police while testing it's limits. The PWS1200 is for people that would rather drive a Viper than a Porsche. Both are fast but in a different way. Let's just say I had a little visit from the police because while testing it's potential I made some of my neighbors dishes fall out of their cabinets. The PSW1200 is great for music and super for DVD 5.1 Dolby digital movies. The PSW1200 is way more than what you need but so is the Viper. Very loud and clear and very impressive looking Bulky, but the sound makes up for its appearence Just recieved this sub today and all I can say is wow!!  This thing is huge and very loud.  I could not be happier with the sound that I am getting from this sub.  Polk doesnt just use any sub on this they use two of the db series subs of their car audio line and those alone are worth 500 retail.  I recommend everyone to buy this sub if they can afford the hefty price tag of it. Similar Products Used: velodyne ct120 Very loud and clear and very impressive looking Bulky, but the sound makes up for its appearence Just recieved this sub today and all I can say is wow!!  This thing is huge and very loud.  I could not be happier with the sound that I am getting from this sub.  Polk doesnt just use any sub on this they use two of the db series subs of their car audio line and those alone are worth 500 retail.  I recommend everyone to buy this sub if they can afford the hefty price tag of it. Similar Products Used: velodyne ct120 2! 12" Polk db series subs, outrageous connection posts, awesome end table, chicks dig it (re: Howard Stern's Movie Private Parts) @ 110 lbs you'd better have friends to help you move I bought this beast while I was working for Circuit City in 1999, so I was able to get it at accomodation price.  All the reviewers below, except for George from New York (only a wimp lets a salesman push them into buying something they can't understand), can attest to the fact that this thing is a piece of FURNITURE.  You have to plan your room around it.  The advantage is that placing it on either end of a sofa allows it to serve as an end table as well as an earthshattering noise violation.  Polk built this monster so well that even at heart-stopping levels, you can balance your house of cards on it.  Needless to say when I popped the covers off the speakers I was FLOORED by the fact they had used 8ohm versions of the mammoth 12" db car subs.  I say mammoth because unlike most sub manufacturers, Polk created 12" subs that sound as good as 15"s without the size or power requirements.  And with this home theater sub, you get _2_.  Don't have a mono RCA sub out jack on your amp?  No problem.  You can route your front speakers straight through this bad boy.  Have 2 RCA sub outs?  No problem.  Plug them BOTH in.  I have had this thing for several years, and my comfortable listening level is 4 on the dial on the front.  At 5 the neighbors complain.  It goes to 11 folks.  And if you use your that stupid bass boost button on your amp with this goliath, you should be shot.  My current system has some older speakers in it, but if you check the reviews of the RT 7s and the CS 350, you'll see this is as good if not better than the current "i" stuff being put out by Polk right now. FRONT: Polk RT 7s CENTER: Polk CS 350LS REAR: Polk LS f/xs SUB: Polk PSW-1200 Seismic Cannon AMP: Sony DB925 (Yeah, the one with the ES components) DVD: Marantz VC-8100 If you have the incredible luck finding this sub, BUY IT!  Even if you have to pay the original $1299 for it, you are doing yourself a favor, and your neighbors an injustice. Similar Products Used: Infinity BU-80, Klipsch KSW-15 2! 12" Polk db series subs, outrageous connection posts, awesome end table, chicks dig it (re: Howard Stern's Movie Private Parts) @ 110 lbs you'd better have friends to help you move I bought this beast while I was working for Circuit City in 1999, so I was able to get it at accomodation price.  All the reviewers below, except for George from New York (only a wimp lets a salesman push them into buying something they can't understand), can attest to the fact that this thing is a piece of FURNITURE.  You have to plan your room around it.  The advantage is that placing it on either end of a sofa allows it to serve as an end table as well as an earthshattering noise violation.  Polk built this monster so well that even at heart-stopping levels, you can balance your house of cards on it.  Needless to say when I popped the covers off the speakers I was FLOORED by the fact they had used 8ohm versions of the mammoth 12" db car subs.  I say mammoth because unlike most sub manufacturers, Polk created 12" subs that sound as good as 15"s without the size or power requirements.  And with this home theater sub, you get _2_.  Don't have a mono RCA sub out jack on your amp?  No problem.  You can route your front speakers straight through this bad boy.  Have 2 RCA sub outs?  No problem.  Plug them BOTH in.  I have had this thing for several years, and my comfortable listening level is 4 on the dial on the front.  At 5 the neighbors complain.  It goes to 11 folks.  And if you use your that stupid bass boost button on your amp with this goliath, you should be shot.  My current system has some older speakers in it, but if you check the reviews of the RT 7s and the CS 350, you'll see this is as good if not better than the current "i" stuff being put out by Polk right now. FRONT: Polk RT 7s CENTER: Polk CS 350LS REAR: Polk LS f/xs SUB: Polk PSW-1200 Seismic Cannon AMP: Sony DB925 (Yeah, the one with the ES components) DVD: Marantz VC-8100 If you have the incredible luck finding this sub, BUY IT!  Even if you have to pay the original $1299 for it, you are doing yourself a favor, and your neighbors an injustice. Similar Products Used: Infinity BU-80, Klipsch KSW-15 everything you need for high performance in home theather and DVD-audio large size, but look cool When I first try the Blue Man Group DVD-audio, my AR-115S seems to work very hard to keep up with this DVD.  My living room is fairly large so I decide to look for a high performing sub.  I bought this one via mail order through Crutchfield at $675 with free shipping and also get a free channel speaker CS175i for the guest goom and 10% credit of total purchase for my account for the next order.  The performance is terrific, no problem for the Blue Man DVD-audio, if you want to test your system to the limit, use this DVD-audio as a reference disc.  I also try the Deep Puple DVD-audio, track # 5, Smoke on the water, the bass performance or this song will crank you up. Since DVD-audio requires full rangge speakers for all channnels, I hook up my rear speakers with the Polk PSW-150.  Try the Matrix DVD, you will experience how the bass in the rear channel sound like. System Polk RT 20P main power speakers Polk CS1000P center power speakers Polk PSW 1200 power subwoofer Polk f/x 500i rear speakers Polk PSW 150 power subwoofer for rear channel Pioneer Elite VSX 39TX THX ultra 7.1 receiver Pioneer Provision 55 inches projection TV Pioneer Karaoke DVD player model 555 Panasonic DVD-audio player A-10 Pioneer LD player model 606 MC audio Z1 cables, (MC 10 gauge for rear channnels), bi-wiring for front L/R channels, MC digital coax cables for DVD, MC high performance cables for DVD-audio. MC component video cables. Similar Products Used: AR-115s everything you need for high performance in home theather and DVD-audio large size, but look cool When I first try the Blue Man Group DVD-audio, my AR-115S seems to work very hard to keep up with this DVD.  My living room is fairly large so I decide to look for a high performing sub.  I bought this one via mail order through Crutchfield at $675 with free shipping and also get a free channel speaker CS175i for the guest goom and 10% credit of total purchase for my account for the next order.  The performance is terrific, no problem for the Blue Man DVD-audio, if you want to test your system to the limit, use this DVD-audio as a reference disc.  I also try the Deep Puple DVD-audio, track # 5, Smoke on the water, the bass performance or this song will crank you up. Since DVD-audio requires full rangge speakers for all channnels, I hook up my rear speakers with the Polk PSW-150.  Try the Matrix DVD, you will experience how the bass in the rear channel sound like. System Polk RT 20P main power speakers Polk CS1000P center power speakers Polk PSW 1200 power subwoofer Polk f/x 500i rear speakers Polk PSW 150 power subwoofer for rear channel Pioneer Elite VSX 39TX THX ultra 7.1 receiver Pioneer Provision 55 inches projection TV Pioneer Karaoke DVD player model 555 Panasonic DVD-audio player A-10 Pioneer LD player model 606 MC audio Z1 cables, (MC 10 gauge for rear channnels), bi-wiring for front L/R channels, MC digital coax cables for DVD, MC high performance cables for DVD-audio. MC component video cables. Similar Products Used: AR-115s This sub just came out in May '99 and it is fantastic.  I was able to order it directly from Polk and it was worth every cent that I spent.  I didn't realize it until I set it up, but this sub is HUGE.  It has sounded great on everything I have listened to, including jazz, rock, r , rap, classical, and DVD movies. Most subs have the basic connections, line in and out, high level in and out and some phase, crossover and gain controls.  But this sub has line level inputs for every channel.  When I write this I mean EVERY CHANNEL: Front left, front right, center, left surround, right surround and LFE.  There is also a built in high pass crossover which can be switched between 40Hz and 80Hz for the line level front left and right outputs.  As for high level ins and outs, there are only connections for the front left and right speakers.  The high-pass crossover for these can be set at 40Hz or 80Hz or can be shut off. Another nice thing about this sub is that it will automatically increase the volume by 3dB for movies.  This circuit is turned on any time there is a signal present in the center channel. The volume control for the sub is hidden on the front panel, right below the Polk Audio logo.  This makes it convenient enough to adjust when needed, and also not so convenient that you could accidentally turn it up too loud by bumping it. The 12" drivers are very sturdy and tough and are mounted on 1 1/2" thick MDF to be sure that there are no cabinet resonances to color the sound.  This adds to the weight of the sub, whick tips the scale at about 110 pounds.  Needless to say, once you get this in place, you won't want to be moving it around much. With all this sub has to offer, I have to give it the best rating possible.  Polk did a really good job with this one. This sub just came out in May '99 and it is fantastic.  I was able to order it directly from Polk and it was worth every cent that I spent.  I didn't realize it until I set it up, but this sub is HUGE.  It has sounded great on everything I have listened to, including jazz, rock, r , rap, classical, and DVD movies. Most subs have the basic connections, line in and out, high level in and out and some phase, crossover and gain controls.  But this sub has line level inputs for every channel.  When I write this I mean EVERY CHANNEL: Front left, front right, center, left surround, right surround and LFE.  There is also a built in high pass crossover which can be switched between 40Hz and 80Hz for the line level front left and right outputs.  As for high level ins and outs, there are only connections for the front left and right speakers.  The high-pass crossover for these can be set at 40Hz or 80Hz or can be shut off. Another nice thing about this sub is that it will automatically increase the volume by 3dB for movies.  This circuit is turned on any time there is a signal present in the center channel. The volume control for the sub is hidden on the front panel, right below the Polk Audio logo.  This makes it convenient enough to adjust when needed, and also not so convenient that you could accidentally turn it up too loud by bumping it. The 12" drivers are very sturdy and tough and are mounted on 1 1/2" thick MDF to be sure that there are no cabinet resonances to color the sound.  This adds to the weight of the sub, whick tips the scale at about 110 pounds.  Needless to say, once you get this in place, you won't want to be moving it around much. With all this sub has to offer, I have to give it the best rating possible.  Polk did a really good job with this one. Excellent Build Quality, Excellent Sound Quality, Excellent Service (Polk). This sub has incredible prescence. Large I have 3 Subs in my system, and this sub is by far the best sub I have ever owned. I also own a PSW 650, which is also a excellent sub, the PSW 1200 just offers more sound prescence. This sub is also one of the best made products I've seen. It weighs 110 lbs. You won't go wrong if you can find and buy one of these. Similar Products Used: Polk PSW 650, Energy ES-12 Excellent Build Quality, Excellent Sound Quality, Excellent Service (Polk). This sub has incredible prescence. Large I have 3 Subs in my system, and this sub is by far the best sub I have ever owned. I also own a PSW 650, which is also a excellent sub, the PSW 1200 just offers more sound prescence. This sub is also one of the best made products I've seen. It weighs 110 lbs. You won't go wrong if you can find and buy one of these. Similar Products Used: Polk PSW 650, Energy ES-12 nice looking sound quality, warranty, bass Absolutly horrible sub for the price, bought at circuit city and was pushed around into buying, horrible. Similar Products Used: Paradigm PS1000 nice looking sound quality, warranty, bass Absolutly horrible sub for the price, bought at circuit city and was pushed around into buying, horrible. Similar Products Used: Paradigm PS1000 Excellent Sound Quality (both music and movies) - Plenty of inputs to choose from and customize to your liking Large I went to purchase the PSW 650, and the store I visited was out of stock.  They offered me the PSW 1200 at a great savings.  I took a day to think about it and went back and purchased it. This is an excellent sub.  There are plenty of inputs, and best of all it sounds great.  The best feature is that if you have it hooked to a surround receiver with center-channel out, it will automatically boost the sub level 3 dB for movies.  When playing music it will remain at the regular level.  With my previous sub, I had to increase the level for movies and decrease the level for music.  Now I don't have to adjust the level every time I change sources. Excellent Sound Quality (both music and movies) - Plenty of inputs to choose from and customize to your liking Large I went to purchase the PSW 650, and the store I visited was out of stock.  They offered me the PSW 1200 at a great savings.  I took a day to think about it and went back and purchased it. This is an excellent sub.  There are plenty of inputs, and best of all it sounds great.  The best feature is that if you have it hooked to a surround receiver with center-channel out, it will automatically boost the sub level 3 dB for movies.  When playing music it will remain at the regular level.  With my previous sub, I had to increase the level for movies and decrease the level for music.  Now I don't have to adjust the level every time I change sources. (C) Copyright 1996-2018. All Rights Reserved. audioreview.com and the ConsumerReview Network are business units of Invenda Corporation Other Web Sites in the ConsumerReview Network: mtbr.com  | roadbikereview.com  | carreview.com  | photographyreview.com | audioreview.com 