Tower 42 appoints rising star as its new manager - Bannatyne Group - News - Recognition PR Adrian Worsley, general manager at Bannatyne ' s Health Club Issued and approved on behalf of Bannatyne’s Fitness NEWS RELEASE CONTACT: Francesca Angus on 01325 363436  TOWER 42 APPOINTS RISING STAR AS ITS NEW MANAGER Bannatyne’s Health Club at Tower 42, has appointed Adrian Worsley as its new General Manager.   Originally from Devon, Adrian, 25, graduated in 2003 from the University of Brighton with a degree in Sports and Exercise Science. During his education, Adrian worked as a tennis coach to fund his studies, while also competing on the County badminton team.  Adrian joined Bannatyne’s after completing his degree, joining the company’s Eastbourne club as a Fitness Instructor and Personal Trainer. He then moved to the Folkestone Club before opening Bannatyne’s new Health Club in Hastings as the Health  &  Fitness Manager. Following the success of Hastings, Adrian was relocated to Bannatyne’s Tower 42 Club. Adrian’s appointment follows Bannatyne’s recent investment in its Tower 42 health club.  Based at Old Broad Street, Bannatyne’s has carried out a substantial revamp of the health club including the installation of new equipment in the gymnasium.  One of the main attractions of the Tower 42 club is the Power Zone. Dedicated to cardio vascular exercise the zone contains cross trainers, treadmills, steppers and exercise bikes. This unique motivational zone has dim lights and loud music, it is specifically designed for members to get the most out of their work out.  Bannatyne’s gymnasium now features new pieces of exercise equipment, which all include touch screen LCD televisions and built in cardio-theatre systems. Housing Technogym equipment enables members to listen to the radio, watch the TV or even split the screen to view their workout status. Added features to the equipment, which are beginner-friendly and easy to use, are goal-oriented workouts, a personal essence fan and reduced noise levels. Working for an established health club, with a strong reputation, Adrian is dedicated to motivating his new team to continue to meet the healthy lifestyle challenges of its members. Adrian said: “We are dedicated to the long-term healthy lifestyle goals of our members in Tower 42 so it is important to continually invest in our club.  However, it is not just the facilities that we are focussed on at Bannatyne’s.  The professional level of personal training offered at the club is second to none.  “Maintaining and developing levels of customer service are vital if we are to continue to support our members’ healthy lifestyles.  We have a very strong team here, who have established excellent relationships with our members, and it is their commitment and expertise, which makes this club successful. ENDS Adrian Worsley, general manager at Bannatyne ' s Health Club Download Large AUDIO: Listen to Helen Swinger of @ beyondhousinguk  talking to BBC Radio York from the Eastfield community library -…  https://t.co/UQfryuANh4 AUDIO: Listen to Helen Swinger of @ beyondhousinguk  talking to BBC Radio York from the Eastfield community library -…  https://t.co/UQfryuANh4 Head to the @ Sage_Gateshead  box office today to pick up tickets for some of the great shows now on sale. Highlights…  https://t.co/XwiuTm79Pj Pick up a copy of today ' s @ DandSTimes  to read Martin Williamson of @ LatimerHinks  laterst property column. This week…  https://t.co/ql2KWNbBPc Jon Bolton of @ LibertyHouseGrp  has been announced as keynote speaker at the 3rd #Postgraduate Research Symposium on…  https://t.co/FvLaZpfwEg An inspirational line up of speakers at today ' s @ entforum  conference - Fortune Favours the Brave @ WynyardHall  - fea…  https://t.co/8kXNvgAYFW ' + replaceLinks(data[tt].text) + ' This part of the site is for accredited journalists and Recognition clients or prospective clients. Find out what Recognition can do for your business. Recognition PR was founded by Graham Robb in 1990. We use cookies so that we can help you use our website fully and improve the quality of our service. If you ' re happy with this, please click Accept or you can learn how to manually change your settings  here  at any time. For more details, please read our  cookie policy . 