90210  Recap: Annie s Boyfriend Colin Is A Spy   Season 5 Episode 5   Hollywood Life Hollywood Life Menu Facebook Twitter Instagram Pinterest YouTube Newsletters Search Close Trending Search Close Expand Menu Expand Menu Expand Menu Expand Menu Expand Menu Expand Menu Expand Menu Expand Menu Facebook Twitter Instagram Pinterest YouTube Newsletters Newsletters There s always something off about Annie s ( Shenae Grimes ) boyfriends   see the priest, the drug dealer, the guy who paid her for sex, etc.   and on the Nov. 12 episode of  90210 , we learned her latest suitor s deep dark secret: Colin ( Rob Mayes ) is a spy! He works for a rival software company, and he tricked Naomi ( AnnaLynne McCord ) into helping him hack Max s ( Josh Zuckerman ) company s server; as if Max didn t have enough reasons to divorce her already. Speaking of Naomi, her latest attempt to get that sexy monkey Alec ( Trai Byers ) off her back involved teaming up with a surprising ally: Max s ex-fianc e Madison! It turns out Alec practically forced Madison to hire Naomi as her wedding planner, knowing full well that she d come between them. Am I the only person getting a more-than-friends vibe between Alec and Max? Here s my theory: Alec has set out to destroy all of Max s relationships because he s a big ol  gay and wants Max all to himself. Prove me wrong,  90210 , I dare you. After a super-awkward conversation with Riley ( Riley Smith ) about what it s like to have sex with a cripple, Annie realized that Adrianna ( Jessica Lowndes ) and Dixon s ( Tristan Wilds ) relationship was doomed long before he ever got into an accident. And with that knowledge, there was only one thing left for Ade to do: cheat on Dixon with Taylor ( Wes Brown )  again! I swear, it s like Adrianna is some kind of twisted Girl Scout, determined to earn every slutty merit badge she possibly can. At this point, she s practically a Den Mother. And in sex tape news, Liam ( Matt Lanter ) and his teacher-turned-lawyer-turned-skank Lindsey ( Peyton List ) got down and dirty at the grand re-opening of the Off Shore. A rando caught their little encounter on his cell phone, and because Navid ( Michael Steger Jr. ) is stupid and thinks Liam is two-timing Silver ( Jessica Stroup ), he plans to do bad bad things with it. For someone who got into Princeton, Navid s kind of an idiot. But, hey, that s probably why he dropped out. What s your take on this week s episode? Were you surprised that Colin is one of the bad guys? Do you think there s still hope for Naomi and Max? Drop me a comment with your thoughts and theories! Follow @AndySwift More  90210  on HollywoodLife.com: Have news, pics or video on a breaking news story? 