Tuff-Bar® 2-55631 - 3" Black Bull Bar with Black Skid Plate Have a Question? Ask a Specialist 3" Black Powder Coat Bull Bar with Black Skid Plate (2-55631) by Tuff-Bar®. This affordable, durable and tough bull bar comes with all the brackets and hardware necessary for a no-drill easy installation on your specific truck. Tuff-Bar stays affordable by the use of modern production methods, not by cutting corners. Tuff-Bar has a solid reputation for easy installations and value for money. This bull bar is no exception. It is fabricated in 3"-diameter T304 stainless steel to protect your car from head-on hazards on roads and trails. The skid plate offers extra protection for the vulnerable bottom ends of  your engine  and  transmission . Your Tuff-Bar Bull Bar stands up to corrosion and rust for years of great looks, and is backed with a 3-year warranty on bars finished in black powder coat.  Tuff-Bar®  has in its 20 years in business built a solid reputation to produce durable and affordable accessories. This is achieved by constantly upgrading manufacturing methods and products to use cutting edge, modern and efficient technologies. Tuff-Bar lets you outfit your vehicle as you wish, without emptying your wallet. Their stainless steel products are backed by a Lifetime Warranty, and their powder coated products come with a 3-year Warranty. This is on par with much more expensive product lines. Not only are Tuff-Bar products highly affordable, they are also noted for easy installations that in most cases can be completed in less than one hour. California Residents WARNING  This product can expose you to chemicals including dehp, which is known to the State of California to cause cancer or birth defects or other reproductive harm.  www.p65warnings.ca.gov Tuff-Bar Products are covered by a 3-year warranty for black powder coat that would be free from defects in material and workmanship from the date of purchase by the Original Purchaser. This warranty does not apply to any Products that have been subjected to misuse, mishandling, misapplication, neglect (including but not limited to improper maintenance), improper installation, or alterations. Tuff-Bar Products are covered by a limited lifetime warranty for stainless steel that would be free from defects in material and workmanship from the date of purchase by the Original Purchaser. This warranty does not apply to any Products that have been subjected to misuse, mishandling, misapplication, neglect (including but not limited to improper maintenance), improper installation, or alterations. Every Customer can leave a review about our service and the product that was purchased. In order to leave your review for your new product, please follow the link in the email you receive after completing your purchase. You can rate appearance, ease of installation, price/value and product quality. to stay up-to-date on our promotions, discounts, sales, special offers and more. All manufacturer names, symbols, and descriptions, used in our images and text are used solely for identification purposes only. It is neither inferred nor implied that any item sold by CARiD.com is a product authorized by or in any way connected with any vehicle manufacturers displayed on this page. Copyright   2003-2019 CARiD.com. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Secure Shopping Sitemap 