Airconwatch - The World ' s First Personal Air-Conditioning Watch The new Apple Watch may have better fitness tracking technology and spunkier bands, but can it regulate your body temperature? I don t think so, but the new Aircon Watch    the world s first personal A/C watch   claims it can. Using “ClimaCon” technology, the Aircon Watch gives off an influx of hot or cold directly into the wearer s wrist, which will then cause the whole body to regulate its temperature, delivering a cool or warm sensation regardless of the climate they are in at the time.  Its inventors  claim that humans can “change the signal that our nervous system sends to the brain by using the Aircon Watch to generate pulses of heat or cold. By this method we can trick our brain into thinking that we are cooler or warmer than we really are.” Apparently, the  magic  of this ingenious gadget is in the straps. Aircon has placed a small device in the strap of their watches which contains the ClimaCon technology. “This tiny device will fit on the inner wrist in an area where the nerves are closer to the skin surface so as to allow for maximum transfer of temperature,” the company claims. You can set the watch specifically so that it sends waves of heat or coolness to you whenever best suits your personal temperature needs, and the display screen, with its three simple buttons, makes the watch very user friendly. The straps are easily interchangeable so you can customize the watch to go with any look. In addition to all these perks, the watch also tells you the date and time, just in case you also needed that basic watch functionality. So, can it really be that simple? Is this watch the portable A/C alternative that can help stay warm or cool regardless of season or temperature?  Aircon does state  “watch can be used during any temperature, any season, or any time zone” but seeing as it has yet to hit the market, no one can say for sure whether or not the watch really lives up to the hype. There s no denying that the concept seems very promising,  so if the company can produce the type of products they are advertising, these watches could be a real game changer. Aircon is still looking for investors and has started a crowdfunding campaign on  KickStarter  to make their idea a reality. It has already gone way past its goal of HK$ 38,000, raising a whopping HK$ 910,000 in just 10 days. If you believe in the air conditioning watch, you d better act fast, because once they hit the market  once these watches hit the market, and assuming the company can deliver on their promises, things are sure to start heating up.   XY37 Design 44 subscribers Subscribe Temperature degree test for Aircon Watch Info Shopping Tap to unmute If playback doesn ' t begin shortly, try restarting your device. Your browser does not currently recognize any of the video formats available.  Click here to visit our frequently asked questions about HTML5 video. More videos on YouTube More videos Share Include playlist An error occurred while retrieving sharing information. Please try again later. Watch later Share Copy link Switch camera 0:00 0:00 0:00  /  2:57 Live An error occurred. Try watching this video on www.youtube.com , or enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser. You can currently pledge HK$ 623 ($80) to ensure that you are one of the first people to cool or warm up with the Aircon Watch. 