Harry Potter Tattoos — Deathly Hallows and Golden Snitch foot tattoos.... Deathly Hallows and Golden Snitch foot tattoos. Designed and tattooed by the amazing Jessica Ann White at Reclamare Gallery and Custom Tattoo in Sacramento, CA. They are perfect and exactly what I wanted. The Harry Potter story will always hold a special place in my heart  and on my feet. ;)  Voldemort, Avada Kedavra  full color, top of the skull, done by Robert Ryan at Electric Tattoo in Asbury Park, New Jersey http://barndogghxc.tumblr.com My new lightning bolt tattoo, as of 1/9/15. alwayspringtime.tumblr.com When I went to get a tattoo, I knew I wanted something that not a whole lot of people had. I debated and debated and finally decided to get Harry from the cover of the first book! When I got it finished, I was so excited! People ask me all the time if it s real or not, and are impressed when I tell them it s real. Done by Jessica Muessen at Tattoo Nouveau in Frostburg, Maryland. My new tattoo is a tribute to one of the most important phases of my life, it had me traveling to America, making some amazing friends and holds my best and worst memories. I made massive mistakes, but it was a springboard that taught me a lot about myself and the person I should be. Sometimes you have to be at your worst to become a better human being. I still have regrets from those times, but I also have a lot to be thankful for. A work of literature truly shaped my life. One simply uses the symbol to reveal oneself to other believers  - Xenophilius Lovegood  # deathlyhallows jerryhcooke.tumblr.com My first tattoo. Take right after it was finished. The deathly hallows symbol with all 7 horcruxes incorporated into it. With the words all was well underneath. Growing up harry potter was a huge part of my life and my grandmother and I bonded over it as well. Ive been designing this for about 2 years and I finally went through with it. Done by Ray at Hold Steady Tattoo in West Warwick RI I ve been a potterhead since I was 9. I am now 24 and got my first Potter tattoo! It s on the inside of my left foot. I got it done at Shanghai Tattoo in Spartanburg, SC. My original HP tattoo that encourages me to just do and not think..to live in the moment. Harry looked around; there was Ginny running toward him; she had a hard, blazing look in her face as she threw her arms around him. And without thinking, without planning it, without worrying about the fact that fifty people were watching, Harry kissed her. After several long moments   or it might have been half an hour   or possibly several sunlit days   they broke apart. The room had gone very quiet. Then several people wolf-whistled and there was an outbreak of nervous giggling. Harry looked over the top of Ginny s head to see Dean Thomas holding a shattered glass in his hand, and Romilda Vane looking as though she might throw something. Hermione was beaming, but Harry s eyes sought Ron. At last he found him, still clutching the Cup and wearing an expression appropriate to having been clubbed over the head. For a fraction of a second they looked at each other, then Ron gave a tiny jerk of the head that Harry understood to mean, Well if you must.. http://shelbeysays.tumblr.com/ I got this tattoo to with my best friend almost a year ago to celebrate our graduation from college! I combined my love of owls (which started with Hedwig) with my love of Harry Potter and chose the word noctua, which means Little Owl or Owl in Latin, depending on where the definition comes from. I m obsessed with it! In Dreams We Enter A World That Is Entirely Our Own.  -  Albus DumbleDore Richard Pis HighSprings Florida Deathly Hallows and cat. 