John McAfee — Deranged Millionaire - Today I Learned… Articles of the Week - Medium “And then you’ll take a right turn when you see the horses? The big horses that the Logitech guy built.” I had to blink a few extra times as I parsed that one. “Uh, horses? Logitech — ?” “Yeah you’ll know ‘em when you see ‘em.” Since arriving on Molokai one week prior, Molly and I had grown accustomed to strange directions like these to get anywhere, but the description of “The Logitech Guy’s horses” was definitely a head-scratcher. We stumbled through the first few steps — A left here, a right there, another right here, until, lo and behold, we suddenly came upon what appeared to be a small Chinese-style pagoda flanked by a huge pair of bronze horses. These, we reasoned, must be “The Logitech Guy’s horses.” It was when we were telling the story of our adventure to another local that he said “Ohhh, McAfee’s old place, yeah. Yeah. Built those goofy things before he went totally bonkers and ran off.” Molly and I looked at each other — This just kept getting weirder and weirder. Turns out “McAfee” (ak-incorrectly-a. “The Logitech Guy”) is John McAfee, the now-70 year old founder of McAfee Associates, creators of the first commercially-available anti-virus software package. Turns out he had himself a nice little $3.7 mil estate here on the island of Molokai. Also turns out that the local we talked to wasn’t kidding: The man is frigging cuckoo for Cocoa Puffs. Self-described as the world’s “most popular hacking target,” John McAfee changes his IP address several times a day, buys all his computer equipment through pseudonyms and fences, and refuses to use smart phones as he says apps are “used to spy on clueless consumers who do not read privacy user agreements.” Little paranoid, right? But when you’re the creator of the Kleenex of anti-virus software, it makes sense that you’d want to be a little careful. What makes less sense is holing up in a “pirate haven” compound in Belize stockpiled with guns, bodyguards, and young women for nearly five years while you inject testosterone into your ass every day to stay “virile.” Apparently, John’s Molokai estate was just one of his many homes through the ‘90s and early ‘00s. His little places to get away from the world, run his operations, and party for a while. At least, that was what he did when he was worth over $100 mil. When the recession hit in the mid-aughts, McAfee’s net worth apparently dropped to under $4 mil and he was forced to quickly sell as much of his property as he could; including the Molokai estate which went up for auction in front of a whopping six people. (Apparently he was not well-loved by Molokai’s quiet local community. Shocking.) Between the financial troubles and a series of lawsuits of varying sizes (someone had tripped on his property, someone had  died  at his flight school) McAfee decided that clearly the logical thing to do was to flee Belize and set up a complex befitting a pirate king. No seriously. He filled in a swamp, flew in all sorts of rare Tibetan art to fill the place, hired loads of bodyguards, and stockpiled enough guns for a private army. A fan of being photographed with his assault rifles and pistols, it seems that McAfee is a big believer in his right to bear arms. That’s where things start to get… confusing. As McAfee tells it, he fell in love with Belize and its locals and was heartbroken to see how ravaged it was by the drug cartels warring with each other. This heartbreak led him to start his own war on drugs, eliminating the local kingpins and trying to bring order to the place while offering his home as a safe haven to those in need. He claims that by 2012 he had run out all the local drug cartels and created an era of peace. And, yes, there were also at least 5 young women under 20 living on his estate but they were his “meditation partners” come on guys get your heads out of the gutter really. The federal governments of several different countries have their own version of things. They claim that McAfee was manufacturing several types of drugs from his compound and had taken over the drug trafficking networks of Belize. They claim that he was setting up a private army and stockpiling the weapons to arm it. They also probably didn’t believe his story about his “meditation partners” for a second. Prudes. In any case, when the government raided his compound with over 30 armed soldiers, they found no drugs. They found no drug-making equipment. But they also found no proof that he was actually involved in any local drug cartel stuff at all. Weirdly, they  did  find a lab set up to produce a revolutionary new type of anti-bacterial soap, but that was apparently a private enterprise set up by one of John’s ex-girlfriends that never went anywhere. So was John McAfee actually a secret drug kingpin? Or a superhero liberator of Belize? Or did he just fancy himself either or both of these things? It’s seriously hard to say. It gets even muddier when you bring the murder into it. That’s right folks. You didn’t think we were going to finish this story before there was an alleged  murder , did you? John McAfee’s neighbors in Belize weren’t huge fans of John. I mean, I don’t know why. I guess it could be the armed guards everywhere. Or the crazy parties all the time. Or McAfee’s tendency to let his huge vicious attack dog “pets” wander wherever they liked. Or the fact that  maybe sometimes  those guards and parties and dogs spilled over into the neighbors yards. Who knows why he wasn’t hot with the neighbors. Anybody’s guess, really. Well, one of these neighbors, a fellow American expatriate, really hated John’s dogs - He was really against “being bitten” or some such nonsense I guess - and was John’s key suspect when they were poisoned. In what is, I’m sure, a complete coincidence, that neighbor was found dead in a puddle the next day of an execution-style gunshot to the back of the head. Remember how John was a big fan of guns? Well, the Belize police knew that too, so they went to his place where he did what any logical innocent person would do — He dug a shallow trench in the sand, sat in it, and put a box over his head to hide from the police for several hours while they scoured his compound and confiscated all of his guns. John continued this totally innocent action by fleeing and going into hiding for a few weeks which, again, is a totally normal thing to do when you’re not connected to a crime. According to McAfee, the reason he went into hiding was not because he was guilty, but rather because he was  innocent  and believed that the Belize Police would torture and kill him anyway because he had run all of the drug kingpins out of Belize and the police were totally in bed with the cartels and were mad that he had done that and I don’t understand how you don’t get this how stupid are you. Anyway. Between the  alleged  murder and the manufacturing and/or fighting of drugs, John McAfee’s blissful time as the pirate king of Belize had come to a close. His whole compound  mysteriously  burnt down, he went on the run for a bit, got arrested for trying to illegally enter Guatemala (like you do), vanished for a while, and then finally landed in Tennessee where he settled down for a quiet, peaceful life with his new wife Janice. Nice, right? Maybe all that settling down will be good for him. Let him work out that paranoia. Work the land, reconnect with a lifestyle that isn’t all guns and women and — Yep. The man’s still a mental case. And, like all mental cases, he announced last month that he’s running for President as part of the brand-new  Cyber Party . It’s like something out of a dystopian future RPG, isn’t it? That’s right. The man that I’ve been writing about here could be  your President  if our country plays its cards right. I could write a whole bunch of material about that but… You know what? I feel like it’s almost better off unsaid. Honestly, there’s so much more that I could go into — When I Googled “McAfee Molokai” I never expected to fall down such a fascinating rabbit hole of information. I could talk about his beliefs about online privacy, or how he thinks that Candy Crush is being used to spy on our homes… But I feel like I couldn’t do it justice. Just search “John McAfee” on YouTube and watch any of his videos (there are many) and let it wash over you. If you’re anything like me, your jaw will fall open and your eyes will be alight with wonder that such a crazy character is an actual  real-life person . Oh and definitely don’t miss his beliefs about how Bath Salts cause “euphoric hypersexuality.” That stuff’s a must-read. Written by 