Funeral Services | Kerby Funeral Home - Henagar, AL In the depth of early grief, you might think that it would be ‘easier’ to just take care of things as simply – and as quickly –as possible. But easier – especially in this circumstance – simply isn’t better. You must set the stage for the future by giving your family and friends the opportunity to start the healing process. Gathering with friends and family gives everyone the opportunity to share memories, express emotions, and find comforting support. Whether you choose burial or cremation; whether you select a formal funeral or a more relaxed memorial service, the need for acknowledgment of the loss with family and friends is ever present. We can help you create a unique meaningful ceremony to express the genuine individuality of your loved one. We offer families a beautiful setting in which to come together to honor your loved one. But, you may certainly choose to celebrate their life in a more unique setting. No matter where you decide to gather together, such a service will make a difference in the lives of all who attend. If burial has been selected, usually any ceremonies we design revolve around the casket being present. You can choose to follow tradition, with a viewing, and then a funeral service in a church or memorial chapel. Or you could decide to have a more relaxed service, even in your family home. Let’s just say this: there is no ‘hard and fast’ formula for honoring your loved one when burial has been selected. We’re here to listen to your concerns, share our experience, and help you to arrive at the perfect way to gather together before your loved one's interment in the cemetery of your choice. Cremation only refers to the manner in which you or your loved one has chosen to deal with the physical remains. We want you to know that this decision doesn’t limit the ways you can honor your loved one's life. We heartily suggest that you have a funeral or memorial service, because your need for such a healing experience is not lessened by the decision to be cremated. Again, the options are limited only by your imagination. We hope that you will contact us to discuss the wide variety of celebratory options open to you.  Some say it’s harsh to remind you of this, but we know we must. We want you to honor your loved one in a way that allows you to look back, years from now, and be thankful that you did the best you could to honor their life. Creating a ceremony that calls together the hearts and minds of all who loved them is a gift to everyone involved. A gift of memories, a gift of healing...a truly priceless gift of peace-of-mind. Contact us  today to speak with one of our directors. 17554 AL Hwy 75 Henagar ,  AL 35978 (256) 657-3238 https://www.kerbyfuneralhome.com 11968 AL Hwy 227 Geraldine ,  AL 35974 https://www.geraldinefuneralhome.com 498 Mccurdy Ave N Rainsville ,  AL 35986 (256) 638-2122 https://www.rainsvillefuneralhome.com  2019 Kerby Funeral Home. All Rights Reserved -Made with love by  funeralOne . 