Julie Hayden: actress | Theiapolis Julie Hayden  was an actress. She died in 1996 in Los Angeles, California, United States. As an actress, Julie Hayden has been seen in movies such as   It's Pat, released in 1994  playing  Stacy Jacobsen ,  Toys  (1992) ,  Cutting Class  (1989) ,  The Cable Guy  (1996) . The Cable Guy Directed by: B. Stiller, starring J. Carrey, M. Broderick, L. Mann, J. Black... It's Pat Directed by: A. Bernstein, starring J. Sweeney, D. Foley, C. Rocket, K. Griffin... Toys Directed by: B. Levinson, starring R. Williams, M. Gambon, J. Cusack, L. Cool J... Cutting Class Directed by: R. Pallenberg, starring D. Leitch, J. Schoelen, B. Pitt, R. McDowall... No message has yet been posted about Julie Hayden. Photos of Hayden Panettiere from "I Love You, Beth Cooper" (2009), a film by Chris Columbus 1 message  -  I Love You, Beth Cooper  is a Comedy film directed by Chris Columbus, and written by Larry Doyle, released in the USA on July 10 of 2009... Wow! 9 messages  - I heard that there were a lot of bad reviews about Breaking Dawn but to be honest, I thought this was the best part of all 4 books. I love every... [GALLERY] The Tempest, a film by Julie Taymor 1 message  - Photo Gallery for The Tempest, a film by Julie Taymor, starring Helen Mirren, Russell Brand, Alfred Molina, Djimon Hounsou, David Strathairn, Chris... Julie Brown An American actress, and writer Julie Harris An American actress Julie Benz An American actress Hayden Rorke An American actor Resources: contributions from movie fans . Anyone can submit additionnal information and corrections, you can  post a message into the forum , or you can  contact me by e-mail . Information and materials are submitted by users and thus may not always contain up-to-date and correct information, so do not hesite to report mistakes, and submit corrections.Thank you!. Direct editing is no longer available, sorry. -  Contact Us  -   MMVIII | Theiapolis.com and respective copyright owners  |  Cookie Statement ,  Privacy Policy ,  Terms of Use ,  Legal notice . 