Once Again, Bensonhurst ' s 86th Street Festival Draws Huge Crowds [Photos] - BKLYNER 37  F  New York  >< span>December 6, 2019 It was a beautiful day for a street fair. Once again, as  in years past ,  Bensonhurst s 86th Street Festival  was a smashing success, drawing thousands of neighbors   big, little, and four-legged   on Sunday, June 7. With the sun beating down, and temperatures in the 80s, festival-goers munched on arepas, sausages, deep-fried Oreos, and corn dogs, as they shopped for bargains. Kids were thrilled by the moon bounces, carnival games, cotton candy trucks, and an extensive toy selection. Bklyner reporting is supported by our subscribers and: Adults were excited to snag great deals on handmade dresses, jewelry, sunglasses, handbags, plants, and more. Cellphone cases and t-shirt vendors were big too   including one clever salesman who was peddling some very cool  Bensonhurst, Brooklyn  tees for $15 a piece. Cops from the 62nd Precinct were on hand to keep the peace and the party went on without a hitch from 11am until 5pm. Many 86th Street merchants participated in the event this year. For example, tables representing  Kung Fu Tea  (2174 86th Street) and  Cup O  Yogurt  ( 8512 Bay Parkway) were on the street handing out samples. Vendors represented Bensonhurst s diverse immigrant and ethnic groups, including Italian-made shoes, Central and South American-inspired fedoras and jewelry, Southeast Asian-style embroidered dresses, and bonsai trees. Bensonhurst Bean reader Scott Bleck sent us a few quirky shots of the festivities, including a pink parrot, panda bear-antler hats, and a view of the crowd: Finally, here is great clip of the delicious, deep-fried goodness that was peddled from food trucks all day long: Thought Bensonhurst has seen its share of changes over the last 17 years, the 86th Street Festival continues to thrive   boosting local business, and bringing energy, excitement, and community togetherness to the neighborhood s iconic commercial strip. This page is available to subscribers.  Click here to sign in or get access . It looks like you are opening this page from the Facebook App. This article needs to be opened in the browser. iOS : Tap the three dots in the top right, then tap on "Open in Safari". Android : Tap the Settings icon (it looks like three horizontal lines), then tap App Settings, then toggle the "Open links externally" setting to On (it should turn from gray to blue). Never miss the day ' s stories! Your email address will not be published.  Required fields are marked  * Comment document.getElementById("comment").setAttribute( "id", "a2c6080744c744661991d78db0903383" );document.getElementById("ec9b6d5a1a").setAttribute( "id", "comment" ); Name  * Email  * Website Never miss the day ' s stories! Bklyner is your go-to source for Brooklyn news, one  neighborhood at a time. News, Food,Events, Neighborhoods. Contact us:  editor@bklyner.com © Corner Media Inc, 2008-2019. All rights reserved. Website by  Web Publisher PRO or Maximum upload file size: 40 MB. Suggested image dimensions: {{data.suggestedWidth}} by {{data.suggestedHeight}} pixels. Document Preview Describe the purpose of the image  (opens in a new tab) . Leave empty if the image is purely decorative. Describe the purpose of the image  (opens in a new tab) . Leave empty if the image is purely decorative. Describe the purpose of the image  (opens in a new tab) . Leave empty if the image is purely decorative. Describe the purpose of the image  (opens in a new tab) . Leave empty if the image is purely decorative. Image size in pixels No items found. 