Pin on My DIY craze This is a listing for custom illustrated handmade Sikh wedding programs, printed and shipped directly to your home ready for your guests (you can even include them in your wedding invitations)! We also offer a digital download PDF version of your customized card that you can print yourself. If you are looking for the digital download, please see this Etsy listing instead: https://www.etsy.com/ca/listing/648781317/sikh-wedding-printable-ceremony-programs?ref=listing_published_alert YOUR… A gorgeous wide metal chocker in an eastern style, with an air of a boho princess to it. This beatiful chocker necklace is pretty wide, sitting comfortably around your neck. The front of the necklace is made out of brass and has that distinct golden color. It is decorated with round glass , strewn around in a neat pattern and old coins. The bottom of the chocker has a line of rings, from which an array of chains, drop shaped and round pieces of colorful glass and little bells hang. The… View latest photos, read reviews, check prices  &  contact Extras. What started out as a hobby became a full time job, owing to a huge demand for their cards A gourmet food gift of tree-ripened and handpacked dried fruit and nuts. Great for snacking, holiday entertaining, or relaxing evenings at home. Silhouette wedding ceremony programs add the perfect touch for your wedding! This listing is for custom designed and printed programs on your choice of selected cardstock. • Colors are all customizable • Feature 20-25 silhouettes • Includes 2 sides of a fun, infographic design style • We can Gorgeous personalised overlap fold day invitation made from metallic paper. Laser Cut on Cover. Price includes:Day Invitation + Matching EnvelopePersonalisation of bride  &  groom’s names on the coverPersonalisation of symbol on the coverGrey digital printingDesign of the insert Card Specifications Invite size: 162 Handcrafted Gift Items Express Shipping Designer Heavy Work Lehenga and Sherwani Combo with Zari and Stone Work. Dark Green and White Velvet and Cotton fabric Unstitched Fabric worn by Neil Nitin Mukesh and Rukmini Neil. Looking for yellow and red invitation box? Browse 1000s of latest bridal photos, lehenga  &  jewelry designs, decor ideas, etc. on WedMeGood Gallery. Can be customized however you want ❤❤ Designer Exclusive Collection of Bridal Lehenga, Designer Lehenga, Lehenga Choli, Ghagra Choli, Floral Design, लेहंगा, Select From more that 5000+ Designer Exclusive Styles. Get Delivery at your Door step. International Shipping Available. Made to Order Exclusive Products Available. 