Stepping Stones - Between Two Bridges (Reviews) Abu Dhabi, Montessori, UAE Stepping Stones   Between Two Bridges Stepping Stones   Between Two Bridges Stepping Stone’s BTB branch opened in 2007. With eight classrooms accommodating children from 15 months to four years, Stepping Stones is equipped with the finest amenities to prepare your child for  big school.  Our unique programme and Modern Montessori curriculum encourages learning through play, as the children move between different activities every twenty minutes. Our focus on practical skills and sensory activities develop the children’s knowledge of the world around them and encourage independence. Numbers, shapes, colours and letters are just some of the other concepts that the little ones get introduced to during their time at Stepping Stones. The children have fun exercising in our excellent indoor Gym, being active in our well equipped outdoor play areas, having a ‘splash’ using our purposefully built pool, using their imagination in the Pretend room, sharpening their senses in the Five Senses area, getting engaged in a book in the Library, stimulating their taste buds …  Read More Stepping Stone’s BTB branch opened in 2007. With eight classrooms accommodating children from 15 months to four years, Stepping Stones is equipped with the finest amenities to prepare your child for “big school.” Our unique programme and Modern Montessori curriculum encourages learning through play, as the children move between different activities every twenty minutes. Our focus on practical skills and sensory activities develop the children’s knowledge of the world around them and encourage independence. Numbers, shapes, colours and letters are just some of the other concepts that the little ones get introduced to during their time at Stepping Stones. The children have fun exercising in our excellent indoor Gym, being active in our well equipped outdoor play areas, having a ‘splash’ using our purposefully built pool, using their imagination in the Pretend room, sharpening their senses in the Five Senses area, getting engaged in a book in the Library, stimulating their taste buds during cooking classes, as well as singing and dancing in our Music room. Stepping Stones provide the right means for your child to learn in his or her unique way by giving a platform for each individual child to build a strong and well-rounded foundation for their future. Each branch has very qualified and experienced educators that undergo regular comprehensive training to ensure up to date knowledge and skills. This branch is situated in the Between Two Bridges (Bain Al Jessrain)area in Abu Dhabi Gate City. We are on 3rd Street, opposite Seha clinic. We pride ourselves on delivering the best quality care and early years education available. Through our Modern Montessori Curriculum we provide a range of indoor and outdoor activities and resources designed to support all aspects of learning and development in a safe and stimulating environment. We encourage caring and respectful attitudes towards others, a positive self-image, a love of learning and promote each child’s natural desire to explore and experiment. At Stepping Stones our experienced and trained staff are committed to meeting the individual needs of each child. Stepping Stones is committed to providing high quality care and education that supports and values the individual needs and personality of each child in a secure, caring and stimulating environment. We provide a broad curriculum where children have many wide and varied experiences and feel secure to grow and develop intellectually, socially, emotionally, culturally and physically to their best potential. My twin girls go to stepping stones, they have so much more confidence and independence since when they first started, I am very happy with this school. Highly recommend. Amazing nursery, with caring, loving staff and the best facilities. My son loves going here every day, i am so happy we chose this nursery. Stepping Stones is amazing, all the teachers and staff are really passionate and you can see how much they love all the children. My daughter was so happy attending this school. Your email address will not be published.  Required fields are marked  * Please do not post: Thank you once again for doing your part to keep Edarabia the most trusted education source. Blooming Buds Nursery Green Fields Nursery Abu Dhabi Step by Step Nursery – Abu Dhabi Noah s Ark Nurseries Apple Bee Nursery UAE pupils to receive month-long winter holiday UAE Schools improve in Maths, but lag in Reading  &  Science PISA results show progress, Ministry of Education says Dubai students train robots to compete in sports School pupils bring Louvre Abu Dhabi artworks to life Anxiety in Children Clarion’s National Day Celebrations How to boost confidence and self-esteem in Children this winter break CUCA meets Ireland's Minister of Education Middlesex University Dubai celebrates its 11th Annual International Day Regent launches Secondary Phase in Academic Year 2020-21 Abu Dhabi University Inaugurates IEEE 2019 New Law  &  Psychology Courses at University of Birmingham Dubai SAE provides new study programs in creative media forworking professionals in the UAE Australia Emerges as Top Employment Location for SP Jain Undergraduates of 2019 Abu Dhabi Schools Fees by Grade Abu Dhabi School Holidays Teaching Jobs in Abu Dhabi Edarabia  is your #1 Education Guide; helping students, parents  &  educators compare the best institutions. 