July 9 Horoscope | Famous Birthdays Being a Cancer born on July 9th, you are masterfully in-touch with your feelings, as well as those of others, which makes you both sympathetic and compassionate. Although you are comfortable with your own emotions as well, you are far from an open book. You are ruled by the inclination to mostly keep your feelings private and secretive. It is this mysterious nature that often frustrates even your closest friends as they struggle to understand you.  Water is the element paired with your sign and in fact, you have the more fundamental relationship with water than any other sign. It is the forceful nature of water that causes you to experience emotions with strong waves that you ride with understanding. Likewise, you can sense even the most subtle ripples of emotions in others. As you embrace the positive qualities of water, you will grow as a sympathetic and compassionate individual. Be weary of the negative influence of becoming overly influenced by water, as you run the risk of becoming emotionally unstable.  The moon is your sign ' s planetary ruler, but because you are born in the second Decan, or part, of the sign, you are also influenced by the planetary influence of Pluto. The sensitive and intuitive influence of the moon is partnered with the power and control driven influence of Pluto. It is this unique influence that allows you to be less emotional than Cancer ' s of the other two Decans. While the internal struggle may be severe, you often choose to let pragmatism overrule your emotions, which may explain for your secretive nature. You are much more open in loving, close relationships where your need for security is satisfied. Your planetary influence can cause a significant amount of jealousy to branch from your close relationships, so take care to avoid its damaging effects.  As both strong in empathy and social skills, a people-focused career would suit you well. Whether it be law, teaching or counseling, a career built on helping others may be very satisfying. Alternately, your imagination and creativity would be well suited for a career in the arts. Look to the work of top actor Tom Hanks or musician Jack White, who were both born on July 9th, for inspiration.  The Sabian Symbol for your birthday is a priest performing a marriage ceremony. You respect cultural tradition and influence. This does not keep you from developing your own beliefs however. As you continue to amass new experiences, you will further blend new revelations with your cultural foundation.  Here are a few Cancer celebrities born on July 9th and their past or present romantic connections: John Tesh  (Cancer) and Connie Sellecca (Gemini) Courtney Love   (Cancer) and Kurt Cobain  (Pisces) July 9th is associated with  Birthday Number 7 July 9th is associated with  Tarot Card 3 of Cups  