Shaw Floors Announces Extensive Tile Introductions | 2018-02-01 | Floor Trends Magazine Floor Trends logo Floor Trends logo Floor Trends logo Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Print Email Shaw Floors’ 2018 tile collection introductions marks one of the most significant in the company’s history. Among the new styles are continuously larger formats, which improve the speed of installations and enhance visual appeal with fewer grout lines. Also included in the new introductions are a wide selection of contemporary visuals, such as concrete, time weathered planks, and other cutting-edge looks, as well as an extensive assortment of decorative accents. Among the large assortment of new introductions includes: Arcadian Scene, Covenant, Fontana, Olympia Plank, Timbered, and Tulum Tide.  Featuring a digital inkjet reproduction of timeworn and weathered surfaces, Arcadian Scene is a rectified-edge porcelain tile series available in five colors reminiscent of the European countryside. The collection is offered in a 12x48 in. size to highlight its stunning graphic, delivering the look of an old world architectural heritage. Covenant is a 8x48 in. glazed porcelain plank style available in a striking earth-tone color, offering multiple tonal contrasts with varying shades and a unique timeworn natural wood finish. Its staggering size captures the ever-growing trend of longer, wider planks. Continuing to build upon the success of recent 8x48 in. glazed porcelain plank introductions, Shaw is introducing Fontana, available in four colors, as a companion product to its Savannah style introduced in 2017. Olympia Plank is an existing style available in five gorgeous colors, emulating a time weathered hardwood visual and now featuring the increasingly popular 8"x36" plank format size. This highly successful style and impressively large plank size makes an extreme visual impact in any room and is ideal for today’s open floor plans.  Timbered features wood graphics that emulate a diverse mix of Appalachian hardwood species offered in unique 6x36 in. and 2.5x16 in. plank sizes, designed to accentuate the rustic nature of each wood species. Available in four colors, Timbered offers a range of color that creates a design to showcase the Appalachian region's rustic heritage.  Tulum Tide’s unique visual was inspired by a most distinctive natural stone from the quarries of Brazil known as "Blue Macauba." Tulum Tide features the rich, veining coloration and emphasizes the beige, blue, taupe, rust and ivory colorations popular in today's design community.  Available in two vibrant and detailed colorways, this glazed porcelain style is available in a 12x24 in. size.  Shaw is also continuing to add new styles to its comprehensive tile program, available exclusively to its Shaw Flooring Network retailers. The collection is made up of: 6 hardwood plank styles; 12 rectangular styles; and 120 decorative accent mosaics.  For more information, visit  shawinc.com .  Ceramic tile is a versatile and popular material for all kinds of floors. Copyright  2019. All Rights Reserved BNP Media. Design, CMS, Hosting  &  Web Development ::  ePublishing Floor Trends logo Floor Trends logo 