Ayahuasca, Spirit Vine Ayahuasca Foundation Waking Times Ayahuasca   Scientific Name :   banisteriopsis caapi  Common Names in the Amazon:  ayahuasca; ayahuasca negro; ayahuasca blanco; ayahuasca trueno, cielo ayahuasca; yagé; bejuco; caapi; nucnu huasca; shimbaya huasca; ayawasca; nishi; oni; népe; xono; datém; kamarampi; pindé; natema; iona; mii; nixi; shillinto; nepi. Over 70 different indigenous tribes in the Amazon Rainforest possess a detailed common knowledge of ayahuasca and its use. This number becomes even more impressive when one considers the fact that many of these tribes live thousands of miles apart and would appear to have never had contact with each other. Within the philosophy of each tribe, one point remains consistent through them all, which is that they originally learned about ayahuasca and the science of plant spirit medicine from the plants themselves. Both the plant and the medicine prepared from it are called ‘ayahuasca’ The word “Ayahuasca” refers to a medicinal brew with the main ingredient being the ayahuasca vine (banisteriopsis caapi). The vine is cooked, usually in combination with a variety of other admixture plants, to produce a brown liquid that is consumed in healing ceremonies led by Amazon healers, called ayahuasqueros, (curanderos). The effects of the brew vary greatly depending on which admixture plants are used in its preparation and how the curandero runs the healing ceremony. An old Ayahuasca vine reaches for the Canopy Ayahuasca has been used in the Peruvian Amazon for millenia, long before the Spanish came to Peru, before the Incan Empire was formed, before history. The oldest known object related to the use of ayahuasca is a ceremonial cup which dates to a culture that ended in the year 50 A.D. Hewn out of stone with engraved ornamentation, it was discovered in Ecuador and currently rests at the Ethnological Museum of the Central University (Quito, Ecuador). In the Peruvian Amazon, its use dates back much further. The medicine usually contains both beta-carboline and tryptamine alkaloids.  However, some indigenous Amazonian cultures, like the Yahua, prepare their ceremonial brew using only the ayahuasca vine. The ayahuasca vine contains the beta-carbolines (harmine, harmaline, and tetrahydroharmine).  Harmine and harmaline are visionary at high levels, but at a modest dosage typically produce mainly tranquility and nausea.  Tetrahydroharmine is present in significant levels in ayahuasca, which may be responsible for some of its more profound effects. The ratio of the harmala alkaloids in the ayahuasca vine varies greatly from one geographical area to another. Even though all ayahuasca vines are botanically classified as Banisteriopsis caapi, the curanderos classify them further, in reference to their effects. An example is cielo ayahuasca, which means sky or heaven ayahuasca, implying that its effect is of bringing one to celestial realms. Negra ayahuasca, or black ayahuasca, would be used to work specifically with black magic, and so on… Harmala alkaloids have the unique effect of temporarily reducing levels of monoamine oxidase in the body. Monoamine oxidase is an enzyme that normally breaks down tryptamine alkaloids, among others. Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) thus make tryptamines orally active. Therefore, the ayahuasca plays an essential role in the brew, opening the door for a host of powerful alkoloids to reach the brain before eventually being broken down by other means. The principal tryptamine found in ayahuasca is DiMethyltryptamine, or DMT. This naturally-occurring biochemical substance is secreted by the human brain in the  pineal gland , especially when dreaming.  Rick Strassman, author of ‘DMT Spirit Molecule’ found that 49 days into the development of the human embryo, the pineal gland produces a much larger amount of DiMethyltriptamine than normal.  The only other time this occurs is at the moment of our death.  Therefore, Strassman concludes that the production of DMT is a chemical expression of a spiritual event, namely the entering and exiting of the spirit from the physical body.  DiMethyltriptamine can be found in countless plant and animal species throuhout the world.  It can produce very powerful visionary effects when smoked in its pure form or taken orally in Ayahuasca or with another MAOI. While some scientists might describe the Ayahuasca experience as merely an oral DMT experience activated by a beta carboline MAO inhibitor, this description is not accurate, for the healing processes at work within the medicine are far more complex, unquestionably due to the ayahuasca vine which is responsible for the transformative power of the Ayahuasca experience. One could easily point to the name of the medicine to know that it is the vine that gives the brew its power, and this idea is supported by nearly every culture that uses ayahuasca in the Amazon Rainforest.  Another aspect of ayahuasca’s effects that is often overlooked is the role of the curandero, who uses his/her experience with the sacred medicine to increase, decrease, and guide the visionary effects. Here is a quote from Richard Evans Shultes, one of the earliest pioneers in ayahuasca research, describing merely the effects of the vine alone: “To this day, the natives of the north-west Amazon in Brazil and Colombia use the Banisteriopsis drink for prophetic and divinatory purposes and also to fortify the bravery of male adolescents about to undergo the severely painful yurupari ceremony for initiation into manhood. The narcosis amongst these peoples, with whom I have taken caapi on many occasions, is usually pleasant, characterized by visual hallucinations in color, which initially is very often a shade of blue or purple. In excessive doses, it is said to bring on frighteningly nightmarish visions and a feeling of extremely reckless abandon, although consciousness is not lost nor is use of the limbs unduly affected”. EFFECTS OF AYAHUASCA  For millenia, a science of healing has been evolving in the Amazon, passed on orally from generation to generation, and through the plants themselves. The sacred medicine is primarily used to heal, and patients often feel the following effects: Flower Buds from The Ayahuasca Vine HEALING THE BODY   Nearly everyone describes a physical cleansing or purification process, usually involving vomiting or purging. Another name for the brew is ‘la purga’ because of its powerful purgative effects. It is not necessary to throw up, however, and the curandero rarely throws up when leading a ceremony. HEALING THE MIND   It is not uncommon to experience a regression back to the situation or source of a problem or trauma. To relive the experience is to gain new understanding and insights enabling resolution or closure. Dream-like scenes where personal messages from spirits are received cause ceremony participants to re-evaluate their life course with a deeper understanding of why they are here, and what it is they need to do to fulfill their purpose. HEALING THE SOUL   Most people who experience Ayahuasca report some sort of spiritual experience. Unfortunately, it is very difficult to describe the spiritual effects due to the lack of spirit in our language. Western culture is simply ignorant of the science of spirit that is still practiced today in the Amazon Rainforest. The quintessential Ayahuasca experience cannot be fully realized outside the natural and cultural environment of the Amazon.  The reason is simple… all the inherently natural organic and cultural links are present. Here the spiritual connection between the plants and human culture which brought the unique brew into existence is strongest and most profound. That the Amazonian plants exist in a spiritual dimension in their natural habitat is evident to those who have experienced ayahuasca both in and out of the Amazon rainforest.  This is not to say, of course, that highly beneficial personal results cannot be achieved using Ayahuasca in other areas of the world. ~~ Help  Waking Times  to raise the vibration by sharing this article with the buttons below… ©2011-2017 Waking Media, Inc. Send this to a friend 