Throwback Thursday: Will New Zealand ever recover from Melody Rules? | The Spinoff For Throwback Thursday this week, Claire Adamson arms herself with a bottle of wine and revisits the worst comedy series that New Zealand has ever made. In the early  90s, a young and misguided television station called TV3 made a show so terrible that its name has become a byword for bad TV in this country. Melody Rules  debuted in primetime in 1993. The success of shows like  Full House  had spurred TV3 to attempt to make a sitcom of its own, and the pilot was delivered to the New Zealand people with a lot of fanfare. After being almost  universally panned ,  Melody Rules  of which a full 44 episodes were commissioned and made   was shunted to the middle of the night.  I mentioned the show to my boss, who moved to New Zealand from Ireland in the early 90 s, just as  Melody Rules  was commencing its reign of terror. He told me that upon turning on his television for the first time, he baulked.  Is this New Zealand television?  he thought to himself.  Dear god, what have I gotten myself into? Instead of using traditional Kiwi humour, the show was a direct translation of an American sitcom to New Zealand screens, resulting in a show that is Kiwi only by way of its accent. In fact,  Melody Rules  came across so poorly that even now, a full two decades after it was canned, it is still one of the most oft-cited (but horribly misguided) reasons that New Zealand comedy supposedly sucks. Could it be that Melody Rules  is indirectly part of the reason Flight of the Conchords was driven to HBO?  According to the  NZ Herald , TVNZ had a real  reluctance to commission independent comedy. Being a complete and utter masochist ( remember, I once watched a full hour of  This is Serial Stuff ), I decided to watch a few episodes of the show. To fortify myself for the task ahead, I strong-armed actual-good New Zealand comedian  Hamish Parkinson  into watching with me, and strengthened my resolve even further with my flatmate Kate, who isn t a comedian but is still very funny. All this was accompanied by a reasonably large quantity of wine.  In the  pilot episode , we learn the situation (the  sit , if you will   the  com  never arrives). Melody is looking after her younger siblings while their mother (known simply as Mum) is doing an archeological dig in Malaysia. A perfectly logical premise for a plot. Melody can t wait for Mum to get home, because then she is off on holiday   she is going on a two-week cruise around the Bay of Islands (further proof that  Melody Rules had completely lost touch with reality). Alas: Mum decides to stay in Malaysia, leaving Melody in charge of her teenaged siblings and thus setting up the premise for a lot of really low-stakes hijinks. Hamish, in what is probably the most generous criticism  Melody Rules  has ever received, compares it to a Samuel Beckett play. Mum, it seems, is Melody s Godot. The lineup of characters couldn t  be  any more obvious (to channel Chandler Bing, whose own sitcom was arguably one of the genre s finest). Melody is the level-headed protagonist, constantly exasperated with her siblings, neighbours, co-workers and friends. Inexplicably,  Nightline  presenter  Belinda Todd  was cast as Melody, and did just as good a job as you would expect a newsreader to do. Kate swears she is wearing a wig. Her younger sister Zoey, played by  Jodie Rimmer , is the alternative goth one, full of sassy zingers and barely-concealed disdain for her family. She has three Amnesty International posters on her bedroom wall, and could be easily interchanged with Winona Ryder s character in  Beetlejuice . Melody s feckless younger brother Geoff and his best friend Crayfish may as well be Bill and Ted. I don t recognize the actor who plays Geoff, but Crayfish will go on to become noted graffiti artist Askew. Of course there s a sassy best friend, Fiona, played by  Susan Brady . In one episode, Melody bets Fiona she can t go without beauty products, which becomes a catalyst for a whole bunch of accidental sexual innuendo. In one scene, the kids catch her creeping furtively through the house with a whole cucumber, ostensibly to cut into slices to put on her eyes. In another, Melody tells her  you just can t bear to not have something spread on your face  at which point the three of us erupted into laughter. I m not quite sure this is the comedy the writers had in mind, but you take what you can get. The final recurring character is Neville, the rough next-door neighbour. He is a salty, heavy-drinking type, who is predisposed to barging into the house of his young, mostly female neighbours and shouting,  ya decent?  He shows the boys how to undo a bra with knickers covering his face, and how to highland dance while wearing a kilt the traditional way   much to everyone s horror. The words  Neville s swirling penis  appear in my notes. The true nihilism of Neville s life really sinks in as we hear him being coaxed down off of his roof where he is clinging desperately to his keg of homebrew, after a gang of youths try to steal it. Overall, the show is like the unholy love child of  Eight Simple Rules  and  Mrs Brown s Boys . The plotline hovers between non-existent (Melody is not allowed to hassle her siblings because of a bet) and just way too much (one of the teens snatches an old lady s bag). Hamish proposes that not a single comedian had a hand in the show s making, which could explain some things, but it also seems that there was not much budget. The show leaves the tiny living room/kitchen set just once in the three episodes we watch. Melody Rules  notoriety is such that it is a  favourite nostalgic comedy pick  on NZ On Screen. It seems that we love to dive back in time to see just how bad this thing was (very), and just how many laughs we can get out of it (quite a few, if enough wine is taken). I m not sure New Zealand learned much initially from  Melody Rules  sitcoms to follow like  Welcome to Paradise  tried and failed miserably to wipe clean the show s slate. But New Zealanders ARE funny, and I know we ve got a good sitcom in us, goddammit. Click here to enjoy NZ On Screen s full collection of NZ comedy, including  Billy T James ,  Funny Business  and  bro Town Please note that the occasionally troublesome opinions expressed above are not those of our wonderful sponsors at NZ On Screen. Join The Spinoff Members for as little as $1  to help us hire more journalists and do more investigations. Your support will make a difference. Facebook Twitter Email AddThis The Bulletin is The Spinoff s acclaimed daily digest of New Zealand s most important stories, delivered directly to your inbox each morning. The Spinoff Weekly compiles the best stories of the week – an essential guide to modern life in New Zealand, emailed out on Monday evenings. Success! You are now signed up! Something went wrong. Try again later? The Spinoff The Spinoff is a New Zealand online magazine covering politics, pop culture and social issues. We also have a custom editorial division which creates smart, shareable content for brands. How the Spinoff is funded The Spinoff Privacy Policy We drink  L'affare  by day.    Ruby  and  Barkers  look after us too. We are located at 14 McDonald Street, Morningside, Auckland 1025  Contact  The Spinoff 2019 The Spinoff is subject to NZ Press Council procedures. A complaint must first be directed in writing, within one month of publication, to  info@thespinoff.co.nz . If not satisfied with the response, the complaint may be referred to the online complaint form at  www.presscouncil.org.nz  along with a link to the relevant story and all correspondence with the publication. 