Villa BUBL ￼ ￼ ￼ The luxury guest house on Egypt’s Mediterranean coast Borg el Arab, Alexandria, Egypt email: villabubl@ymail.com info@villabubl.com Tel. 00 20 (0)10944 76227 Places to see HISTORIC ALEXANDRIA - visit the Roman Theatre, the Qaitbey Fort, the original sight of the Pharos Lighthouse, stopping for lunch in the old city square SHOPPING MORNING – you’ll be dropped off at the massive Alexandria City Centre that boasts 100s of shops and a great Carrefour hyper market There is also a new shopping mall 5 minutes drive away at Oruba and we are happy to drop off those keen for a quick shop or a snack in one of the cafes. EL ALAMEIN -drive along the coast road passing the resort at Marina to the cemeteries at Alamein, commerating those who died in the North Africa campaign during World War II. For those happy to take a longer bus ride combine the cemeteries with a visit to the resort town of Mersa Matrouh with its stunning beaches and coves.  CAIRO – we can also arrange for a trip to the capital city to see the Pyramids and the museums.  Please let us know at the start of your stay so we can arrange a trip tailored to your needs When people first visit Egypt they tend to head to Cairo to see the pyramids, south to Luxor to see the ancient temples or to the Red Sea coast for the spectacular scenery and diving. However, fewer venture to the north coast and visit the ancient city of  Alexandria  - we think many visitors to Egypt are missing out. It’s a great city,  bustling with life and with an amazing history. And  Villa BUBL  is the perfect place from which to explore this bustling metropolis. The city was founded by Alexander the Great as he conquered his way through the eastern Mediterranean.  The city then became home to the last great pharoahs including Queen Cleopatra. Conquered by the Romans, it continued to be a great city of learning, eventually falling to the invading Muslims coming from the east. As well as a centre of great culture and discovery, has always had huge significance as a centre for trade.  It has seen peoples from all over the Mediterranean, Africa and the Middle East making it their home and this has given the city a cosmopolitan feel - a good mix of North African, Arab and European.  It might not be full of foreign tourists but Alexandria has always been an important city and the lovely temperatures cooled by the sea mean that city dwellers from Cairo head to Alexandria every summer and resorts are growing up along the beautiful white sandy coastline. This has also meant that the city is expanding and modernising, though even only a few miles outside you can find traditional farming villages edging the desert, like Hauwarya where  Villa BUBL  is situated,  inhabited by families who are proud of their Bedouin ancestry.  If you’re already a regular visitor to Alexandria or want to see a different kind of Egypt,  Villa BUBL  is in an ideal place. A short drive from the villa, you can see lush farmland filled with ripe fruits, clear blue seas with pale sandy beaches, ancient tombs and monuments and vibrant city streets with shops selling traditional handicrafts or contemporary fashions and housewares.  There is so much to see, so each week we provide a schedule of trips so you can visit any of these great places of interest. There is a small charge for transportation costs and a price list for tours is available at  Villa BUBL .  Ancient days to remember and shopping days to enjoy TIME TO EXPLORE 