Pediatrics Specialist - Glassboro, NJ: Josette C. Palmer, MD, MPH, FAAFP: Family Medicine Physician: Happy Healthy You Family Medicine Choosing a pediatrician is one of the most important decisions your family will make. Dr. Palmer and her team at Happy Healthy You Family Medicine in Glassboro, New Jersey have the knowledge and expertise to support your growing family with all your pediatric needs. From regular check-ups to vaccines to educating your family on the best tools and information, Happy Healthy You Family Medicine provides everything you need to make sure your baby stays healthy and grows up strong. As your pediatrician, Dr. Palmer oversees the health of your little bundle of joy from the time they’re born throughout their teenage years. The first two years are the most crucial in a baby's development, so visits are more frequent during that time. After that, regular check-ups happen about once every year.  In addition to regular physical exams and vaccinations, Dr. Palmer takes care of all your child's unique needs, including: Childhood is a special time of life that involves extra support and guidance due to the tremendous change and rapid growth that occurs on all levels. Infants, toddlers, and children can't make decisions for themselves, so they're entirely dependent on adult family members and medical professionals to take care of them. That's why it's important to choose your pediatrician wisely. As your pediatric care providers, the staff at Happy Healthy You Family Medicine are vital players in the growth and development of your child.  With special training in pediatric medicine, Dr. Palmer and her team continue monitoring your young one's progress throughout their youth and keep your entire family on track to optimal wellness. Your newborn baby should get an initial exam within the first 24-hours after birth. Another check-up should happen within three to five days. After that, a typical exam schedule occurs at one, two, four, six, nine, 12, 15, 18, and 24 months.  Is it time for your child’s first check-up? Don’t hesitate to get started on their health: click or call today to schedule an appointment with Dr. Palmer. Thank you for your appointment request. We will contact you shortly to confirm your request. Please call our office  at   if you have any questions. Thank you for your appointment request. We will contact you shortly to confirm your request. Please call our office  at   if you have any questions. We unfortunately can ' t schedule this type of appointment online. Please call our office  at   to make your appointment. 