Madras University Distance Education Admission 2020-2021,Courses,Fees,Eligibility,Last Date to Apply | UmeAcademy.com The university is considered to be the mother of all old universities of south India. It has been  recognized by UGC  as one of the institutes for “potential of excellence” in the country and  accredited by NAAC with grade ’A’ . The University has developed the  Institute of Distance Education  in the year 1981 with the aim to help students achieve their career goals.  The institute  offers 22 undergraduate courses, 14 post graduate courses, 9 postgraduate science courses, 5 professional courses, 16 diploma courses and 12 certificate courses .  IDE helps the students who cannot undergo full time study with the objective of delivering prospects for better access to education and thereby increasing the intellectual achievements of people from different sections of the society as well as from other countries. As, of today,  IDE offers 109 programs in the distance learning mode  which are all  approved by DEC .  The institute believes in providing quality study materials in self learning format to its students and takes genuine efforts in promoting borderless education at global level through Tele-education mode. MBA/MCA/M.Sc (IT) Programmes:- The institute offers many MBA courses such as MBA general, MBA integrated and MBA executive. There are many options for specialization in the course: Post Graduate (PG) programmes:-  Madras University provide following PG courses through distance education:- Under Graduate (UG) programmes:- Madras University provide following UG courses through distance education:- Certificates Courses:- University provide following certificates courses:- Diploma and PG Diploma Courses:-  Courses details are given below:- The duration of the course is two academic years consisting of four semesters. For MBA Executive, theory is for 1st year and project in the 2nd year. Madras University Fees for different courses are given below:- 1. MBA/MCA/M.Sc (IT) Courses Fees:- 2. Post Graduate (PG) Programmes Fees:- 3. Under Graduate (UG) Programmes Fees:- 4. Certificates Courses Fees:- 5. Diploma and PG Diploma Courses Fees:- Candidates can apply through online registration of application. Candidates are advised to download the prospectus and schedule from the university website  www.ideunom.ac.in  and the schedule will not be sent to candidates by post. It is also advised to pay the tuition fee through online along with the application form. If you have a desire to get admitted in such college which has its own glory of creating jewels like Sir CV Raman, Srinivas Ramanujan, Viswanathan Anand and APJ Abdul Kalam and having a want to experience a good academic journey. Then, The University of Madras  was incorporated by an act of the Legislative Council of India in the year 1857. This institution has been  accredited by NAAC  with five stars and also given the status of ‘ University having the potential for excellence’ by UGC . The Institution of Distance Education (IDE) by the University of Madras is having a unique identity in the field of distance education in South India. The institution has provided opportunities to most of the peoples who were unable to complete their educational career, working professionals and government servants through distance course in MBA and other subjects. The university has adopted a standout feature for IDE course through providing printed learning materials and setting up of study centre in all over India and abroad. The Director Institute of Distance Education, University of Madras IDE Building, Chepauk, Chennai – 600 005 Telephone:  044-2561 3716 Email: idedirector@gmail.com ,  idedirector@unom.ac.in Website: www.ideunom.ac.in Select Course Distance MBA MBA-Part Time MBA-Full Time Executive MBA Digital Marketing Other Distance Program PGDM BBA Top 10 Distance MBA Colleges Top 20 Distance MBA Colleges Top 30 Distance MBA Universities Top Distance/Correspondence MBA Colleges in Delhi/NCR Top Distance Learning Universities in India for MBA Andhra University Distance MBA Alagappa University Distance MBA Bharathiar University Distance MBA Annamalai University Distance MBA NMIMS Distance MBA IGNOU Distance MBA ICFAI University Distance MBA Suresh Gyan Vihar University Distance MBA Amity University Distance Education BITS Pilani Distance MBA 