events | svohio FACEBOOK : If you have a Facebook Account, please  ' Like "  Single Volunteers of NE Ohio (Cleveland Area) - Join our Facebook Page for photos, information and more EVENTS ​ Christmas Meeting Saturday December 21  United Methodist Church of Berea (170 Seminary Street, Berea​) ​ Sadly our founder, Pat,  made the following announcement at last night ' s meeting. Hope you can usher us out with a bang at our Christmas meeting on December 21.  We can all stay in touch and continue to follow everyone ' s volunteer activities  on our  Facebook which will remain active.  Thanks to all the amazing volunteers and friends we ' ve made over the years.  The events page will stay active until January 2020. " Sigh. I had the unenviable task tonight of making the public announcement that after all these years, the Single Volunteer organization is going to be shutting down. Yeah, we have to confirm the rumors. Single Volunteers is going to go away. Hey, we had a great run. In over 22 years we pulled off some tremendous and incredible community service projects, projects that proved that a single person can indeed change the world. We made a difference. Unfortunately, all things have a season. Sincere thanks to all those generous people who have unselfishly given their time over the years to help all of those people less fortunate than us. It ' s time to give someone else a turn now. "  Pat ​ Saturday, Dec 21 ,  7 pm  Third Saturday of each month SINGLE VOLUNTEERS MONTHLY MEETING  - HOLIDAY MEETING/POT LUCK: Meeting Location:  United Methodist Church of Berea,170 Seminary Street, Berea. Come to discuss new projects and make new friends. Open to all singles, even if you ' re just curious about our Single Volunteer group.  This meeting will be a Holiday pot luck Dinner meeting so bring your best holiday recipe to share!  SVO will provide a ham - but we need other main dishes, side dishes and of course desserts. We are also doing our traditional White Elephant gift exchange of a $5 item.  Did you get a gift last year that you will never use.... it might be time to re-gift it at our meeting. Wrap a gift and bring to the meeting. We have a fun game to exchange. ​ Saturday  Dec 28, 9 am - 1 pm  (last Sat of month) VOLUNTEER St. Augustine Hunger Center  2486 W. 14th  (Tremont Area) LET ' S DO LUNCH! Help make lunch for Cleveland ' s neediest people at St. Augustine Hunger Center.  We need 8 people to help prep, serve and clean up. You can make an immediate difference to someone in one morning and have fun too.  Please wear appropriate shoes for a kitchen.  You will be bNe given an apron  &  hairnet (unless you bring a hat - like baseball cap.  To join in the fun, contact POC Mary Ellen at rheinstro@att.net or 440-862-1273 or POC Michael:  216-403-8228  email:  Mdhmessenger@aol.com ​ Monday, Jan 6,  4:15 to 6:00 PM  (1st and 3rd Monday) VOLUNTEER : Domestic Violence and Child Advocacy Center , help prepare dinner at the DVCAC house. Volunteers help prepare the food provided by Single Volunteers for the residents of this transitional housing facility. Location is discrete for obvious reasons but is on the near west side of Cleveland. (New volunteers will be asked to sign a waiver that the actual location will not be disclosed or discussed). It ' s a small kitchen and project so this event it fills fills up fast . Volunteers are also asked to bring a small dessert to share. For more information contact Pat at:  Dad5218@Roadrunner.com. ​ ​ Tuesday , Jan 7,  5:45 pm - 7:45 pm  (first Tuesday of the month) VOLUNTEER : St Augustine Health Campus Bingo , West 78th  &  Detroit Avenue - Assist residents to and from the bingo room and help them play bingo. Great heartfelt event - the residents love the extra attention!  Secure parking available.  POC:  Michael 216-403-8228  mdhmessenger@aol.com ​ Thursday  January 18,  6:30 pm - 8 pm VOLUNTEER : South Hills Lend-A-Hand - Please join us as we pack bags for distribution at a local food bank serving the communities of Broadview Heights, Independence and Seven Hills. The facility is located in Building 21 (next to Police Building, behind Broadview Hts Community Center), which is an auxiliary building off of Broadview and Oakes Roads. PLEASE NOTE:  Each month we need an accurate RSVP for this event, please email POC Sheryl if you plan to be there!  sheryllayh@yahoo.com or call 216-316-3928 home about us Calendar of Events events contact us Membership/FAQs who we help other SV groups more 