How to get an early start on next year’s lilies | Express.co.uk Don ' t have an account?  Register Register with email Already have an account?  Sign in By registering I understand and agree to the  Terms of use & Privacy policy By registering I understand and agree to the  Terms of use & Privacy policy Please provide your site password to link to your existing account or  click here  to create a new account Please enter your email address to reset your password Sign in with a different account The email should arrive straight away, it may be in your spam. The link will expire after 24 hours. The flamboyant Madonna lily (Lilium candidum) You can plant it straight into the soil, but you need to make sure you choose a sunny site   and the soil needs to be well draining so the bulb does not rot over winter.  Mix a handful of sand, very fine grit or bulb compost from a nursery into the bottom of the planting hole to help improve drainage. Most bulbs need to be planted three times their own depth, but Madonna lilies should be buried only 2.5-5cm below the surface   and some gardeners advise leaving its tip above the surface. The only problem with this is that they are very vulnerable to garden pests such as mice and squirrels, and they are more prone to rotting over winter if they are planted straight into the garden.  Most bulbs need to be planted three times their own depth, but Madonna lilies should be buried only 2.5-5cm below the surface A safer bet is to plant the bulbs in containers, perhaps three evenly spaced around the edge of a pot about 30cm in diameter. Put broken terracotta pots or lumps of polystyrene in the bottom of the pot to aid drainage, then fill with bulb compost and plant the bulbs as described above.  You can use netting or wire mesh over the top of the container to protect the bulbs from garden pests. When these majestic lilies flower next June not only will they trumpet their arrival with a proliferation of large blossoms on every stem, but they will smell heavenly too. Saturday, 2nd November 2019  See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper,order back issues and use the historic Daily Expressnewspaper archive. 