'Sabrina' Adds Michelle Gomez and Chance Perdomo to Cast Facebook Twitter Youtube Instagram Comicbook Main Logo Arrow Down Arrow, Solid Arrow Down Arrow, Solid Arrow Down Arrow, Solid Arrow Down Arrow, Solid Arrow Down Arrow, Solid Arrow Down Arrow, Solid User Icon User Arrow Down Down Arrow Facebook Facebook Register  -  Forgot Password By creating an account, you verify that you are at least 13 years of age, and have read and agree to the Comicbook.com  Terms of Service  and  Privacy Policy Menu Icon Hamburger Menu Search Search Close Search Close Arrow Right Arrow Arrow Right Arrow Arrow Right Arrow Arrow Right Arrow Arrow Right Arrow Arrow Right Arrow Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Video Video Search Search Search Search Close Search Close By  Jenna Anderson  - February 15, 2018 07:46 pm EST Share Facebook Twitter Reddit SMS SMS Mail The cast of  Netflix 's adaptation of  Chilling Adventures of  Sabrina  has just earned two major players. Chance Perdomo and Michelle Gomez have both been cast in the  Riverdale  spinoff series, according to  Variety . Gomez is best known for her fan-favorite role as Missy in  Doctor Who , as well as appearances in  Gotham  and  Green Wing.  Perdomo first began acting onscreen in 2016, with credits in episodes of  Midsomer Murders  and  Hetty Feather . Gomez will play Mary Wardell, Sabrina s (Kiernan Shipka) favorite teacher and mentor at Baxter High. When she is possessed by the Devil s handmaiden, Madam Satan, Ms. Wardwell turns into a sultry, cunning manipulator, always trying to lure Sabrina down the Path of Night. Perdomo will play Ambrose Spellman, a warlock who lives with Sabrina and their aunts Zelda and Hilda. Placed under house-arrest by the Witches Council, Ambrose is forbidden from leaving the funeral home where he lives with the Spellman women. Witty, puckish and pan-sexual, he is one of Sabrina s partners in crime, always up for mischief. These two pieces of casting are pretty major indications of what to expect for  Sabrina , for completely different reasons. Fans had speculated about Madam Satan's role as the show's villain for about a month now, after  a character description for her surfaced in early January . Ambrose was a bit more of a mystery, although his role in the  Chilling Adventures  comic was assumed to carry over into the show. Perdomo and Gomez are just the latest cast members to join the series, following Shipka and  Jaz Sinclair, who will play Rosalind Walker . But with the series' pilot episode currently in production, and roles such as  Harvey Kinkle  and  the aforementioned Zelda and Hilda Spellman  still not officially cast, fans can expect more updates sooner than later. Sabrina  is expected to premiere sometime in 2018 on Netflix. All-Time Comic TV Shows  NA Comicbook Main Logo in Grey  of  Close Right Arrow Left Arrow Close Close Comicbook.com Home Comicbook Main Logo PopCulture.com Home PopCulture.com Logo  Copyright 2018 ComicBook.com. All rights reserved. These cookies are essential for the proper functioning of our properties. In addition, we use the Google and Tealium Tag Managers. Essential cookies cannot be switched off in our systems. You can set your browser or device to block or alert you about these cookies, but some parts of the site will not work.  These cookies allow us to collect information about how visitors use our properties. Some examples include counting visits and traffic sources, so we can measure and improve the performance of our site. If you do not allow these cookies we will not know when users have visited our properties and will not be able to monitor performance. These cookies enable the website to provide enhanced functionality and personalization. They may be set by us or by third party providers whose services we have added to our pages.    If you do not allow these cookies then some or all of these services may not function properly. These cookies may be set by us or through our property by our advertising partners. They may be used by those companies to build a profile of your interests and show you relevant adverts on other properties. If you do not allow these cookies, you will still see ads, but you will experience less relevant advertising.   These cookies are set by a range of social media services that we have added to the site to enable you to share our content with your friends and networks. They are capable of tracking your browser across other sites, building up a profile of your interests to show you relevant content and adverts on properties. If you do not allow these cookies you may not be able to use or see these sharing tools. Back Button Back Search Icon Filter Icon Clear Fliters All Consent Allowed 3 Purposes Arrow Consent Purposes Location Based Ads Consent Allowed Legitimate Interest Purposes Personalize Features Location Based Ads 