Carcinogenic potential of endosulfan and its metabolites based on a quantum chemical model - ScienceDirect ScienceDirect The aim of the present study was to investigate the carcinogenic potential of endosulfan and its metabolites through electronic parameters that characterize the action of carcinogens, i.e. descriptors such as electron affinity, Δ (HOMO–LUMO), dipole moments, electrostatic attraction, formation heat (H f ) and permeability of the cell membrane (c Log P). The results reveal that both endosulfan and its metabolites are electrophilic and have carcinogenic potential. Although there are few data on its carcinogenicity in the literature, the findings of the present study indicate that the use of this pesticide represents a risk to the health of the general population, especially rural workers. Endosulfan is a pesticide [chemical name: (1,4,5,6,7,7-hexachloro-8,9,10-trinorborn-5-en-2,3-ylene-bismethylene)sulfite] that is included in the chlorocyclodiene chemical group and the acaricide/insecticide/formicide class. This compound was developed and introduced by Farbwerke Hoechst in 1954 ( Naqvi and Vaishnavi, 1993 ). According to the Brazilian National Health Standard Agency (ANVISA), it is currently used in Brazil for combating pests of cotton, cacao, coffee, sugarcane and soy crops ( ANVISA, 2009 ). The technical product of endosulfan is a mixture of two biologically active stereoisomers (α and β) — approximately 70% α-endosulfan and 30% β-endosulfan. Alpha-endosulfan is asymmetrical, whereas β-endosulfan is symmetrical and can be easily converted into α-endosulfan. The technical product is stable under sunlight, slightly stable under the action of acids, quite unstable under the action of alkalis, practically insoluble in water, considerably lipophilic and soluble in the majority of organic solvents ( Larini, 1999 ). The classification of the toxicity of endosulfan to humans, in agreement with ANVISA, is Toxicological Class I (extremely toxic substance with LD50 of 5 mg/kg). The general population is exposed to endosulfan through the ingestion of foods containing residue resulting from its application or bioconcentration. Moreover, rural workers suffer occupational exposure and are therefore more vulnerable to acute intoxication and chronic diseases caused by these pesticides. Information on the metabolism of endosulfan comes from studies on animals, which rapidly metabolize this compound through oxidation and hydrolysis following exposure. Its metabolism occurs through microsomal enzymes in polar and non-polar metabolites ( ATSDR, 2000 ). The main transformation products are endosulfan diol and endosulfan sulfate, which have structures similar to the original compound as well as toxicological importance ( IPCS, 2000 ). Endosulfan sulfate may be more persistent than its parent compound. Depending on the climatic and anaerobic conditions and pH, the half life of endosulfan ranges from a few months to more than two years in soil and from one to six months in water. The estimated half life of the combination of toxic residues of endosulfan and endosulfan sulfate ranges from nine months to six years ( ERMA, 2010 ). In the literature, this compound has been associated to genotoxic effects such as gene mutations, chromosome alterations and mitotic effects ( Antherieu et al., 2007 ). However, the carcinogenic potential of endosulfan is not recognized, as there is difficulty in interpreting the many results, especially those related to errors in the conduction of  in vitro  and  in vivo  experiments ( ATSDR, 2000 ). Moreover, there is a lack of epidemiological studies. As an alternative to toxicity tests carried out on animals, there is currently a variety of models that predict the effect of substances by analyzing their chemical structures ( Cronin et al., 2003 ). Endosulfan has been banned in a number of countries, but continues to be widely used in Brazil. Brazilian law prohibits the use of pesticides that have carcinogenic potential. Thus, the adequate characterization and classification of substances used in agriculture is of fundamental importance ( Bedor et al., 2009 ). The aim of the present study was to characterize the carcinogenic potential of endosulfan and its metabolites using a fast, reliable, low-cost computational tool. The quantum chemical carcinogen characterization model was used for the classification of the carcinogenic potential of these substances ( Leão et al., 2005 ). This model is based on recognizing the electrophilic property of carcinogens, through which the DNA-carcinogen interaction can then be treated as an electron transfer phenomenon. The electron transfer between frontier orbitals can be summarized by analyzing this interaction in light of Valence Bond Theory ( Pauling, 1984 ). This is the electron transfer from the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) of the DNA to lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) of the carcinogen ( Leão et al., 2005 ). The justification for this notion resides in the fact that the energy of the HOMO (E HOMO ) loosely defines the tendency of the molecule to donate electrons. On the other hand, the energy of the LUMO (E LUMO ) expresses the tendency of the molecule to receive electrons and is therefore a measure of electron affinity. The model also considers other factors besides electron affinity and the energy of the carcinogen-DNA interaction (ΔE H − L ), such as carcinogen-DNA electrostatic attraction (Δq — difference in positive charges of atom in the carcinogen and negative charge of the O 6  of guanine), permeability of the cell membrane (μ — considering the dipole moment of the carcinogen) and formation heat of the carcinogen (H f ). Structure modeling of endosulfan and its metabolites was obtained using the GaussView computational program. The electron parameters were described through AM1 semi-empirical quantum chemical calculations on the Gaussian 03. Semi-empirical methods have aim to resolve in a self-consistent way by approximations to the equations of Hartree-Fock-Roothaan. This is done through parameters, obtained by numeric fit, or derived from experimental results, which makes feasible the solution of equations ( Thiel, 1996 ). The choice of this method is based on the idea that they are much less costly than  ab initio  calculations ( Reynolds, 1997 ), and also by the quality of results obtained. The model described has been successfully applied to analyze the carcinogenic activity of a large variety of compounds, such as aflatoxins ( Pavão et al., 1995 ), DDT ( Leão and Pavão, 1997 ), dimethylnitrosamine ( Leão and Pavão, 2001 ), benzopyrenes ( Leão et al., 2005 ), a variety of pesticides ( BEDOR et al., 2009 ) and the protective activity of antioxidant substances against cancer, such a vitamin C and resveratrol ( Leão et al., 2003 ). The analysis of these parameters was carried out using a multivariate statistical treatment, the analysis of principal components (PCA). PCA is used when there is a series of chemical and biological variables representing a multivariate set of information. Mathematically, PCA corresponds to the factoring of the X matrix of the original data with n carcinogens and p descriptors. The procedure requires diagonalization of the XtX covariance matrix, in which Xt is the transpose of the X matrix. The elements of the eigenvectors in PCA are called weights and represent the contribution of each of the original axes in the composition of new axes, called principal components. The eigenvalues represent the amount of original variance explained by the eigenvectors. Methodologically, PCA seeks to rotate the original axes for the obtainment of a new axis system with a smaller dimension that concentrates a maximal amount of information. The new axes exhibit a certain pattern that allows relating these descriptors to the activity studied ( Leão et al., 2005 ). For the grouping of the compounds based on carcinogenic potential, clearly non-carcinogenic substances (water and ethanol), known carcinogens (aflatoxin B1, benzopyrene, dimethylnitrosamine and carbon tetrachloride) and protective antioxidant substances (acetylsalicylic acid and resveratrol) were used. The PCA calculations and graphs were obtained using the STATISTICA 6.0 computational program. The metabolism of Endosulfan was described based on  Kullman and Matsumura, 1996 ,  Klema and LaBelle, 2010 . In contact with bacteria from the class  Arthrobacter  sp. KW, endosulfan can be catalyzed by two enzymes to endosulfan monooxygenase I, which yields the metabolite endosulfan sulfate and endosulfan sulfate monooxygenase, giving rise to endosulfan monoalcohol. In turn, endosulfan sulfate can come into contact with two enzymes: endosulfan sulfate monooxygenase and endosulfan sulfate hydrolase. The former yields endosulsan hemisulfate, which is catalyzed by the enzyme endosulfan hemisulfate monooxygenase (which also yields endosulfan monoalcohol), and the latter yields endosulfan diol.  Pseudomonas aeruginosa  and  Burkholderia cepaeia  are responsible for the formation of five endosulfan metabolites: endosulfan diol, which is metabolized into endosulfan ether and endosulfan hydroxyether, formed from the diol in contact with the enzymes endosulfan diol hydrolase and endosulfan diol dehydrogenase, respectively; endosulfan lactone originates from endosulfan hydroxyether by the enzyme endosulfan hydroxyether dehydrogenase and yields endosulfan hydroxycarboxylate by the action of the enzyme endosulfan lactone lactonase. Enzymes from  Mycobacterium sp.  ESD form two endosulfan metabolites (endosulfan monoaldehyde and endosulfan hydroxyether) through the enzymes endosulfan monooxygenase I and endosulfan monooxygenase II, respectively ( Fig. 1 ). Fig. 1 . Degradation pathway of endosulfan. Table 1  displays the AM1 parameters of endosulfan and its metabolites. The results of PC1, which has greater EA and H f  weights, and PC2, with greater weight for the variable Δq, clearly separate the compounds into three groups: potentially non-carcinogenic; potentially carcinogenic and protective antioxidant substances ( Fig. 2 ). Table 1 . Calculated PCA descriptors of endosulfan, metabolites and control substance. Fig. 2 . PCA descriptors of endosulfan, metabolites and control substance. Endosulfan and its metabolites have parameters close to those of the carcinogenic compounds used and are therefore classified as potentially carcinogenic based on this model. According to  Leão et al. (2005) , electron affinity (EA) is the most important descriptor of chemical carcinogenesis. 10  A higher EA value denotes greater carcinogenic action. Among the compounds, endosulfan sulfate had the highest EA, but the other compounds were very close on the graph, which may indicate that the carcinogenic potential of these compounds is very similar. Endosulfan lactone exhibited a high dipole moment in comparison to the others. Endosulfan monoaldehyde, endosulfan ether and endosulfan monoalcohol were a little more distanced from the other compounds analyzed due to their higher heat of formation. Carcinogen-DNA electrostatic attraction is an indicator of the ease of the approaching of the carcinogen to the DNA for the electron transfer. Moreover, a lower thermodynamic stability (H f ) of carcinogens indicates greater reactivity. The dipole moment allows analyzing the capacity of a carcinogen in surpassing the cell membrane. This is an important parameter in cases in which the main parameters do not furnish a more definitive description of the carcinogenic action. Despite the few data in the literature on the carcinogenicity of endosulfan and its metabolites,  Antherieu et al. (2007)  demonstrated endosulfan to be an inhibitor of cell apoptosis in an  in vitro  study.  Fransson-Steen et al. (1992)  point out that this pesticide and two of its stereoisomers cause liver alterations. Both studies suggest that endosulfan has a carcinogenic effect. Other  in vivo  and  in vitro  studies report that exposure to sub-lethal doses of endosulfan and its metabolites cause DNA damage and mutation ( Bajpayee et al., 2006 ), are genotoxic to human HepG2 cells ( Lu et al., 2000 ) and in bacterial systems ( Chaudhuri et al., 1999 ) and suppress the metabolic activity of phagocytes and the mitogenic activation of lymphocytes ( Pistl et al., 2003 ). Mutation in the DNA is a genuine alteration of the carcinogenicity process ( Ribeiro et al., 2003 ). Thus, these effects indicate the carcinogenic potential of endosulfan and its metabolites. Although endosulfan has been banned in a number of countries, it is still used on a broad scale in Brazil. According to the Brazilian law, the proven gene and/or chromosome mutagenicity and the carcinogenicity of a pesticide are sufficient for the prohibition of its use ( Brazil, 1989 ). The data from the present study indicate that endosulfan and all its metabolites have carcinogenic potential, based on the computational quantum chemical model. This places human health at risk, which is especially true for agriculture workers who are most exposed to this compound and therefore the most vulnerable. This work was supported by  Fundação de Amparo à Pesquisa do Estado da Bahia  (FAPESB) and  Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico  (CNPq: process  567717/2008-9 ) We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content and ads. By continuing you agree to the  use of cookies . Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. or its licensors or contributors. ScienceDirect ® is a registered trademark of Elsevier B.V. 