Alexandra R. Martin | Family Law Attorney Redwood City | Aaron, Riechert, Carpol  &  Riffle, APC Attorneys  &  Staff > Alexandra R. Martin Redwood City Office 333 Twin Dolphin Drive, Suite 350 Redwood City, CA 94065 Google Maps Driving Directions Phone: (650) 368-4662, Ext. 137 Fax: (650) 367-8531 Email:  amartin@arcr.com Ms. Martin is a San Francisco, California native, and joined Aaron, Riechert, Carpol  &  Riffle, APC in 2014. Ms. Martin’s practice focuses on family law, estate planning, and trust and probate administration and litigation. Ms. Martin is experienced in preparing revocable trusts, wills, financial powers of attorney, and advanced healthcare directives, and works with both individuals and corporate fiduciaries through all aspects of trust and probate administration. Ms. Martin represents a variety of family law clients in San Mateo and Santa Clara Counties. She regularly counsels clients through the drafting and negotiation of pre and post-marital agreements. She is experienced in handling dissolution matters involving complex financial issues such as equity compensation, property characterization and division, family trusts, real estate, and business interests and valuations. Ms. Martin works with her clients to understand their specific goals and incorporates financial experts and other professionals to develop an effective path towards a negotiated resolution or litigated outcome. Given Ms. Martin’s experience in both trust and estate and family law, she is knowledgeable in handling matters where family law issues cross over into conservatorship and probate cases. Ms. Martin graduated Cum Laude from the University of San Francisco School of Law in May of 2015 where she received academic honors all three years and was a member of the McAuliffe Honor Society. While at the University of San Francisco School of Law Ms. Martin served as the Executive Director of the Moot Court Program. Ms. Martin was the recipient of the CALI Award for Excellence in Estate Planning, and, due to her interest in estate planning and taxation, Ms. Martin graduated with a Certificate in Taxation with honors and served on the Executive Board of the U.S.F. Estate Planning and Tax Society for two years. Ms. Martin was also selected as a recipient of the San Mateo County Women Lawyers Section Education Foundation Scholarship for 2015. Prior to law school, Ms. Martin graduated Cum Laude from Loyola Marymount University, Los Angeles where she received a B.A. in Political Science. 333 Twin Dolphin Drive, Suite 350 Redwood City, CA 94065 Phone: (650) 368-4662 Fax: (650) 367-8531 Mon-Fri 8:30am-5pm  2019 Aaron, Riechert, Carpol  &  Riffle, APC. All Rights Reserved  ATTORNEY ADVERTISING. Prior results do not guarantee a similar outcome. Web design by  Webvolutions 