Sunborn Hotel Package - The Sunborn Hotel Weddings Gibraltar The Sunborn Hotel offers unique accommodation, onboard a yacht. Situated in  Gibraltar , this luxury 5-stars yacht-hotel offers an infinity swimming pool, a casino, a spa, a gym and a restaurant. Tie the knot today at one of the Hotel’s finest rooms, the Atlas Suite with photos then taking place around the yacht. Liaising directly with you, the Registrar and the Sunborn Hotel representative always to provisionally book your preferred wedding date and time. Assistance with all your legal documentation and paperwork. Paying of ALL your fees on your behalf; there are no other fees to be paid. These fees include: A Bridal bouquet, which has 13 fresh roses with green foliage and organza ribbon, along with a matching button hole for the Groom.  You will of course choose the colour of your choice. Wedding Photographer    for photos to be taken only during the ceremony. Photos will then be sent to you the same day via drop box. We will also act as witnesses, if required, on your wedding. Note that 2 persons over the age of 18 are required as witnesses to every  marriage in Gibraltar. Before I leave you to digest all this information, please see below a list of testimonials received from wedding couples who have chosen to marry using our services. You can always reach out to them for assurance. Facebook Reviews Collection upon arrival at either Gibraltar or Spain airport. Booking accommodation for you and your guests. Catering and restaurant planning. Make-up, hairstyling, eyelash extensions, manicure, facials, massage waxing etc. Wedding cake. Wedding car / chauffeur service. Professional Photographer. Videographer. Gibraltar tours. Wedding favors. [recaptcha] Sweet Gibraltar Weddings is Gibraltar's Premier Wedding Planning Company. Having actively planned weddings for couples from different countries regardless of race, creed and colour, Sweet Gibraltar Weddings promises the creativity, vibrancy and talent of dedicated and skilled professionals to bring your beautiful and utterly memorably dream wedding to life. We are your DREAM WEDDING MAKER. (+350) 54024179  or  (+350) 54023965 info@sweetgibraltarweddings.com Please feel free to drop an email to  info@sweetgibraltarweddings.com  with your query. 