Students perform emotional haka dance in memory of Christchurch mosque victims | MNN - Mother Nature Network Tweet 7 Guardian News 626K subscribers Subscribe Students perform haka to pay tribute to classmates killed in Christchurch Info Shopping Tap to unmute If playback doesn ' t begin shortly, try restarting your device. More videos Your browser does not currently recognize any of the video formats available.  Click here to visit our frequently asked questions about HTML5 video. More videos on YouTube Share Include playlist An error occurred while retrieving sharing information. Please try again later. Watch later Share Copy link An error occurred. Try watching this video on www.youtube.com , or enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser. On March 15, 2019, the worst mass shooting in New Zealand's history took place at two mosques in the city of Christchurch during Friday prayers. In a nation known for its low crime rate, the terrorist attack at Al Noor Mosque and Linwood Islamic Centre that left 50 people dead and 50 more injured came as a shock. To pay tribute to the victims and to mourn the dead, people in New Zealand and around the world have been performing the haka dance, a traditional Maori ritual that symbolizes strength and a sense of community. (You can read more about the history and cultural significance of the dance in Noel Kirkpatrick's  What is a haka dance? ) In one particularly moving ceremony, students from several schools came together to perform the ritual in honor of two students who died in the attacks. You can see them in the video at top. The students were not alone in wanting to express their grief and anger. One of New Zealand's largest Maori biker gangs, Black Power, performed the ceremonial dance near the Al Noor Mosque as you can see in the video below, in which the gang's spokesperson thanks the local police for their hard work,  according to The Daily Mail . Daily Mail 611K subscribers Subscribe New Zealand’s Black Power perform emotional haka in tribute Info Shopping Tap to unmute If playback doesn ' t begin shortly, try restarting your device. Your browser does not currently recognize any of the video formats available.  Click here to visit our frequently asked questions about HTML5 video. More videos on YouTube More videos Share Include playlist An error occurred while retrieving sharing information. Please try again later. Watch later Share Copy link An error occurred. Try watching this video on www.youtube.com , or enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser. Not everyone is familiar with the haka dance, but the desire to help is universal. CNN offers this list of  other ways you can help  the victims' families. 1 2 3 4 5 6 Buddy the Elf always knows what to say to spread holiday cheer. Keep your kitty — and your holiday decorations — safe with these tips for cat-proofing your tree. These drinks will make you feel cozy, whether it’s a party or just an ordinary day. You know dogs and cats will be eyeing that holiday table. Here's how to embrace your inner Spug all year long. Welcome to Mother Nature Network, where curiosity rules and living well is the goal. The MNN newsletter is delivered every Monday, Wednesday and Friday. 