Cheap Flights from Malta, Malta to Budapest Find Flights Search By submitting this form, you are signing up to receive price alert emails and agreeing to our  Privacy Policy ,  Cookies , and  Terms . We've scanned 48,195,047,545 round trip itineraries and found the cheapest flights to Budapest. Ryanair  &  WIZZ frequently offer the best deals to Budapest flights, or select your preferred carrier below to see the cheapest days to fly. We have collected flight cost data from across the web for travel from Malta, Malta to Budapest, and have found the average flight price for this trip to be  $205 . The best way to find a great deal on airfare is to search multiple sites. When you run a search on FareCompare, we search multiple sites and fare sources all at once so you don't have to - which is why we think FareCompare is the best place to find cheap tickets. Airlines can adjust prices for tickets from Malta, Malta to Budapest based on the day and time that you decide to book your flight. We have collected data from all airlines, and have found that Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Saturdays are often the best days to book flights. If you'd like to learn more, read our article about the best time to buy airline tickets. The chart below shows up-to-date information regarding how far in advance to book your flight from Malta, Malta to Budapest. We've examined 57,595,778,181 itinerary searches that we've seen for departures in the next 90 days and found that the cheapest day to fly from Malta, Malta to Budapest is Monday. See the chart below to compare prices for other days of the week. Low priced flights are most commonly available by purchasing between one and three months in advance. International or holiday flights may need to be purchased even further in advance. The chart below shows the cheapest flight prices by month for Malta, Malta to Budapest flights. Looking for cheap last minute flights or a weekend getaway? We've got you covered with weekend flight deals from Malta, Malta to Budapest. The chart below shows the best last minute deals and cheap flights this weekend we could find. Flights between some cities may be significantly cheaper if you choose a multi-stop airline ticket. Although these connecting flights sacrifice some convenience, on average, travelers save 20%-60% when they choose to  fly multi-stop versus a direct flight . The average price for connecting flights from Malta, Malta to Budapest is  $213 . The average price for direct flights from Malta, Malta to Budapest is  $122 . The chart below shows up to date information regarding non-stop flights from Malta, Malta to Budapest. We have found that there is often no price difference between buying a  round trip flight versus a one way flight . Increased flexibility is the main benefit when it comes to buying a one way flight from Malta, Malta to Budapest. However, booking a round trip flight can be a simpler process. You can compare round trip and one way flights by using our flight comparison. The average price for one way flights from Malta, Malta to Budapest is  $157 . The average price for round trip flights from Malta, Malta to Budapest is  $213 . Below are some common questions that asked about this flight route: Wondering which airlines fly out of Malta, Malta to Budapest? We've gathered the average price of Malta, Malta airlines with flights to Budapest. Different airlines offer different levels of comfort and service, so consider convenience when choosing your airline. Below is the full flight schedule summary showing which days of the week individual carriers offer flights for the next 30 days. These are the major commercial airports we're currently monitoring in Malta, Malta and Budapest. If your route includes a city with multiple airports, you may be able to find substantial savings by choosing an alternate airport. FareCompare's Flight Schedule Search Tool helps you find information about airline schedule filings, including flight numbers, depart times, and travel distance. We are updating our  Cookie Policy . FareCompare will use cookies and other tracking technologies to assist with navigation and product selection, analyze your use of our services, assist with our promotional and marketing efforts, and provide deals content from third parties. 