Lemon for dandruff: How to use lemon to reduce dandruff - lifealth How to get chiselled body like Sidharth Malhotra What are the side effects of bananas Common Eye Makeup Mistakes Which Hurt Our Eyes Six obvious signs that you love your job Lemon for dandruff: Using lemon juice reduces the problem of dandruff Everyone wants healthy and dense hair. Aiming to get long and dense hair, people also use many expensive products, but the presence of chemicals in these products weakens the hair roots. Moreover, the excessive use of these products also causes hair related problems like dandruff, itching in scalp and hair fall. The dandruff problem is very common but it causes embarrassment as well as itching. To get rid of dandruff people use anti-dandruff shampoo, but sometimes they prove harmful. In this regard, you can easily remove dandruff with the help of lemon. Elements found in lemons will help to eliminate the problem of dandruff.  (Also read:  Dandruff leads to hair loss: How does excess dandruff cause too much hair fall ) Vitamin C, citric acid, flavonoid, vitamins, potassium, iron and copper are available in lemon, which helps in keeps hair healthy. Moreover, these eliminate the problem of dandruff. Mix 1 teaspoon lightly warm coconut oil into 2 teaspoon lemon juice. Massage your scalp and hair with this mixture. Now leave for 15 minutes and then wash with mild shampoo. Use it for 3-4 times a week for better results.  (Also read:  How to reduce wrinkles using the coconut oil ) Don t miss to read:  What is wet dandruff and how can we get rid of it The problem of dandruff is common. Everyone wants to get rid of this problem. In this regard, the use of lemon juice helps to eliminate the problem of dandruff and keeps hair healthy too. You can also read this article in  Hindi. No notifications yet. Be the first to comment "Though all possible measures have been taken to ensure accuracy, reliability, timeliness and authenticity of the information, lifealth.com assumes no liability for any loss, damage, expense, or anything whatsoever as a result of the implementation of the advice/tips given. If you suspect any medical condition, kindly consult your doctor or professional healthcare provider." 