M.2 PCIe SSD to PCIe Adapter 9AM TO 5PM, MONDAY TO FRIDAY, AEST 9AM TO 5PM, MONDAY TO FRIDAY, AEST RamCity is an Australian owned company with local staff living and working in Sydney, Brisbane and Melbourne. When you talk to us (and we do love to chat!), rest assured you'll be talking to a local upgrade expert. Like to know more about RamCity and the people who work here? See our  About Us . We go to great lengths to ensure that your upgrade works perfectly, but just in case something doesn't work out, you can have real peace of mind knowing that every memory module we sell is backed by an industry leading 90-Day return policy For small accessories, hard drives and SSD's, we offer a 14-day return policy. Our full Return terms and conditions are on the  Returns Page . We are so confident of the quality of our memory products, that the majority of the memory modules we sell are backed by a lifetime warranty against faults and defects, with the exception of some gaming memory. Warranties for flash memory, solid state drives, hard drives and other accessories vary up to 5 years. Please see the specific product page in our catalogue for more information. Our full warranty terms and conditions are on the  Warranty Page . If we show an item is in stock on our website, then we really mean it's our stock, in our warehouse, or with a trusted local supplier who can drop-ship quickly for us. This means if you order before 2pm (Australian Eastern Standard Time, Mon-Fri, excluding public holidays), we can ship your order on  the same day  and get it to you as soon as possible! For more information about our shipping options,  refer to our Shipping Page . $23 to $197 Per instructions from our supplier, pricing and inventory information for part #  DT-120  is currently only available by request. We have options for fast shipping both locally and worldwide. Please  login, or register for an account , then  contact us  by phone, chat or email sales@ramcity.com.au so that we can give your user account access to special product pricing and shipping information. Per instructions from our supplier, pricing and inventory information for part #  PEX4M2E1  is currently only available by request. We have options for fast shipping both locally and worldwide. Please  login, or register for an account , then  contact us  by phone, chat or email sales@ramcity.com.au so that we can give your user account access to special product pricing and shipping information. Per instructions from our supplier, pricing and inventory information for part #  DT-130  is currently only available by request. We have options for fast shipping both locally and worldwide. Please  login, or register for an account , then  contact us  by phone, chat or email sales@ramcity.com.au so that we can give your user account access to special product pricing and shipping information. Per instructions from our supplier, pricing and inventory information for part #  WIPX1-FWKF  is currently only available by request. We have options for fast shipping both locally and worldwide. Please  login, or register for an account , then  contact us  by phone, chat or email sales@ramcity.com.au so that we can give your user account access to special product pricing and shipping information. 02 8320 0598 info@ramcity.com.au RamCityMemory @RamCityMemory LiveChat Trusted Upgrade Supplier to More than 100,000 Business and Individuals throughout Australia and the World Since 2003. Copyright   2019 RamCity Pty Ltd ABN: 310 567 902 36 Simple Instalment plans are available at checkout by choosing either  Afterpay  or  Zip Pay / Zip Money. **Not available to trade customers Choose Afterpay or Zip Pay / Zip Money as your payment method when you order. Checkout in seconds. No long forms. Instant approval online. Enjoy your purchase straight away. Pay in easy installments. Simple Fixed Payments Over 8 Weeks * Note:  Available for orders valued up to $1,200. Please be sure to have sufficient cleared funds available to make your first payment ready on your card as a deposit. Read the  Afterpay FAQ's , or to see Afterpay's complete terms, visit  www.afterpay.com.au/terms Flexible Payments for Short or Longer Terms Read the  Zip Pay  or  Zip Money  FAQ's, or visit  the official Zip website All you need is: 1. An Australian payment card (not required for zipPay); 2. To be over 18 years of age; 3. To live in Australia;4. Valid email address and mobile telephone number; 5. Australian delivery address 