Jason Genao Wiki, Age, Bio, Net Worth, Girlfriend, Birthday, Height, weight Jason Genao Wiki, Biography, Age, Net Worth, Birthday, Movies, TV Shows, Affairs, Girlfriends, Wife, Kids, Father, Mother, Siblings, Height and Weight:  Jason Genao is a Dominican born American actor. He has gained fame with the  Netflix show  On my Block . On my Block s first season has ten episodes and it premiered on 16th of March 2018. This young man is very famous for his awesome looks and acting. Furthermore, the other  Star Cast of On My Block Netflix series  are   Diego Tinoco (Cesar Diaz) ,  Jessica Marie Garcia (Jasmin),   Sierra Capri (Monse Finnie) ,  Ronni Hawk  and  Brett Gray (Jamal Tumer) . Contents Jason Genao is born on 18th of September 1997. Therefore, his age is 20 years as on 2018. Jason s family details are not known yet, but I will be updating it soon. As for his educational qualifications, Jason has just completed high school from Dickinson High School. As a child, Jason always wanted to be an actor, but he felt that his dream of becoming an actor was unreachable. Hence, he stopped focusing on acting for a while. However, things did change when Genao saw a French movie which reignited his passion for acting. Jason signed up for the cheapest acting programme he could find with the money he had saved. Along with a little support from his father and brother, he did what he wanted. Genao s first break came when he was in high school, when he was cast in HBO s The Get Down. Then, throughout his career he worked in several films and TV shows. He has also played the role of  Rictor  in the  Hugh Jackman  starrer movie  Logan (2017) . This movie marked his great step in the industry and then he got a role in On my Block from Netflix. His  net worth  is  $30,000 USD  as on 2018. Also Visit:  Joseph Digenova Biography, Wiki  &  Net worth Subscribe Info Shopping Tap to unmute If playback doesn ' t begin shortly, try restarting your device. More videos Your browser does not currently recognize any of the video formats available.  Click here to visit our frequently asked questions about HTML5 video. More videos on YouTube Share Include playlist An error occurred while retrieving sharing information. Please try again later. Watch later Share Copy link An error occurred. Unable to execute JavaScript. Current ye@r  * Leave this field empty 