Kayla Connor - Director, Federal Programs - America ' s Health Insurance Plans (AHIP) | LinkedIn Liked by  Kayla Connor Liked by  Kayla Connor Liked by  Kayla Connor 3 years 6 months Dec 2018   –  Present 1 year 1 month Washington D.C. Metro Area Jul 2016   –  Present 3 years 6 months Washington D.C. Metro Area Aug 2014   –   Jul 2016 2 years Washington D.C. Metro Area Research Fellow- Provide technical assistance to state policy makers and research and produce materials on Affordable Care Act implementation and health insurance topics. Research Fellow- Provide technical assistance to state policy makers and research and produce materials on Affordable Care Act implementation and health insurance topics. Dec 2013   –   Feb 2014 3 months Boston, Massachusetts Jun 2013   –   Aug 2013 3 months Boston, Massachusetts Nov 2012   –   Feb 2013 4 months Boston, Massachusetts May 2012   –   Aug 2012 4 months Boston, Massachusetts Jul 2011   –   Aug 2011 2 months Lead nature programs, such as interpretive boat tours, and helped to supervise science camps. Lead nature programs, such as interpretive boat tours, and helped to supervise science camps. Sep 2010   –   Jul 2011 11 months Freehold, New Jersey Planned and executed seventy classroom and public presentations regarding environmental or water related topics.  Planned and executed three environmental community partnership projects, including a rain barrel building workshop, a watershed clean up event with middle school students, and a series of beach clean up events.  Conducted 50 stream assessments, in conjunction with non-point source pollution tracking. Planned and executed seventy classroom and public presentations regarding environmental or water related topics.  Planned and executed three environmental community partnership projects, including a rain barrel building workshop, a watershed clean up event with middle school students, and a series of beach clean up events.  Conducted 50 stream assessments, in conjunction with non-point source pollution tracking. May 2009   –   Aug 2010 1 year 4 months Boston, Massachusetts Assisted in care of live animal collection and interpretation for the public. Assisted in care of live animal collection and interpretation for the public. 2011   –   2014 Activities and Societies: Northeastern University Law Journal,Research Assistant: Health Law and Public Health,Teaching Assistant: First Year Legal Research and Writing,Philip C. Jessup International Law Moot Court Team, Student Bar Association Commencement Committee 2006   –   2010 Marine Semester: intensive research semester including tropical ichthyology field work in Belize  Undergraduate Teaching Assistant: Vertebrate Zoology Laboratory Marine Semester: intensive research semester including tropical ichthyology field work in Belize  Undergraduate Teaching Assistant: Vertebrate Zoology Laboratory A preview of what LinkedIn members have to say about Kayla: During the time that Kayla worked for me I was constantly impressed with her organizational skills and her ability to communicate easily in person and in writing with a wide variety of age groups. I know that Kayla has a bright future ahead. During the time that Kayla worked for me I was constantly impressed with her organizational skills and her ability to communicate easily in person and in writing with a wide variety of age groups. I know that Kayla has a bright future ahead. 1 person has recommended Kayla Join now to view Join to view Kayla’s full profile Baton Rouge, Louisiana Area Kitchener, Canada Area Greater Atlanta Area Ireland 9 others named Kayla Connor are on LinkedIn 