Reddit, what is your Martial Law story? : Philippines It doesn &# x27;t have to be your story per se, but you can tell a story of a relative, friend, etc. Grandfather was with the constabulary stationed in Manila during Martial Law. When i was a kid, whenever EDSA Revolution or Martial Law docus where shown on tv, he always cried, and my grandfather was a bear of a man. a Man &# x27;s Man if you will. As a kid i was more preoccupied with my toys or games, but he always wanted me to watch the docus with him when theyre on. And I tried to ask him why he always cried when watching these docus. He just smiled and said I wouldnt understand yet, but I will in the future. When i was starting high school he died due to complications to diabetes. He never got around to telling my why he cried. And it went in the backburner of my mind for years. My grandmother, his wife, was in another country during these years, together with my mom &# x27;s sister who migrated there. When she returned, i was at my rebellious stage, the early years of my first try at college. Thats when i got around to asking her why my grandfather cried during those docus. She said that when my grandfather was with the constabulary, he was a simple patrolman, with a modest salary. It kinda pissed my grandmother off because my Grandfather &# x27;s cousin, was the first lady of Manila at the time, Lydia Villegas. She wanted my grandfather to use this connection to get promoted. My grandpa, ever the moralist, didnt want to. According to my grandma, this changed once martial law was implemented in 71, my grandpa saw what his fellow constabulary were doing to kids. She said he was transfered from patroling streets to a police station desk job. There he saw the corruption, torture, mental and physical, power tripping, dissappearances and the like. She said he couldnt say a word against said things, because it was behavior encouraged from the top of the chain of command. And he was smart, he knew voicing out would get earn the ire of his contemporaries. After a few weeks of this, he finally gave up, and personally contacted his cousin, and asked her for help in getting out of there. Her husband, the former mayor then pulled some strings and contacts, requested he be transferred to somewhere less stressful and to return to patrolling the streets. Ironically he was transferred somewhere near malacañang. Lol. When EDSA happened, he left his post and disobeyed orders and came home to protect his family. My grandmother always laughs when she recalls this story, she said my grandfather came home looking like he saw a ghost, and carrying boxes of Nido for his 1 year old grandson, me. Hahaha. Most of my ideologies and outlook in life was molded by my grandfather. Oh yeah, he returned to service after the revolution. But he never accepted any promotion, he retired a patrolman. My grandma, everytime she gets his pension, says that he retired like that by choice. Then swears like a sailor. Hahaha even now. Tl;dr: My grandfather saw first hand the shit that happened to protesters, undesireables and student activists during ML. Thanks for this. On the night of the Plaza Miranda bombing, Aug 21, 1972, my father, a medical student and an activist, already decided that he would not go home that night. The declaration of Martial Law would come almost a month later, but he and his friends already figured that something like that was going to happen anyway, and did not wait around for it. He left Manila and stayed with various friends and relatives for weeks until he was sure that the police, who did go my grandparents &# x27; house, had stopped looking for him. He only came back to grab his personal effects and say his goodbyes, and then left for the States, where he &# x27;d spend the next couple of years studying optometry in Washington DC and Maryland. One of his schoolmates from medical school stayed behind. He would go to the province of Isabela to work at a rural clinic there. Occasionally, they would have patients who were Communist rebel soldiers, but they treated them anyway. Government soldiers eventually got wind of this, and one night my father &# x27;s friend was murdered in cold blood. The family never found out who was directly responsible. My father, and his fallen schoolmate &# x27;s younger brother, to this day still share a clinic in Manila together. It &# x27;s a very small private practice, and never as glamorous nor as well-paying as working in a large hospital, but that &# x27;s what they chose to do. Every year they still go back out to the province to do a stint serving the rural population. I knew bits and pieces of this for a long time, but my father relayed the whole story to me when we talked on the eve of the elections, May 8, 2016. I &# x27;d read the polls, and I knew that Duterte was going to win, and I wanted someone to tell me that I was just being panicky, just being melodramatic, that I was being absurd for worrying as much as I did about the country electing the second-coming of a dictator. He didn &# x27;t. He told me that it was playing out just like it did so many years ago, when people believed that Martial Law was necessary for the security of the country. It wasn &# x27;t an instant dip in Marcos &# x27;s approval ratings, it wasn &# x27;t perceived as a tipping point in the erosion of civil rights. It was just something that had to happen, and people welcomed it. I asked him,  " What do we do now? " " There are no easy answers, son " God, Now i wish my grandparents were still alive to tell me about the Martial  Law history. I &# x27;m sad :( Coincidentally, my grandmother says the same thing. She said this feels the same as last time. Thank you for a nice story. Yeah. There are no easy answers. to be honest, none :) We were a normal family during ML, tahimik naman sa paligid. Same here. I wasn &# x27;t born yet, then but my grandmother is of Ilocano descent and my family is overall pretty conservative. My mother &# x27;s biggest complaint back then was that there weren &# x27;t many things to watch on TV. They were not affected because they were basically work/school-home at the time. Plus the better quality  of life for my parents and their families. My dad who is from Bacolod was Grade 3. He walked to his school and the guard told him  " walang pasok Martial Law na ang bansa " . All he understood is walang pasok so he just walked back home and slept. Always loved that story. Nice! hdid he eat piaya after? According to a former professor of mine, he was a UPD student at that time.On the day when Ninoy was assassinated, Lean Alejandro gathered students and coordinated with them on how to arrange cars to block security forces in case they will stage a raid and they had to switch rooms at their dorms almost every night in case authorities have to search for any one of them. grandfather was hunted. everyone in the family is under surveillance. Marcos wanted him to join his side. Was it Palpatinesque, like  " Come, join the dark side... " ? Kidding aside, kudos to your grandfather for sticking for his principles. This was previously relayed to me by my dad. My uncle (dad &# x27;s youngest bro) was a student activist, studying in the most renowned engineering school in Manila area at that time (hint: it &# x27;s near a bridge). On one of their protest rallies, he got unlucky, and got picked up by the PC (Phil. Constabulary). He was detained in Camp Crame for close to four months, and was not allowed contact with any family member. Thankfully there were no tortures done to him. My dad and other uncles and my grandma only got to see him again when my grandma asked for help from a military chaplain who was a close family friend. My uncle would stay imprisoned for another month, before finally getting released. 263k Members 967 Online Jul 4, 2008 Cake Day 