Donald Trump Jr. s Wife Opens Letter Containing Suspicious Substance, Taken to Hospital | WNEP.com NEW YORK - APRIL 1:   Donald Trump, Jr. (R) and his wife Vanessa (L) attend the launch party for Players Club Magazine at the Mandarin Oriental Hotel on April 1, 2008 in New York City.  (Photo by Amy Sussman/Getty Images) NEW YORK - APRIL 1:   Donald Trump, Jr. (R) and his wife Vanessa (L) attend the launch party for Players Club Magazine at the Mandarin Oriental Hotel on April 1, 2008 in New York City.  (Photo by Amy Sussman/Getty Images) NEW YORK   President Donald Trump s daughter-in-law opened a letter containing an unknown substance that was addressed to the President s son, the New York Police Department said. The letter was sent to the couple s Manhattan apartment and opened around 10 a.m. ET Monday, authorities said. Vanessa Trump did not have an immediate reaction to the substance, which is being tested, the NYPD said. The Fire Department of New York said three people were transported to a local hospital with minor injuries, but did not provide additional information on the nature of the injuries or the victims. A message left with the Secret Service was not immediately returned. Trademark and Copyright 2019  Cable News Network , Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved. Filed in: News The hate must run deep to go back to 2008 for a photo.  But we have to portray the victim as someone who deserved it This is another BS distraction story. Remember the left only has feelings for dreamers, cop killers, not my president protestors ,hollywood, BLM and ANTIFA.  In their eyes only those who dont agree with them are not worthy of any consideration including life. But they will put a spin on this saying that it is all trumps fault. White flour! Tolerant left strikes again Very true . Comments are closed. Online Public File About Us Terms of Service Privacy Policy 16 Montage Mountain Road, Moosic, PA 18507 Copyright   2019, WNEP TEGNA Powered by  WordPress.com VIP < %=excerpt%> 