Damp Proofing - Pete  &  Son Plumbing  &  Drain Cleaning Services Your Source For Everything Plumbing Related! Available 24 HOURS A Day, 7 Days a week Call to schedule your FREE !  604-795-0214 Emergency Service Available   24 hours 7 days All over British Columbia, dampness fills the air on rainy days, chilling residents down to the bone but the indoors should be a refuge from the cold. If you find that dampness and moisture have made their way inside your property, call in our damp proofing services. ‘Damp proofing’ is a broad term for implementing measures, like varying types of insulation, in order to prevent dampness from soaking through to the interior of your property. Most homes and businesses have damp proofing measures in play right from their construction, but over time, materials can degrade or shift, allowing moisture to seep in through the openings. When moisture starts to creep into your property, you will soon be dealing with much larger problems than just dampness. If left unattended, this moisture will cause structural damage by eating away at the timber behind your walls, resulting in dry or wet rot as well as dangerous black mould. Many of the threats that Canadian property owners face are environmental in nature but there is none as troublesome as excessive moisture and damp running through your home or business. Whether you are facing off against condensation or rising damp, (the two most common forms of damp indoors) Pete  &  Son Plumbing is available for all of your damp proofing needs. The lower mainland is an ever-expanding area with more and more residents making their homes in the region. Instead of searching for a place to live, new houses are being constructed daily. If you happen to be constructing a new living or work space, our licensed plumbers are just one call away. Getting yourself off on the right foot is an excellent way to ensure that you get the full life expectancy out of your damp proofing and materials. Pete  &  Son Plumbing is available to tackle your damp proofing, in a new home or business or to repair or install new materials in an already existing space. Copyright   2019 Pete  &  Son Plumbing. All Rights Reserved. 