Special Offers | Banking Offers | CIBC Accessibility Quick Links Are you sure you want to delete this saved card number? Are you sure you want to delete this saved card number? foreign-exchange-offer-en Special offer Order foreign cash online this winter for a chance to win.  Contest ends  January 26, 2020 . cibc-smart-account-en SPECIAL OFFER Bank the way you stream. Without limits. ‡ Pay no monthly fee for up to 12 months †  when you open a new CIBC Smart TM  Account. aventura-infinite-offer-en SPECIAL OFFER Earn up to 35,000 Aventura® Points † That's up to $800 towards your next flight. † cibc-smart-plus-account-en NEW ACCOUNT Introducing the CIBC Smart™ Plus Account Banking with us is a plus. Get unlimited transactions 1 , a premium credit card and more. divident-visa-offer-en Special OFFER Get a first-year annual fee rebate and 10% cash back on all purchases 1 For 4 statements up to a total spend of $2,000 1 . aventura-us-dollar-gold-visa-offer-en SPECIAL OFFER Get up to 5,000 bonus Aventura ®  Points ‡ Skip the conversion fees, pay in USD with the CIBC U.S. Dollar Aventura ®  Gold Visa* Card 1 . investors-edge-cashback-offer-en LIMITED TIME OFFER Transfer funds from outside CIBC to a CIBC Investor’s Edge account and we’ll give you up to $400 cash back. mortgage-offer-en Get up to $2,500! Switch your mortgage to CIBC and get cash back. † Take advantage of rates as low as 3.04%  on a 5-year fixed-rate mortgage. APR:  3.06% ‡ student-contest-en student contest Win $35,000 ◊◊  for tuition Get a new CIBC student bank account, credit card, or line of credit before Dec. 31 for a chance to win. student-spc-offer-en STUDENT OFFER Save big on your favourite things with SPC Get your free SPC membership as a CIBC student or youth client. international-student-gic-offer-en SPECIAL OFFER Get $25 when you refer a friend to CIBC † Help friends and family from China, India, Vietnam and the Philippines get the GIC required for a study permit faster, cheaper and easier. paymi-offer-en SPECIAL OFFER CIBC and Paymi Get money back with your CIBC cards and Paymi. The right account for you New to Canada Opens a new window in your browser Welcome to Canada. We've created a comprehensive banking package for new Canadians to make your life here a little easier. Students Already in school, planning to attend or a recent graduate? Check out our student banking offers including our  no monthly fee  and  unlimited transactions  account. Seniors Take advantage of what you've earned. Discover all the benefits and discounts for clients aged 65 and over. Professionals Our qualified advisors can provide you with professional expertise and financial management every step of the way. Trademarks Contact Us Special Offers Mortgages and Other Rates Apply Now Personal Banking Business Banking Commercial About CIBC CIBC Websites  Accessibility at CIBC Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce Website - Copyright © CIBC. Please note: Multilanguage sites do not provide full access to all content on CIBC.com. The full CIBC website is available in English and French. Cookie notice CIBC uses cookies to understand how you use our website and to improve your experience. This includes personalizing CIBC content on our mobile apps, our website and third-party sites and apps. To learn more about how we do this, go to  Manage my advertising preferences . 