A classic look has winning ways - Design New England - Boston.com Michael J. Lee This award-winning master bath is traditional, tailored, and elegantly detailed. By Gail Ravgiala Our January/February issue is our annual look at distinctive kitchen and bath design. Planning for it reminded us of the handsome master bathroom that took first place in the  American Society of Interior Designers  (ASID) New England Excellence in Design Awards earlier this fall. While the space was in a newly constructed wing of a reimagined oceanside property, designer Anne Alberts of  Carpenter  &  MacNeille , architects and builders in Essex, Massachusetts, created a gracious restful space befitting the original 19th-century cottage. The client’s style was both traditional and tailored, traits reflected in the tidy, but highly detailed built-in storage unit set in an alcove under casement windows trimmed out with simple wide moulding. Michael J. Lee The dark gray tile floor accentuates the straightforward design of the double vanity. Likewise, the double vanity is both visually pleasing and highly functional. The medicine cabinets are straightforward, the hardware unfussy, the sconces minimal, yet all together, they convey a thoughtful and thought-through design approach. A long deep soaking tub trimmed out with the same glossy soft gray Luca de Luna stone that tops the vanity makes it a spa-like haven. Tying the room together is white subway tile, a timeless classic material that still looks as stylish and sophisticated as it did in the 19th-century.  Great design is always at your fingertips — read the  November/December 2013  issue online! An insider's look at must-have products, fresh trends, and inspired spaces from the team at  Design New England  magazine. Gail Ravgiala is editor of Design New England and a fan of both the region's historic architecture and its growing inventory of modern houses and public buildings.   Courtney Kasianowicz is associate editor of Design New England who scouts the area for new design, charming products, and local artisans both innovative and daring.   Jill Connors, Design New England's editor-at-large, is an antiques maven and design scout and will post about trends and discoveries in the field.  Bruce Irving, Design New England's contributing editor for architecture  &  building, is a renovation specialist who will share his insights on design and construction.  Estelle Bond Guralnick, Design New England's style  &  interiors editor, will post about interior design and interior designers and her favorite finds. 