They are in the hot seat Friday, Dec 13, 2019 | Last Update : 02:04 PM IST To be a real judge, one needs a requisite degree along with mandatory academic and professional excellence. Whereas, to be a judge on TV, rating the level of performance  also demands experience, but of a different kind. With the advent of reality shows on TV, that is in search for the best talents, be it juniors or the seniors, the role of a judge has been one of the hot favourites on the small screen. Bengaluru Chronicle reports on judging talents, its experiences and more. With technological advancement,  infotainment  is at everyone s finger tips. There is an explosion of everything these days. In the past, there was only a limited set of opportunities for talents in various fields. For instance, to be an actor or a singer or even be showcasing one s unique skills, he or she would find it hard to seek the right opportunity. And, many a time, luck was the main factor in finding the right window to success. Now, many would set a goal and work hard to make into a reality show, showcase their skill to get instant recognition,  says Ankit, a TV show producer. He further adds that judges of such shows are hence not just  star attractions but people who motivate budding talents.  It was a great experience to judge a show like Comedy Khiladigalu, and now Dance Karnataka Dance,  says Sandalwood actress Rakshita. Another popular actress, Radhika Kumaraswamy, who made her debut as one of the judge s for kid s dance reality show Dance Junior Dance, says,  It was  a wonderful experience, I felt comfortable being a part of the show while working with Shwetha Chengappa (anchor),  Salman (noted choreographer), Prem (noted actor of Nenapirali fame), including all those lovely kids and the entire team. I miss them all now. While she adds that she cannot wait to be a judge on TV again, she noted that her journey with talented kids was amazing.  I enjoyed every bit of it though at times it was difficult to say good bye to some contestants.  Moreover, I have learned a lot from them with regard to new forms of dance, and how to showcase it with a great attitude. Today s kids are really dedicated and are ready to take on any risk. They are a lot passionate   she adds. However, there have been situations where judges are often accused of  favouritism and forced to take on sides for the sake of TRPs, says Anupama Prakash, a student of mass communication  &  journalism, who loves most of such shows.  There have been instances where judges are accused of being partial, and thus the organisers were forced to take audience opinion into consideration. But whether they are genuine (audience) responses is another matter for dispute. Sometimes irrelevant and inexperienced personalities as judges hamper the quality of the show and hence the channels and organisers are keen on involving senior actors and experienced technicians to be a part such shows,  she adds. Not just TV, even social media has played an integral part behind the popularity of such shows and every act of judges comes under the scanner, experts say. No notifications yet. Be the first to comment   We have updated our  Privacy and Cookie Policy.  If you continue to use our site, you agree to the updated Policies.    