Good Mexican food - Review of Cotija Mexican Restaurant, Malvern, AR - TripAdvisor I enjoy eating here often. Food is always good and the service is friendly. Stop by if you're in town. 9  -  13  of  35  reviews The menu offered many typical Mexican restaurant items. The service was good. I really enjoyed the salsa offered with the chips. So many times the salsa is average at best but the salsa was uniquely good at Cotija's. Nice variety in menu. Easy to find something to fit taste buds and heat factor as one of us can eat almost anything and another has issues with 'heat' in the food. Staff was good and kept drinks refilled. On list of places to eat when in the area.  Staff is friendly. Enjoy going for lunch due to the good size portions. Food comes out hot and quick. Definitely recommend! >< p> Date of visit:  February 2018 Ask BarbaraB2016 about Cotija Mexican Restaurant Thank BarbaraB2016  This review is the subjective opinion of a TripAdvisor member and not of TripAdvisor LLC Peggy W 15 6 Reviewed 3 October 2017  via mobile  Delicioso! Friendly staff and delicious Mexican food! Reasonably priced. My favorites are the cheese enchiladas  &  the tropical nachos. >< p> Date of visit:  October 2017 Ask Peggy W about Cotija Mexican Restaurant Thank Peggy W  This review is the subjective opinion of a TripAdvisor member and not of TripAdvisor LLC Previous Next 1 2 3 4 7 Updating list... Travellers who viewed Cotija Mexican Restaurant also viewed El Parian Mexican Restaurant 53 Reviews Malvern, AR  Keeney's 38 Reviews Malvern, AR  Chile Peppers Mexican Grill 48 Reviews Malvern, AR  Mel's Dairy Bar 23 Reviews Malvern, AR  Larry's Pizza 31 Reviews Malvern, AR  Western Sizzlin Steak House 35 Reviews Malvern, AR  All restaurants in Malvern  (42) Been to Cotija Mexican Restaurant? Share your experiences!  Write a Review  Add Photos  &  Videos  Owners: What's your side of the story?  Own or manage this property? Claim your listing for free to respond to reviews, update your profile and much more.  This site uses cookies to improve your experience, to enhance site security and to show you personalised advertising.  Click here  to learn more or  control your settings . By clicking on or navigating the site, you agree to our use of cookies. 