Take a NYSTCE Practice Test  &  NYSTCE Test Prep | Study.com Learn your areas of strength and weakness to help focus your study time Study.com's  NYSTCE test prep  courses provide access to comprehensive practice tests that can help you get ready for the New York State Teacher Certification Examinations (NYSTCE).Our tests cover the same concepts as the NYSTCE, ensuring that you're making the most of your valuable study time as you prepare to test for your initial teacher certification. Using our NYSTCE practice tests, you'll answer multiple-choice questions that mimic the content and style of the NYSTCE's Educating All Students (EAS) exam and Content Specialty Tests (CSTs). Once you've completed each test, you'll see learn where you succeeded and how you can improve, along with brief explanations of why each answer is correct. This immediate feedback helps you identify your strengths and weaknesses so you can pinpoint those areas where you need further study. As a Study.com member, you can take our practice tests as often as you'd like for continuous study. This allows you to track your progress and reinforce your knowledge, while further ensuring your familiarity with the format and style of the NYSTCE. Get started today by taking a free, no-risk 15-question NYSTCE practice test!When you've completed this shortened version of our full NYSTCE practice test, we'll provide you with a free diagnostic report that reviews your results and recommends a custom path of study for the NYSTCE. To start on this custom path, simply sign up for Study.com. Your membership includes access to all of our  NYSTCE study guides , full practice tests and more.Developed by our expert educators, these study guides provide full content coverage for the EAS and more than 20 Content Specialty Areas. The video courses in these study guides are broken down into several chapters, each featuring comprehensive video lessons and short practice quizzes. This allows you to focus on and master each topic before moving on to the next. Then, when you're ready, you can take our chapter tests to gauge your knowledge on a more inclusive scale. Does your busy schedule make it tough to find time to study? No problem!Our custom study schedule tool comes free with your Study.com membership and will help you map out a plan that gives you the flexibility you need.We'll even send you email reminders to make sure you're staying on track. Additionally, we've put together a helpful collection of  NYSTCE information resources  to guide you through the exam's online registration process and explain how and when you'll receive your test scores. We're so confident that our resources are the right way to help you ace your teacher certification exams that your membership comes with a money-back guarantee!If you're ready to start your test preparation journey, take Study.com's free 15-question NYSTCE practice test today. Study.com video lessons have helped over  30 million students. "I learned more in  10 minutes  than 1 month of chemistry classes" - Ashlee P. "I learned more in  10 minutes  than 1 month of chemistry classes" - Ashlee P. "I aced the CLEP exam and earned  3 college credits! " - Clair S. Over  65 million users  have prepared for NYSTCE and other exams on Study.com "The videos have changed the way I teach! The videos on Study.com accomplish in 5 minutes  what would take me an entire class." - Chris F. Over  65 million users  have prepared for NYSTCE and other exams on Study.com 