For the Love of Dogs [Photo Story] Klamath Falls News - Providing quality news and telling stories of Klamath Falls and the Klamath Basin. \u2744 35th ANNUAL KLAMATH SNOWFLAKE FESTIVAL NOV 30 - DEC 15 |  Click for Schedule . \u2744 Klamath Falls News - Providing quality news and telling stories of Klamath Falls and the Klamath Basin. Klamath Falls News LIVE - News and stories of Klamath Falls and the Klamath Basin. News, Weather and Sports. Local, Regional and Oregon News. Community, education, farm  &  ranch, government, outdoors, photo stories, public safety. Klamath Falls News - Locally owned news brand, reporting stories affecting citizens of the Klamath Basin. A young showman presents during the Junior Showmanship Competition held Saturday at the Klamath Dog Show. May 12, 2018 (Brian Gailey) The Klamath Dog Fanciers have been holding the annual Klamath Dog Show Mother’s Day weekend for 67 years. This year’s event took over the inside of the John Hancock Event Center and spilled over into the fairgrounds with 80 RV’s checking in for dog gone good time.  The four-day all breed dog show consists of four separate shows, a different dog show is held each day beginning at 8:00 AM. Categories of the show included Rally, Obedience, and Conformation with all the favorite breeds, such as; Retrievers, Dachshunds, Boxers, St. Bernards, Collies, Terriers, Toy Breeds and hundreds more. A young showman wins a large rosette for Best Junior Handler during the Junior Showmanship Competition held Friday at the Klamath Dog Show. May 11, 2018 (Brian Gailey) The Klamath Dog Show also features a Junior Showmanship Competition. Where up and coming talent is showcased and groomed for adult competition. "The Junior Showmanship is the future of our sport, my wife and I are proud and honored to personally sponsor the rosette's awarded to these fine young handlers," Says Chris Jones, President of the Klamath Dog Fanciers. Some handlers are local, but most travel from outside the area. Many of the traveling handlers use motor homes and RV’s to get from one show to the next all year long. “Every weekend there is a new dog show to travel too,” says Jones. “They begin arriving on Tuesday before the event and stay through the weekend before heading to the next show. Jones continues, “Many will stay right here in Klamath Falls as we host an agility trial dog show next weekend.” While in town, these handlers and owners are a great boost to the economy. They shop, dine and spend money that would have been spent elsewhere. Klamath Dog Show. May 12, 2018 (Brian Gailey) If you missed the dog show this weekend, the Klamath Dog Fanciers have another treat for you May 18-20, 2018 as they host Agility Trials at the Klamath County Fairgrounds. If dogs and handlers prancing around the ring is not your thing because you like more action, then the Agility Trials is for you.  These are a big crowd pleaser as; dogs are dashing through poles, running through tunnels and leaping over hurdles. Agility trials are relatively new on the dog show scene. Most dogs naturally love to run, climb, jump and turn. Agility trials are a great chance for them to show off these inherent skills and, at the same time, work closely with their favorite teammates –their owners and handlers. Klamath Dog Show. May 12, 2018 (Brian Gailey) As they scamper over foot bridges and A-frames, through hoops and over jumps, the dogs are constantly alert to the verbal cues and body language of their owners and handlers. It’s the epitome of teamwork. The agility trials feature as many as 18-20 obstacles that the dog has to complete in the sequence stipulated by the judge.” For more information about the Klamath Dog Show or the upcoming Agility Trials visit the Klamath Dog Fanciers Website at  http://www.klamathdogfanciers.org/   Publisher / Journalist / Photographer Klamath Falls News - Providing quality news and telling stories of Klamath Falls and the Klamath Basin. If you have a suggestion for a story, send us a note through our  contact page . Klamath Falls News, does not support or endorse any one side of an issue, candidate, viewpoint, or opinion  from any person, organization or political group/party. Publishing of such content does not consent to support. Klamath Falls News / Gailey Company LLC 700 Main Street, Ste 201 A, Klamath Falls OR 97601 | 541.887.0087 News  /  Sports  /  Weather  /  Contact  /  Become a Patron  /  Sitemap Facebook Twitter Email Copy Link AddThis 