TRASHY - Review of Travelodge by Wyndham Strasburg/Lancaster Amish County, Strasburg, PA - TripAdvisor Dirty, run down. There was food left in frig from previous visitors. The only light in the room was broken. the commode was broke, had to lift off the lid to flush. The lady at the desk was extremely rude and refused to refund our money. DO NOT WASTE YOUR MONEY ON THIS PLACE My girlfriend and I stayed here last fall for several days and were very impressed for what we got for our money. Understand this is an older motel and everything will not be perfect and shiny. However if you are willing to overlook a few blemishes you can stay in a place that is comfortable and is central to most of the Lancaster, Ronks, Bird-In-Hand, Strasburg area. We did not find anything wrong with our room and the bed was super comfortable. The way the heat is set up in the room means it can be a bit on the cool side but that was not an issue for us. The staff was super and actively wanted to know about any problems we encountered so they could be fixed. The room also came with a voucher for a free breakfast at the adjoining diner. I feel we really got our moneys worth and were very happy with our stay. In fact the next time we visit we will stay here. Broken lamp, bathroom door jamb looks like a SWAT team broke it down and was patched using wood filler instead of simply replacing the molding, filthy carpet, very old bedding, ripped bedspread.  Took our dog (charged $10 for him and he was cleaner than the room) and he had a blast sniffing up goodies from under/around the beds: Jr Mints, something that looked like a recently used gauze bandage, numerous misc items I won't gross you out with.  For the price, on a nothing-going-on Friday night in late February it was ridiculous.  Glad we only stayed one night. I do not know where to start. Stayed a single night (was due to stay 3) in July with my mother. The dirtiest, smelliest, just awful hotel you can possibly imagine. Beyond outdated. Dark, dingy smelly rooms with fixtures and appliances that do not work. No AC.  Bugs of all sort are everywhere and in the beds. Bedding is old and worn and should be tossed. No toilet paper, and more mold then paint in bathroom. >Ownership no where to be found.<br > >What's worse is the restaurant, JJ's Diner. Gross. Food is awful. Looks like they found it in the couch.<br > >This motel should be torn down or closed by the health department. Still sick just thinking about it.< p> Date of stay:  July 2012 Value Location Rooms Cleanliness Service Ask BrooklynGirl61 about Travelodge by Wyndham Strasburg/Lancaster Amish County 3  Thank BrooklynGirl61  This review is the subjective opinion of a TripAdvisor member and not of TripAdvisor LLC Retiredtraveler02 Chambersburg, Pennsylvania 32 21 Reviewed 7 October 2012  Never again! We had trouble getting a 1 nightr reservation for the Columbus Day weekend. I finally found one available here. Upon ariving the hostess had no record of our reservation. I showed her my e-mail confirmation and she didn't know how I made a reservation when she hadn't freed up the rooms until later in the week. She did take someone else's room and gave it to us since we were only for 1 night. The motel has 2 buildings-we were in the two story extra building. There was evidence that some people live here permanently. Our room was dark and dingy. The drape consisted on one panel that could not be opened and was barely attached to the rod. We tried to make that work. The lamp between the two beds would not work. My wife called the office three times but the lady did not answer, so she finally walked back to the office and got a replacement light bulb. Along the way my wife encountered others who had issues with things not working. One customer even had no shower curtain. We had one-it was so moldy and smelled awful. The grout was quite moldy as well. The toilet seat was extremely loose. Large cobwebs were hanging in the room and the refrigerator smelled too badly to even put our bottled water in. The beds looked as though they placed old queen sized mattresses on top of full sized beds. They were saggy and uncomfortable. The sheets were ultra thin and so wrinkled that we were not even sure they were fresh. We smelled them and they did not appear to be offensive. We did check under the sheets and lifted the mattresses to check for evidence of bedbugs (did not really see any thankfully). A free breakfast was included in their small restaurant, but all we wanted to do was leave the next morning and go eat somewhere that felt clean. Why did we stay here? We had dinner show tickets and needed to shower and change before going. Plus we were not really able to make the long drive home aftrerwards. I had not read any trip advisor reviews prior to booking because I was simply relieved to find a motel on a busy weekend. We will never stay here again. I stayed at Amish Lanterns from 8/12 to 8/17/12. For $58 a night we got clean sheets, clean working fridge and microwave, clean tiled bathroom and a pool. I noticed a lot of recent work on the room. The cable TV worked fine when Laurie showed us how to use the controls properly. Where in NE USA can you get a deal like that?  There was also a picnic table where we  enjoyed meals and snacks while watching the Amish buggies trot by. This site uses cookies to improve your experience, to enhance site security and to show you personalised advertising.  Click here  to learn more or  control your settings . By clicking on or navigating the site, you agree to our use of cookies. 