How to schedule your social media posts and cover photos  by  Lilach Bullock  |  Apr 9, 2018  |  Social media ,  Tools  |  2 comments If you re familiar with my blog or follow me on social media, then you might have noticed a (small ) obsession with social media scheduling tools. And there are a lot of them out there   some stand out, some don t. Social media scheduling has become a must-have if you re using social media to promote your business or other marketing purposes as it helps you save time and boost your results. In this blog post, I m going to show you how to schedule your social media posts and cover photos with Postfity . Scheduling your social media updates has a lot of benefits   and it s not just the obvious one, the fact that you can save time by posting (or rather, scheduling) multiple updates at once. There is so much more that a  scheduling tool  can do for you   if it s the right choice. Social media scheduling can help you: Plus, of course, you can t always be there to post a new update; while it s true that we can always have access (or almost always, if your phone or internet signals don t fail you!) to our social profiles, we don t always have access to our laptops and desktop computers where we can store media or create it to share on social profiles. As to when to use  social media scheduling , the truth is, you can use with most any type of post you can think of. Except for actual engagement, almost any update you post can be scheduled ahead of time. The bigger challenge is when you queue posts to be re-shared multiple times; that s when you need to check and make sure your updates are still relevant. In the past, I ve talked plenty of social media scheduling tools; now, I ve found a new scheduling tool to try out, and I m loving it: Postfity  is, you ve guessed it, a social media scheduling tool that works with multiple social networks, most notably, Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, LinkedIn, and Xing. Primarily, it s a social media scheduling tool. However, there s much more than meets the eye and one of the coolest features it has is the ability to schedule your Facebook cover photos   something you don t get with other major scheduling tools. But, more on that later. First, let me show you what it can do in terms of social media scheduling Getting started with  Postfity  is super easy. You can create an account for free and upgrade it later if you prefer; or, just keep using the free version as long as you want. Once you ve connected your accounts, you can actually organise them into groups to make things easier and more organised. Depending on your plan, you can add dozens, even up to 200 social accounts to manage, so this feature comes in very handy: You can create several groups and easily access them from the left-hand side of your  dashboard . Additionally, you can also add different team members to your account to help manage all of your social media. To  start scheduling , simply select all of the accounts you want (so you can schedule the same update at the same time across multiple social accounts and social networks) and start writing your update: As you can see, you can also add images from your computer, but what s even cooler is that you have access to a built-in photo editor that lets you edit and customize your images   or create something from scratch: And you can do quite a bit with this editor; for example, you can automatically optimise the size of the image to fit your preferred social network (Twitter, Facebook, Instagram), as well as make simple edits like cropping or rotating your image and adding a background colour. Plus, you can pick a different filter to completely change the look of your image, add some text (like a call to action, for example), as well as draw something yourself over it or use a sticker: As for watermarking your images, you can actually do that automatically in your accounts  settings. Just upload your logo, decide where you want the watermark to be positioned in the image, and even set it for all of your accounts. This way, you don t have to manually add your watermark to every single image you want to share or  schedule . Back to posting updates though, you have 3 options: share something right then and there, schedule the update for a later time, or you can queue your update to be published automatically by  Postfity . You don t necessarily have to set any particular times for your queue as the tool can still publish them for you (and you ll a list of all your upcoming updates in the main dashboard so you can remove or edit them); however, if you go to your setting, you can build your own posting schedule for the queue: You can do this for all of your social media accounts individually, or add a time slot to all of your accounts at once to help you save time when setting everything up. Once you re done scheduling or queuing your updates, you can check your upcoming posts on the main  dashboard , either as a list, or as a calendar by day, week, or month. As you browse through your list of scheduled updated, you can take certain actions; for example, you can reuse posts or even  multiply  them: The post will then be republished the amount of times you ve specified, and as you can see, you can also determine the posting frequency so you don t post the same update too many times in a row or too often. Apart from posting and scheduling your own content,  Postfity  also allows you to search for quality content to share with your audience: As you can see, you can browse through different categories like Business, Science, Games, and Arts to find content to share. Each post also mentions how many shares, likes, and comments it has so you can tell at a glance how popular it is   and therefore, also engaging. When sharing one of these posts, you can customize the update with your own thoughts as well as add your own images (and edit them as I showed you earlier) and schedule or queue it for later. Plus, you can easily mark posts as favourites to see them all in the same tab and post them or  schedule  them at a later time. One of  Postfity s  really cool features is that you can actually schedule your Facebook Page s cover photos: Plus, you can schedule the same cover to be posted multiple times. This is a very handy feature for businesses; for example, say you had an offer coming up in a few weeks that you want to advertise across your social networks or a regular event that happens every few weeks or months. With this feature, you can create all of your cover photos ahead of time and  schedule them  for the exact date you want them live. Apart from scheduling and content curation,  Postfity  also offers social media analytics: Simply select what analytics you want to see (posts published, post likes, shares, comments, or link clicks) as well as the time frame preferred to see your social media results from that time: Plus, you can also compare results within the chart, so you can see, for example, both how many likes you got and how many comments, shares, or total link clicks. Also in your analytics, are archives all of your published posts and covers so that you can take any action you want (like reposting them or multiplying them, for example). It s also worth mentioning that there are a couple more useful apps and tools that you can get to save time while managing your social media: I love being (pleasantly) surprised and  Postfity  has definitely managed to do that. Not only is it easy to use and with a great interface but it has some really cool scheduling features   especially the fact that you can schedule Facebook cover photos, which isn t exactly a common feature among similar scheduling tools (but very useful for business Pages, especially when it comes to e-commerce). Have you ever tried  Postfity ? Leave any comments below and please share if you liked the post J Consistency is key with anything, and if you really want to get results from your content marketing efforts a scheduling tool is your one-way ticket to growth! Absolutely Mackayla 🙂 Your e-mail address will not be published.  Required fields are marked  * Comment Comment Name  * Email  * Website Currently you have JavaScript disabled. In order to post comments, please make sure JavaScript and Cookies are enabled, and reload the page. Click here for instructions on how to enable JavaScript in your browser. This site uses Akismet to reduce spam.  Learn how your comment data is processed . FREE - The only marketing toolkit you need to grow your business Grow your business using our proven formulas to double your traffic, generate more leads and make more sales than ever before! [free templates, checklists and swipe files] 