COT.V (TSX-V) Signal Page Disclaimers: Americanbulls.com LLC is not registered as an investment adviser with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Rather, Americanbulls.com LLC relies upon the “publisher’s exclusion” from the definition of investment adviser as provided under Section 202(a)(11) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and corresponding state securities laws. As such, Americanbulls.com LLC does not offer or provide personalized investment advice. This site and all others owned and operated by Americanbulls.com LLC are bona fide publications of general and regular circulation offering impersonal investment-related advice to member and /or prospective members. Canadabulls.com is an independent website. Americanbulls.com LLC does not receive compensation by any direct or indirect means from the stocks, securities and other institutions or any underwriters or dealers associated with the broader national or international forex, commodity and stock markets. Therefore, Canadabulls.com and Americanbulls.com LLC is exempt from the definition of “investment adviser” as provided under Section 202(a) (11) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and corresponding state securities laws, and hence registration as such is not required. We are not a registered broker-dealer. Material provided by Americanbulls.com LLC is for informational purposes only, and that no mention of a particular security in any of our materials constitutes a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold that or any other security, or that any particular security, portfolio of securities, transaction or investment strategy is suitable for any specific person. To the extent that any of the information obtained from Americanbulls.com LLC may be deemed to be investment opinion, such information is impersonal and not tailored to the investment needs of any specific person. Americanbulls.com LLC does not promise, guarantee or imply verbally or in writing that any information provided through our websites, commentaries, or reports, in any printed material, or displayed on any of our websites, will result in a profit or loss. Government regulations require disclosure of the fact that while these methods may have worked in the past, past results are not necessarily indicative of future results. While there is a potential for profits there is also a risk of loss. There is substantial risk in security trading. Losses incurred in connection with trading stocks or futures contracts can be significant. You should therefore carefully consider whether such trading is suitable for you in the light of your financial condition since all speculative trading is inherently risky and should only be undertaken by individuals with adequate risk capital. Neither Americanbulls.com LLC, nor Canadabulls.com makes any claims whatsoever regarding past or future performance. All examples, charts, histories, tables, commentaries, or recommendations are for educational or informational purposes only. Displayed information is based on widely-accepted methods of technical analysis based on candlestick patterns. All information is from sources deemed to be reliable, but there is no guarantee to the accuracy. Long-term investment success relies on recognizing probabilities in price action for possible future outcomes, rather than absolute certainty – risk management is critical for success. Error and uncertainty are part of any form of market analysis. Past performance is no guarantee of future performance. Investment/ trading carries significant risk of loss and you should consult your financial professional before investing or trading. Your financial adviser can give you specific financial advice that is appropriate to your needs, risk-tolerance, and financial position. Any trades or hedges you make are taken at your own risk for your own account. You agree that Canadabulls.com and Americanbulls.com LLC its parent company, subsidiaries, affiliates, officers and employees shall not be liable for any direct, indirect, incidental, special or consequential damages. 