Defining Quality in Hand Surgery From the Patient's Perspective: A Qualitative Analysis. Eppler SL(1), Kakar S(2), Sheikholeslami N(1), Sun B(1), Pennell H(3), KamalRN(4). >< Author information:  >(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Stanford University, Redwood City, CA.<br >(2)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN. >(3)Department of Communication, University of Missouri, Columbia, MO.<br >(4)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Stanford University, Redwood City, CA. Electronic address: rnkamal@stanford.edu. >< PURPOSE: Quality measures are used to evaluate health care delivery. They aretraditionally developed from the physician and health system viewpoint. Thisapproach can lead to quality measures that promote care that may be misalignedwith patient values and preferences. We completed an exploratory, qualitativestudy to identify how patients with hand problems define high-quality care. Ourpurpose was to develop a better understanding of the surgery and recoveryexperience of hand surgery patients, specifically focusing on knowledge gaps,experience, and the surgical process.METHODS: A steering committee (n = 10) of patients who had previously undergonehand surgery reviewed and revised an open-ended survey. Ninety-nine patients who had undergone hand surgery at 2 tertiary care institutions completed theopen-ended, structured questionnaire during their 6- to 8-week postoperativeclinic visit. Two reviewers completed a thematic analysis to generate subcodesand codes to identify themes in high-quality care from the patient's perspective.RESULTS: We identified 4 themes of high-quality care: (1) Being prepared andinformed for the process of surgery, (2) Regaining hand function without pain or complication, (3) Patients and caregivers negotiating the physical andpsychological challenges of recovery, and (4) Financial and logistical burdens ofundergoing hand surgery.CONCLUSIONS: Multiple areas that patients identify as representing high-qualitycare are not reflected in current quality measures for hand surgery. Thepatient-derived themes of high-quality care can inform future patient-centeredquality measure development.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Efforts to improve health care delivery may have the greatestimpact by addressing areas of care that are most valued by patients. Such areasinclude patient education, system navigation, the recovery process, and cost.Copyright © 2019 American Society for Surgery of the Hand. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved. >< 