Lisa Gannon - Trinity College Dublin - Ireland | LinkedIn Feb 2017   –   Aug 2017 7 months Research Assistant on a HRB funded project - Evaluation of the Pilot Implementation of the Framework for Safe Nurse Staffing and Skill Mix’ - undertaken for the Minister for Health,which examined nurse staffing and patient outcomes across three acute hospitals in the Dublin region.  Data collection involved regular visits to the hospitals interviewing clinical nurse managers, staff nurses and suitable patients, as well as distributing and collecting surveys in order to gain an all-encompassing insight into operations across the wards. The position also required inputting data, analyzing and interpreting trends and regularly reviewing the literature.  Given the nature of this research position I had the opportunity to greatly improve my organizational and interpersonal skills, as both were crucial to every stage of the investigation and the overall success of the project. This position also greatly enhanced my research capabilities as well as my ability to use my initiative and work effectively as part of a team, both in an office environment and a clinical setting. Research Assistant on a HRB funded project - Evaluation of the Pilot Implementation of the Framework for Safe Nurse Staffing and Skill Mix’ - undertaken for the Minister for Health,which examined nurse staffing and patient outcomes across three acute hospitals in the Dublin region.  Data collection involved regular visits to the hospitals interviewing clinical nurse managers, staff nurses and suitable patients, as well as distributing and collecting surveys in order to gain an all-encompassing... Research Assistant on a HRB funded project - Evaluation of the Pilot Implementation of the Framework for Safe Nurse Staffing and Skill Mix’ - undertaken for the Minister for Health,which examined nurse staffing and patient outcomes across three acute hospitals in the Dublin region.  Data collection involved regular visits to the hospitals interviewing clinical nurse managers, staff nurses and suitable patients, as well as distributing and collecting surveys in order to gain an all-encompassing insight into operations across the wards. The position also required inputting data, analyzing and interpreting trends and regularly reviewing the literature.  Given the nature of this research position I had the opportunity to greatly improve my organizational and interpersonal skills, as both were crucial to every stage of the investigation and the overall success of the project. This position also greatly enhanced my research capabilities as well as my ability to use my initiative and work effectively as part of a team, both in an office environment and a clinical setting. Jul 2016   –   Feb 2017 8 months This role involved providing individualized, in-home care for individuals with dementia and various other physical and intellectual disabilities, with an aim to help people live healthier, happier lives independently at home. Required regular meetings with management, family members and the care team to ensure the individual’s specific needs are met. Training was provided in understanding and accommodating different communication needs, effectively managing challenging behaviour, people moving and handling skills, infection control and prevention, and emergency and confidentiality procedures. This role required a calm, patient and reassuring approach, and provided the opportunity to work one-to-one with individuals with care needs of varying severity. The position provided valuable and transferable insights into effective professional care-giving. This role involved providing individualized, in-home care for individuals with dementia and various other physical and intellectual disabilities, with an aim to help people live healthier, happier lives independently at home. Required regular meetings with management, family members and the care team to ensure the individual’s specific needs are met. Training was provided in understanding and accommodating different communication needs, effectively managing challenging behaviour, people moving... This role involved providing individualized, in-home care for individuals with dementia and various other physical and intellectual disabilities, with an aim to help people live healthier, happier lives independently at home. Required regular meetings with management, family members and the care team to ensure the individual’s specific needs are met. Training was provided in understanding and accommodating different communication needs, effectively managing challenging behaviour, people moving and handling skills, infection control and prevention, and emergency and confidentiality procedures. This role required a calm, patient and reassuring approach, and provided the opportunity to work one-to-one with individuals with care needs of varying severity. The position provided valuable and transferable insights into effective professional care-giving. Jun 2010   –   Dec 2015 5 years 7 months Tarmonbarry, Co. Roscommon A remote and flexible position which involved answering customer enquiries by email, ordering materials, maintaining the company website, preparing and releasing advertising material and managing online payments. This role provided valuable insights into customer service, sales and marketing and also greatly improved my communication, organizational and IT skills. A remote and flexible position which involved answering customer enquiries by email, ordering materials, maintaining the company website, preparing and releasing advertising material and managing online payments. This role provided valuable insights into customer service, sales and marketing and also greatly improved my communication, organizational and IT skills. Jun 2014   –   Aug 2014 3 months Newport, Rhode Island Completed the J1 Student Work Visa Programme in Newport, Rhode Island US. Worked in a hotel as a receptionist and waitress. Reception work involved responding to phone and email enquiries, regularly updating room rates online, interacting with guests, allocating rooms and handling payments. Also worked as a breakfast waitress which involved preparing the breakfast buffet each morning, showing guests to their tables, waiting on tables and tidying up after. Both roles greatly improved my communication, organisational and customer service skills. Completed the J1 Student Work Visa Programme in Newport, Rhode Island US. Worked in a hotel as a receptionist and waitress. Reception work involved responding to phone and email enquiries, regularly updating room rates online, interacting with guests, allocating rooms and handling payments. Also worked as a breakfast waitress which involved preparing the breakfast buffet each morning, showing guests to their tables, waiting on tables and tidying up after. Both roles greatly improved my... Completed the J1 Student Work Visa Programme in Newport, Rhode Island US. Worked in a hotel as a receptionist and waitress. Reception work involved responding to phone and email enquiries, regularly updating room rates online, interacting with guests, allocating rooms and handling payments. Also worked as a breakfast waitress which involved preparing the breakfast buffet each morning, showing guests to their tables, waiting on tables and tidying up after. Both roles greatly improved my communication, organisational and customer service skills. 2017   –   2019 2012   –   2016 Activities and Societies: Student Psychology Journal of Ireland, Student 2 Student, Psychological Society, St. Vincent de Paul, Meditation Society 2006   –   2012 Activities and Societies: Head of the Student Council, Senior Prefect Jan 2014   –   May 2014 5 months Education This role involved administering and interpreting cognitive tests designed for older adults in a clinical setting, and subsequently gathering and inputting data. It provided a practical insight into the intricacies of planning and conducting research and the precision needed in data entry. The position greatly improved my communication and organisational skills, as well as my clerical speed and accuracy when working under pressure.  This role involved administering and interpreting cognitive tests designed for older adults in a clinical setting, and subsequently gathering and inputting data. It provided a practical insight into the intricacies of planning and conducting research and the precision needed in data entry. The position greatly improved my communication and organisational skills, as well as my clerical speed and accuracy when working under pressure.  Sep 2013   –   Nov 2015 2 years 3 months Education The role of the events manager is to organise various events throughout the year to promote the journal and encourage submissions, as well as organising the annual end-of-year launch. The role of the events manager is to organise various events throughout the year to promote the journal and encourage submissions, as well as organising the annual end-of-year launch. Sep 2013   –   Jun 2015 1 year 10 months Social Services This role required 35 hours of training in active listening skills, communication skills, diversity and confidentiality procedures in order to enable one to provide adequate one-to-one support to troubled or struggling students.  This role required 35 hours of training in active listening skills, communication skills, diversity and confidentiality procedures in order to enable one to provide adequate one-to-one support to troubled or struggling students.  Sep 2013   –   Jun 2014 10 months Social Services This role required 6 hours of training and involved mentoring groups of incoming psychology students, helping them with any issues they had and making regular contact in order to ensure they were settling in OK. This role required 6 hours of training and involved mentoring groups of incoming psychology students, helping them with any issues they had and making regular contact in order to ensure they were settling in OK. Aug 2013 Social Services This role involved accompanying and assisting a group of individuals with an illness or disability on a pilgrimage to Lourdes where they sought comfort.  This role involved accompanying and assisting a group of individuals with an illness or disability on a pilgrimage to Lourdes where they sought comfort.  Listed on Trinity's Roll of Honour for extensive voluntary work. Listed on Trinity's Roll of Honour for extensive voluntary work. Received a €300 book voucher for excelling in the Leaving Certificate examination.  Received a €300 book voucher for excelling in the Leaving Certificate examination.  Received the AIT Business Award for excelling in the Junior Certificate Business Studies examination. Received the AIT Business Award for excelling in the Junior Certificate Business Studies examination. Received honours in all Pianoforte Examinations, Elementary to Grade 8.  Received honours in all Pianoforte Examinations, Elementary to Grade 8.  Winner of the Strokestown International Schools Competition (2012) and the Literary Society Mental Health Poetry Competition (2014). Numerous publications in Trinity's Icarus Magazine. Winner of the Strokestown International Schools Competition (2012) and the Literary Society Mental Health Poetry Competition (2014). Numerous publications in Trinity's Icarus Magazine. Join to view Lisa’s full profile Ocala, Florida Area Tonbridge, United Kingdom Greater Chicago Area Ireland Manchester, United Kingdom 69 others named Lisa Gannon are on LinkedIn 