seven; the breakup | Notice Me Noona [Yandere! Kim Taehyung] In her small apartment, [Name] was pacing around mindlessly. She was subliminally biting one finger nail at a time due to her excessive anxiety. Just an hour and a half ago, she woke up with a headache, swollen eyes, and in sweat. Additionally, her stomach was sore in hunger.   Lately, [Name] was feeling extremely emotionally drained which was affecting the quality of her sleep. She slept for eight hours, but her body felt more exhausted and it felt as if she had not slept at all. She had eaten some fruit for breakfast in hopes that a light, healthy, and fulfilling breakfast would help.   It did not.   She felt full but the pain of hunger was replaced with the sensation of needing to throw up. Her anxiety was too overwhelming.   [Name] walked towards her small dressing mirror unit (which was the only one she could afford as a struggling university student). She roughly swatted the hair strands that loomed over her face to one side, before picking up a natural shade of lipstick, and applying it lightly to distract herself from her anxiety. Just as she finished doing so, her phone rang loudly.   It was an expected call. However, prior to its’ ringing, [Name]’s room was silent. As a result, the phone’s sudden loudness made her wince. [Name] grabbed her phone, and slid the green icon to accept the call.  She brought it up to her ears.   “H-Hey,” She stuttered as a greeting.   Right away, she could imagine Mina furrowing her eyebrows and Vicki frowning in concern for her.   “Hey [Name],” Mina greeted softly over the phone. Her voice was gentle because presently, [Name] was vulnerable. This was her first relationship, and soon, [Name] was going to put an end to it. It just her luck that her first boyfriend had to be an anomalous personality. Mina thought that if she said the wrong thing, or spoke in even a slightly different tone, [Name] would break.   “Are you ready?” Vicki enquired, from the other side of the phone. Her voice sounded slightly static and muffled.   “I-I think so,” [Name] stammered, and her lips formed a forced smile in response, as if she was talking to her friends in person. However, her balant lie was obvious, and her friends heard her nervousness in her voice. On the other line, they frowned.   “[Name], it’ll be fine. Everything will work out. Remember our plan, you need to convince Taehyung to meet you in a public place, then texts us the location. Pick a busy place, so when we’ll be watching to make sure nothing goes wrong, he won’t spot us. Everything will be fine girl, don’t worry. We’ll be with you every step of the way,” Mina said reassuringly.   [Name]’s uneasiness did not cease. However, Mina’s words offered her comfort. It was in moments like these that reminded [Name] about how amazing and supportive her friends were. She was grateful for their existence, and made a mental note to treat them to some cheap ice coffee after all this mess would be dealt with.   “Thanks, you guys. I appreciate your support a lot. I’ll text you soon,” [Name] said.   “Alright,” Mina and Vicki responded simultaneously.   “I’ll see you soon, hopefully,” [Name] said.   “See ya,” They replied, and [Name] was about to end the call. However, before she could, Vicki screeched, which made [Name]’s eyes widen in panic.   “What? What is it? What happened? I heard a scream, are you guys okay?” [Name] asked, panic laced in her voice. Her heart was pounding loudly against her rib-cage.   “We forgot to tell you!! We love you [Name]! No matter what happens, we’ll always be there for you,” Vicki said, and instantly, [Name] could imagine her grinning slyly.   For a few moments, she felt too startled to form a response. Then, she sweat-dropped, before, she ended up smiling.   “I love you guys too. Now, I’m going to hang up before you give me a  real  heart-attack,” [Name] said, and as her friends mumbled a last ‘see you,’ she ended the call.   [Name] tapped various spots on the screen of her phone, until she opened her thread of messages for Taehyung.   There were no new texts from him.   [Name] bit her lip in disappointment and nervousness. She felt disappointed because with how he showed his love, she expected Taehyung to have had texted her  eventually.  But that was also completely egotistical and unfair since  she  was the cause of the tension between them. She had not even tried to make it up to him. Now, she was going to break up with him because he was too overwhelming. That sounded like utter bullshit, and a part of [Name] was whispering toxicity in her ears.   You made it all up, nothing happened. Taehyung was  never  horrible to you. You’re the horrible one. It’s all your fault [Name], it’s all your fault. Your pathetic, and you can’t even be honest. You just used Taehyung as an object to make yourself feel like you were worth someone’s time, but you’re not. You’re worthless, a coward, and that’s why you’re taking the easy way out again. Running away from everything, everytime--    [Name] shut her eyes tightly.   Her lips quivered. She needed to counter her thoughts, and reassure herself the way her friends had.   It’s not my fault, it’s not my fault. I’m not imagining anything. It happened and I was hurt. I need to get out of this.    She repeated those words like a mantra in her head. With shaky fingers, she managed to compose and send a text to Taehyung.   Her text read:  Hey, are you free? I was wondering if we could meet up at East Meadow mall?    She exhaled deeply. [Name] was not expecting Taehyung to reply, or agree to meet up at such a public place. After all, he always set up their meetings in very private places. However, it seemed as if with all her bad luck, some good luck finally existed for her because his response was instant.   Taehyung:  Sure    ***   The mall was not as busy as [Name] had hoped for, but it was still bustling with life. The loudness from everyone’s spoken words, footsteps and other various causes were part of the background. Because [Name] and Taehyung were sitting in the food court, they inhaled aroma of all sorts of different foods which made [Name] feel hungrier.     Her stomach grumbled out loud, which made her cheeks heat up in embarrassment. She coughed awkwardly before she started to unwrap her burger that was settled on a tray before her.   “We should eat,” She said avoiding Taehyung’s gaze. She kept her eyes locked on her food, and bit into it.   As [Name] continued to eat, Taehyung was staring intensely at her. His eyes were narrowed and his lips were pressed in a thin line.   “I’m not hungry,” Taehyung said, as he leaned his elbows on the table, and settled his chin against the back of his hands.   At his voice, [Name] froze. Like a prey caught in the line of sight of its predator, [Name]’s eyes shifted to Taehyung’s. Instantly, she was hypnotized by his coffee-coloured eyes. She was unable to breath  especially  when she saw Taehyung’s eyes examine her up and down. His eyes lingered on her lips for a few seconds too long, before they moved back to her eyes. Momentarily, he adjusted the watch on his wrist, before he sat up and leaned back against the chair’s back support. The corner of his lips were twitched upwards in a smirk.   “You look nice,” He complimented nonchalantly.   The pink on [Name]’s cheeks darkened into a shade of red.   I don’t want to be here,  she thought as she murmured a low “thanks.”   Then, to avoid having to speak anymore, [Name] took a big bite from her burger.   Taehyung continued to watch her.   A few minutes passed, before he sighed exaggeratedly.   “Is  this  your of making it up to me?” He said, and shook his head in disappointment.   Mid-bite, [Name] stilled. She furrowed her eyebrows in confusion.   “ What? ” [Name] asked in disbelief.   Taehyung raised an eyebrow.   “Aren’t you making it up to me? You know, for all the awful things you’ve done recently. You need to step up your game [Name]-noona. This is disappointing,” Taehyung started, frowning. “If you  really  want to make it up to me, I can think of  other  ways for you to do it,” He finished, and a sly smile appeared on his face, as one of his hands reached out towards hers. As soon as their fingers touched, on instinct, [Name] snatched her hand away from Taehyung.   “I’m not making up for anything,” [Name] stated bluntly, and she stared at Taehyung with wide eyes. “I already apologized for that.  You  were the one who ignored me,” She finished, as she scanned the food court behind Taehyung nervously, in hopes to spot her friends.   She did not recognize anyone. Sweat started to form on the back of her neck.   Taehyung looked at [Name] with a penetrating stare. Truthfully, she was talking to him. However, she was looking for someone else. If she was on a date with him, and talking to him, then her attention should  only  be on  him . But it wasn’t. His lovely noona was searching for someone  else.    Where are Mina and Vicki?!  [Name] thought frantically when she failed to spot them. Her fingers trembled as she felt Taehyung digging daggers in her anxious form. She was going to break up with him, and she desperately  needed  to know that her friends were there for her like they promised they would be.   “Are you looking for someone?” Taehyung asked stoically. His question caused [Name] to snap her eyes towards him and she looked like a deer caught in headlights.   [Name] almost couldn’t speak.   “W-What?” She stuttered forcefully, as she stared deeply in Taehyung’s eyes, which were filled with suspicion.   For a moment, he pressed his lips in a thin line in agitation. His nose wrinkled in anger, however, he inhaled and exhaled deeply in order to keep himself calm.   “I said, are you looking for someone? As in, you’re not paying your full attention to me like you’re  suppose  to. Who are you waiting for?” Taehyung said through gritted teeth.   [Name] was at a loss of words. She opened her mouth like a fish out of water but no words left her mouth. She couldn’t think. She felt timorous, her shoulders were tensed, and it was starting to be overwhelming. She would have given into her anxiety if it was not for Mina and Vicki entering her sights.   Both of the females were dressed in large black hoodies which covered their body, and hung over their faces so it would be difficult to identify them. They were wearing large black glasses that covered almost more than half of their faces. As they waved to signal [Name] of their presence, the [h/c] female visibly relaxed and breathed out in relief. Her shoulders relaxed visibly and she  almost  smiled but she did not, when her eyes landed on Taehyung. He was looking at her with a mixture of fury and scepticism written on his face.   She inwardly winced as she gulped. She needed to get this done and over with, and in order to do so, she mentally prepared herself.   Shakingly, she intertwined her fingers together, and settled them on top of the table before her. She clenched her hands until they turned white, as Taehyung watched her every move.   “I-I was just trying to build the courage to do this,” [Name] started, and Taehyung narrowed her eyes at her.   His gaze was piercing and it felt like he was staring  right  in her soul. [Name] felt exposed because the way his eyes were fixated onto her was as if Taehyung knew of what she was going to do. But that was impossible,  right?    “I-I wasn’t waiting for anyone else. I just needed to talk to you,” [Name] said.   You’re a liar, my noona.    “Oh? What did you need to talk about?” Taehyung asked with a raised eyebrow.   [Name] gulped as she fiddled with her fingers.   This was it. This was wanted she wanted to do, she was sure of it.   “I-I want to break up,” [Name] said. The spoken words were ones she had prepared to speak multiple times. Other than the stutter in the beginning, she spoke them well. She was certain that this was what she wanted.   The response she received was not the one she expected.   “Okay,” Taehyung said, and shrugged his shoulders.   [Name]’s eyebrows crinkled in confusion. She doubted her reality and thought that Taehyung’s response was a figment of her imagination. After all, Taehyung loved her and there was  no way  that he just agreed to her preposition so simply,  right ?   “What?” [Name] said in disbelief. To her question, Taehyung shrugged once more.   “Let’s break up.  That’s what you asked, right? There’s no point for us to keep dating if you  obviously  aren’t happy. Well, I wouldn’t really say we  ‘dated’  since we didn’t even kiss… Not that I’m holding that against you. Actually, thank you. Instead of leading me on, and wasting my time, you ended it soon. So, thanks,” Taehyung said, and smiled.   [Name] gasped.   “Aren’t you going to fight me for it?” [Name] asked mindlessly.   “You want me to fight you? Even though  you  broke up with me? Isn’t that a bit too narcissist?” Taehyung replied, and raised an eyebrow.   The implication of her own words finally registered in [Name]’s mind. Her cheeks turned crimson in embarrassment.   “I-I didn’t mean to say that,” [Name] stammered, in a poor attempt to defend herself and reserve any dignity she may have had left.   Taehyung chuckled.   “I’m just joking. You’re adorable when you become so flustered,” Taehyung complimented, tilting his head, and giving her a small smile.   The hue of red spread further across [Name]’s cheeks. She felt beyond awkward so she covered her face with her hands. Right after, the sound of a chair squeaking against the surface of the floor was heard, which made her look up.   Taehyung had stood up as he picked up a few of his things.   “I’ll be leaving now,” Taehyung said, as his eyes were focused on [Name], who was staring at him with doe eyes.   [Name]’s chest felt tight.   “Okay,” She said in a low tone.   Don’t go.    “I’ll see you around,” Taehyung said, and watched her with an intense gaze.   “See you,” [Name] replied, her voice sounding oddly high-pitched.   Don’t leave me,  her thoughts echoed.   Taehyung’s gaze lingered on her for a few seconds before he gave her one last wave, and walked away. As [Name] watched him leave, and the distance between them increased, her heart felt  oddly  strained.   She was  certain  that this is what she needed, and this  breakup  was for the best. But then,  why  did it feel  so wrong?    Her gaze was casted downwards on the table in front of her. She did not notice when Taehyung was completely out of her sights.   [Name] felt nothing, until she felt two pairs of arms wrap around her in a comforting gesture.   Without her permission, a few tears prickled the corner of her eyes and began to roll down her cheeks.   “Oh [Name],” Mina began softly, as she patted [Name]’s hair.   Vicki was frowning, while she looked at [Name] in pity.   “Everything will be okay,” Vicki reassured, as [Name] returned their hugs, and wept silently. The grieving group of friends were too focused in the moment to notice the pair of coffee-coloured eyes which glared at them murderously from a distance. A/N:  hello!! I hope you liked the chapter. It would be great if you could leave some feedback :) thanks! 