Top 5 motorcycle thermals  &  base layers | MCN | MCN MCN Shop Staying warm whilst on your bike this winter is essential and we recommend buying thermal and base layers that offer a close, snug fit as this will help trap warm air against the skin – keeping you warm in the wintery months. In addition, look for thermal and base layers are breathable and wick away moisture easily. So MCN have selected these five winter-worthy layers on personal preference and customer popularity from the  MCN Shop . The Keis X10 Heated Body Warmer is ideal for motorcyclists who ride all-year-round. This superb body warmer will help keep you toasty-warm even in the coldest conditions. It has 3 heated compartments – 2 chest panels and one for the lower back and kidney area. The X10 is heated using the bike’s battery or the optional Li-ion battery packs. The body warmer can also be connected with its additional power sockets to Keis Inner or outer gloves plus boot insoles. We highly recommend taking a look! This lightweight undersuit is perfect for wintery conditions – it’s excellent thermal properties will keep you snug whilst riding. It’s quick drying capabilities means that it can be washed the night before and it will be dry by morning so you’re ready to take to the road again. In addition, the undersuit has a number of other great qualities – including moisture wicking, helps prevent chafing and stops skin sticking to the outerlayers. An ideal baselayer for cold conditions this winter. These heated inner gloves sit nicely beneath your favourite bike gloves. They can be powered using your motorcycle’s battery or via an optional rechargeable Li-ion battery pack. Alternatively, they can also be connected easily to the Keis X10 heated body warmer easily via it’s additional power sockets. Perfect accessories for keeping your hands toasty this winter. Perfect for winter motorcycling – the MotoGP balaclava is a snug, super-comfort fit that will help keep your head and face warm whilst on the road in cold conditions. This thermal balaclava is made from 100% cotton and in terms of quality is unbeatable value for the price. Great for affordable winter riding. This heated jacket features Gerbing's stainless steel microwire heating system and has a heat output of 77 watts, making it Gerbing's hottest product. There are plugs so you can connect Gerbing heated gloves to the jacket, or they can be tucked away when not in use. Although the jacket is meant to be worn under your outer layer it's water-repellant and features a Thinsulate lining. Our sister title – RiDE magazine have also produced an excellent rundown of their top 5 thermals that you can read  here . By  MCN News The entry list for the 2020 MotoE season has been revealed, with Bradley Smith once again... Valentino Rossi showcased his ability on four wheels by finishing on the podium and winning the... Pricing and specification have been confirmed for the 2020 BMW S1000XR sports adventure bike, and... Prices have been revealed for the 2020 Honda CBR1000RR-R Fireblade range, with the base model... By far the biggest story on MCN this week was our feature on what it’s like riding BMW’s E-Power... Husqvarna have confirmed that the striking Norden 901 will be coming to a showroom near you soon by... Triumph have recorded increased profits in 2019, despite the uncertainty still surrounding... In your new edition of Motor Cycle News this week we've got the biggest stories in biking along with... Ducati CEO, Claudio Domenicali, has revealed that a lower-capacity version of their Streetfighter V4... Peter Hickman will bid to win the Lightweight TT in 2020 onboard a Smiths Racing-prepared Norton... Automatic motorbikes are very rare. Or rather, they used to be. But now the swathe of 'twist 'n go'... A new trailer (above) for the 2020 Top Gun 2: Maverick movie has given us a glimpse at Tom Cruise's... Custom bikes are more fashionable than ever – and we don’t mean old school, V-twin cruisers. Today a... The #R5K group is no stranger to experienced riders, leaning on decades of biking knowledge to... Six-time Forumla 1 World Champion, Lewis Hamilton, has confirmed media claims that he crashed a... Pricing and specifications have been announced for the 2020 Kawasaki Ninja 650, and it’s set to hit... If you’ve placed an order for a new Yamaha R1M, the company would like to invite you to one of two... The Austrian Grand Prix has been voted as the Best Grand Prix of 2019.It's the second time that the... Introducing the Lexmoto LXR 380; a brand-new A2-compliant sportsbike costing £2399 less than the... Michelin have just rolled out a raft of new road and track tyre options for 2020, covering... Facebook Twitter Email App Pinterest AddThis  1955-2019 Bauer Media Group Bauer Media Group consists of: Bauer Consumer Media Ltd, Company number: 01176085, Bauer Radio Ltd, Company Number: 1394141  Registered Office: Media House, Peterborough Business Park, Lynch Wood, Peterborough, PE2 6EA H Bauer Publishing,  Company Number: LP003328 Registered Office: Academic House, 24-28 Oval Road, London, NW1 7DT. All registered in England and Wales. VAT no 918 5617 01 Bauer Consumer Media Ltd are authorised and regulated by the FCA(Ref No. 710067) 