Contemporary Art 101 - The Contemporary Austin Showcasing two renowned and architecturally unique locations, The Contemporary Austin brings multidisciplinary exhibitions, engaging programs, and enticing special events to the city's visual arts landscape. The Sorcerer’s Burden: Contemporary Art and the Anthropological Turn On view at the Jones Center on Congress Avenue and Laguna Gloria September 14, 2019 – January 19, 2020. Visit us at the Jones Center downtown and at the lakeside Laguna Gloria! Photo: Michael Moran, Left The Contemporary Austin offers diverse, engaging ways to explore contemporary art and culture, including innovative opportunities and experiences for families, young people, artists, and educators. The acclaimed Art School at Laguna Gloria offers classes for ages four through adult in painting, drawing, ceramics, printmaking, photography, sculpture, digital media, and more.  Registration for Spring 2020 begins Tuesday, December 10! Contemporary Art 101 is our Members-only art history lecture series that offers a fun and eye-opening way to learn about the art of our time.  Contemporary Art 101  is led by art historian, educator, and art appraiser Sally Coleman, PhD. Join us for a series of stimulating lectures, conversation, and wine courtesy of  The Austin Wine Merchant . Dates: October 2, 9, 16, and 23, 2019 Time: 6-7:30P Location: Laguna Gloria, Studio 8 Cost: $150 for the four-class series ( Members Only ) REGISTER NOW Masterworks of 21st Century Art in Context Join us this fall as we examine four essential works of art created in the contemporary era. We will look closely at each work of art, place it within the context of major Contemporary Art movements, and describe how it relates to artwork in and around Austin.  October 2:  Gerhard Richter,  Moritz , 2000 and Painting in the Contemporary Era October 9:  Huma Bhabha,  We Come in Peace , 2017 and Contemporary South Asian Art October 16:  Dario Robleto,  Small Crafts on Sisyphean Seas , 2018 and Transdisciplinary Art October 23:  Deborah Roberts,  Linda Brown , 2018 and African American Art Sally Coleman is an art historian, educator, and art appraiser. She earned a PhD in Art History at The University of Texas at Austin and has been teaching art history courses at universities in central Texas for twenty years.  She is the recipient of several academic grants and awards, including a Fulbright Grant. She has presented numerous papers and invited lectures and has published scholarly and popular essays on art. Get updates about Art 101 by  joining or renewing your membership today ! Questions about Art 101? Please contact  membership@thecontemporaryaustin.org  or 512 458 8191. Thanks to our generous wine sponsor,  The Austin Wine Merchant , for your continued support!  or Maximum upload file size: 1 GB. Suggested image dimensions: {{data.suggestedWidth}} by {{data.suggestedHeight}} pixels. Describe the purpose of the image  (opens in a new tab) . Leave empty if the image is purely decorative. Describe the purpose of the image  (opens in a new tab) . Leave empty if the image is purely decorative. Describe the purpose of the image  (opens in a new tab) . Leave empty if the image is purely decorative. Describe the purpose of the image  (opens in a new tab) . Leave empty if the image is purely decorative. No items found. 