Guns and Children — Don ' t Be Ignorant | Jason Stadtlander Last month I  wrote an article discussing guns, gun bans and the concept that business bans  or restrictions on guns offer a safe haven for killers in  & ldquo; Gun Bans a Safe Haven for Killers & rdquo;. During my  research and discussion for this article, questions regarding children and guns  came up and it was a topic I badly wanted to discuss, but did not feel that was  the appropriate article to go into any detail.  I am a father to  young children and also an educator of parents with a teaching focus of protecting  children online. My compassion for children runs deep and having been raised  around guns and being taught the dangers of guns at a young age, I believe that  it s critical to educate children on gun safety. Gun ownership  is not just a right under the Constitution, it is also a responsibility. It & rsquo;s  our charge to ensure that those who own guns are taught not only the safety  necessary to protect themselves, but also the knowledge of how to make certain children  understand the realities and dangers of guns.  As a child, I  was never allowed to touch a gun unless my parents were with me. I knew exactly  where they were kept. I even knew where the ammo was stored, but not once did I  ever think of touching them. I knew guns posed a danger. I realized what guns  were capable of and that they could mean the difference between life and death in  good ways (protecting yourself) and bad (killing another accidentally). My father would even mention that we shouldn t even point toy guns at other children, in keeping with  the consistency of his  gun  safety teaching. When I  did handle guns, my father had three strict rules: My father has taught  children for years about gun safety, explaining the power that accompanies holding  a gun, the inherent dangers and the fact that guns should only be held by those  trained to wield them.  Ignorance Kills   Guns Don t  Few things  upset me as much as hearing people say,  & ldquo;Guns kill people. & rdquo; They might as well  step out into a crowd with a megaphone and announce,  & ldquo;Hello. I & rsquo;m ignorant. & rdquo; Not once in my  life have I ever seen or heard of a gun jumping off a table, aiming itself at a  person and tripping its own hammer. Are guns  dangerous? Yes. Are knives dangerous? Yes. Are cross bows dangerous? Yes. Are  cars dangerous? Yes. Every single  one of these is both a tool  and  a weapon  and should be respected as such. But no single weapon kills a person unless the  person behind that weapon either has the intent to kill or is ignorant. Sadly,  I do believe that a greater number of fatal gun accidents are due to ignorance  than due to intent. Ignorance is our number one problem when it comes to all  weapons ignorance of how they work, ignorance of how to protect our children  from their inherent dangers, and ignorance of use and purpose.  Resist the  urge to be an ignorant parent  who dismisses guns entirely in stating,  & ldquo;I don & rsquo;t believe in guns & rdquo; or  & ldquo;I won & rsquo;t  allow my child near guns. & rdquo; The reality is, your child will end up around guns  someday. The right to own a gun is a constitutional right and isn & rsquo;t going away.  That being a given, I encourage you to either educate your children on gun  safety or move out of the country. Please consider  the fact that teaching your children to be safe and understand guns doesn & rsquo;t  mean that you need to  own  one or even  approve of owning them in general. Your teaching them gun safety  does  mean that you are a responsible parent.  The last thing you want is for your child to be in a gun owner & rsquo;s house with a  parent who has refused to teach their own children safe gun practices, thus  putting your own child at risk of being injured or killed only because you were  negligent in instructing your child about gun safety. What can we do to ensure that our  children are safe? Too many people  expect the government to make laws and set rules in place that will protect  their children and take away the responsibility that they have as an American  to educate their own children for.  William H. Taft  said:   We  are all imperfect. We cannot expect perfect government.   It is our  responsibility as parents to create and follow guidelines that will teach our  children and make a safer world for them to live in. Ultimately it is we the  parents that are responsible for our children, not our government. Follow these  simple rules religiously; what I call the  T.A.F.T.T.  rules: T ell  your children that you own a gun.  Hiding it and not telling them that it & rsquo;s in the house is a recipe for disaster.  A lert  an adult if they see a  child near or touching a gun and always leave immediately. F ear  guns. Explain the real dangers to your  children that guns pose. A strong fear should be put into them (especially  young children) regarding guns. T ake  your children shooting as they get  older (pre-teen and teen). They need to understand the reality of guns and how to  properly handle them.  T reat  your guns as you would  treat your car. Both can save a life or take it away. Source: Huffington Post Apr 04, 2019 Jason Stadtlander / Guests Kaja Sesterhenn, Nicole Negri, Paula Masterton, Lisa R. Davis Feb 27, 2019 Jason Stadtlander / Carol Wyer Feb 20, 2019 Jason Stadtlander Feb 13, 2019 Jason Stadtlander Feb 06, 2019 Jason Stadtlander Dec 19, 2018 Jason Stadtlander Dec 05, 2018 Jason Stadtlander Play The Lantern Jason Stadtlander / Guests Kaja Sesterhenn, Nicole Negri, Paula Masterton, Lisa R. Davis Apr 04, 2019 47:36 Play Feathers in the Wind Jason Stadtlander / Carol Wyer Feb 27, 2019 41:01 Play Flash Fiction - The Oath Jason Stadtlander Feb 20, 2019 8:36 Play Flash Fiction - The Desk Jason Stadtlander Feb 13, 2019 6:18 Play The Shattered Lens Jason Stadtlander Feb 06, 2019 22:25 Play The Glass Pyramid Jason Stadtlander Dec 19, 2018 32:35 Play Surviving the Messengers Jason Stadtlander Dec 05, 2018 36:58 © Jason Stadtlander • All Rights Reserved This site uses cookies to analyze traffic, remember your preferences, and optimize your experience. I understand Please fill out all required fields. 