Snow White Tricoat SWP/SWA Touch Up Paint for 2015 Kia Optima - PaintScratch.com Order spray cans, paint pens, brush cap bottles or larger sizes of Snow White Tricoat touch up paint. PaintScratch custom mixes each paint order to exact specifications so it matches the original factory color chip for your vehicle -  guaranteed! The vehicle color code will list the paint color exactly so finding it is important. In order to guarantee the accuracy of a color, paint should be ordered based on the color code. Learn where to  locate your Color Identification Plate  .  The color plate is normally located on the drivers door jamb. Please do not order based on the color you see onscreen. Because computer and phone screens are all different, the color you see on online may not look exactly the same as the paint you receive. For more information,  view the FAQ'S  . Always  verify your Kia color code   on your vehicle before ordering. Snow White Tricoat may go by several different names and the color sample shown above for 2015 Kia Optima is approximate. Facebook Twitter Email App Pinterest AddThis Additional  Kia paint colors  may be available, especially interior, trim and wheel colors. Try searching other  Kia Optima  years or  Submit a color request . COLOR MATCH GUARANTEE We guarantee our paint will match the original color chip provided by the paint manufacturer or we'll replace your order for free! "I really like your product. I was surprised on how well the paint matched my car considering that it faded over time. Great job." "I am a repeat customer and the last time, the color was a perfect match. Hence I am back again. the spray was simple and easy to use. Keep UP the great product, while keeping DOWN the price." "I received the paint today- it is perfect- absolutely a perfect match. Thanks a lot." Help Center  |   1999- document.write(new Date().getFullYear()) 2019 2015  PaintScratch.com  |  Privacy PaintScratch.com (A Division of Bio Pac, Inc.) - 770 Mays Blvd STE 1 #5288, Incline Village, NV 89450 