Ogmur and exa def : RotMG use the following search parameters to narrow your results: e.g. subreddit:aww site:imgur.com dog see the search faq for details. advanced search: by author, subreddit... 261 users here now Release X.31.6.0 is now LIVE! Producer ' s Letter (New Year ' s) Producer ' s Letter Followup Easter is here! Heroic Undead Lair! See post for more information. Remember the account security feature: Read more the  Security Questions  and  account security  in general  Subreddit Discord Join today at  www.realmofthemadgod.com! All public, all free, all fun! Full list of rules and punishments HERE Make sure your post doesn ' t show up on the list of BANNED POSTS. Your post will be removed without reason. The moderators of this subreddit are not DECA employees! Do not post something that only Deca can answer. This applies to accounts being banned, asking for the release date of features/updates, etc. Please do not send in modmail asking us to do things that only DECA can do! No  " hacking/multiboxing "  reports on reddit.  Use:  Official Support / Cheater / Multiboxer Request Link No promoting, defending, or linking to sources of hacking, multiboxing, exploiting, or private servers. Additionally, pro-cheating/etc. posts will be removed. The discussion of hacks/exploits/etc is  only  meant for  possible resolutions to the problems ,  not  discussion about what exists/doesn ' t exist. Private server discussion will be redirected to  /r/RotmgPrivateServers  in most cases.  Do not use this subreddit as a trading platform. Consider using  RealmEye . Posts/comments intentionally attacking others are NOT allowed. Intentionally insulting or attacking a player for any reason will not be tolerated. Deca Games will be treated as an individual, living entity (because Deca is a group of people) in all cases, and any insults towards them will be treated like an insult to any other user. Guild recruiting or searching posts in the RealmEye Guild Forum ONLY! Need advice on what class to create next? Ask in the weekly question thread, do not make a new post asking for what you should do. Follow Reddiquette. Posts violating the guidelines are subject to removal without explanation. DECA SUPPORT FORM - USE THIS TO EMAIL DECA IF YOU WERE BANNED / NEED TO CONTACT THEM Want true forums instead of reddit? Try  RealmEye ' s Forums Use this for the latest AGC Loader for using in Flash Projector:  Click Here ! All Deca ' s posts, in order?  YES! Pfiffel ' s helpful site Before you ask any questions,  please review the Realmeye wiki! Here is Bluenoser ' s Guide for new and even old players! Realmeye, Want to see your account ' s ranking? Or maybe see how good your guild is? Check out his site! There ' s also a trading and forum section. Muledump , a complete management system for your ROTMG Mules Setup Guide |  Online |  Local the front page of the internet. and subscribe to one of thousands of communities. Ogmur and exa def ( i.redd.it ) submitted 1 year ago by Peterlol25 Post a comment! [–] yungnibba boneless butcher 10 points 11 points 12 points 1 year ago (1 child) 0/10. doesn ' t have  " fanart "  in title, doesn ' t fit the theme [–] Peterlol25 [ S ] -3 points -2 points -1 points 1 year ago (0 children) oh sorry xP [–] DarkerThanLpDark LpDark 5 points 6 points 7 points 1 year ago (0 children) Ogmur Exadef [–] BrutusKek 0 points 1 point 2 points 1 year ago (0 children) Wherr is my Exa def [–] MemeWlzard Making memes for kiddos who don't know good; I'm back cuz MotMG 0 points 1 point 2 points 1 year ago (1 child) exa def machine broke [–] MemeWlzard Making memes for kiddos who don't know good; I'm back cuz MotMG 0 points 1 point 2 points 1 year ago (0 children) understandable, have a great day Posts are automatically archived after 6 months. We are unable to post your link or media unless you can verify to us that you own the rights to it. And if you’re just a small-time creator and not a big media conglomerate, good luck with that. ><br >JUST KIDDING (your post is fine). But we won’t be kidding if the new EU Copyright Directive passes the European Parliament. Learn more about how to contact your MEP and what else you can do to #saveyourinternet. Posts are automatically archived after 6 months. We are unable to post your link or media unless you can verify to us that you own the rights to it. And if you’re just a small-time creator and not a big media conglomerate, good luck with that. ><br >JUST KIDDING (your post is fine). But we won’t be kidding if the new EU Copyright Directive passes the European Parliament. Learn more about how to contact your MEP and what else you can do to #saveyourinternet. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy .   2019 reddit inc. All rights reserved. REDDIT and the ALIEN Logo are registered trademarks of reddit inc. By having a Reddit account, you can subscribe, vote, and comment on all your favorite Reddit content. Sign up in just seconds. Already have an account? Log In Skip for now Reddit is filled with interest based communities, offering something for everyone. Check out some communities and we recommend you subscribe to at least 5. Your username is how other community members will see you. This name will be used to credit you for things you share on Reddit. What should we call you? Having a hard time picking a name? Here are some available suggestions. Rendered by PID 22119 on  r2-app-025c12e20f1ee1e58  at 2019-04-27 21:03:49.687274+00:00 running 4c1f176 country code: US. 