Joey King Age, Height, Weight, Bio, Boyfriend, Wiki, Net worth, Ethnicity Joey King Age, Height, Weight, Biography, Boyfriend, Wiki (Jacob Elordi s Girlfriend) Net worth, Ethnicity, Birthday, Profile, Parents, Trivia, Body Measurement, Dating, Social Media, Siblings, Bra Size, Facts and Hot Photos:  Joey King (born on 30 th  of July, 1999) is an American born Voice Actress, Television star, M odel  and Singing Sensation. In fact, she has started her career in movies and TV shows 2002. Furthermore, she has appeared in movies like,  “The Knight Rises” , “Family Weekend”, “The Conjuring” and  White House Down . Joey has awarded  Young Artist Award  for  “The Conjuring”  in 2002. King has featured in TV shows like,  “Tween Fest” , “Bent” and  “The Haunting Hour: The Series.” Furthermore, she is playing the role of  Shelly  Elle  Evans  in  The Kissing Booth  (2018) Film. The other star casts of this Netflix movie are  Jacob Elordi  (Noah Flynn) ,  Nathan Lynn  (Yearbook Guy),  Meganne Young  (Rachel),  Byron Langley ,  Frances Sholto-Douglas  (British Beauty),  Morné Visser  (Mr. Flynn),  Carson White  (Brad Evans),  Jessica Sutton  (Mia),  Joel Courtney  (Lee Flynn) and  Molly Ringwald  (Mrs. Flynn). https://www.instagram.com/p/Bipd-w7gaDd/?taken-by=joeyking Contents Many people have asked me this question  How old is Joey King? She was born on  30 th  of July 1999  at  Las Vegas, Nevada (USA) . Therefore, the  age of Joey King  is around  Nineteen, (19) years old  as on 2018. Moreover, King has brought up in  Los Angeles, California (USA) .  Terry King  (Father) and  Jamie King  (Mother) are the parents of Joey. The siblings of Joey are  Hunter King  (Sister) and  Kelli King  (Sister).  In fact, both sisters of Joey are famous American based actress. Presently, she resides in Los Angeles, California (USA). Currently, Joey has appeared in Los Angeles for the screening for her upcoming Netflix movie  “The Kissing Booth. ” She has attended the screening along with the cast and crew of the movie like  “Jacob Elordi” (Actor) ,  “Carson White” (Actor) ,  “Joey Courtney” (Actress)  and  “Vince Marcello” (Director) . Moreover, King’s sisters Hunter and Kelli have attended the screening to support her sister. The Kissing Booth is about a teen-age school going girl and her feeling about her crush. This movie primarily focuses around teenage girls and boys. Moreover, the  upcoming movie  of Joey is  Slender Man . Currently, Joey is dating Australian based Actor  Jocob Elordi . However, both of them are focusing on their career. They do not want to get married soon. In fact, Jacob and Joey have worked together in “ The Kissing Booth (2018) ” Netflix movie. Joey is getting good income from her acting and singing, career. She has recently bought a  luxurious house worth of $600,000  at  Los Angeles . Therefore, the estimated  Net worth  of  Joey King  is around  $3 Million US dollars  as on 2018. Also Read  Malvika Sharma Wiki, Age, Actress, Height, Weight  &  Body Measurement Current ye@r  * Leave this field empty 