empty-cells | CSS-Tricks Easily manage projects with  monday.com The  empty-cells  property in CSS selects empty table cells for the purpose of specifying whether or not to display borders and backgrounds on them. In other words, it tells the browser whether or not to draw borders around a table cell or fill in the background when that cell contains no content. It's kind of like applying a  visibility  property on empty table cells. The  empty-cells  property has two primary values: The following global values are also accepted: This is an interesting property because it gives CSS the ability to check the HTML markup for content inside of a table and respond accordingly. We don't normally think of CSS as a dynamic language but this is an instance where it comes pretty close. A good use case for  empty-cells  could be a situation where you may not know whether a table will or will not contain empty data points and you decide to hide them. Tables used to be the de-facto way webpage layouts were constructed, so it could be a useful tool for showing and hiding elements when tables are used for presentation or where elements contain the  display: table  property. This Pen is owned by  CSS-Tricks  on  CodePen . See more by @css-tricks on CodePen This Pen doesn ' t use any external CSS resources. This Pen doesn ' t use any external JavaScript resources. A good start is to sign up for our weekly hand-written newsletter. We bring you the best articles and ideas from around the web, and what we think about them. CSS-Tricks *  is created, written by, and maintained by  Chris Coyier  and  a team  of swell people. The tech stack for this site is fairly  boring . That's a good thing! I've used  WordPress  since day one all the way up to  v17 , a decision I'm  very happy with . I also leverage  Jetpack  for extra functionality and  Local  for local development. * May or may not contain any actual "CSS" or "Tricks". CodePen  is a place to experiment, debug, and show off your HTML, CSS, and JavaScript creations. Flywheel logo CSS-Tricks is hosted by  Flywheel , the best WordPress hosting in the business, with a local development tool to match. ShopTalk  is a podcast all about front-end web design and development. 