Ribbed Ruffle Bikini Bottom | INTERMIX® Up to 75% Off - Plus Free Shipping  &  Returns  shop now  | details The main navigation menu utilizes the following keys to activate the subcategory menu for each of the top level categories. Selecting Space opens the subcategory menu. Selecting Tab moves focus through the subcategory menu. To activate the link to the top level category use Return. Press Tab now to continue to main navigation. New Arrivals Introducing Intimates Holiday 2019 Lookbook Event Dressing The Dress Edit New Golden Goose City-Chic Boots The Jewelry Edit Bags of the Season Designed Just For Us Intermix Collection The Instagram Shop Up To 75% Off Your browser's Javascript functionality is turned off. Please turn it on so that you can experience the full capabilities of this site. EXTRA 30% OFF AT CHECKOUT EXTRA 30% OFF AT CHECKOUT Flash Sale 12/17 - 12/19 *EXTRA 30% OFF SALE Offer valid now through December 19, 2019 at 11:59 PM EST. Valid on markdowns on INTERMIXOnline.com and in INTERMIX stores. Discount will apply automatically to eligible items marke d  " EXTRA 30% OFF AT CHECKOUT "  a t checkout. All items are final sale. No returns, no exchanges. Offer not valid on international web orders. This offer cannot be redeemed for cash. Cannot be combined with any other promotions / offers / savings including employee discounts. Offer is not valid on previous purchases, no price adjustments. Select designer sale exclusions apply. Offer is not valid on full price or preorder merchandise. If you have any questions about this offer, please call INTERMIX at 855.446.4943. CID: FL1019 Please note: This item was pre-shot and written from a sample. Details including fabric, construction, and measurement are subject to slight variations from the pictured item. PLEASE NOTE. ALL SALE PURCHASES ARE FINAL SALE. NO EXCHANGES, NO RETURNS,  &  NO ADJUSTMENTS.  2019 Intermix Holdco, Inc. We are delighted to offer our international customers the opportunity to share the INTERMIX experience! We offer worldwide shipping. Shop our site in your selected currency and you will see your complete order total, including shipping fees, customs tariffs and taxes when you’re in checkout. Once you submit your order, the total is guaranteed at the exchange rate indexed when you placed your order. You will not be charged any additional fees at delivery. Pleases select the country you would like to shop in and then click update. If your country is not shown below, please let us know that you would like to shop with us and we will give your request top priority. 