Top 10 places to eat and drink in Birmingham for rugby fans | Skyscanner ' s Travel Blog News Top 10 places to eat and drink in Birmingham for rugby fans Check out our pick of places to eat and drink in Brum, ideal for 2015 Rugby World Cup visitors. As if it didn t have enough to brag about, Birmingham is the unassuming centre of British sport too. As well as the birthplace of the world s first football league in 1888, “Brum” is also home to both the UK s oldest cricket league and the oldest tennis club in the world. Rugby has also been a permanent fixture in the city, and will play host to heavyweights Australia and South Africa as well as Samoa and Uruguay at Villa Park stadium during the Rugby World Cup.   In such a big city, it can be daunting knowing where to go. So, being the helpful souls that we are, we ve pulled together our list of the hottest spots in the city to keep yourselves fed and watered during your visit for the rugby – all you need to do is remember your tickets.   Find flights to Birmingham One of the latest crop of hipster-style old pubs,  the New Inn  in the leafy suburbs of Birmingham s Harborne is a treat for the eyes and for the gullet. With ox blood leather chairs to sink into or nooks to enjoy a civilised pint with your compadres, the New Inn is a popular haunt for the locals of up and coming Harborne. Having stood in the same spot since before 1845, the old world charm and quirky décor of this traditional pub provide relaxed surroundings to imbibe a real ale (such as the pub s own New Inn ale) or gorge on a juicy steak dinner. One of the largest beer gardens in the city should also sweeten the deal should the sun decide to make an appearance. https://instagram.com/p/zXYog7hkOF/ With a Mad Hatter s tea party vibe, the botanical-themed  Lost  &  Found  is one of the city s best kept open secrets. Housed in a stunning Victorian pub in Birmingham city centre, just a stone s throw from the main landmarks and New Street station, this particular bar is a wonder to behold. It even boasts a private speakeasy room behind the bar which can be booked for up to 25 people for an evening of classic cocktail quaffing. With guest ales on the pumps and a variety of world beers on draught and in bottles, an extensive 9-page list of cocktails to plough through and more, Lost  &  Found is well-stocked for a night of celebration or cosmiseration. https://instagram.com/p/3bmu3Di5p5/ This is one for the meat lover. Make that, the  serious  meat lover. Birmingham s  first Argentinian restaurant  has caused quite a storm since opening, with its barbecue goodness attracting the great and good from across the city. Asado – a rustic style of Spanish cooking – is the order of the day so expect to gorge yourself on large hulking cuts of steak (aged for 28 days and barbecued to perfection) just like the original Argentine  gauchos  or cowboys. https://instagram.com/p/00WsXCLvPi/ The Craven Arms was once the pride of the Holder s Brewery with its rather majestic exterior of blue and gold Majolica tiles. And what can I say? It looks just as impressive on the inside as it does on the outside, with its cosy fires, original island bar and old brass ale pumps. The Craven Arms is definitely a treasured piece of Birmingham s pub heritage and worth sticking your head around the door, if only to sup a quick pint of real ale. https://instagram.com/p/54RwJpRPVb/ Regardless of the weather, the covered and heated beer garden at  the Prince of Wales  is always a sure-fire hit with visitors to Birmingham but this watering hole in Moseley is so multi-facted, it will blow your mind. While retaining all the charm of a traditional Victorian pub in the front bar, you ll also get a taste of New York, the Caribbean and beyond in the cocktail lounge. There s even a wine shed – or Shed du Vin as its affectionately known by regulars – stocked with more than 30 wines from around the globe. Let s not forget La Choza – a hut in the garden that sells cigars from Cuba and the New World to further compliment your evening. All this and the rugby action on Sky Sports – need I say more? https://instagram.com/p/5AIRGxtKIo/ Never judge a book by its cover, as the old saying goes, and never was a truer word said about  The Junction  in Harborne. It may see imposing on the outside but the soft centre inside is well worth cracking the hard shell for. With leather-clad snugs, open fireplaces, mismatched tables and chairs and a real local ambience, the Junction is the kind of place where you could easily let a few hours slip by without noticing. With a carefully curated offering of craft ales and a beer garden, the Junction is a stalwart of Harborne s social scene, and a great spot to watch the rugby to boot. https://instagram.com/p/lZ9LJiSXHN/ Set in the heart of Birmingham s Jewellery Quarter,  the Lord Clifden  is not just for the sport-mad but also boasts multiple awards for its food (including nods from The Observer Food Monthly Awards in 2013 and 2014). Picture the scene – a sumptuous New Yorker burger topped with bacon and cheese in one hand, a schooner of your favourite beer on tap in the other and the rugger in HD perfection. Sound tempting? Regular Anna-Maria Clark definitely recommends the Sunday lunches.   https://instagram.com/p/3WcHjpCwCc/ Whether for celebrating success, or nursing the ensuing hangover the next day,  The Plough  should be high on your itinerary. While its award-winning cask ales are always in high demand, the Plough takes its coffee just as seriously as it does its alcoholic wares; so much so, that it was named by  The Independent  as one of the top 50 coffee shops in the UK. The grub is first rate too, with stand out menu selections of course being its Full English and traditional Sunday roast. Nothing less would do a on a lazy Sunday afternoon. https://instagram.com/p/52pMNBy2Jc/ The Goose Find hotels in Birmingham Without us even realising it, our UK cities have made some unlikely friendships around the world. These sister cities don’t look or feel identical to their ‘twin’, instead we’re talking about partnerships and agreements between two places and their blossoming relationships may surprise you. Stuck with ideas for your next… Beat the crowds to these up-and-coming destinations with 2019’s best new air routes. And, here’s what to do and where to stay when you get there. Let’s go… 1. London Heathrow to Charleston, USA – fly from £566 Photo credit: Calum McGarry Sitting on the east coast of the USA, Charleston… In partnership with Visit Greece Here are some of the best flight deals to the most popular Greek islands from the UK: Flight deals to Kefalonia, Ionian Islands Kefalonia is known for it ' s amazing wine, pine forests, natural wonders and laid back culture. Oh, and for being the filming location… Well we'd love it if you left us a review. (It only takes 30 seconds, we promise!) 