Everyuth Naturals Cucumber Face Pack Review   All that Pink Product Category:  Skincare, Mask Wallet Friendly:  Yes. Price:  95 INR for 100 grams Product Chemistry: Kaolin, Water, Talc,Propylene Glycol, Liquid Paraffin, Bentonite, Titanium Dioxide, Polysorbate 60, Polysorbate 80, Glyceryl Monostearate, Isopropyl Alcohol, Sodium Lauryl Sulphate, Turmeric, Cucumber Extract, Ethoxylated Lanolin, Cetostearyl Alcohol, Fragrance, Methyl Paraben, Xanthan Gum, Vitaman E acetate, Papaya Extract, Triclosan, Pudina Extract, Ascorbic Acid, Lemon Extract, Neem Extract, ColorTartazine Yellow C.I.No. 19140, Color Brilliant Blue C.I.No. 42090, Vitamin A Palmitate. Everyuth Naturals Cucumber Face Pack Review Note: The product has been used for a reasonable amount of time to determine its benefits and disadvantages and to present an honest verdict as to whether it is worth spending your money on or not. Everyuth Naturals Cucumber Face Pack Review About Everyuth Naturals Cucumber Face Pack: Your skin needs intensive care every week as dust, pollution and harsh sunrays harm its texture, making it dull and pigmented. Everyuth Naturals Cucumber Face Pack with Neem, Lemon and Turmeric purifies your skin from deep within. Its Intensive care formula relaxes and firms tired skin, leaving your complexion with an unbelievable radiance and glow.Also,being clay-based it s a great option for Acne prone or Oily skin. Directions for use: Cleanse your face. Apply the face pack evenly on your face and neck. Allow it to dry for about 15 minutes and then wash off. For Best results, use at least twice a week. Different ways to use it: I use this mask twice a week in humid climate. I use this face pack in my morning routine. I clean my face using my face wash and then apply a thin opaque layer of the mask all over my face and then take the shower. The steam from the shower helps open my pores. I use gentle scrubbing motion while rinsing off the pack with warm water and splash cold water for the final rinse. I use it as a pack to rejuvenate my skin on weekends, I use this after Deep cleansing- Scrubbing routine. Works wonders on:  Oily, Normal/Combination skin Everyuth Naturals Cucumber Face Pack Review Look and Feel of Everyuth Naturals Cucumber Face Pack: Everyuth has recently relaunched their entire range in a new packaging. The texture of the face pack of quite thick, as Kaolin is the base ingredient. This face pack is best applied with clean fingers to control the layering of the pack on skin. The packaging is a sleek tube with a flip cap which dispenses hassle free. The face pack works amazingly for oily skin; it removes excess oil and hence controls sebum. It deep cleans leaving face without a trace of oil. It dries out acne leaving a flaky skin behind which is only an issue I dislike about clay masks in general. It brightens the skin but does not lighten pigmentation or acne spots. The Neem and Turmeric extracts helps disinfects the skin while Cucumber and Lemon extracts brightens the swallow skin. It does not prevent acne breakout like I expected since it controls sebum to a certain extent. This face pack tends to accentuate dry patches after rinsing and may result in stretchy feeling. To tackle the dry patches issue, apply this face pack post scrubbing would help. One might need to slightly hydrate the skin post usage with either moisturizer or cream. Overall, this is a great Clay based mask for Oily or Normal/Combination skin or to have a cleanup effect at home. Everyuth Naturals Cucumber Face Pack Review Reasons to love Everyuth Naturals Cucumber Face Pack: 1) Deep Cleans without any residue of oil 2) Detoxifies impurities, acts as a soothing agent 3) Rejuvenates and Brightens the skin 4) Sleek Packaging makes it travel friendly 5) Great Option as a clay based mask 6) Budget Friendly Reasons to hate Everyuth Naturals Cucumber Face Pack: 1) May not suit People with Dry skin. But if keen to try it, I would recommend adding a few drops of honey or glycerine for hydration while deep cleaning. To buy or not to buy? This face pack could be considered as great clay based face pack option on the Indian front in terms of efficiency and budget. A must-have skincare product for Oily skinned women, since it not only deep cleans but controls sebum secretion post usage. I would also recommend moisturizing your skin to get rid of the stretchy feeling, if any. Everyuth Naturals Golden Glow Peel-Off Mask Review Lotus Whiteglow Yogurt Skin Whitening  &  Brightening Masque Review Nivea Aqua Effect Refreshing Cleansing Milk Review Your email address will not be published.  Required fields are marked  * Comment Name  * Email  * Website Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email. 