Mardi Gras (with Photos): Top 20 Places to Stay for Mardi Gras - Vacation Rentals, Vacation Homes - Airbnb in New Orleans Great location and amazing space! Excellent stay! Short walking distance from Bourbon Street, Jackson Square, and so much more! Quiet place with easy access and luxury toiletries included. Highly recommend! Great place to stay, very central, clean, bright and well maintained.  This was such a beautiful space to stay. It was super clean and really close to the touristy areas of New Orleans. I would definitely recommend this place to others. The flat was beautiful! So much natural light, spacious and well located. Close to transport and within walking distance of many attractions and amenities, too. Bed &# x27;s been fixed, we had no issues. No streaming service on the TV, just basic cable. Check-in and -out were a breeze. Would definitely recommend. Drip for affogato down the street is the one. The space was nothing short of amazing!  Close to everything we wanted to see in New Orleans, spacious, and beautiful.  We would recommend this space to everyone! Unit is situated perfectly far enough away from the rowdiness of Burbon yet within a few minutes walk of everything. The space is as gorgeous as it looks in the photos. Would definitely stay here again and recommend to family and friends. Very cool place. Amazing view through the skylight. Straight walk to Bourbon Street. Entire home/apt Apartment 2 0 New Orleans, LA, United States Christina &# x27;s location is in a superb spot and felt very safe. Her communication was the best I &# x27;ve experienced so far and I &# x27;ve stayed in a lot of Airbnb &# x27;s. You can &# x27;t go wrong staying here! So clean and super stylish! Great place to stay! Would definitely stay here again! Christina was a very thoughtful host. Very clean, nice condo. The natural sunlight is amazing in the living area. The dark rooms are great for a peaceful nights rest Christina’s stay worked for us for a night. The location was convenient to the Civic Theatre and a bustling area. There is a safe parking garage nearby and the unit has high ceilings.  The only things that were weird and made the stay not 5 starts was in the unit itself. The unit is in a building full of Airbnb’s and so it wasn’t very homey and the unit had no windows whatsoever. There is a sliver of light that comes in from the skylight in the living room but the bedrooms are pitch black and it’s easy to sleep past your alarm. Very disorienting. Overall Christina was a good communicator and while I wouldn’t stay again, it worked for the night This was a nice place to stay at. The only thing I didn &# x27;t like was the parking situation. The room was great Communication was smooth with Christina, we love the location of our stay that it was convenient and safe. Entire home/apt Condominium 4 2 New Orleans, LA, United States Absolutely loved our stay. Perfect apartment, location and places to eat nearby!  Beautiful condo and fantastic location  This place is awesome and in a great location!  I hope it is available everytime I go to New Orleans.  Very convient parking in the garage directly across from condo. This condo was amazing! So roomy and perfect for multiple travelers. Brad was super communicative and friendly before check-in and we had no issues during our stay.  Would definitely book again in the future! Beautiful apartment steps away from the Bourbon Street! Would definitely recommend this place to anyone that wants a comfortable stay in NOLA. Great location and home!  Walking distance to Bourbon Street, but also far enough from all the craziness to get a good night sleep.      From modern appliances and fancy showers, robes with slippers were a nice touch as well.     Overall, a very pleasant experience and we highly recommend it!  Great location! Slept 7 young women comfortably. Nice open layout. There is an elevator so you do not have to climb all the steps with your luggage like I did on day one. Top notch space.   Loved the look of this Airbnb. Very unique and great distance to bourbon street and the French quarter.   Would highly recommend this space.  Entire home/apt Condominium 4 2 New Orleans, LA, United States Wonderful space, conveniently located, great price! Awesome place to stay ! Will for sure stay there next time I visit NOLA!! Quick responses and very clean place. One of the best Airbnb experiences we &# x27;ve had. Excellent location, close to all the attractions. Very easy check in and great communication. The place is beautifully decorated and has everything you need. High end linens, the most comfortable bed you &# x27;ll ever sleep in, and all amenities you can think of (coffee maker  &  coffee, iron, laundry, umbrella, guide books).  Really appreciated the thoughtful touches (water and candy on arrival) and friendliness of hosts. Stay here - you won &# x27;t be disappointed! We are recommending Alice and Scott &# x27;s place to everyone we know who will be visiting NOLA and can &# x27;t wait to come back for a longer stay! We had a fun time on our trip and this was a great plave to stay while we were here. It was very well stocked with amenities and was very clean. Would return for another trip. Stayed here with two other friends, and we really enjoyed our stay. The place was even better in person. Great place to stay! Very stylish and cozy. The king-size bed was amazing. Alice was great with communication. Highly recommend this place! Very nice condominium and very clean will stay again next time we are in New Orleans ! I had a surprise birthday for my boyfriend in NOLA June 7,18.  We loved the easy key pad to enter the building and entrance to the Condo.  The condo is very spacious and we loved the decor and the updated kitchen with very nice kitchen appliances . Bosch!  The kitchen had a refrigerator with filters water  A washing machine and a dryer was a bonus for us .  The bedroom is very spacious and a bonus of a walk in closet . Tv in living room and bedroom with Netflix.  The ceiling fans feel good after a hot muggy day walking the French quarter.  Bathroom is big with nice white towels. The bed is a delight with comfy big pillows and memory form bed. We loved we had a short walk to the French quarter very nigh. Bonus  We would love to come back in the near future.  Thank you to the host for allowing us to stay in your wonderful condo!   Nancy and Chuck Entire home/apt Condominium 4 1 New Orleans, LA, United States So so SO much to love here! Wonderfully located a few blocks from the Quarter, and an easy 15 minute walk or trolley ride from the Warehouse and Garden districts... the city certainly has its rougher spots, but I never once felt unsafe going to or from the apartment. Lovely kitchen, bathtub, INCREDIBLE amount of closet space... really fun bedroom design. Walls tend to be a little thin- sometimes heard the cleaning crew in hallway in the morning- but even that noise NEVER reached a level that was intolerable, or that couldn &# x27;t be solved with some ear plugs. Hosts are kind and communicative; truly a great NOLA housing find, definitely recommending to all!!! Will be back ! Feels like home and location is close to all the action 🍻😛 Such a great spot in a great location. 10/10 would recommend Great place with perfect location a couple blocks from bourbon street and other places of interest. Frank was a fantastic host- communicative, responsive, and helpful during the entire stay. Recommend for anyone who wants to say in central New Orleans. Amazing location, very safe. Frank’s place was absolutely perfect. Washer and dryer was awesome to have! Frank &# x27;s place is at an amazing location, a few minutes to the French Quarter as well as walking distance to the convention center. We stayed there for a bit less than a week and can easily recommend to anyone. Great Space!! VERY CLOSE to the French Quarter!  We felt very safe there! Great location and space. Would rent from Frank again! Entire home/apt Apartment 2 1 New Orleans, LA, United States This place was incredible! Cute place, awesome location, and great value!! This space was very nice for our stay. We came during the week and really enjoyed the proximity to the French Quarter. The ceilings were massive and it was exactly the vibe we were going for. They had a coffee and a tea maker which was great for each of us and they were very responsive when we needed extra towels and hangers. We will be back for sure! Good location- follow welcome instructions to find the entrance. Just a few blocks from Canal street where there are street cars. It was a bit loud outside at night (for a non-city person). Well decorated place with a fantastic walk in closet. Electronic entry is super convenient and Sonder was very responsive when I had a few small things arise. The building has high ceilings, which are neat, but it did mean some echoing/amplifying of my neighbors, which was difficult some nights. There &# x27;s laundry on site, which came in handy and Central AC that keeps the temp reasonable... It didn &# x27;t make it to the bedroom with as well, but the ceiling fan in there helped. For quick nearby eats, I highly recommend the Halal guys for gyros. Not so quick, but delicious included: Luke for seafood/burgers/delish cocktails and Johnny Sanchez for great Mexican (go during happy hour for $2 tacos and try them all). and a hole in the wall called the streetcar cafe I think... Next to Daisy Dukes. They have good happy hour specials and serve breakfast all day. I would definitely stay here again. The place is beautiful and feels like a home. The host is very responsive and friendly.  The space is located in the warehouse district, a perfect starting point to walk to the French Quarter or Magazine street, about 15 minute walk. You are just a couple of blocks from Canal street, so food, alcohol or shopping is nearby. There are ample bus and trolley stops within a couple of blocks. The soaring windows in the bedroom are a marvel and the apartment tastefully appointed. The apartment is large, the walk in closet amazing, and the neighborhood quiet. You may want to bring earplugs as the walls seem a little thin, but you won &# x27;t be spending much time in your room with all that New Orleans has to offer. The Sonder group responds quickly to all difficulties and requests. We appreciated how they remedied a former apartment problem with great speed. Would use their service, and this apartment, in the future. Great space in a great location. Would def stay again. Very nice place. Good location, a couple of streets away from Canal St. And 4 blocks away from Bourbon St.  Great location, although there can be a lot of street noise- over the weekend specifically, and the windows in the room let in quite a bit of light.  We would recommend earplugs and a mask if either of these issues disturb your sleep.  Otherwise we loved it! Entire home/apt Apartment 2 1 New Orleans, LA, United States This is a cozy little space in a great location.  For the money you’re paying, it’s a nice place to stay.  The host was extremely responsive to any issues that came up. Location was great! We were able to walk to everything we wanted to experience! Nola was so thoughtful and organized with her recommendations for the area which we really appreciated! We were very pleased with the space and would recommend it! Great location, easy walk to French Quarter. Close enough to walk back and forth multiple times a day. Nola &# x27;s place was fantastic.  The location is perfect.  A block across from Bourbon St, French quarter and a few blocks from the water.  The apartment is super clean and has a washer and dryer.  The rooftop pool and view were awesome!  Communication, check in and check out we &# x27;re super easy. We will definitely stay here again on our next visit. This was a wonderful location both for my meetings and to jump off and visit the iconic areas of the French Quarter, CBD, and the Garden District. Also close to the river and wonderful suggestions and recommendations from the host. The responsiveness of the host was great, check in was a breeze, and the building was secure and central. As others have said be prepared for a minimalist space that photographs well and is nice and roomy, but you do not have many places for lounging or surfaces to spread out across. Not bad if you are just there over a weekend to explore and have a place to lay your head down. But if you plan on getting work done the surfaces are sparse. Overall a great experience. Great place to stay. Location is close enough to everything around the city.  The pool area is a great place to spend some relaxing time with.  Priced well and a great host.  Loved the place. The local of this apartment could not have been anymore perfect. If you are seeing a show at the Orpheum or the Sanger this place is just blocks away. The unit was very clean and minimalistic with everything you need. It was a very easy check in and out process with a secure lobby. The best part was the rooftop pool! We will be staying here every visit to NO from now on. Great place for the price Entire home/apt Apartment 4 1 New Orleans, LA, United States Perfect location. Everything was a quick walk or Uber ride away. Close to French Quarter and WWII museum. Condo is comfortable and stylish. The bed is amazing! If you require a dark room to sleep in, I’d pack an sleep mask. Large, beautiful windows allow a lot of natural light into space. Definitely would stay here again! We had a great stay at Barbara’s beautiful condo, and especially loved the super comfy bed after a lonnng day. The apartment was clean and spacious and in a great location just outside the hustle and bustle of the busier parts of the French Quarter. The lobby is fun, too! One of the best AirB & B experiences I have had. Barbara is an excellent hostess. She responded to inquiries very quickly. Her home was beautiful, very clean and modern. Also in a great location with lots of cool places close by. I highly recommend Barbara &# x27;s place. Wonderful experience. We had an amazing stay at this location. I am happy we chose a spot outside of the French quarter, it felt more calm and more safe, also the price was much better and still close to all the action Loved the set up of the condo. It was a nice cool and calm space to come back to after busy days sight seeing. This spot was a quick and easy walk to the French quarter. We were able to come and go multiple times each day with ease. Barbara was quick and kind to respond with any questions, I felt that she really cared that we have a good experience.  An FYI if you are a sensitive sleeper...there are big beautiful windows that let light in day and night, we loved it but be prepared if you prefer a black out situation. Also, the street rail car is close by so you can hear it coming and going day and night, again didn &# x27;t bother us but bring ear plugs if you need silence 😉. The bed is super comfy!  We will definitely stay here again! Would highly recommend. This apartment is in a great location. Barbara was very quick to respond to any messages and helpful with all our queries. The place was immaculate. It &# x27;s ideally located for exploring the sights of New Orleans. Clean, stylish, comfortable with all the amenities.  Secure access building, right near the French Quarter.  Everything we needed.  Awesome stay! Barbara is an excellent host. Barbara is accommodating, helpful and very easy to communicate with. Barbara has equipped and furnished the apartment beautifully. Barbara provides soft towels, lots of bedding and pillows, toiletries, snacks, water and all the basics in the kitchen. There is a TV in the bedroom as well as in the lounge. The high ceilings and large windows create light and space for you to unwind after a long day. The apartment is located in a perfect spot - it &# x27;s just outside of the French quarter and that is a good thing. It &# x27;s only a 10-15 minute walk into the hustle and bustle, there is a streetcar (tram) stop a couple of minutes walk away from the apartment and it was a 20 minute uber ride from and to the airport.  If you are non-American then the bathroom tap might be tricky to use, the spout at the mouth of the tap needs to be pulled down in order for the shower to come on. We contacted Barbara she responded quickly with instructions.  It &# x27;s worth noting there are torrential downpours, without warning, in NO and there is no balcony or outside space to dry things. The apartment does have a washer and dryer facility.  Overall, this was one of the nicest and easiest air bnb bookings we &# x27;ve made on this trip. Barbara was a fantastic host and great communicator! Location was also very nice as it gave some distance to the craziness of Bourbon Street. Apartment was stylish and space was very clean. Would recommend to anyone traveling to NOLA! Entire home/apt Condominium 2 1 New Orleans, LA, United States The location is great, not too far from the French Quarter. The apartment is stylish. Jason &# x27;s communication was great, and checking in and out is easy. The only negatives I would say are that the blinds don &# x27;t completely close, so there is a lot of light in the apartment from the street at night. And there seems to be some type of construction going on, so there was noise from that as well. If you are a light sleeper, these may be issues for you. If you aren &# x27;t a light sleeper, I &# x27;d recommend Jason &# x27;s place in NOLA for sure. Jason &# x27;s place is gorgeous and he is a great host. Awesome place to stay. Jason &# x27;s place was very very clean and fully equipped. Jason &# x27;s response time was incredible. I &# x27;m convinced he has the ability to stop time; that &# x27;s how fast he is.  Great loft with everything you need to feel like at your own home!  Perfect location for your stay in New Orleans, everything is in walking distance. At night, like anywhere in New Orleans, you must be careful walking around. The apartment is very secure and is as described. The only thing to consider when deciding to stay and you are a light sleeper is that the bedroom is quite light during the night and you can hear the tram. Jason was helpful and always responsive. Great location in a secure building. Ah-mazing location. 3 Blocks to Bourbon one way and if you go blocks in the other direction you &# x27;re hitting up the Ace, Standard Hotel (opening soon) and other cool hotels with great restaurants and bars. Jason keeps a really clean home and check-in was a breeze. I highly recommend it and hope to stay again in the future! Amazing location, super clean, great stay! Entire home/apt Loft 2 1 New Orleans, LA, United States Great place to stay for a couples getaway. The apartment was clean, stylish and walking distance to Bourbon Street. The place is quaint and has most things you need but it is on a very busy trolley car line and not very restful/peaceful. Great place everything my wife and I needed. great location for walking to French quarter or taking the street car to other places in the city. Be aware the street car right outside is pretty loud if your a light sleep it COULD be a problem. we didn &# x27;t find it too annoying after the first night. we were sent the wrong door code but after a quick call to customer service they got it all squared away and sent me the correct code. Overall I would recommend this place Great location and cute decor! Location is excellent, just a couple blocks away from French Quarter. The space is very stylish and really clean. Only downside is that it does get really loud sometimes due to the street car tracks right in front of the apartment - which we anticipated from the reviews. If you’re not a light sleeper, this is an excellent deal in the area. The Airbnb was stylish and clean. By far the best Airbnb we have stayed in New Orleans! The location was ideal, everywhere we wanted to go was in walking distance.  The host was quick and responsive with any of our needs. We needed the updated keypad code. She was easy to reach by phone.  Please note the Airbnb is located near the streetcar rails, it can get a little loud at night. However, as a light sleeper, I was able to get a good night &# x27;s sleep with the bedroom door closed and melatonin.  Definitely recommend! Original location had leak so we got upgraded. Wonderful communication from Sonder re: moving locations albeit a bit last minute. Great location a block away from upper Bourbon Street, everything within walking distance.    Apartment was clean, spacious, and easy to access.  Only minor sound disturbance from trolley cars, but noticeable only In the living room area. Entire home/apt Apartment 2 1 New Orleans, LA, United States Awesome condo, fantastic location, terrific host, THANKS! WIll stay here again!!! Great location close to the French Quarter and a helpful and responsive host. The towels were a little old however and the apartment was a little unclean in certain parts, but these were minor concerns. Great spot to explore NOLA from! Great location! You’re a few blocks from anything. We loved everything about this place, it had everything we needed. Great location Great location. Walkable to nearly everything we wanted to do. This place was in ideal location! Right off Carondelet which actually turns into bourbon street just a couple blocks down. Walking distance to just about everything fun and exciting! Only had to Uber from the airport, which was a nice surprise !  Our host was incredible and so accommodating. We had a very early flight and they were up waiting for our call at 7 am to buzz us up to the apartment to get settled in! I also made a mistake upon my booking and they were more than happy to help me resolve the issue. You made my birthday trip! Thank you!!! We scheduled our arrival at the same time a potential hurricane was coming through New Orleans, and the host worked with us to get us local information about the weather at the location and reschedule if necessary. The location is walking distance from the Superdome and Bourbon street, and a host of other fun places. No need to drive anywhere. The building is super cool. Check in/check out was seamless and we will definitely stay there again if we go back. This BNB was walking distance to some good restaurants and famous bars. I would recommend this host to anyone. She had quick responses! Entire home/apt Condominium 2 1 New Orleans, LA, United States We did not stay at this specific location due to some noise concerns and my son’s need to nap during the day, but the customer service we had from Sonder was outstanding. They moved us to a different location at no extra cost, and when we had a small issue there it was taken care of promptly. The building we were moved to was having an issue with the lock on the external building door and there was someone physically there to ensure the security of the building every time we went in or out. I was very impressed with this company. Thank you! Great stay and great location Amazing space! I would highly recommend staying here. We were on a girls trip and enjoyed staying in so much. It’s a great location and aesthetic and has everything you need. We had an amazing experience and it was one of my most favourite Airbnbs! Amazing place!!!! I was super impressed with the cleanliness and I loved how spacious it was! The location is phenomenal, walking distance to everything!! Great unit in a great location. Would definitely stay here again! Loved it. If you &# x27;re looking for a great place to stay near the French quarter, and want to enjoy professional service in a clean and modern apartment, then this is for you. If you are looking for a personal touch and interaction with your host, then this is not for you. Great place and location - perfect for my family stay on NOLA.  Highly recommend. Entire home/apt Apartment 4 2 New Orleans, LA, United States Great location. Easy check in. Close to everything Great location, no frills, easy check-in. Incredible location and value. Very well equipped kitchen, even with washer and dryer and dishwasher, though needed a few more basic kitchen items (e.g. knives, wine glasses, bowls). I will definitely be back The space and location are perfect for business or pleasure. I had a great time being in the middle of downtown with everything within relative walking distance. The location is amazing, and Jimmy was responsive.  We would stay here again, and suggest this air bnb to anyone that wants a central location! Great place, great location, paranoid security guards that are busy always asking if you are an Airbnb renter or not. It was not very friendly and I would even say hostile from the building staff. For the price, I &# x27;d pay for a hotel next time. Wonderful location, we didn’t spend too much time in the place as we mostly walked around New Orleans. Great location and walkable to everything Good location, good enough for just a place to sleep Entire home/apt Condominium 4 1 New Orleans, LA, United States Pluses: Great place, great location: very close but far enough away from all the action. Nice size for two couples (FYI one bedroom doesn &# x27;t have a window). Nice hosts on location. Minus: Beds are pretty squeaky (almost sound like air beds). Great place with a great location.  New, Modern, Clean, Great Location The location of this place was wonderful! It was easy to walk to Canal St. and hop a trolley to the French Quarter or just walk if the weather is nice. The building, common spaces, and apartment were all gorgeous. We very much enjoyed our stay and will be coming back! The place was really beautiful and spacious! Just enough room for me and my 5 friends! It was very clean. Beds super comfy! A very short walk to the bourbon street action! Check in was easy and flawless  Amazing place and location. Very clean, new and stylish. Located in beautiful area. The only thing there is no parking on premises, you have to pay for it. Absolutely beautiful apartment. Very spacious and comfortable. Great location with a number of restaurants, coffee shops, etc in the immediate area. The only drawback was that there was quite a bit of noise coming from the street on multiple nights that we stayed. Otherwise, we will definitely look to stay here again if we return to New Orleans in the future. All instructions were accurate and precise. When I had questions I could get them on the telephone. All communication before and during my rental was above board and completely accurate. Everyone was polite. The only thing I &# x27;ll say in the spirit of full disclosure, the house rules about being quiet from 9pm until 9am is not observed at all, except Sunday night. It &# x27;s NOLA so there &# x27;s a lot of loudness that comes with alcohol. It was annoying after 2am but it would not be a dealbreakerfor me. A $5 über ride to anywhere from this great location: Burbon St, convention center, casino, etc.   The apt. itself is new, beautiful, reminds me of a timeshare. Other than the late night noise of people yelling in the corridors as they traveled to and from their rooms, it was perfect. I was so glad I did this instead of a traditional hotel experience.  Entire home/apt Apartment 6 2 New Orleans, LA, United States well maintained and spacious Excellent area and beautiful building. Amazing place! Great location and very clean. Our stay at Stay Alfred &# x27;s apartment was fantastic. It looks just as good the pictures, the apartment is very stylish, large, and well-equipped. All the amenities you &# x27;d need are provided, and the balcony upstairs was a really nice touch. The building itself is also fantastic, again, very clean and stylish and the luggage storage room and beautiful courtyard were great additions.  The building is located a short walk to the French District and Bourbon St, and is right in the heart of downtown, plenty of food and drink options nearby. The rental company Stay Alfred were generally great and very attentive to details, however having to login into their site for check-in information and being automatically added to their email marketing list felt spammy.  Overall a great experience, and I would highly recommend it. Staying at Stay Alfred &# x27;s  is wonderful. It &# x27;s just outside of the French Quarter and a short walk to Jackson Square. Jackson Square was holding a blues concert that was great. There were 10 of us in 3 different units, all of witch were great with all of the amenities, beautiful rooms and plenty of lounge space. The staff was terrific!  We and our friends often go to New Orleans for the great music and now we have a great place to stay.  Couldn &# x27;t be better! Such a cute place, the decorations and space itself was so stylish. Def recommend to anyone traveling to Nola! It &# x27;s a lovely place; plenty of room.  The location is perfect for walking around New Orleans. The host was quick to respond to our concerns. Right on the cable car line which is great...and loud if you are not used to it. Entire home/apt Apartment 8 3 New Orleans, LA, United States An amazing space with everything you’ll need!! Not a thing has been overlooked and not thought of. Will’s communication was always quick and the apartment is in a perfect location.   Would definitely recommend and would definitely stay again. 5 stars is not enough for this place!! My wife and I found this place to be comfortable, roomy and very quiet, and we really enjoyed living there for a week. The interior is in great condition and has large windows so is very bright. It is located just outside of the French Quarter with less than a 10 minute walk to Bourbon Street, and about a 15 minute walk to the large hotels like Harrahs at the waterfront. It has great access to the Canal Street and St Charles streetcar lines, which can take you to various attractions. I recommend you look into getting the RTA GoMobile app for your smartphone - it made using the bus and streetcar system pretty easy.  The entrance from the street is a simple affair that is located between two stores. While the address is well marked, it may be easy to miss if you are looking for a larger storefront. An elevator takes you up to the unit on the third floor. Will &# x27;s place is gorgeous, brick walls, high ceilings, big windows, granite counters, new appliances.  Great location and an elevator in the building.  When we get back to NOLA again, I hope it &# x27;s available.  You will NOT go wrong staying here.  Bed was super comfortable.  The living room had a smart TV so we could log in and watch Sling.  Will made sure we had everything we needed. Location was great-Will was great at responding to questions-would stay there again when in New Orleans- Absolutely beautiful place! Far enough away from all of the excitement that it &# x27;s quiet, but within walking distance of bourbon street. loved staying at Will &# x27;s and would recommend it to anyone! Will’s place is a very modern spacious apt within 10 mins walking distance to the heart of Burbon St. Close enough to the action and far enough for quiet nights. The apt is fully furnished with everything one might need (washer/dryer/cookware/dishwasher/iron with board). Fully stocked with extra linen and toiletries, and welcomed with beer and chips. I highly recommend. Super cute apartment in the perfect location. This place is perfect. It’s just a short couple block walk to Canal and Bourbon but far enough away it’s quiet and not as crazy.  The bed is so comfy as well! The apartment was super clean and easy to access. Safe neighborhood as well! Entire home/apt Condominium 4 1 New Orleans, LA, United States The place was great! It was packed with enough supplies for the duration of our stay. I enjoyed the whiteboard of suggestions. Additionally, the place is in walking distance of Canal Street and Bourbon Street Perfect place to stay. 3min walking distance to French Quarter. Really amazing location, close to everything and very convenient. Apartment is cozy, good for small groups as there were three beds, nice rooftop pool and lounge area. Owner is super responsive if there are any problems too so all in all excellent experience. The spot was really cute and the location was everything. Literally steps from everything as soon as you walk out the door.. The location of this place was great!! The only issue we had was finding it due to check in instructions not having been sent until we were trying to find the place after the scheduled check in time... Definitely recommend this spot for its great location  &  accommodations despite our one little hiccup! It is a nice apartment and really close to the French Quarter. I would stay there again.  The location is perfect. Be ready to pay for parking because there wasnt really any. The apartment itself was decent. I cant stress enough how perfect the location is. Quite frankly, James &# x27;s home was cozy and right near the French Quarter, and my friends and I loved it. Highly recommend. Entire home/apt Apartment 4 1 New Orleans, LA, United States The apartment was just as described - clean, conveniently located to the Quarter and Uptown and very comfortable. Would recommend throwing open the windows in the morning and putting WWOZ on.  Beautiful home, great location, amazing service. I loved the location. Within minutes to everywhere I wanted to go. This flat has a great location. The Quarter is easily walkable but it’s quiet and a little removed from all the partying. There are also a few nice places for a drink or bite right outside the door. The design is very cool with sliding doors and we had a great stay. Thanks Jordan. Great location, great value, and Jordan responds to your needs very quickly.  This is a unique interior full of style and comfort. The rooftop hot tub was as nice as you would hope and we were the only ones up there every time we went. Open space between kitchen and living room area makes for easy chilling zone when downtiming from the loud fun of New Orleans. One tip - one bedroom is behind some unique sliding doors so that room can be bright - Bring an eye mask and you &# x27;re good. Or just ask Jordan for any tips before hand, he was super accommodating and knows about the city, too. Enjoy! Exactly as described great hosts would stay 10 out of 10 times Great host and great location. Clean, amazing place, communicative host. Jordan is a real pro Entire home/apt Loft 4 2 New Orleans, LA, United States Very lovely place! Highly recommend! I had a great time at this hostel. Very clean, unique space and helpful, supportive and engaging staff. Hostel has evening outings if you &# x27;re looking to go to the bars with a group of people instead of going solo. All of the other folks at the hostel we &# x27;re friendly and very open about their travel tips. I &# x27;ll check in again next time I &# x27;m in town! Everything was great close to all the fun stuff. Definitely coming back This is a clean, fancy hostel with nice common rooms, good facilities and is located very central and close to Bourbon Street. I highly recommend this place! Also, when you travel alone you should definetly go here! You meet many new, very nice people from different places you can hang out with and hit the streets at night. I had an awesome time and I am sure you will as well! It was my first time traveling to a city alone. Let alone somewhere I’ve never been before. This place was beyond nice and comforting. Everyone was nice and were doing their own thing. I would definitely come here again! This hostel had the feel of a college dorm, but not in any bad way. There are many guests on a given weekend, but everyone is respectful of the space. If you are looking for a quick place to rest and hold your belongings while you enjoy the city of New Orleans, this is a perfect place for you. Stay here! It’s safe, secure, and affordable. Travel with other travelers. This place rocks! For young and social travelers this place is perfect. I was nervous booking a hostel but all the reviews were spot on with how beautifully decorated, clean and well located this Airbnb is. The hospitality is also beyond that I expected including staff members going well out of their way to make the sleeping arrangements comfortable. Hotel room Hostel 16 1 New Orleans, LA, United States Dear All, The place is in heart of New Orleans.  Parking isn &# x27;t available and please be aware of the $20 added expense to your trip if you &# x27;re planning on driving. I consider the place is little overpriced (it is just my opinion).  The staff of the building specially the night security guard Krystal are amiable and helpful. Host responds promptly and was helpful ~ Note: We may look for other options when we visit New Orleans next time Best  Sai Raj This air bnb is perfect area, not to far from the French quarters, it’s in walking distance. The condo was amazing, however we were caught in the impending hurricane so that put quite the damper on our activities when we were stuck inside for a day and then had to leave early. Other than Mother Nature, our host was amazing and so was their space. The place is perfectly located maybe an 8-minute walk from Bourbon. It looks exactly like the photos shown and the rooftop pool has the most  amazing views. The only thing you should be aware of when booking is the parking will run you about $20 a night. Great location and not more than a 10 minute uber to anywhere! Quick responses and everything went smoothly! Thanks for having us! Great place to stay close to everywhere right in the middle of the city. Gorgeous view from the roof with a pool ! Nice gym as well The hosts were responsive to problems and the place is in a great location. However, the AC did not work properly even after someone came to check on it and there were not instructions on how to use it, so we were unsure about how to address the problem ourselves. Luckily it was cool most of the time we were there, so the issue was only a problem for the last couple days. The pics of the place also did not represent the place well although it was still a nice place to stay. The apartment is very nice and the pictures accurately represent the space. Entire home/apt Condominium 4 1 New Orleans, LA, United States Amazing stay! Fantastic place close to everything. The place is very clean and cozy. Thanks for everything Jordan. I know where I will stay when I &# x27;m back in New Orleans. Exceeded expectations and photos don &# x27;t do it justice!  It &# x27;s incredibly convenient to the city, well stocked inside, clean, neat, modern, and very fun.  I stayed for 2 months and couldn &# x27;t have been happier.  Washer/dryer, dishwasher, good bathroom, nice bed, great closet space, full kitchen, nice cubicle bookshelf with lots of little pots to organize your stuff (if staying longterm), thoughtful layout of furniture and lighting--you &# x27;ll see what I mean.  This plaec was AWESOME. Space is absolutely awesome and the location even better. Next time I’m staying in the N.O. I’ll definitely be coming back to their loft. If the spirit of New Orleans is what you are looking for, this is the spot for you. Thanks to Jordan for a great stay! The apartment was an awesome space and had all the amenities we needed. The location was so close to many attractions and we were able to walk everywhere. We had an amazing time! I could not have asked for a better place to stay during my first trip to New Orleans! The apt was great and the location was perfect. I would definitely stay here again. Thank you Marigny! Overall one of our best stays ever.  The location was perfect, very near the French Quarter yet far enough away to avoid noise. Place felt like home, with great basics and extras. We could have lived there for months.  We did have one problems and two quibbles.  When my wife called nine days before our arrival to let our host know we would be leaving one day early she reached the house keeper who gave us incorrect information and passed on our information to our host incorrectly.  (All fixed by email with host.). Also, the web page did not mention parking, it would be cleared if it stated none was available on site.  (There was a parking garage very close with good rates, by big city standards.) Finally, the tub was  a bit slippery, so a bath mat would have been helpful. This location was wonderful. We were close enough to the French Quarter to enjoy it everyday, but far enough away to not be in the middle of the action when we didn &# x27;t want to be. The building was safe, clean, and unique, and the room was clean, colorful, and comfortable. My husband and I had such a good time and will keep this apartment on our list of places to stay :) Great place and great location. I stayed for over three weeks and didn’t want to leave! Entire home/apt Loft 2 1 New Orleans, LA, United States Muse’s place was very nice and clean. Had issues getting in cause of the door lock. But contacted muse and someone helped us right out. There was no major issues although the washer and dryer squeaks when being used.  There is Plenty of space for four people. It had dishes as well as pots to cook with. Its not far from bourbon st. There are stores right around the corner if you need anything. There is on sight parking for $40 a day. Or a public parking garage across the street from the hotel which was $20 per day.  I will return for another stay if its available. It was a very clean space, which can definitely fit up to four people. The beds were extremely comfortable. The kitchen is fully stocked with utensils, washer and dryer were in the unit as well. The living room has two couches, nice side tables and a television, with Netflix. The amazing thing is two bathrooms and a walk in closet. Amazing experience! Exceeded all our expectations! The condo is a beautiful space within walking distance to the French Quarter. That said- it will be a little loud at night because of its proximity to the French Quarter.   The lock on the door to the condo is modern and difficult to use- I recommend the next guests to have this information cleared up by the host prior to their stay. We were given unclear instructions and the wrong code to get in which was very frustrating in the beginning.   There is a cleaning staff that comes to clean the condo, similar to a hotel. We were surprised to have this particular cleaning staff come into the condo during our stay unannounced. This was a mistake on scheduling by the host, which was slightly unsettling that there was no deadbolt on the door to prevent others who know the door code to get in.   I realize this condo was a relatively new listing on Airbnb and probably needs to work out a few kinks before it’s a perfect spot. Excellent location, we didn’t have to drive anywhere! The place was very clean, and the building very nice as well. Would highly recommend staying here This Airbnb is located very close to Bourbon Street and we easily walked to most places we wanted to see. The apartment was clean, and coffee and towels were provided. It is not  " homey "  per se, it &# x27;s very clear that no one lives in this apartment and it is a full time Airbnb, but for the price it has good amenities and a nice location. We felt very safe in the building and there is a drugstore close by to purchase water etc.  This building seems to have a significant number of units rented out for Airbnbs (there is even a tourism concierge on the bottom floor), which meant that even on a weekday there was really never a chance to enjoy the small rooftop pool as it was always crowded with other guests.  For the price and location, I would stay here again. Thank you! Great place to stay. Couple minute walk to the street cars. And the roof top was a great place to relax at the end of a busy day. Amazing location if you’re wanting to hit the French Quarter, bourbon street, some shopping, and other family fun activities that aren’t just Bourbon Street! The place itself was perfect. Comfortable beds, plenty of towels, spacious all around. Nice size kitchen to cook meals if needed! Though we didn’t go in the pool, it was a beautiful view and not crowded one bit. A nice place to relax and get some fresh air. Definitely plan on staying here again in the future! Entire home/apt Condominium 4 1 New Orleans, LA, United States Great apartment with everything you need. So easy to jump on the trolley but only 10min walk to bourbon street. Excellent service! Had an issue while checking in with the door code and that was quickly resolved over the phone. We then realized that we would be needing an extra blanket and they had one delivered within the hour. 10/10 would stay again. Always my favorite place to stay. Great place to stay! Really modern spot that flies under the radar. ❤️ Really easy check in, lovely space, really clean. Great to have our own space but still have the feel of a hotel. Would definitely recommend. 10-15 minute walk to Bourbon Street.  Host communication and response time was very timely and they were willing to be flexible regarding check in and check out times. Home came with water/ice on fridge, coffee, dishes, pans, olive oil, foil, blow dryer, soaps, shampoos, conditioners, etc so I had no complaints during my stay.  The WiFi, AC, running water, and lights all worked perfectly. I would definitely stay again. Great place to stay Entire home/apt Apartment 4 1 New Orleans, LA, United States This place was amazing! Definitely a sight to see and in a prime safe location. We were able to experience New Orleans and enjoy our stay. Check in was amazing and easy and my host was very considerate, prompt, and accommodating. If I come back I would definitely stay at this place again! Amazing place in a great location. Quick response and extremely easy check in/check out. Perfect! Had a great stay in the condo. Location was perfect. Park your car in a 24 hr lot and enjoy the walkable neighborhood for everything you need. Host was very responsive and offered suggestions when asked. I can &# x27;t recommend this location enough.  It surpassed my wife &# x27;s and I expectations and we had a wonderful anniversary.  The location is trendy, clean, comfortable, and steps away from the Bourbon Street Night life.  Just be prepared for expensive parking in the area in general, but the location itself is top notch!! Perfect spot for a trip to Nola! Good location and lots of room with nice kitchen living room area. Comfortable bed. The place was immaculate and it was a completely hassle free check-/check-out. The location is SUPERB! Every major site was within walking distance or a short uber/lyft ride away (that’s if we were being lazy or couldn’t deal with walking in the heat), great restaurants in the neighborhood that were a quick 5min walk. Willa Jean  &  Daisy Dukes were pretty good for breakfast/lunch. All in all, super host with the perfect place in the perfect location, especially for Essence Fest. Very nice space! Entire home/apt Condominium 2 1 New Orleans, LA, United States Entire home/apt Apartment 5 1 New Orleans, LA, United States Great location close to street cars and the French Quarter but quiet. Great location with parking right around the corner and for walking to many places ( French Quarter etc ) Concierge service available and helpful. Sparkling clean with easy check-in and check-out. Great views from rooftop. Unfortunately the pool wasn’t in service, but a great place to stay! Amazing apartment. Be sure to park in the garage attached to the building. When you valet your car it might be difficult to access it, so make sure you get everything out you need. As soon as you check in, you can access your car through the mail room without walking outside the building.  It’s about a 10 minute walk to Bourbon Street. Loved being next door to the Roosevelt Hotel.  Apartment was just like the pictures shown. Extremely clean and well decorated. Great location, clean, and stylish. Great stay! The place was lovely, clean, and in a perfect location. Check-in/check out was easy. There was only one bathroom even though the description at the time said 1.5. The air conditioner didn’t work and no one responded to my concerns about that.  Otherwise,  this was a nice stay. The apartment was as hot as the location because the AC didn’t seem to work at all.  Running the ceiling fans constantly was a decent workaround but not ideal.  Overall the decor and location were perfect for a French Quarter focused visit and we thoroughly enjoyed our stay.  Slightly disappointed that there wasn’t higher quality toilet paper or darker curtains but that didn’t stop us from having a great time in New Orleans. If you’re looking for a place close to canal  street, clean  &  worth your money ! This is the spot ! Me and my boyfriend enjoyed our stay here! Definitely recommend! Very clean, easy check in. Having valet parking on site was a huge plus! The place looks exactly like the pictures. Definitely would stay again! Entire home/apt Condominium 3 1 New Orleans, LA, United States Great location and the property is as advertised; I would definitely stay again!  The place was amazing. It had a real New Orleans charm to it. There was everything we needed for our stay and more. It was a great place  The apartment was beautiful, clean and comfortable. We felt right at home. A perfect location, walking distance from the French quarter. Highly recommend! The 2 bedroom apartment was fantastic. The space was perfect for 2 adults and 2 children. The location was  2 blocks from Canal Street.  New Orleans is a great walking city, and we did a lot of walking.    If we ever make it back to NO, we will definitely try to stay here again. Excellent visit, no regrets  We were a party of 4 visiting New Orleans before going on a Cruise. This apt. is very centralized to Bourbon St, Casino and Canal St. The trolly goes right by the apt. and can be heard from the front bedroom. It is a very nice apt and the host welcomed us with a bottle of Champagne and snacks. Just be aware that the only bathroom is located in a bedroom, not in a hallway. Which was a bit of an inconvenience but overall, we loved our stay. Our stay was great. The place was clean, quiet, and comfortable. Very good location - walking distance to the French Quarter, but far enough away that it wasn &# x27;t noisy. We &# x27;d definitely recommend this listing.  Entire home/apt Apartment 4 2 New Orleans, LA, United States Great area, walking minutes to the famous Bourbon Street! Very quiet and safe. Enjoyed our stay and plan to return. This place is well worth it. The third party company managing this apartment was very responsive, clear, and precise about exactly what to expect. They have some pretty specific rules for your stay and checkout, but we were more than happy to oblige given the amenities and their responsiveness. While you don’t get to meet the owner or speak to anyone in person, we would still recommend.  We loved our stay and would definitely stay again. The location is a few blocks from the quarter and you will have everything you need. The bed is super comfy and you will feel right at home here. I would definitely stay at this location again. If you’re in town for business, it’s an ideal location. The accommodations were stellar and exceeded my expectations.  You do not meet the host,  however the check-in process is ideal for those with tight busy schedules.  This was a fantastic place. Well located, but also quiet. Great apartment, style and feel. The photos are all accurate. The place and location were amazing! Definitely recommend staying here if you want to stay close to everything! Loved everything about staying here! Had such a GREAT time at this place!! Appreciated the touches like the shampoo/conditioner, q-tips, and hair dryer in the bathroom. Very comfortable bed and loved the location! Can &# x27;t recommend this place enough! This place is truly beautiful and spacious. Much bigger than I even expected. I love the windows that provided so much natural light. The hosts were very gracious and responsive to my needs. Would definitely stay here again whenever I visit the city again! Very stylish, spacious apartment with a great location walkable to Canal, Bourbon, and Frenchman streets.  A few great coffee shops within a block or two for morning caffeine and breakfast.  Check-in was very easy and the restaurant recommendations were helpful. Entire home/apt Condominium 4 1 New Orleans, LA, United States Stylish apartment in the central business district, just a short walk away from Canal Street and French Quarter. The entrance door was initially hard to find, but the keypad locking system was very straightforward and efficient. Facilities were clean and towels plenty. Would stay here again! Great apartment, location, clean and comfortable! Sonder was amazing. It was perfectly located right off Canal and literally next to a street car stop. It was a really spacious place with comfy sheets and all the amenities we needed. Incredibly responsive when we had questions and the staff managers were very helpful. Would recommend! great! Great location, clean, and the bed was comfortable. Beautiful location in a really cool city! Great, spacious place centrally located.  The negatives are low water pressure in kitchen sink  &  shower.  Also the floor is visually clean but actually very dirty.  The soles of your feet will be black with the grime and dirt.  Also, there are a lot of fruit flies.  They had someone spray and it made little to no difference.   Brand spanking new and clean as a whistle! Entire home/apt Apartment 2 1 New Orleans, LA, United States Fantastic place to stay!  Great hospitality, clean  &  comfortable room, loved the pool and how close the hotel is to everything great in New Orleans!  I &# x27;d stay there again without hesitation and hope to again very soon! Very informative host and the location is super convenient! Surprisingly quiet! Great little space. Perfect location and the pool area is a nice touch. Would stay there again. Great location! Only a couple blocks away from nightlife  &  restaurants. Location is amazing. Room was a great space. Loved my time there. Just check in was s little confusing. Terrific location and very nice accommodations.  Staff very friendly and attentive. This place for the value was great. The only issues for some were not issues for me. I did not mind the stairs. This place also offered a few amenities the fancier places in the quarter do not. Location and courtyard were amazing. It was close to bourbon st and we felt safe. The unit we were in had a horrible bed and the bathroom was super tiny. There were walls on either side of the toilet so if you were a heavier person I would not recommend staying here because you would not be able to use the restroom. We looked in some of the other units when they were cleaning and they were much nicer than the one we were in. If you aren &# x27;t looking for a 5 star place and you want to be close to bourbon it works. Hotel room Boutique hotel 2 0 New Orleans, LA, United States Great place! Looks just like in the pictures, in a nice building, has a comfy bed, and very responsive host! Great apartment! I would definitely book it again if I visit New Orleans in the future. Frank was very responsive, nicely handling a special request and quickly taking care of a technical question.  Frank &# x27;s thorough notes ensure you aren &# x27;t in the dark about any details.  Location is a nice alternative for conferences at the big French Quarter hotels (~4 blocks away) and on the St. Charles street car route for trips to the garden district. Very nice location and stay Amazing!  We truly enjoyed our stay!  Convenient walk to food.  Recommend the trolley car as a service to see the local community.  (Very cheap as well)  There is also affordable parking across the street!  (With cameras) Great location, clean, and trendy! Would love to stay again! Great place, very clean and quiet. Owner is very quick with responses. Entire home/apt Apartment 2 1 New Orleans, LA, United States To begin, there were some good qualities about the place I stayed in. The proximity to the French Quarter and downtown area was excellent and the Sonder Team was great at fielding my questions and allowing for an early check-in and late check-out.  I am grateful for these aspects of my stay.   Now for the multitude of issues I had with this place.  First, the bathroom toilet incessantly ran water throughout the duration of my stay. Fed up with the noise, I opted to lift the lift off the toilet and fix the issue. However, this was only a short-term fix.  The toilet would go back running again after a few hours which resulted in me sticking my hand in toilet water multiple times throughout my stay.   Next, the bathroom countertop was essentially split into two pieces and detached from the wall.   The dryer did not work for more than three minutes, which required it to be reset after it would decide to shut off in the middle of a load.  Also, not mentioning the constant beeping that the dryer made, which can be heard in any area of the apartment.   As I mentioned before, the location was great, but there is a trolley that transits on the street below the apartment.  I realize there is little that can be done to suppress the loudness of the trolley.  However a fair warning would’ve been nice and since Sonder failed to do so, I am writing about it here for the benefit of future guests.   To top things off, the last night of the stay I was disturbed by an intermittent chirping from the fire alarm in the bedroom.  After realizing the batteries might be low and overcome with irritation, I walked to CVS at 1am to buy new batteries for the fire alarm.  For future guests: I left an extra battery in the drawer to the left of the sink in case you run into a similar problem (I wouldn’t be surprised if you did).  It is conducive to the stringent requirements of the fire alarms.   I understand when purchasing an Airbnb it doesn’t necessarily mean that the place will be perfect, but with this apartment it just seemed like one thing after another.  I appreciate Sounder’s responsiveness to my requests and how well furnished it is, but I can not recommend this place to anyone due to the lack of attention to detail throughout the apartment. I would definitely comeback to this place any time I plan on visiting New Orleans. It’s not too far from anything and Bourbon St. is literally within walking distance along with many food/drink spots. Lovely place and only a few blocks from the French Quarter. If you want to have an enjoyable stay anywhere you visit, it always starts with the place you stay. This Sonder home is located in a great location. Very close to Bourbon/Canal Street. The interior is as wonderful as the photos shows. Highly recommend staying here. Easy to get to and the Sonder staff are very helpful and accommodating. If it was up to me, I would give this place 6 Stars. This place was very conveniently located to EVERYTHING, well within walking distance. We didn’t need to rent a car or Uber. We even walked to the French market. Check in was a breeze and the place was immaculate. Entire home/apt Apartment 2 1 New Orleans, LA, United States 