Does a black hole have a magnetic force as well as a gravitational force? - Quora a JRw d t tM b eL y fP x S R c uVdCB r hL i S b OlFYQ o a l ykOL ZQxg P qu u IbTfP b vn l gWqwo i q s CPXgN h dHvT i iYXYq n ipZ g bYDqE Yes, if the black hole has both an electric charge and a nonzero angular momentum. These are two of the three properties (along with mass) that the “no-hair theorem” tells us a black hole can have. 1,006 Views 328 Views 1,303 Views 1,133 Views 531 Views Yes, black holes have three characteristics: mass, charge and spin, and a spinning charge creates a magnetic field. This in turn effects nearby charges with a magnetic force. s Wz p YQa o Tghp n B s PlYoY o vnbgH r OJ e eqE d FP D b uRKzU y cYKzS Sl X bI u YhuXw z C z ruf l C e SLfYV Yes, it will. Magnetism derives from Quantum Inertia which is described along with Quantum Gravity here: David Wrixon EurIng ' s post in RQD II If you actually want to understand something useful about Black Holes then you need to go here: Space Post Yes, it does. It is weird in a sense, but, yes, it has magnectic field. 4,296 Views 6,278 Views 281 Views 3,712 Views 565 Views Does a black hole have a magnetic force as well as a gravitational force? Black Holes are a figment of scientific imagination and substitute for a lack of physical knowledge regarding the various phase transitions of the mass forming matter. Combined with a total lack of knowledge regarding the fundamental dynamic nature of gravity and the Gravitational Thermodynamic Effect. The GTE. That lack of knowledge is compounded with the fact there is long ongoing refusal to evaluate my work. Rather than evaluate my work, billions of scarce dollars are being spent on many expensive attempts to identif... Does a black hole have a magnetic force as well as a gravitational force? Black Holes are a figment of scientific imagination and substitute for a lack of physical knowledge regarding the various phase transitions of the mass forming matter. Combined with a total lack of knowledge regarding the fundamental dynamic nature of gravity and the Gravitational Thermodynamic Effect. The GTE. That lack of knowledge is compounded with the fact there is long ongoing refusal to evaluate my work. Rather than evaluate my work, billions of scarce dollars are being spent on many expensive attempts to identify non-extent phenomena. My work predicts and explains the two Pioneer anomalies and provides physical details, as it does the GTE of the Great Planets on the Sun and Earth ' s climate changing. Who cares as long as the general public is prepared to suffer and continue to pay the bills and the money stream continues to flow. s KUUl p QVGWF o cS n Ba s LPoX o Hhxu r hn e Ly d qAq Kf b syXjW y c Gsi P ybt a UWN w qyKzp s JMSLo xL Z b i S l dAvIS l Rw a yCs Yes, of course. The reason for it is that it is probably strictly electromagnetic phenomenon: Gravity isn ' t as hardcore force as mainstream scientists try to convince everyone. Yes, just like magnatars , Black Holes can have enormous magnetic fields around them. This is how it typically works. Yes, just like magnatars , Black Holes can have enormous magnetic fields around them. This is how it typically works. Rotating black hole - Wikipedia How to Measure the Spin of a Black Hole 1,006 Views 328 Views 1,303 Views 1,133 Views 531 Views 4,296 Views 6,278 Views 281 Views 3,712 Views 565 Views 200 Views 1,468 Views 2,375 Views 1,129 Views 782 Views 