Herschel Walker &# x27;s son is male cheerleader Podcasts Magnifying Glass Open My Stats Start New Topic Newest Page Oldest Page Magnifying Glass "I watch the way he move, and even though I was a running back I said, 'He can be a heck of a quarterback or a receiver,' by watchin' him do certain thing... But I said, 'That's not what he wants,"' Walker said. Walker said he doesn't feel disappointed. "Because-- I love him so much that if he never played football, I'm going to love him as much as I love him now," he said. Walker said the key is supporting your child. He and Cindy go to all his cheering competitions. They were in Orlando this weekend for the the junior coed national championship, and Christian's team won first place. More Options Posts Awesome. Good for him. If my kids were gay I would support them the same way.  More Options Posts Anyone who thinks male cheerleaders are all gay, are gay themselves. You do realize that they are touching all the women you are looking at?!?  I played football, track, wrestling and cross country in high school but cheered in college. Most of you play with yourselves to the women we had throwing themselves at us. More Options Posts LOL....doesn't mean he's gay Awesome. Good for him. If my kids were gay I would support them the same way.  More Options Posts Awesome. Good for him. If my kids were gay I would support them the same way.  More Options Posts That's an inside track to some fine women... More Options Posts Dude, probably looks up more hot chicks skirts in one season than some guys do a lifetime. He's doing alright.   More Options Posts Freaking hilarious. More Options Posts Awesome. Good for him. If my kids were gay I would support them the same way.  More Options Posts I want to DANCE !!! & $@ & @ More Options Posts Did it say he's gay some place ?? I'm sure most are not gay honestly. I've heard for a few friends that are straight its not all that easy to do those lifts and such. I watched a ESPN story once on a guy who got hurt playing ball and the only way to keep his scholarship was change to cheer .. More Options Posts HawaiiTarheel wrote: Awesome. Good for him. If my kids were gay I would support them the same way. LMAO More Options Posts You are exactly right! I have a bunch of friends, all straight, that were either hurt in high school playing ball or got burned out and decided to switch to cheer. I can promise you, there are a few of them, that you would not call gay to their face! But, to keep it fair...it does have its share of gay guys. But, I haven't met any of them that "push" their orientation to you. For the most part, if you are straight....you love cheer for the girls, the athleticism, the challenge and the girls. If you are gay you love it for the show, the athleticism, the challenge and the show. lol More Options Posts This is exactly why I was in band rather than football.    While the jocks were busy touching other jocks...we were partying and traveling with all the band chicks. A wise decision on my part    BTW...while our team sucked- I got to march in the Rose Bowl Parade...1980.  More Options Posts Awesome. Good for him. If my kids were gay I would support them the same way.  Mission accomplished! More Options Posts Awesome. Good for him. If my kids were gay I would support them the same way.  Mission accomplished! More Options Posts Who WOULDN ' T want to grab some female cheerleader ***. More Options Posts Awesome. Good for him. If my kids were gay I would support them the same way.    Bam!  More Options Posts More Options Posts Awesome. Good for him. If my kids were gay I would support them the same way.  Well done sir. More Options Posts More Options Posts Nothing quite as sad as watching a washed up, never was re-live his imaginary Pop Warner days.... More Options Posts Nothing quite as sad as watching a washed up, never was re-live his imaginary  Pop  Warner days.... More Options Posts More Options Posts More Options Posts     Yes...the hours we marched and practiced. Precision movements in synchronicity with other marchers. Not only to march in formation but playing your instrument at the highest level. When we practiced for the Rose Bowl Parade it was 5-6 miles of marching and playing for a month.  We won every contest we entered, the best of the best.    It was a lot of damn hard work. And I am proud of it.    Not sure what high school you attended- or why they turned your sorry *** down- but there were many FINE ladies in our band and school.    Personally, I am glad to be reaffirmed that you are an ignorant C#$k. To each their own. "LOL".  More Options Start New Topic Newest Page Oldest Page Magnifying Glass Close My Stats Locked Pinned Post Expert Community Thread Return to Top CBS Sports Digital Facebook Twitter Instagram Podcast Sportradar © 2005- 2019  CBS INTERACTIVE ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. CBS Sports is a registered trademark of CBS Broadcasting Inc. 