The 10 best villas in Pals, Spain | Booking.com Loading Pick your preferred language. We speak English and 42 other languages. View vacation packages to Pals Situated in Pals, 45 km from Figueres, Can Caranta features an outdoor swimming pool and free WiFi. ><br >Girona is 40 km from the  holiday home , while Platja d'Aro is 26 km from the property. The nearest airport is Girona-Costa Brava Airport, 56 km from Can Caranta. Everything about this property was incredible! The location, amenities and staff were absolutely marvelous we will stay here again for sure! Pals Set in Pals in the Catalonia region,  Holiday Home  Can Magi features a garden. The air-conditioned accommodation is 45 km from Figueres, and guests benefit from complimentary WiFi and private parking available on site. The pool was great and lots of space for a family Pals Featuring a garden, Casa Pinyera is a semi-detached  holiday home  set in Pals in the Catalonia Region. The property is 43 km from Lloret de Mar and features views of the garden. ><br >There is a seating area, a dining area and a kitchen equipped with a dishwasher. A flat-screen TV is available. Other facilities at Casa Pinyera include a seasonal outdoor pool. Nice apartment, all you need is available. Enjoyed our stay. Pals Casas Golf Relax is located 500 metres from Platja de Pals Golf Course and 600 metres from Pals Beach. The complex features a garden with an outdoor swimming pool. ><br >Each house has its own furnished terrace and parking space. They include a lounge area with sofas and satellite TV, as well as a kitchen equipped with an oven, microwave, dishwasher and washing machine. Free Wi-Fi, air conditioning and heating are available. La comodidad e independencia de la casa Pals Offering a garden and sea view, Casa Piedra Abajo is situated in Pals, 700 metres from Platja del Racó and 800 metres from Pals Beach. This  holiday home  features free private parking, a 24-hour front desk and free WiFi. Nice flowers left for our wedding anniversary. Great location to explore the area. Good communication from owner. Pals MAS D'EN GOU features a garden, as well as accommodation with a kitchen in Pals. ><br >There is also a dishwasher, fridge and a coffee machine. ><br >The  holiday home  offers a barbecue and a terrace. ><br >Girona is 40 km from MAS D'EN GOU, while Platja d'Aro is 28 km from the property. The nearest airport is Girona-Costa Brava Airport, 55 km from the accommodation. The two main bedrooms had good beds. Kitchen-living room nice.Garden big and great for dogs. Pals Situated only 2.7 km from Platja del Racó in Pals, Mas Tomasi Dalt features accommodation fitted with a  patio , garden and outdoor pool. This  holiday home  features a  private pool , barbecue facilities and free WiFi. The spectacular views of both the sea and the mountains. Pals Set around a large communal outdoor pool, Birdie Club is a 2-storey  holiday home  with a furnished terrace, garage and garden with barbecue facilities. It is 1.2 km from Pals Beach. ><br >The air-conditioned property has 3 bedrooms, 2 bathrooms and an open plan kitchen and dining room with a dishwasher and washing machine. There is a flat-screen TV and bed linen is provided. Individual BBQ, Swimming Pool,AC, Garage Pals The  holiday home  has 3 bedrooms, a TV, an equipped kitchen with a microwave and a fridge, a washing machine, and 2 bathrooms with a shower. ><br >The nearest airport is Girona-Costa Brava Airport, 45 km from the  holiday home . Pals The  holiday home  has 3 bedrooms, a TV, an equipped kitchen with a dishwasher and a microwave, a washing machine, and 2 bathrooms with a shower. ><br >The nearest airport is Girona-Costa Brava Airport, 59 km from the  holiday home . Villa in Pals Popular with guests booking villas in Pals Pals Located in Pals, 28 miles from Figueres, Can Caranta has an outdoor swimming pool and free WiFi.  Everything about this property was incredible! Pals Located in Pals in the Catalonia region, Holiday Home Can Magi has a garden.  The pool was great and lots of space for a family Pals Featuring a garden, Casa Pinyera is a semi-detached holiday home set in Pals in the Catalonia Region. The property is 27 mi from Lloret de Mar and features views of the garden.  Nice apartment, all you need is available. Enjoyed our stay. Pals Offering a garden and sea view, Casa Piedra Abajo is located in Pals, an 8-minute walk from Platja del Racó and half a mile from Pals Beach.  Nice flowers left for our wedding anniversary. Great location to explore the area. Pals MAS D ' EN GOU has a garden, as well as accommodations with a kitchen in Pals. There ' s a seating and / or dining area in some units. The vacation home provides a grill and a terrace.  The two main bedrooms had good beds. Kitchen-living room nice. Garden big and great for dogs. Pals Located in Pals, Mas Tomasi Dalt has accommodations with a private pool, a balcony and sea views. Featuring garden views, a swimming pool and a garden, this vacation home also includes free WiFi.  The spectacular views of both the sea and the mountains. Pals Birdie Club is located in Pals and offers a seasonal outdoor swimming pool. It has garden views and free WiFi. The vacation home consists of 3 separate bedrooms, 2 bathrooms, and a seating area.  Individual BBQ, Swimming Pool,AC, Garage Pals PIVERD DEL GOLF 75 offers accommodations in Pals, a 9-minute walk from Platja del Grau and 0.7 miles from Platja de Mas Pinell.  Pals Casas Golf Relax is located 1640 feet from Platja de Pals Golf Course and 1969 feet from Pals Beach. The complex features a garden with an outdoor swimming pool.  La comodidad e independencia de la casa Pals Set in Pals, Casa adosada en Playa de Pals features a furnished terrace and a garden. Sa Riera Beach is 4.3 mi from the accommodations. This bright holiday home offers a seating area with a TV.  The proximity to the beach, running and biking trails. Pals Featuring a garden with sun loungers, Casa adosada en Golf Platja de Pals is located in Pals. This holiday home for up to 6 people is set 1640 feet from the beach.  Pals  Casa adosada en Pals (7) is located in Pals. The accommodations will provide you with a TV and a balcony. There is a full kitchen with a microwave and an oven. Private bathrooms also come with a... Pals Offering a garden and sea view, SA PUNTA 60 is located in Pals, a 7-minute walk from Platja del Racó and 0.4 miles from Playa de L ' illa Roja. Guests staying at this vacation home can use the terrace.  Location, helpful staff, the state of the property, views. Pals Raco del Golf provides accommodations with a kitchen, located in Pals. The vacation home has a seasonal outdoor pool.  Pals Located 1.9 mi from the city center of Pals, Mas Tomasi features self-catering accommodations with fully equipped kitchens and private pools. The nearest beach on the Mediterranean Sea is 3.1 mi away.... Pals Located in Pals and only a 5-minute walk from Platja del Racó, Villa Carrer Illes Medes - 4 has accommodations with pool views, free WiFi and free private parking.  Pals Just a 9-minute walk from Platja del Grau and 0.7 miles from Platja de Mas Pinell, PIVERD DEL GOLF 74 features accommodations in Pals, with a terrace.  Pals Offering a garden and a terrace, PIVERD DEL GOLF 66 in Pals is close to Platja del Grau and Platja de Mas Pinell.  Pals Just a 9-minute walk from Platja del Grau and 0.7 miles from Platja de Mas Pinell, PIVERD DEL GOLF 64 features accommodations in Pals, with a terrace.  Pals Just a 9-minute walk from Platja del Grau and 0.6 miles from Platja de Mas Pinell, PIVERD DEL GOLF 62 features accommodations in Pals, with a terrace.  Pals PIVERD DEL GOLF 58, a property with a garden, is located in Pals, an 8-minute walk from Pals Beach, half a mile from Platja del Grau, as well as a 13-minute walk from Platja de Mas Pinell.  Pals PIEVRD DEL GOLF 56, a property with a garden and a terrace, is located in Pals, an 8-minute walk from Pals Beach, half a mile from Platja del Grau, as well as a 13-minute walk from Platja de Mas... Pals Offering a garden and garden view, PIVERD DEL GOLF 41 is located in Pals, an 8-minute walk from Pals Beach and half a mile from Platja del Grau.  Pals PIVERD DEL GOLF 22, a property with a garden and a terrace, is located in Pals, an 8-minute walk from Pals Beach, half a mile from Platja del Grau, as well as a 13-minute walk from Platja de Mas... On average, a villa in Pals costs $147 per night (based on Booking.com prices). The average price of a villa in Pals this evening is $159 (based on Booking.com prices). Many families visiting Pals enjoyed staying at  Casa Pinyera ,  Can Caranta , and  Pals Haus . Casa Pinyera ,  Mas Tomasi Dalt , and  MAS D'EN GOU  have received great reviews from guests in Pals about the views from these villas. Casa Pinyera ,  Can Caranta , and  Holiday Home Can Magi  are some of our most popular villas in Pals. These villas in Pals are highly rated by couples:  Can Caranta ,  Casa Piedra Abajo , and  Casas Golf Relax . Some of the best villas in Pals near Platja de Pals Golf Course include  Casas Golf Relax ,  Casa Pinyera , and  MAS D'EN GOU . The average price per night for a villa in Pals this weekend is $427 (based on Booking.com prices). 8.4 Very Good 1,930 reviews The villa was spotless, and a lot bigger than we expected!  8.4 Very Good 1,930 reviews Very helpful staff, great area (fantastic beaches / villages to visit). While the interior is relatively old, it was made with very good materials. Good coffee / breakfast in the restaurant located in the building. 9.1 Awesome 324 reviews Excellent breakfast with very helpful staff, the garden is extremely well kept and planted and the pool is luxurious with very highly rated restaurant overlooking the pool area. We didn’t eat in the restaurant as we had a two-year-old and it is quite formal. Refer a property List your property Booking.com is part of Booking Holdings Inc., the world leader in online travel and related services. We have more than 70 million property reviews, all from  real, verified guests . 1 The only way to leave a review is to first make a booking. That's how we know our reviews come from real guests who have stayed at the property. 2 When guests stay at the property, they check out how quiet the room is, how friendly the staff is, and more. 3 After their trip, guests tell us about their stay. We check for naughty words and verify the authenticity of all guest reviews before adding them to our site. If you booked through us and want to leave a review, please sign in first. Check-in date Check-out date 