Poseidon's Underworld: A Sheet of Reynolds Rap! A 1950 ' s Universal groomed cutie that I  hadn ' t  heard of?? Poseidon, once again, I tip my hat to you. Incidentally, Mr. Reynolds aged much, much better than many of his contemporaries, judging by the 1970 ' s-era photos and caps. Thank you, TJB!  I ' m glad you liked it (and that I was capable of surprising you like that!) I did come across an even more recent shot of Reynolds, but it was not a great photo, in general, and the man IS 80 now, so I let it be.  He was indeed a cutie! How delightful to come upon this biography of William Reynolds, an actor who always had a special place in my heart.... ...And elsewhere. I can still vividly remember watching one critical scene in The Islanders.  W. Reynolds and his flying partner, James Philbrook were running from some  " dangerous "  pursuers.  Reaching the beach they spot their seaplane out on the water.  As those two men race across the sands, each rips open and tosses off their shirts. I recall that moment (still) and the curious (previously unknown) way my body responded to it. Oh, I ' m not saying that those naked, sweaty, eminently-lickable chests made me gay.  I ' m merely saying,  " Thanks, guys! " Ha, vilflor!  Love that story!  Thanks for sharing.  I know that I (and many, many Underworld visitors) have lots of similar remembrances such as yours.  They sear the mind like a branding iron!  ;) A superb bio! Just one correction needed though -- 20th Century Fox produced  " Desert Fox " , not MGM. Kent, no clue how I made such a weird slip as that. Must have been distracted at the time while typing (80% of this blog is done while I ' m at work, but don ' t tell anyone!!) It ' s fixed now. Very informative.  I stopped watching the FBI after his character was dropped. Thanks, Cynthia! It ' s strange that Mr. Reynolds had a fairly prolific career on TV and in movies, but is scarcely known to most people! Glad he had a fan in you. FYI, Cynthia (and anyone else who may be interested), I did something today that I rarely do in that I went back and added a few pictures to this post. Revisiting it gave me a taste for more William Reynolds and I came upon three pics I wanted to work in. There ' s a tinted bubble gum card of him, another pic from  " The Land Unknown "  in torn clothes and a color cover from a TV listing guide during his show  " Pete Kelly ' s Blues. "  :-) Abusive or hateful comments will be removed. 