Robyn Kievit Kirkman, NP, RD, CSSD, CEDRD - Nutrition Consultant - Nutrition Mentoring  &  Counseling | LinkedIn A registered dietitian nutritionist, certified specialist in sports dietetics, certified eating disorders registered dietitian,  &  family nurse practitioner with over 20 years of experience, Robyn supports her clients in the areas of eating disorders, sports nutrition  &  related psychopharmacology . Robyn employs a patient, mentoring approach in her work, with an emphasis on helping clients attain their best health in small, new, habitual lifestyle steps while focusing on the positives of what clients are already practicing on their own. Her varied work background – as cardiac dietitian, staff nurse, nurse practitioner  &  nutrition consultant to schools, hospitals and professional sports teams – has given her a unique ability to achieve positive client results. Robyn was a Health Professional Advisor Panel for the Egg Nutrition Center and served as the medical liaison to the Metro-Boston IAEDP chapter for 3 years. She has been on the Consumer Advisory Board for Paramount Farms  &  the Wheat Foods Council as well as serving as a nutrition expert to the American College Health Association. Robyn has appeared live on both television  &  radio and has been quoted in Oxygen Magazine, The Boston Herald, The Boston Globe, ADVANCE for NP’s  &  PA’s, Today’s Dietitian  &  other national  &  local media. Robyn earned a BS in Dietetics from the University of Connecticut and her FNP with a BSN and MSN in nursing. She is credentialed as a Certified Specialist in Sports Dietetics through the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics and as a Certified Eating Disorders Registered Dietitian through the International Association of Eating Disorders Professionals Foundation.  A yoga practitioner, tennis player and marathon runner, Robyn balances her own fitness with a busy lifestyle. She lives in Concord with her husband  &  four children and can be found visiting several grocery stores a week, in an effort to create nutritious, well-planned meals for her family. By  Robyn Kievit Kirkman, NP, RD, CSSD, CEDRD February 27, 2019 By  Robyn Kievit Kirkman, NP, RD, CSSD, CEDRD January 31, 2019 By  Robyn Kievit Kirkman, NP, RD, CSSD, CEDRD November 20, 2018 Shared by  Robyn Kievit Kirkman, NP, RD, CSSD, CEDRD Shared by  Robyn Kievit Kirkman, NP, RD, CSSD, CEDRD Shared by  Robyn Kievit Kirkman, NP, RD, CSSD, CEDRD Jul 1994   –  Present 25 years 6 months What are you seeking? Today, nutrition information is everywhere. And with so many programs, techniques, diets and advice to choose from, things can get a little bit overwhelming. That’s how I can help. As a certified specialist in sports dietetics, certified eating disorders registered dietitian, registered dietitian nutritionist, and family nurse practitioner with over 20 years of experience, I offer supportive, individualized programs which translate your nutrition goals into daily, healthy, wellness routines and habits. Using a calm, mentoring approach, my work with clients touches on weight considerations, food likes/dislikes and/or aversions, supplements, exercise goals, medical history, motivational techniques and referrals to alternative therapies. I may be able to help you if… … you are an athlete and want to maintain your best physical condition for performance. … you have an eating disorder such as anorexia or bulimia (or you have disordered eating without a diagnosis). …  you have weight  &  body image concerns and wish to achieve the healthiest of these inclusive of your personal history  &  lifestyle. … you are in need of psychopharmacological medicine management as it relates to the above. What are you seeking? Today, nutrition information is everywhere. And with so many programs, techniques, diets and advice to choose from, things can get a little bit overwhelming. That’s how I can help. As a certified specialist in sports dietetics, certified eating disorders registered dietitian, registered dietitian nutritionist, and family nurse practitioner with over 20 years of experience, I offer supportive, individualized programs which translate your nutrition goals... What are you seeking? Today, nutrition information is everywhere. And with so many programs, techniques, diets and advice to choose from, things can get a little bit overwhelming. That’s how I can help. As a certified specialist in sports dietetics, certified eating disorders registered dietitian, registered dietitian nutritionist, and family nurse practitioner with over 20 years of experience, I offer supportive, individualized programs which translate your nutrition goals into daily, healthy, wellness routines and habits. Using a calm, mentoring approach, my work with clients touches on weight considerations, food likes/dislikes and/or aversions, supplements, exercise goals, medical history, motivational techniques and referrals to alternative therapies. I may be able to help you if… … you are an athlete and want to maintain your best physical condition for performance. … you have an eating disorder such as anorexia or bulimia (or you have disordered eating without a diagnosis). …  you have weight  &  body image concerns and wish to achieve the healthiest of these inclusive of your personal history  &  lifestyle. … you are in need of psychopharmacological medicine management as it relates to the above. Jan 2015   –   Dec 2017 3 years Mar 2015   –   Dec 2016 1 year 10 months Peabody  &  Waltham, MA Nurse practitioner in partial hospitalization program at Peabody  &  Waltham locations. Part time and per diem. Nurse practitioner in partial hospitalization program at Peabody  &  Waltham locations. Part time and per diem. Jan 2006   –   May 2016 10 years 5 months FNP  &  RD January 2006-2013, FNP 2013-May 2016. FNP  &  RD January 2006-2013, FNP 2013-May 2016. Feb 2000   –   Feb 2006 6 years 1 month Nutrition support; prescribing TPN  &  PPN orders. Nutrition support; prescribing TPN  &  PPN orders. Nov 2003   –   Jan 2006 2 years 3 months School based health center in an urban setting of 950 students. Oversight of additional clinic personnel and management of student health programs. School based health center in an urban setting of 950 students. Oversight of additional clinic personnel and management of student health programs. Aug 1998   –   Aug 1999 1 year 1 month Spinal cord injury/oncology rehabilitative care. Spinal cord injury/oncology rehabilitative care. Sep 1997   –   Aug 1998 1 year Home bound elder care nutrition assessment  &  care. Home bound elder care nutrition assessment  &  care. Apr 1995   –   Aug 1996 1 year 5 months Outpatient  &  long term care. Outpatient  &  long term care. Jul 1994   –   Apr 1995 10 months Inpatient care. Inpatient care. 1996   –   1999 Activities and Societies: Sigma Theta Tau,. Honor Society of Nursing 1996   –   1998 Activities and Societies: Sigma Theta Tau, Honor Society of Nursing 1990   –   1994 Activities and Societies: Delta Gamma Nutrition With Intention is a monthly E-Newsletter that focuses on the areas of eating disorders, weight management, sports nutrition, wellness goals  &  learning how to put nutrition trends into practice with factual information. Nutrition With Intention is a monthly E-Newsletter that focuses on the areas of eating disorders, weight management, sports nutrition, wellness goals  &  learning how to put nutrition trends into practice with factual information. A preview of what LinkedIn members have to say about Robyn: I can ' t think of a more caring professional. She has pure passion for her profession and it shows. The absolute best! I can ' t think of a more caring professional. She has pure passion for her profession and it shows. The absolute best! Robyn is not only  a top flight nutritionist and mentor, she ' s a highly skilled communicator.  She makes nutrition fun and focused!  Robyn is not only  a top flight nutritionist and mentor, she ' s a highly skilled communicator.  She makes nutrition fun and focused!  8 people have recommended Robyn Join now to view Join to view Robyn’s full profile 