Events  &  Festivals Archives - Experience Nicola Valley Events When ever I think of  Christmas in  Merritt BC  Canada the annual Merritt Christmas parade comes to mind. Ironically this event also marks the time I start my holiday shopping. Many of our local businesses start the shopping season with great roll backs, sales and discounts. Additionally they provide that small town personal service we all have come to enjoy from our community businesses. More importantly the support for our local businesses is paramount to their survival hence the #shoplocalmerritt hashtag on social media supported and promoted by  ExperienceNicolaValley.com  and  ExperienceMerritt.com . Come along with us as we experience Christmas by building a parade float for the 2019 Country Christmas Parade in Merritt BC. Tourism Nicola Valley  2019 Christmas Float Indeed, to some, it may seem easy to create and build a   Christmas Float . In all honesty, it takes a lot of time, organization and a bit of preparation work. Furthermore you need a  Theme .  Celebrating Christmas in Merritt BC includes the weather being a bit frosty so make sure you have a warm dry place on your float. Lucky for us Doug  & Norma Mervyn  donated one of their warm empty shops to build the float in, as well as, a flat-deck trailer to pull and create our holiday float. Melvina White & Ricky Mervyn Trailer for our float. While you may have a grand picture of what the Christmas float may look like, the assembling of the float it is a whole different story. For starters, make sure you have an experienced carpenter to assist you in the construction of your  Christmas Float.  Importantly I suggest a mild mannered handyman who comes with his or her own tools. Handy man  Bill Stewart . Hard at work. Coffee break soon? Notably along with a great theme, being organized is crucial. Above all make sure you know what kind of material you will be using. Organic, re-purposing, recycling or decorations purchased from local businesses in the Nicola Valley made up the bulk of our materials. A little  Hint  do not underestimate how many lights you will need, Tania Stewart. Warm shop courtesy of Doug Mervyn.  Backroads Mini Storage . Without  Organization  you may get these expressions! Tania Stewart You want to do what? We started with Melvina White s creative image she had for the outcome of the float. We added some very determined helpers to make sure it came together. However when ideas didn t work out, no worry, we adjusted and worked it out as a team. Remember this is supposed to be fun, not stressful. Designing and constructing a float can be daunting. Gathering materials is one thing. Placement is key. A team of happy elves is essential. “Design is not just what it looks like and feels like. Design is how it works.”  ―  Steve Jobs Checking it once, checking it twice. Notably the little touches are important. Historically the concept of  parade  is a direct descendant of the late Medieval and Renaissance revivals of  Roman Triumphs . Parades had music and banners. The wagons were filled with the spoils of war.  Santa Claus being a descendant of Saint Nicholas became the highlight of the  parade . Today we celebrate Christmas in Merritt BC with a Country Christmas Parade. It s all about the Spirit of the Season. It is important that the spectators of a parade instantly know what organization or business you are representing. Minimize any need for guessing. Furthermore it introduces you to the public and what you have to offer to support the community. Things to do in the Nicola Valley. Placement of sign. Lights need to shine bright in the night. Notably a Christmas float can not have enough lights.  Christmas lights  (also known as fairy lights) are lights used for decoration in celebration of Christmas. To many it is symbolizing Christ as the light of the world. Moreover this custom goes back to when Christmas trees were decorated with candles. Borrowed from pagan yule rituals that celebrate the return of the light of the sun as the days grow longer after solstice. Christmas trees were introduced by Christians into their homes in early modern Germany. Checking Lights. Melvina White  &  Ricky making sure everything is in place. Of course one last check to make sure everything is in working order. Notably checking to see if anything was lost transporting float into town. Reliable Towing . Arnica Merritt BC. Lastly you must clean up. Notably destruction of your float goes a lot quicker. Takes hours n hours to construct your float, while only half a day to dissemble it. Due to using recycled material we kept a lot of it for next year. While burning the cedar branches. Rather than filling our landfills. Doug Mervyn. Bill Stewart n Melvina White. Above all the spirit of Christmas in Merritt BC Canada can truly be experienced with family and friends. Coming together to create a float for our towns Parade. The true meaning of Christmas in Merritt BC is not what we get or what we spend. No, the true meaning of Christmas is coming together and enjoying each other s time and creating lasting memories. Priceless! Furthermore, it takes many people to put a float together including who pulls the float. Thank you to  Valley Carriers  who came to the rescue and towed our float. Valley Carriers Carrie Ware  &  Company Inc. Experience Merritt Travel Website Experience Nicola Valley Bloggers Award-winning  &  best selling  author Trina Hall  visits  Merritt, British Columbia, Canada . Additionally, Trina Hall is a blogger, motivational speaker and intuitive life coach. Firstly, it is important to note she has had a tumultuous life resulting in Trina gaining decades of wisdom and insight. Frequently she was knocked down until, eventually, she hit  rock bottom.  Through her writings, television, radio shows, social media or in-person she has transformed countless lives around the globe. Moreover I am so glad I did not miss  Best Selling Author and Motivational Speaker Trina Hall when she was in Merritt BC.  Book signing  Trina Hall . Best Selling Author Merritt BC (Answer) While noticing that several people were asking me the same questions and advice. I asked myself,  would it not be easier  to write a book.  Since I have overcome so many tough obstacles in my life I felt compelled to share my wisdom and insights gained through my experiences to better the lives of others therefore preventing or at least easing the pain and suffering of others. Because so many people are suffering silently while trying to hold it together. By my account I strongly believe that an amazing life starts from the inside out. Consequently I wanted to write a book about self-empowerment because once you get yourself right, your relationships and your entire life will start to fall into place. Trina Hall  Best Selling Author Motivational Speaker in Greece. Best Selling Author and Motivational Speaker Trina Hall  in Merritt BC. (Answer) Primarily mostly women and men between the ages of 40-65 tend to be drawn towards my book. Specifically when it reflects on their lives and asking the deeper questions like, “Who I am” and “What am I put on this earth to do”? All these questions while doing things for others then realizing that they have lost themselves in the process. In fact the book is for the heart-centered amazing people who have been knocked down, taken advantage of, taken for granted and have lost themselves trying to please others. This book guides you on your journey to self-discovery so you can find out who you truly are and want you truly want in life. It will also help uncover your purpose and power within. You will not feel alone. It allows you the necessary time to self-reflect and heal, while feeling like I am there with you every step of the way. You will learn to love, accept and believe in yourself through my inspiring stories and wisdom. It definitely offers you strength and clarity if you are feeling knocked down or have any self-doubt. Trina Hal l with Daughter  Jasmine Stewar t. Best Selling Author Motivational Speaker Merritt BC. (Answer) Although I used to think vulnerability was a weakness. Realizing vulnerability is the greatest strength. In regards to taking your power back. After all Comedians make fun of themselves before others can. At the same time being open in my book, worked in a similar way. Completely being unaffected by those who knocked me down freed me. Notwithstanding it was the final step allowing me to be free leaving my past behind. Trina  with her daughter  Jasmine  at talk show promoting her book. (Answer) Moreover you feel more empowered when you are actively doing something to help a certain situation. Also I find many people resonate with my personal stories. Additionally, I  learn from my mistakes, while others need to physically do the work with a more hands-on approach. As a result, the exercises give an insight to what I did to overcome my struggles. I wanted to include the reader in this process so they could get the most out of my book. The title  Note to Self: Empowerment has a double meaning . When you write down your answers to the exercises, they become your  “notes to self”  leading to empowerment. Forgiving others is essential for spiritual growth.    Dr. Wayne W. Dyer DR. Wayne Dyer  with Trina Hall. Although I love all the 7 Steps in your book  Note To Self: Empowerment , the 6th Step: Forgive and Take Your Power Back is one of the hardest for myself. Tania Stewart. Elevate Your Life  with Trina Hall. Best Selling Author Motivational Speaker Merritt BC. Trina Hall. (Answer) Firstly, I was always the shy person who hid behind my writing. I was absolutely terrified of public speaking! But back in 2015, someone desperately wanted to buy my book to help out her best friend. Because there are so many steps to writing/publishing a book it took longer than anticipated to publish because of some of the setbacks we faced. I did not want to rush publishing my book either. Therefore I tried to think of another way to help her friend. I created a seminar called  “Elevate Your Life”.  Subsequently would be the fastest way to help, as well as a comfortable outing for both of them to enjoy. Funny how your passion to help someone can trump any fear of public speaking!!! The plan was to only do one seminar, but from that one event someone else offered me a speaking engagement and people have continued to need my help. Needless to say, I haven’t stopped. Best Selling Author Merritt BC Trina Hall. (Answer) Immediately you can definitely expect positivity, growth, inspiration and motivation. Furthermore, you will learn how to get unstuck by getting over past hurts and fears so you can gain confidence and thrive while learning how to continue to grow when you feel like others are holding you back. My seminar is all about elevating all areas in your life and lifting people up to the next level and beyond. Subsequently, you will be given the tools, insights and clarity to help you thrive, live outside of your comfort zone and become the best version of yourself. Trina Hall  with daughter  Jasmine Ashley . (Answer) We have always been a dynamic mother-daughter duo and she is practically a mini version of me. Jasmine has been around throughout most of my hardships, so she gained a lot of wisdom that way. Together we broke some vicious cycles and other generational destructive patterns, which is an area most people struggle with. Being a registered nurse, Jasmine is qualified to speak about health and healing. Together we can help others with their complete body, mind and soul connection. Moreover Jasmine really wanted to be a part of this particular seminar because she has such a strong tie to  Merritt  and I feel she will add even more value and inspiration. Mr. Rogers and Trina Hall (Answer) My dear friend Tania (Jasmine’s aunt) is from there. For the past couple of years after I held my seminar in Ontario, she would suggest that I bring my seminar to Merritt. She felt there is a huge need for what I have to offer since not very many motivational speakers go there. I know how it is like living in a smaller town and always having to travel for concerts and events, so it is nice when people come to them. I used to live in Merritt for a bit and Jasmine’s family is from there so it gave us even more reason to make the trip. (Answer) I think my style will appeal to a close-knit town like Merritt. It will be pretty intimate so we can maximize growth and transformation. In addition to growing up in a small town in Northern Ontario, I also lived in Merritt for a bit so I understand the challenges, dreams and desires. Jasmine and I have a connection to Merritt and feel the attendees will really resonate with us. Furthermore, I think this will help us make a greater positive impact. I have traveled around the world learning from the top leaders in the personal growth and entrepreneurial industry, as well as, I have gained a lot of wisdom and insights through personal experience which is invaluable. We look forward to sharing all this and more with the people of Merritt. Trina Hall. In fact readers keep it right on their nightstand at all times. This is all crazy for me to hear and seems surreal.  Specifically seeing that it has such an impact!!!  It makes it all worth putting my vulnerability out there.  Trina Hall. Trina Hall with husband Jason Pake. Withstanding adversity and knockdowns, Trina has truly come out on top. She is making a life in helping people going through the same traumas she endured. Furthermore it is a pathway to sharing her life story, her vulnerability along with her strength. Note to Self: Empowerment  is available on Amazon worldwide. Welcome  Pacific Forest Rally  fans to Merritt BC Canada in the Nicola Valley for round 4 of the  Canadian Rally Championship. Moreover, event organizer  Paul Westwick  welcomes rally teams and fans from across Canada and North-west USA alike as they celebrate 43 years of off road car racing with 19 years being in Merritt. Dave Wallingford Columbus Ohio Leanne Junnila Calgary,AB-  Savage Rallysport .  Mark Jenings-Bates BC-Jackie Jennings-Bates  BC 1998 Mitsubishi Lancer Evo 4 O4WD. Rally sponsors  Best Western Service crew Danny Mirabel. In recognition of the need to promote conservation, we have a new award, given to the team that gets the best time from the least fuel. As a result the award is based on their total scores from Saturday s stages, multiplied by the amount of fuel they consume. Therefore teams who manage their resources the most responsibly will be rewarded while still having great fun behind the wheel.  Eco-challenge . Philipe Benoit driver Eric Pehota  BC- Jennifer Daly BC- 2002 Subaru WRX Wagon P4WD. Karel Carré QC- Samuel Joyal QC- 2007 Subaru TR STI O4WD. Team- Les gestions Oré Inc, Sponsors of PFR  Subaru. Krystian Ostrowski AB   Chris Galecki AB  2006 Subaru WRX STI O4WD. By all means get involved and join a  Rally Club . Without all the volunteers, the show wouldn t go on. How do I volunteer?   You want to work a performance rally? Fill out our worker registration. Safety Car Guys.  Sponsor Dirt Fish. As a result of having the wrong camera, I was unable to capture pictures of the rally cars at the Spius venue.  Standing in the cold I was fortunate to meet Alec Preissler. Due to circumstances I was unable to gather pictures of the rally cars. Consequently  Alec Preissler  provided me with these awesome pictures. Alec@preissler.ca  Photo curtesy of Alec Preissler. Alec@preissler.ca  Thanks to Alec Preissler for these awesome pic s. Incidentally Pacific Rally Racer s drive in every weather condition. mailto: Alec@preissler.ca mailto: Alec@preissler.ca Views of the Nicola Valley Fans are resilient Night time rally racing Team Stillin   Updated Results: 4th place in production 4 wheel drive class  &  13th overall regional out of 29 cars. Rally driving is a day and night sport The life of a rally driver Proud sponsors  Rallysport Sponsor  Abilitas . Pacific Forest Rally. Firstly, check out our website :  Pacific Forest Rally After that read my previous article on the  Pacific Forest Rally Artist Cassandra Dolen Nicola Valley Art Shows  in  Merritt BC  attract locals and visitors to the region! The  Courthouse Art Gallery  puts on a new show almost every month. We often choose themes for our shows that compliment what is happening in our community. Our locals enjoy the mirroring of our themes. This strategy helps visitors get to know our local interests and history. Merritt Arts and Culture, and lots of it, has been happening in the  Nicola Valley  since I last wrote a Gallery blog! In February, we had a fun community show called The Art of Sound. We really enjoyed drumming with Raven Ritcey at our Open Mic night at  Kekuli Cafe . And experiencing Singing Bowls with Gale Simpson, right in the Gallery. In addition to that, in March, we honoured four long time artists in our Nicola Valley. One of our young artists, when he heard who was coming, gave the show its title . Pius Chong Sculpture Evelyn Armstrong, Pius Chong, Doug Strand and Jackie Stibbards have been contributing to the art and culture scene in the valley for decades. Moreover, all of them are still creating art in their own way. The community had an opportunity to catch up with these artists at an  Artists Talk at the Courthouse Art Gallery . As a result we heard stories about their artistic beginnings, their journeys in the art world, and then the inspirations for the work they are each doing now.  Firstly, Pius Chong created a wood sculpture with bright blocks of colour. Secondly, Doug Strand brought human figure sketches.  Evelyn Armstrong displayed a series of photos of water in different states with ecological commentary. And lastly Jackie Stibbards exhibited a variety of work, from photos, to mixed media scrapbooks. For April, we switched it up, bringing in one of the valley s younger artists, Michelle Lonsdale Artist Michelle Lonsdale Michelle Lonsdale has taken part is several of our Nicola Valley Art Shows at the Courthouse Gallery! She brought a touch of whimsy to the Art Gallery. For example Michelle offered up thoughtful twists in much of her work, like her black buggy in a meadow. Moreover Michelle was on hand when her past art teacher, Shannon Dunn, brought a high school class to see her exhibition. We also had an Artist Talk with Michelle and really enjoyed her discussions about art, and her process. From this young artist, we segued to even younger aspiring students from our local high school, participating in the School District 58 Arts Festival . Artist Taiki Yamaguchi School District 58 once again held their Arts Festival mid spring. They brought the artistic expression of our youth in the public schools to our community. Performance art, music, and visual art made their way into our Civic Centre, the Kekuli Cafe Open Mic, the Secret Door Gallery and to the Courthouse Arts Gallery. The  Merritt Senior Secondary School  art students had the opportunity to display their varied work at our Nicola Valley Arts Gallery in the old courthouse. The theme Create-Communicate-Connect showed up in the drawings, paintings, and 3D art for the short show. Certainly a lot of work by the students and teachers, a lot of reward for the community! Following the exhibition showcasing our young local talent was an inspiring show by an artist who has made her way in the art world her whole life! And her art style is perfect for our Nicola Valley . Faye Gustafson Art Artist Faye Gustafson moved to our Merritt BC Canada community, with husband Ian Brooker, after several years of  participating in our local arts programs, like past Art Walks. Faye’s work in sketches and oils is made for our western community! The cowboy way of life has always appealed to my soul  says Gustafson.  I love the endless stories of the people who lived way back when, and the excitement the modern cowgirls and cowboys still enjoy! Consequently Gustafson has exhibited her work in  Canada  and United States, Japan and Australia. Additionally she holds several awards for her artwork. We were very happy to exhibit her work in a single-artist show in our Gallery. After that, the Nicola Valley Arts Gallery pulled together a show with other community groups to remember a heritage building in the valley . Murray Church Show Poster, by Kim LeClair A well attended show by the Nicola Valley Community! This exhibition of art and artifacts honoured the place the historic  Murray Church  played in our valley. When the Murray Church was destroyed in a fire so many people felt the loss. The loss elicited so many memories. As a  result this show elicited stories going back decades, from far and wide. We appreciated the artists and photographers who came forward with newly created depictions of the church. The past paintings drawings, and photographs touched many people. We especially loved the inspired presence of the original organ from Morva Murray. Also we were very grateful for the participation of the Trinity United Church members, like Linda Baird, who contributed story boards, artifacts, art and memories. In short, a big kudos goes out to Amrit Samra for his dedicated work with us, and over the past years with the Murray Church. After sharing memories of a much-missed historical building, we spun off a fun art activity in town. We put on a show creatively reusing items and making them better, more useful, and more beautiful than they were before . Jano Howarth Photo, Kim Leclair Poster During the summer, artist Shirley Reynolds organized an art event for the whole business community, the  Chair Walk . Fifteen local artists were invited to upcycle a chair each. They were matched with downtown businesses, and displayed over the month of July. The chairs were put on auction to fundraise for the Downtown Theatre project and the  Nicola Valley Arts Council . They were great! Very creative! Shirley s chair project was a great success. We invited the artists to bring their chairs to the Arts Gallery for our August show. And a call-out brought a wide variety of upcycled items from other artists and artisans. From paint sprayed garden pots to a 1st Nations art decorated corner shelf by artist Leonard George. Also there were blinged lamps and Cindy Trent s golf club coat hooks. The locals outdid themselves! As a result of the displays, some visitors to the gallery were motivated to get into upcycling themselves! Next, inspired by both the Fall Fair at the beginning of September, and the  Mayor s Gala of the Arts  at the end, the Gallery s September show combined the themes . Robert Moretti Art Get-in-the-mood for fall art! On display at the Courthouse Gallery were many of the Photography winners of our celebrated Fall Fair. The photos were displayed on free standing dividers flanking fall paintings by local artists Robert Moretti. All the paintings nearby were depictions of fall themes and colours. Art by beloved local artist Bev Veale, young Wyatt Collins, and almost new-to-town Dave and Sue Barber. And to enhance the swing dancing event coming, we created a 40 s themed boudoir with swing dance art on the wall and big band music playing. In short, thanks to all our contributors like Diane Wandler and Barb Sayles, and artists Judy Young and Jen Artibise! Fun! And for the Arts and Culture scene in the Nicola Valley . Pop Up Art Gallery Nicola Valley Community Arts Council and its community partner put on a fabulous  Mayor s Gala of the Arts ! It took a year of planning to pull it off, with NVCAC Execs, Jane Bartle and Mischelle Pierce leading lots of volunteers. Consequently, over 200 people enjoyed the lively music of an 18 piece swing band. There was dancing, socializing, beverages and beef. A highlight of the evening for me was the pop up Art Gallery at the Gala event. While I looked after the show at our Courthouse Arts Gallery, the President of the NVCAC Jean Kiegerl, and artist extraordinaire, Cassandra Dolen, put together a beautiful display of art by several of our local artists. As a result of the Gala s fun and success, there have been lots of requests for a repeat next year! On the other hand we haven t even talked about Art in the Park and the community art installations. Or Open Mic night, and other programs we have run at the Gallery and other community venues over the past months! As a result I am happy to play catch up a little, here on our fab  Experience Nicola Valley  blogging website! So I am very happy to have directed and curated these Nicola Valley Arts Gallery shows fun, interesting, informative, and inspiring! And so many artists, photographers, artisans, and talented community members! Therefore, I am looking forward to my next blog! Already in the middle of a new show,  Fractured Reflections , with fine woodworking and mirrors by Fred Tomlin. A must see! Show dates Oct 11 to Nov 9, hours Thursday to Saturday, 12-6pm. Join the NVCAC Arts Council! Annual General Meeting, Wednesday 7pm, Oct 23rd, at the old Courthouse. Contact  nicolavalleyartsgallery@gmail.com Jano Howarth Arts Gallery Director and community supporter! Firstly,  visit our Website  Nicola Valley Arts Council Secondly, like our Facebook Page  Nicola Valley Arts Gallery Lastly, check out the  Creative Community Joel Reid, Artist and NVAG Show Set Up  Nicola Valley Fall Fair and 4-H Club Labour Day Weekend 2019. Above all since 1913 this 2 day fair has become a family tradition within  Nicola Valley Merritt BC . With a bit of competitive exhibits including baking, canning, needlework, flora, livestock and gardening. The Fair also features antique tractor displays, car show and an old fashioned country dance in their exhibition hall. Truly a  EhCanadian  event along with everyone having an Experience in the Nicola Valley. The Fall Fair Building. The BC Association of Agricultural Fairs  &  Exhibitions coordinates activities and promotes participation through it’s operational committees. Nonprofit organization. Hands on learning. 4-H Club. From learning new skills along with personal achievement gaining and leadership the Fall Fairs Founding Date 1976. For Parents:  Why 4-H?  For example I had the pleasure to talk with Tammeran who has been a member of the 4-H Club for 6 yrs. Tammeran s speciality is working with Sheep. I asked Tammeran what he has gained from the 4-H Club. Tammeran 4-H Club member. Lambs. Photo s by  TaniaStewart . Hands on. Thank you Mr. Hume. So much to see! Discover Tabby , Tabitha Rusinko. The work that goes into this is mind blowing! My flowers do not compare this. The colors are amazing! Beautiful! Canning. Sunflowers. Eggs, we all buy them. But who farms them? Murray Church , 22nd Fall Fair, do the math. Amazing to learn our history! Award winning squash. Canned goods. Nicola Valley Honey . Lego Knitting Fall Fair. Above all since 1913 this 2 day fair has become a family tradition. The Nicola Valley Fall Fair with a bit of competitive exhibits. Which includes baking, canning, needlework, flora, livestock along with vegetables. Me and my band and crew have always lived by the code:  Work hard, play harder. Kenny Chesney  is one of the most successful country singers in the world. Although it turns out there’s a lot more hiding underneath that cowboy hat than one would think. Blessed with a voice that sounds older than his years, Chesney has become known as the country singer with a hard-core country style. Influenced by such artists as Merle Haggard and George  the Possum  Jones, he also draws on the country-rock style of Charlie Daniels and his band. Chesney was born on March 26, 1968, in  Knoxville , Tennessee, at St. Mary s Medical Center. He grew up in Luttrell, Tennessee. He is the son of David Chesney, a former elementary school teacher, and Karen Chandler, a hair stylist in the Knoxville area. Chesney has one sibling, a younger sister named Jennifer Chandler. Raised on humble values he spent his childhood beside his beloved little sister. Lutrell, Tennessee, is a really great place to grow up. You couldn t help but be consumed by country music. It s everywhere   but I never dreamed of being a singer as a kid.  (Kenny Chesney) Although he is a country music superstar. There are plenty out there that think they know a lot about the singer  and they probably do. But let it be known there s still a few things they don t know about him. Kenny s childhood dream was to become a professional athlete. His heart was set on possibly being either a baseball or football star. Unfortunately that couldn t happen because the rules were you had to be taller than 5 8 . Kenny attended and graduated from Gibbs High School in Corryton, Tennessee in 1986. After high school, Chesney enrolled in  East Tennessee State University  in  Johnson City  where he studied for a business and advertising and marketing degree. His mother gave him his first guitar  The Terminor  for Christmas that same year. He taught himself how to play it and at the same time started entertaining his friends and writing his own songs. He had the bug. Kenny Chesney (the boot) Entertaining for his room mates and friends led to a gig in a small restaurant close to campus. The lack of response he received from the Saturday night student crowds did not discourage him. He stood up, shook it off and continued to play at small restaurants and clubs. In 1989, Chesney recorded a demo album at  Classic Recording  in Bristol, Virginia, of original songs written by himself. Selling a 1000 copies of the album as well as performing, he was able to buy himself a new guitar. Hooking up with a college band Kenny s fan base expanded as he ventured away from campus and started playing venues in Virginia and throghout the Carolinas. He had the bug bad, it took everything he had not to quit university and head to Nashville. After graduating from East Tennessee State University in December, 1991, with degree in hand. Kenny wasted no time in packing up and heading to Nashville, Tennessee, to hopefully become a songwriter. Kenny Chesney Chesney secured a house gig at a honky tonk called   The Turf  in Nashville s historic district. On top of that he got a job as a valet parking cars during the day. While paying the bills, he read every book he could get his hands on about the music business. He did his research on the country music industry. One day in 1992 he picked up the phone and called BMI publishing executive Clay Bradley. Clay referred Kenny to Troy Tomlinson, of Opryland Music Group . First of all I was attracted to the songs, because I thought that he painted great pictures in his lyrics, particularly for someone who had not been around the typical Music Row co-writes. (Troy Tomlinson) I thought that he sang very well too. But more than anything there was a kind of this  I-will-do-it  look in his eyes   I was really drawn in by the fact that he was so set on being successful in this business. (Troy Tomlinson) (Wikipedia) Kenny performed five songs at the audition which impressed Tomlinson and left him enthusiastic. When Kenny left the addition, he left with a songwriter s contract in hand. Kenny Chesney A year later in 1993, Kenny made an appearance at a local songwriter s showcase. This showcase led to him landing a recording deal with Capricorn records. The album recorded with Capricorn Records, new country division, released in 1994 featured, Chesney s first recording of  The Tin Man  and  In My Wildest Dreams . Both of them reaching the lower regions of the US Billboard Hot Country Singles and Track Charts. The Album sold 10,000 copies before Capricorn records decided to ban their country division of the label in 1994. Chesney was left with a record but no promotional help. Luckily for him however, his talents as a songwriter and singer left a mark in the industry and BNA was waiting in the wings. The BNA label, which signed Chesney in 1995, also purchased the master disks to In My Wildest Dreams. Chesney s first album with BNA, All I Need To Know, would feature a reprise of  The Tin Man  as its first single. Releasing his second album in 1995,  All I Need to Know  produced the single  Fall in Love . It reached the Top 10, while  Grandpa Told Me So  peaked at number 23. This album seemed to capture the traditional spirit that made country music popular as well as set the stage for a string of platinum releases throughout the rest of the 1990s and 2000s. J.W. Gauntt 63K subscribers Subscribe Kenny Chesney -- The Tin Man Info Shopping Tap to unmute If playback doesn ' t begin shortly, try restarting your device. More videos Your browser does not currently recognize any of the video formats available.  Click here to visit our frequently asked questions about HTML5 video. More videos on YouTube Share Include playlist An error occurred while retrieving sharing information. Please try again later. Watch later Share Copy link An error occurred. Try watching this video on www.youtube.com , or enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser. Chesney s  first Gold Album  Me and You  was released in 1996. This was his first album released by BNA and the third of his career as well as his second major label album. The album s first single, Back in My Arms Again  climbed the charts to reach just outside the top 40. The title track  When I Close My Eyes  which Chesney recorded on his previous album from Capricorn Records reached number 1. Kenny opened and toured with  Alabama  to crowds of 15,000 fans a night, since the release of his second album with  Capricorn Records  in 1994.  With that kind of exposure, as well as continuing to tour with Alabama, did nothing but help the sales of his third album as it continued to climb. As a songwriter and an artist, I want to try to make somebody laugh, I want to try to make somebody cry, I want to try to make somebody remember their first girlfriend or their first kiss. You want to try to make them miss somebody or want something. (Kenny Chesney to Dixie Weathersby) I Will Stand’ followed in 1997. The first single from this album  ‘She’s Got It All’  remained at top of Billboard Country Chart for three weeks.  (Biography) Chesney wanted a tune or two that was hard-core country as well as being able to pull emotions from his listeners. Regardless of whether country radio played it or not.  Hillbilly Heaven with Their Honky Tonk Hell  was that song. It featured backup vocals by fellow Young Country artist Tracy Lawrence and George Jones  The Possum  himself, who Chesney maintained is  the best country singer there ever was .  (Biography) Kenny Chesney I am glad I have taken really small steps.  I have learned something in every step that helped me get to the next one.… Shoot, if I get to do this for 20 more years, and I am still taking these small steps, then that is what I m going to do because I love country music. (Kenny Chesney-Dixie Weathersby) Chesney s plans along with his conservative approach to the industry changed with the release of  Every Where We Go  in 1999. The album sold over 2 million copies. Two of the singles  You Had Me From Hello  and  How Forever Feels,  reached number one, another single  She Thinks My Tractor s Sexy ,  reached number 2. Releasing his first  Greatest Hits  collection in 2000 which included two new songs reached number one on the album chart and like  Everywhere We Go , was awarded platinum status.  (Encyclopedia) Kenny s chart success and album sales were just warm-ups for what was yet to come. The release of the album  No Shirt, No Shoes, No Problem in 2002, reached  number one  as well as included  four top ten singles.  The Good Stuff spent seven weeks at number 1 and became the number one country song of 2002. Kenny Chesney Chesney released his first holiday album,  All I Want For Christmas Is A Real Good Tan in 2003. The  Margaritas N  Senorita s Tour also took place in 2003. The next major release in 2004,  When The Sun Goes Down  continued the country wave. The album included Calypso rhythms, influenced by his love of the Caribbean as well as a duet with  Uncle Kracker , a rap rocker. Its first single There Goes My Life spent seven weeks at number one on the Billboard country charts. A duet, the Album s title track with Uncle Kracker went number one.  I Go Back  along with the album s fourth single  The Woman With You  both peaked at number two. The fifth single  Anything But Mine reached number one, and the final single  Keg In The Closet  peaked at number 6. The album sold 550,000 copies in the first week and a over three million copies all totalled.  When The Sun Goes Down  was honored with the 2004 CMA award for  Album Of The Year  while Chesney was honored with  Entertainer Of The Year . He was also presented with the 2004 AMA s  Artist Of The year Award . Kenny finished off the year with  Guitars, Tiki Bars And A Whole Lotta Love Tour (Wikipedia) Kenny Chesney Chesney received his first career GRAMMY nomination in 2004 for Best Country Collaboration With Vocal for  Hey Good Lookin'  with Clint Black, Jimmy Buffett, Alan Jackson, Toby Keith, and George Strait. He made his GRAMMY stage debut performing  Better As A Memory  at the 51st GRAMMY Awards in 2009.  (Grammy Newsletter) Chesney released two albums in 2005,  ‘Be As You Are  and  The Road And The Radio .  He also went on a  ‘Somewhere in the Sun Tour’. In 2006, he released his first live album called.  “Live Those Songs Again . It includes a live rendition of 15 of his songs. This was also the year when he went on  ‘The Road and The Radio Tour’ . Chesney’s next album,  Just Who Am I ,  Poets  &  Pirates  was released on September 11, 2007. On November 15, 2007, he released another compilation album titled  Super Hits .  ‘The Flip Flop Summer Tour’  was also organized this year. Kenny released his next album,  Lucky Old Sun  on October 14, 2008.  Everybody Wants to Go to Heaven  and  Down the Road  are two most popular singles from this album. This is also the year when he went on  ‘The Poets and Pirates Tour’ . April 2009, he began his  ‘Sun City Carnival Tour’  starting at Uncasville, Connecticut. He ended it in Indianapolis in September 2009. This is also the year when he released his third compilation album  Super Hits II . Kenny Chesney 2010, Chesney released a new album titled  Hemmingway Whiskey . This is also the year when he produced a biographical film on his favorite football star  Condredge Holloway Jr.  The film was titled  ‘The Color Orange’  and was premiered on February 20, 2011 on ESPN.  ‘With a Two Tour’  was also organized that year. Chesney next undertook his eleventh concert tour titled  ‘Going Coastal Tour’ . It began on March 17, 2011 at West Palm Beach and ended on August 27, 2011 in Boxborough. 2012, Chesney released his thirteenth studio album titled  Welcome to Fish Bowl . One of its singles  Feel Like a Rock Star received four and half stars out of five. June 2012, Chesney embarked on  Brothers of Sun Tour  with Tim McGraw. They performed in 22 different cities starting at Tampa and ending at Foxboro in the end of August 2012. The tour drew over one million audiences and grossed $96 million in ticket sales. March 2013, Chesney went on his thirteenth tour  ‘No Shoes Nation Tour’ . It was organized to promote his newest album, Life on Rock , which was released on February 5, 2013. On what inspires him to write a song:  My inspiration comes from life in general. I keep my ears open, as well as overhear conversations in restaurants and on the street. I watch a lot of movies and TV, and love to read. There are so many things that can be taken and made into songs, everything that has an emotion to it. I just look for things that people can hang on to. Kenny Chesney On September 23, 2014 Chesney released his latest album,  The Big Revival .  It was a big hit and many of its singles topped the Country Airplay Chart. The next year, he undertook The Big Revival Tour’ . It began on March 26, 2015 at Nashville and ended at Foxboro on August 29, 2015. On October 27, he and Jason Aldean announced that they would perform 10 joint stadium shows in the summer of that year. Chesney announced that he was in the studio working on new music on March 7, 2016, . On March 24, 2016 the lead single to the album titled  Noise ,  was released to country radio .  The album, Cosmic Hallelujah, was released on October 28 The second song in the album,  Setting the World on Fire ,  featuring singer PINK was released to country radio on July 28, 2016. On August 25, 2012, at Gillette Stadium in Foxborough, Massachusetts, Kenny Chesney announced to his fans that he would call his fan following No Shoes Nation. The term No Shoes Nation originated from Chesney s hit song  No Shoes, No Shirt, No Problem . The symbol of No Shoes Nation is a black flag with a white skull and crossbones. Live in No Shoes Nation was accompanied by a live album, which topped the Billboard 200 after its release in late 2017.  No Shoes Nation inspired the name of Chesney s Sirius XM channel, No Shoes Radio. It was announced, in January 2018, that Chesney had ended his contract with Sony Music Nashville and signed to Warner Bros. Records Nashville. Chesney released his first album with Warner, entitled Songs for the Saints, on July 27, 2018. In November 2018, he announced plans to tour the U.S. in 2019, hitting smaller-sized venues and arenas rather than massive stadiums. Kenny Chesney Kenny Chesney is the 90th most popular classic music artist and the 59th most famous in the world. Kenny Chesney is described by fans as: A great performer, entertaining, talented, easy to listen to and awesome. The more people I get to see in front of me   whether it s at a football stadium or a funky little bar like the Hog s Breath in Key West   the more I realize how much we all have in common. There are a lot of people punching a clock or having too much on their plate, a buncha people on their first date, with that nervousness and excitement that they re really there we all want the same things, all hope for the same stuff and I feel like pretty much worry about the same stuff, too.  (Kenny Chesney) Kenny has recorded 20 albums, 20 of which have been certified Gold or higher by the RIAA. He has also produced more than 40 Top 10 singles on the US Billboard Hot Country Songs and Country Airplay charts, 30 of which have reached number one. Many of these have also charted within the Top 40 of the US Billboard Hot 100, making him one of the most successful crossover country artists of all time.. He has sold over 30 million albums worldwide. Kenny Chesney Chesney has received six Academy of Country Music awards, including four consecutive Entertainer of the Year awards, as well as nine awards from the Country Music Association. Other notable awards he received include the Academy of Country Music s  New Male Vocalist of the Year,  Top Male Vocalist of the Year, and the  Triple Crown  Award in 2005. Kenny Chesney could have caused a few of the festival organizers minor heart attacks when, near the end of his show, he jumped down into the photographer’s pit in front of the stage to start shaking hands with fans. Chesney closed out seventeen years of the Merritt Mountain Music Festival in 2009.  (Merritt Herald) A bonafide Country Music Superstar as well as a Country Music Staple and the last critically acclaimed star to headline The Merritt Mountain Music Festival. Chesney earned his spot on the wall. Even though Kenny is not a Canadian and is not in the  Country Music Hall Of Fame . It was an honor to have him perform in  Merritt, BC, Canada  and become a part of the  Country Music Hall of Fame Mural Walk . The Kenny Chesney Mural, painted by Michelle Loughery can be found in Spirit Square on the corner of Granite Avenue and Voght Street, in a row of murals near the stage. The Merritt Mural Project was created in 2005. The Merritt BC Murals were part of a successful program called, the “Merritt Youth Mural Project”. A project designed for working with local young artists and “ youth at risk”. Visit our  Canadian Country Music Hall Of Fame  located at 2025 Quilchena Avenue, downtown Merritt, BC. The Hall of Fame includes Canadian Hall Of Fame Inductees as well as  CCMA  Award Winning Artists. Start you  Downtown Mural  walk from this point. In addition, while on your mural tour, visit the many handprints of country artists situated throughout the town. Hundred s of International Country Music Artists have performed at the annual Merritt Mountain Music Festival. As a result, those stars  left their mark permanently, by placing their handprints (or, in one case, footprints) and signatures in concrete stars. As a result, in 2003, those stars became the basis for the  Merritt Walk of Stars . In addition, by 2005 more than 100 bronzed stars, created from the concrete impressions, were displayed throughout the community. Above all, the handprints will continue to grow with the  Rockin River Music Fest ,  and add to the existing legacy of the Stars that have visited and performed in Merritt, BC.  Discover and experience the natural beauty and attractions in Merritt and the Nicola Valley! Kenny Chesney has covered a lot of ground   and he believes he s got a lot more ground to go. You can follow Kenny on: Website:  www.kennychesney.com Facebook Hall of Fame Blog Travel Website ( Information for this blog was obtained from Wikipedia and Encyclopedia. Other sites recognized individually) 2019 Nicola Valley Rodeo Association  in  Merritt BC Canada . Merritt rodeo grounds and venue were built and, for more than half a century, run by the Nicola Valley Rodeo Association . The grassland expanses of the Nicola Valley are home to some of British Columbia’s oldest ranches. They and five First Nations communities centred around the Merritt community form the foundation of the ranching and rodeo heritage of the Nicola Valley. People from Scotland, Australia, USA, as well from all across  Canada attended this annual event. Event Team Ropers warming up. In reality I have heard that the livestock have 5 star treatment compared to some of the two legged competitors. Clint Buhler Team Roper along with  Snowman . Looking good on a horse is the easy part. Roping takes practice  &  dedication. Together with all the amazing competitors there are the sponsors.  With out Future  Cowboy? their help and dedication we may not have this attraction in Merritt. Given that Nicola Valley Pro Rodeo sponsors will be included in many of the photo s. Consequently July 26-28 2019 The  Canadian High School Rodeo Finals  was held at the Nicola Valley rodeo grounds in Merritt BC as well. The clothes do not make the cowgirl, it s the attitude and heart. Without their dedication, long hours and sometimes health risks Nicola Valley s Pro Rodeo may ride away into the sunset. A huge cheer to rodeo co-chair  Mary MacGregor  and fellow co-chair Peter Spencer. Thank you to the  Bullfighting clowns ! Taking risks to help  Bull  rider! Important to realize that rodeo clowns are there to entertain the crowd. While barrelmen tag-team with bullfighters to distract the bulls after each ride. Allowing the cowboy to safely exit the arena. Around since the 1930 s, the job of a barrelmen and rodeo clown is no easy feat and shouldn’t be underestimated. Always a Clown! •  Ogilvie Mtn Holdings LP  Rodeo Sponsor •  Jamie Payton Movie Horses Timing is critical. From a standstill, a rider will put his horse into a gallop from the box shortly after the calf leaves the chute, All  Cowboys  take pride in the speed in which they rope and tie calves. Calf roping, also known as tie-down roping event. To say nothing of the great weather for the 61st annual Merritt Pro Rodeo over the Labour Day long weekend. Guaranteed there wasn t a shortage of live excitement. Courage is being scared to death, but still saddling up anyway All 4 off the ground, n still hanging in! If you haven’t fallen off a horse…then you haven’t been ridin  long enough .  Coolnsmart  : Hillbillie Deluxe on December 7, 2013 If this was easy, everyone would do it! •  Copper Valley Mechanical Contractors Ltd . Equally important are the Merritt Little Britches which was held June 14-16 this year at Nicola Valley s Rodeo grounds. A place for young cowboys and cowgirls to get a start in the sport of rodeo is with the  British Columbia Little Britches Rodeo Association Tanya Stars. Barrel Racer s start young! •  Purity Feed Ltd . Young barrel racer! Barrel racing. Anyone who never fails is someone who never tries.  Unknown Additionally Steer wrestling, also known as bulldogging, is a rodeo event in which a horse-mounted rider chases a steer, drops from the horse to the steer, then wrestles the steer to the ground by grabbing its horns and pulling it off-balance so that it falls to the ground. Git er down! •  Nicola Post  &  Rail Ltd. Dig down! Barrel Racing officially started in 1928 when it became the first sport for women on horseback. This skill is easily overlooked. A speed event involving a horse, along with its rider, galloping and making agile turns around three barrels placed in a triangular fashion. Rider must control the horse s speed at the right moment to enter the  pocket 3 Turns, 2 Hearts, 1 Soul Steering as close to the barrels as they can. Precious seconds. Racers enter the arena at full speed and try to circle the three barrels as quickly as they can. If you ain’t afraid of the speed, you ain’t going fast enough .  Cowgirltimes Tighter the turn. Bull riding is a rodeo sport that involves a rider getting on a bucking bull and attempting to stay on while being bucked off. Notably recognized as  the most dangerous eight seconds in sports . “Brace your backbone and forget your wishbone.”  Bull riding sayings “Bull riding is probably the most dangerous sport in the world in terms of head injuries.” Jonathan Gottschall Hanging on! •  The Grand Pub and Grill Don not try this at home! • Steffens Family in memory of Jim Steffens “Sometimes I think life is just a rodeo, the trick is to ride and make it to the bell.” “If you can’t dazzle them with brilliance, baffle them with bull.” Keep Calm and Hold On What form!! •  Red Deer Westerner Park Still holding on. •  Norgaard Ready-Mix Ltd . Bucking, rearing, kicking, spinning, along with twisting. Nicola Valley Rodeo Sponsor •  Best Western Plus Merritt Pro Rodeo Sponsor •  Infracon Wise sayings often fall on barren ground, but a kind word is never thrown away. Arthur Helps.  Bull riding quotes “Never corner something meaner then you.” 8 seconds is a long time! Sponsors •  Ellis Livestock Company Sponsors •  Valley Carriers Ltd . Gillespie  &  Company LLP The bleachers are packed! •  Western Livestock Marketing Solutions Inc. Rodeo 101 spectator, athlete involvement, stock tours along with children s activities. Bronc riding like my Pa! Learning how to saddle a horse. Learning the ropes.  Infracon What s a Rodeo without a Saloon! A cold refreshing ice-cream, what better way to cool off! •  Prairie Coast Equipment Above all since its establishment in 1958 Nicola Valley s Rodeo Legacy continues on Labour Day weekend. A annual event that brings people from across Canada, USA, Scotland, Australia, Britain, and importantly local Merritt residents.  Truly a spectators sport watching these athletes perform at their best. I love a great  Rodeo , and this is one of the best!  Tanya Stewart, Experience Nicola Valley Blogger Feel free to read my  previous story  about the lead up to the Nicola Valley Pro Rodeo Event. Canadian Country Music Singer Pioneer Ian Tyson walks with a stiff-legged cowboy gait to the centre of the stage. A preamble to his performance. The walk is an illustration, of what being a cowboy is all about. Falls off horses, bruises, broken bones as well as a reminder that, the cowboy life is not the glamour of the old western movies. Just listen to some of the great recordings performed by Ian Tyson.  An artist who has become a pioneer icon — a timeless singer with a bruised voice who tells stories with the unvarnished luster of truth. For one thing, Ian Tyson is  an Internationally acclaimed  Canadian Country Singer Songwriter Pioneer . He has created some of  Alberta s  and  Canada’s  most enduring standards, not to mention a career spanning over five decades. His music has inspired such renowned artists such as Bob Dylan, Neil Young and Gordon Lightfoot. Consequently, over the years, Tyson has continued to create music that captures life in the west through vivid descriptions of Alberta and cowboy culture. Not to mention, a leading spokesman for western pride including helping establish a unique soundtrack to capture the Alberta experience. Born in  Victoria, British Columbia  in 1933, the second child of George and Margaret Tyson, Ian grew up in  Duncan, BC.  His Father, who immigrated from England in 1906 owned a small farm. Ian learned how to ride horses on this farm. Cowboy Ian Tyson Four Strong Winds He left home as a teenager,  for southern Alberta where he followed and competed in the Rodeo Circuit. A foot injury put him in the  Calgary  hospital. It was while recovering that he learned how to play the guitar. He made his singing debut at the Heidelberg Café in  Vancouver  in 1956 as well as  played with a rock and roll band, The Sensational Stripes. After graduating from the Vancouver School of Art in 1958, Tyson made his way to  Toronto  to pursue a music Career. It was during the 60 s folk boom that he met singer/songwriter Sylvia Fricker. As a result, they formed the duo  Ian and Sylvia. On the positive side, as Ian  &  Sylvia, they were the Canadian stars of the early ’60s folk boom. “Ian and Sylvia” enjoyed great success. They were playing all over the country receiving rave reviews and playing to sold-out crowds. One of their high lights was playing New York’s Carnegie Hall. The duo married in 1964. Forming what was to become one of the most influential country acts in the industry, both in Canada and abroad. They recorded over a dozen timeless albums as well as wrote some of Canada’s best-loved songs, including Ian’s “Four Strong Winds” as well as “Someday Soon   including Sylvia’s “You Were on My Mind”. All things considered, some of the most famous artists of our times have covered these songs countless times. Ian Tyson It was during this time that Four Strong Winds was released. The title track became an instant hit. Over 50 versions were recorded in the first five years after its release. It has remained a folk standard. Neil Young recorded Four Strong Winds in 1979.  “It is the most beautiful song, I have ever heard in my life.” Johnny Cash recorded the song, shortly before his death. He included the song on his posthumous album released in 2006. The song has also become an Alberta standard. A 2005 radio listener’s poll named Four Strong Winds the greatest Canadian song of the 20th century.  (Alberta Order Of Excellence) Ian and Sylvia evolved into pioneers of country-rock during the British Invasion.. Their band, Great Speckled Bird, rivaled the Byrds and other groups which helped create modern country, a decade before the Urban Cowboy phase of contemporary “new traditionalists”. Ian Tyson Show Ian and Sylvia formed the iconic country rock band “Great Speckled Bird”. At the same time, Tyson hosted the national Canadian television music show, “Nashville North.” The show was later renamed “The Ian Tyson Show” from 1970 to 1975. Sylvia Tyson and the Great Speckled Bird appeared often on the series. After hosting television music show from 1970 to 1975, the music and marriage of Ian and Sylvia had ended. It was now or never. Disillusioned with the Canadian country music scene. Tyson realized the time had come to return to his first love – training horses in the ranch country of southern Alberta. He once again made Alberta his home, settling in Pincher Creek where he began ranching and living the life about which he was so proud to write and sing. Ian Tyson Esplanade “It was a kind of a musical Christmas card for my friends” he recalls. “We weren’t looking for a ‘hit’ or radio play or anything like that.” In 1980, Tyson met Calgary music manager and producer Neil MacGonigill. In  1983. After three years, in spite of working his ranch, Tyson decided to concentrate on music. To begin with, the album Old Corrals  &  Sagebrush, a mixture of traditional cowboy songs and new western music, was well received. On the other hand he found it a challenge to combine his two separate lives in new songs that explained the reality of  western culture  and the mindset of a cowboy in a sometimes-alien world. His breakthrough album, 1986′s Cowboyography, earned platinum status in Canada, as well as earned him his first JUNO Award. All of a sudden, the cowboy renaissance was about to find expression at the inaugural Elko Cowboy Poetry Gathering in 1983. To put it another way a small coterie of saddle makers, rawhide braiders, cowboy poets and pickers came together in a small cow town in northern Nevada. Not only was he invited to perform his “new western music” at the gathering, as well as,  Tyson has missed only one or two gatherings in the 30-plus years since. The 1987 album  Cowboyography  contained two songs that were later chosen by the  Western Writers of America  as among the Top 100 Western Songs of all time:  Navajo Rug  and  Summer Wages . [36] As soon as Tyson s music became popular, he began traveling and performing at concerts across North America. At the same time a busy Tyson stayed true to his roots. Maintaining Alberta as his home as well as working on his ranch in Pincher Creek. As a matter of fact the gravel road that runs from his present ranch in the foothills of the Rockies is the inspiration for Tyson’s 2005 album,  Songs from the Gravel Road . As a result, by releasing this album at the age of 71, Tyson has shown that an active cowboy life keeps his creative pulse beating. Not to mention, his discography remains an enduring collection of Canadian classics. Ian Tyson Celebrating 50 Years Of Music Canadian Country Music Association  Male Vocalist of the Year 1987 Single of the Year   Navajo Rug  1987 Album of the Year   Cowboyography 1987 Vocalist of the Year (Male) 1988  Induction into Canadian Country Music Hall of Honor 1989 Video of the Year   Springtime in Alberta 1991 Juno Awards  Country Male Vocalist of the Year 1987 Inducted into Juno Hall of Fame (with Sylvia Tyson) 1992  Outstanding Performance (male) 1975 Best Country Album   Ol Eon/A & M Records 1975  Top Country TV Show   The Ian Tyson Show 1975  Artist of the Year 1988 Top Male Vocalist1988 Album (Best)- Cowboyography 1988 Male Vocalist of the Year 1989 Alberta Song of the Year   Fifty Years Ago 1989 Top Alberta Single of the Year   Fifty Years Ago 1989 Favorite Calgary and Area Country Entertainer 1989 Four Strong Winds named All Time Favorite Canadian Country Songs 1988 Readers Poll   COUNTRY MUSIC NEWS Finalist, World Championship Cutting Horse Futurity, Fort Worth, TX 1989 INDUCTION Canadian Country Music Hall Of Fame 1989    Alberta Male Vocalist of the Year   Top Alberta Single of the Year (Fifty Years Ago)    Song of the Year (Fifty Years Ago)   Harcourt, Calgary and Area Country Entertainer  Song of the West Reader s Poll for Best Album of the Year:  And Stood There Amazed  1991 First Male Country Vocalist to Achieve Two Gold Albums in Canada 1992 ASCAP Country Award (Someday Soon) 1992 Honorary Dr. of Athabasca University 1993 RECIPIENT- Order of Canada 1995 Prairie Music Awards   Outstanding Country Recording (Lost Herd) 1999 American Cowboy Culture Awards   Western Music Award 2000 Strong Winds voted Canada’s No. 1 song of the 20th Century 2000 Prairie Music Hall of Fame 2001 Honorary Dr. of Law   University of Calgary 2001 Western Heritage Wrangler Award   Outstanding Original Western Composition for  Bob Fudge  2002 BCCMA Hall of Fame 2006 Alberta Order of Excellence 2006 Mariposa Folk Festival Hall of Fame 2006 CBC Radio Listeners’ Poll declares Four Strong Winds the Number One Canadian song of the 20th Century 2006 Honorary Dr. of Letters – Thompson Rivers University 2007 ASCAP Citation of Excellence 2008 Western Music Hall of Fame 2008 Western Horseman Magazine’s Horseman of the Year Award 2009 Resonance Award – presented by Canadian Museum of Civilization for a lifetime’s contribution to Canadian music. 2009 First Recipient of the Charles Russell Heritage Award (C.M. Russell Museum, Great Falls, MT) 2010 The Diamond Jubilee Medal from Her Majesty, Queen Elizabeth II in honour of the 60th anniversary of her reign.  2012 Doctor of Laws (honoris causa) – University of Lethbridge  2015 Fellowship, Glenbow Museum, Calgary, AB  2015 Association of Country Music in Alberta (ACMA) – Hall Of Fame 2017 Male Performer of the Year 1987 Country Artist of the Year 1987  Song of the Year   Navajo Rug 1987 Album of the Year   Cowboyography 1987 Single of the Year 1988 Best Country Artist on Record 1988 Male Recording Artist of the Year 1988 Composer of the Year 1989 Performer of the Year 1989 Ian was inducted into the Canadian Country Music Association Hall of Honor and Hall of Fame in 1989. To the Juno Hall of Fame in 1992, the Canadian Broadcast Hall of Fame in 2000, as well as the Prairie Music Hall of Fame in 2001. Ian Tyson was inducted into the Mariposa Hall of Fame in 2006. Tyson  holds honorary doctorate degrees from the University of Calgary and Athabasca University. He became a member of the Order of Canada in 1994. Tyson became a recipient of the  Order of Canada in October 1994.  In 2005 CBC Radio One listeners chose his song, ‘ Four Strong Winds’  as the greatest Canadian song of all time, during a radio series titled “50 Tracks: The Canadian Version”.  (Biography) He was inducted into the Alberta Order of Excellence in 2006 as well as 2003 including receiving a Governor General s Performing Arts Award. Tyson said,  I made it a point to reach as many people as possible through my music, including people not directly from the ranch culture. (Ian Tyson) As a matter of fact, Ian s goal has been to write songs to which different people could all relate. Not only but also the popularity and longevity of his many albums, along with the awards and recognition that followed, are proof that Tyson has been able to achieve that goal. Ian Tyson tells the story of rural Alberta and today’s West, above all through his music. He reveals the challenges of a rancher’s life, the beauty of the Rockies as well as the cowboy’s strong work ethic. The cowboy Ian Tyson As has been noted the path of Tyson’s career serves as a model for Canadian musicians starting out in the industry today. In short, his dedication to music and his style is firmly recognized. By always focusing on his home as well as his passions. Tyson serves as a mentor for new artists, such as Albertan  Corb Lund . In addition Tyson has used his skill and passion for music to benefit the community. To emphasize, performing at fundraising concerts across Alberta, Canada and internationally to raise awareness of and support for many causes. In particular, including child safety and education. As a compassionate rancher and environmentalist, Tyson has also joined his fellow Southern Albertans in work to preserve the natural landscape of rural Alberta. Ian Tyson and Corb Lund “I fought the sound system and I lost”  (Ian Tyson) Life has not been without its difficulties, however. In 2006, he seriously damaged his voice after a particularly tough performance at an outdoor country music festival.  As a result,  a virus that took months to pass, his smooth voice now hoarse, grainy, had lost much of its resonant bottom end. Generally speaking, after briefly entertaining thoughts that he would never sing again, he began relearning and reworking his songs to accommodate his “new voice.” To his surprise, audiences now paid attention as he half-spoke, half-sung familiar words, which seemed to reveal new depths for his listeners.  (Biography) Ian Tyson Ian Tyson is now 84 years old. He s still going strong. Still touring, recording, as well as running the Tyson ranch in  Pincher Creek , Alberta Canada. At the same time continuing to writing about love, horses, and the landscape he loves. He released his most recent single “You Should Have Known” in September 2017 on Stony Plain Records, the label that Tyson’s released fifteen albums with since the ‘80s. The song unapologetically celebrates the hard living, hard drinking, hard loving cowboy life and joins his favorites hits such as “Four Strong Winds,” “Someday Soon,” “Summer Wages” and more.  (Biography) Your Eighties Is Not A Time For Sissies (Ian Tyson) Tyson doesn’t look backwards at six decades plus of a career that’s earned him countless awards, the Order of Canada, and a devoted following. He faces the audience, as he faces the future, with a mixture of optimism and resignation. Your eighties, Tyson tells people, is not a time for sissies. An announcement in July 2019 stated that Ian Tyson and Sylvia Tyson would be inducted into the Songwriters Hall of Fame. They will be inducted individually, not as a duo. The Canadian Broadcasting Corporation article stated that  the duo s 1964 s hit, Four Strong Winds, has been deemed one of the most influential songs in Canadian history . Ian Tyson Performing at The Merritt Mountain Music Festival in 2005, and returning to  Merritt BC  Canada in 2010, to perform and support the Walk Of Stars as well as the  Canadian Country Music Hall of Fame  Galas. Ian Tyson earned his spot on the wall. The mural of Ian Tyson can be found on the back of the stage in Spirit Square on the corner of Granite and Voght Street. The crowd was gathered in the white lawn chairs in the VIP section right in front of the stage. They were waiting in anticipation for the  One of A Kind   Authentic and Durable Headliner for the night Ian Tyson. Backstage. Tyson runs through the vocal warm up routine he’s done numerous times throughout his five-decade career. He stretches his arms and legs. And then his vocal cords. He tunes his guitar and then saunters to the stage. Taking the stage, he starts singing his songs about the west. His voice picks out just the right notes as his fingers pick out the chords. This isn t honky-tonk over-produced country and western twang. We were getting real ballads about places and legends, and a world that is slowly vanishing. Like most Ian Tyson shows the evening was closed out to a roaring crowd with  Four Strong Winds.  For a true Ian Tyson Fan this is the song to wait for.    HillBillyHit 9.2K subscribers Subscribe IAN TYSON:  Four Strong Winds  (Canadian Classic) Info Shopping Tap to unmute If playback doesn ' t begin shortly, try restarting your device. More videos Your browser does not currently recognize any of the video formats available.  Click here to visit our frequently asked questions about HTML5 video. More videos on YouTube Share Include playlist An error occurred while retrieving sharing information. Please try again later. Watch later Share Copy link An error occurred. Try watching this video on www.youtube.com , or enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser. The seventh annual Merritt Walk of Stars (MWOS) gala, a fundraiser for the  Canadian Country Music Hall of Fame , kicked off with a free show in Spirit Square, from some top names in the industry.  It was followed by a world-class concert that night at the Civic Centre where  Ian Tyson was The Headliner. When Tyson finally raised his white cowboy hat and waved to fans, it was to an enthusiastic, well-earned standing ovation. Tyson performed in the afternoon as well as signed his mural painted by Michelle Loughery during the day at Spirit Square. The public were invited to meet him as well as the rest of the performers. Fans were able to see the artists on stage, get autographs, and get right up close with them. These murals are a great way for visitors to walk the downtown area. We enjoyed our visit, stopped at a few shops, and bought a souvenir too  Nice small town touch . (Don H  Kirkland Washington ) Visit downtown Merritt in the beautiful Nicola Valley,  Merritt, BC  and take part in the  Canadian Country Music Hall of Fame ,  Merritt, BC Mural Walk. The Canadian Country Music Hall of Fame includes Hall of Fame Inductees as well as CCMA Award Winning Artists. True country music fans will want to start the downtown mural tour at Merritt s National Attraction. The Canadian Country Music Hall of Fame, situated on Quilchena Avenue in The Country Music Capital of Canada. The Merritt Mural Project was created in 2005. The Merritt BC Murals were part of a successful program called, the “Merritt Youth Mural Project”. A project designed for working with local young artists and “ youth at risk”. Merritt Murals were painted by muralist Michelle Loughery. “It is important for Merritt to continue to grow as the Country Music Capital of Canada. (Ron Sanders President: Country Music Hall Of Fame) In addition, while on your mural tour, visit the many handprints of country artists situated throughout the town. Hundred s of International Country Music Artists have performed at the annual Merritt Mountain Music Festival. As a result, those stars  left their mark permanently, by placing their handprints (or, in one case, footprints) and signatures in concrete stars. As a result, in 2003, those stars became the basis for the Merritt Walk of Stars. In addition, by 2005 more than 100 bronzed stars, created from the concrete impressions, were displayed throughout the community. (Canadian Country Music Hall of Fame) Above all, the handprints will continue to grow with the  Rockin River Music Fest , and add to the existing legacy of the stars that have visited and performed in Merritt, BC. Discover and experience the natural beauty and attractions in Merritt and the Nicola Valley! Facebook Website  Rockin’ River  Fest 2019 in  Merritt B.C . Canada. A country music festival that takes place annually, on the BC Day long weekend, in Merritt, BC – incidentally the community is also the ‘Country Music Capital of  Canada’. With wonderful campgrounds all along the pristine Coldwater River that meanders through the grounds. Rockin River employees make it look easy. Very organized. Majestic view surrounding the Valley. Parking Available. Riding the  Bus . Born in Outlook,  Saskatchewan  and raised in the small town of  Fernie BC , Kenny was the middle child of a large working class family of 6 brothers and 2 sisters. Kenny Hess has now been a part of the music industry since the 80’s when he started a life of making music for a living. When Kenny Hess hit the stage, the crowd went wild! Icons! Bobby Garcia was born and raised in Merritt BC. He has deep roots in traditional country music which he writes and sings about in his latest album These Boots. An up and coming country music artist Bobby loves singing and performing at local festivals and venues across British Columbia.  Check out the album These Boots on iTunes, Spotify and Google music.  Rockin  River Fest 2019 in Merritt BC, Canada.  These Boots. Bobby Garcia n Six More Strings at Merritt Rockin River 2019. A perfect place to spend a BC Day long weekend – for music lovers, families, young people, retirees, campers, RV enthusiasts, sports and outdoor fans. Rockin’ River Music Fest works hard to provide an experience everyone will remember for years. All the way from Saskatchewan! First night of River Rockin Fest! All the way from Prince Albert Saskatchewan. Cowboy Hat  check , Jean Jacket  check , along with a beautiful smile, all in order for a great time! 8 seconds on a  mechanical  bull. This is not an easy ride. A little help from a friend! Up in the stands, what a view! Many happy spectators! A great night to meet a long time friend. Great friends having a good time. Friends enjoying Rockin River! Merritt Rockin River Festee s! Beautiful smile = beautiful time. What a great night to celebrate your Birthday! Perfect entertainer to start the weekend off! Kenny Hess playing Johnny Cash. Kenny Hess Brett Kissel Kissel recorded his first album, Keepin  It Country, when he was 12 years old. The youngest CCMA nominee in the history of the awards show, which he received at the age of 16. Dancing to Brett Kissel at River Rockin 2019. The Rockin’ River Music Fest in Merritt BC. Canada. Country music festival that takes place annually, on the BC Day long weekend, in Merritt, BC, Canada. A great summertime experience for the whole family. Rumor has it that  Keith Urban  will be performing at Rockin River 2020 in Merritt BC.  My hat n boots will be ready! Mark your Calendar! Keith Urban. www.zimbio.com/photos/ The dream cars of the past cruised back to be the show cars of today at The  Nicola Valley Cruiser s 25th annual Show n  Shine , which was held on Sunday July 28, 2019 at Central Park in  Merritt, BC  . It s a car show that continues to draw fans and a dazzling display of muscle, classic, vintage and antique vehicles. Although, this was an anniversary year, the show continues to deliver each year and be a car enthusiast s version of paradise. The show included entertainment, Cash Door Prizes, and Goody Bags as well as Dash Plaques. It s a time for classic Car Lover s to cruise through history, bringing back the happy and glory days of cruisin  the main. It s about nostalgia, memory lane and a time for classic car lovers to unite with their classics and babies ready to shine. Nicola Valley Cruiser s car club was formed in 1994. Founding members, were the Roline s, Mervyns s, Nunn s, James s as well as Dave Jackson. Cars in the club consisted of the  Classic  vehicles over 20 years old,  Vintage  vehicles made between 1919-1930 and  Antique   vehicles over 45 years old. The group currently has 40 members. The Golden Rule  The height of an ordinary car s value is when it s new and when it is about 30 years old. That s when it gets its title as The Collector Machine. (An Avid Car Enthusiast) In April 2006 the Vintage Car Club was formed and the Vintage and Antique vehicles moved over to that group. Both groups regularly work together and participate in each other s events. Vintage Nicola Valley Cruiser s are a group of local classic car owners who meet regularly to  cruise  and talk vehicles. They may not know exactly why they love cars, but there are certain aspects of that love affair that are common. For one thing, cars are never gender-neutral. Car lovers always refer to their favourite cars as a he or she. Memories will resurface, stories will come to mind and, deep inside, the love of classic cars will take root. For the average person that gets into a car hobby, sometimes it s something as simple as someone who likes to preserve something that reminds them of their youth. Like many car events there is a charitable component to The Nicola Valley Cruisers Show and Shine. They raise money and awareness for the local Food Bank. Sometimes they will pick a different charity but the food bank is their choice charity. Volunteers are always a challenge. Trying to encourage and recruit younger volunteers is a big challenge. It takes a whole club and then some to put the show on. Last minute changes and no-show volunteers are always a challenge . There is lots of pre work such as raffles, dances etc  that contribute to the budget. There is insurance, venue, planning of categories and trophies, permits, restrooms the list goes on. Lordco Car Parts Lordco  is and has been a major supporter of this club for a number of years. In speaking with Mike Coates the manager of  Lordco . Not only is his passion the cars, but his interest is also to support the  Nicola Valley Cruiser Car Club  and the community.  He enjoys the recognition as well as contributing  supplies for the goody bags. His biggest satisfaction is showing and communicating his appreciation to the customers. Boyd Auto Body This is  Boyd Auto Body s  first year in Merritt. The car show was a great opportunity to get out and support the Nicola Valley Cruisers as well as the community. They are very excited to be in Merritt and have been pleased with the warm welcome they have received. They are looking forward to being a part of the community and supporting events in line with their business. Merritt puts on a great show (Uncle Fluffy) While at the  Boyd Auto Body  booth I had the honor of meeting  Uncle Fluffy  from  Krankin Vintage Restoration , Princeton, BC.  His report on the Show and Shine Car Show hosted by The Nicola Valley Cruiser s was absolutely glowing. Bumper to Bumper previously known as Wescan was purchased by the Gilbert family. Trevor Gilbert owns the business with his wife Sherryl and sons Tage and Tyce. The Nicola Valley Cruisers show  is the first for  Bumper to Bumper .  They are looking forward to serving the community of Merritt and participating and supporting various events that are in line with their business. Mae won t drive it. I said, how come? he said, I don t know.  (Lawrence Ketter)    I said, Mae why won t you drive the car? She said,  Are you kidding! It just got a brand new paint job. I ll drive it after he puts the first little scratch on it. (Mae Ketter) 1978 Mustang   Lawrence and Mae Ketter The first car I got to admire was the 78  Mustang owned by Lawrence and  Mae Ketter . Lawrence is pretty proud of this car. He told me it is not driven in the winter. He drives it about 3 months of the year. Although it just got a new paint job it is in mint condition and has no rust anywhere. Ringo The 1969 Beetle   Owned by  Brad Hagen My next little beauty was Ringo. Absolute mint condition. Brad said he named it Ringo because it s a beetle and a fun little bug. Brad has been attending the car show every year since it started, which would be since 1994. 1957 Ford Fairlane Convertible   Owned by Vic and Joyce Mossey This 1957 Ford Fairlane with a retractable hardtop was a real gem to admire. Joyce was feeling like a teenager in that  passenger seat. Vic and Joyce drove to Merritt from Abbotsford and enjoyed the show immensely. 1955 Nomad   Owned by  Cameron McLeod The 1955 Chevrolet Nomad is a station wagon model. The Nomad is best remembered in its two-door Tri Five form and was considered a halo model. Cameron McLeod of North Delta says he drives it all summer and just loves it.  I drive it all the time. I can just drive it, I don t have to babysit it. (Rae Robinson) 1952 Bel Air   Owned by Rae Robinson The Chevrolet Bel Air was a full-size car. Initially, only the two door hardtops in the Chevrolet model were designated with the Bel Air name from 1950 to 1952.  Rae Robinson  says this is his 7th year attending the Nicola Valley Cruisers Show and Shine. 1966 Chevy 11 Nova SS   Owned by  Sam and Susan Roline Top of the line 1966 Chevy Nova SS only available in a Sports Coup. The elegantly smooth panel lines visually distinguish the Nova SS. It has bright SS emblems on the grille and on the rear panel, as well as Super Sport script on the quarter panels. The 652, Chevy models were produced, with a 283 cylinder   195 HP-V8 engine. The Nova SS has competed and won in all types of automobile racing. Including the NHRA Pro-stock drags to SCCA Trans-am. 1981 Mercedes   Owned by Brian and Bea Cave This 1981 Mercedes, 380 SL Roadster Convertible has never had the hard top on because it is never driven in the winter. This car has been completely redone and is in pristine condition. Brian says he ll sell it and someone would be getting a steal. 1964 Chevy Truck   Owned by  Barry Jackson Considered a full size pick up truck, this 1964 Chevy has been completely customized and is definitely a show piece. This replica of an 1898 Hammound Runabout was made by Rick Brewer of Merritt, BC. Rick built this car based on a picture of the Runabout that he found on the internet. He did all of the metal work and the wood work using no nails or screws in the wood body. Wheelwright Dwayne Danley of Armstrong, BC built the wheels. It took over 6 months to complete the chassis and a further 6 months to build the body using poplar wood that Rick dried and planed. The carved dash and trim represents the wildwood flower, carved from 150 year old Oak. In addition, the oak came from a mansion in Vancouver. Following the path of many early automobile makers of the 1800 s. Powered by an electric motor as well as an axle driving the rear wheels through a chain drive. The steering is controlled with a tiller rather than a steering wheel, which was common during that  period of time. This 1898 Runabout is owned and enjoyed by Ted and Marguerite Lund of Merritt, BC. Merritt Fire Department and its First Fire Truck in 1927 Fire Fighters of The Merritt Fire department    At the regular meeting of the City Council, held last night. The most important Communication to be dealt with and a mighty important one to the people of Merritt. It was one from Fire Chief N.J. Barwick. Notifying council that unless their requests for better fighting equipment, were granted. They were tendering their resignations to take effect on November 10th 1926. His Worship The Mayor and Alderman of The City of Merritt: Gentlemen: We received your letter of October the 22nd, in answer to our letters of June 8th and also of October the 14th, we asked for better firefighting equipment. At a regular Fire Dept. meeting, held in the Fire Hall on the 28th of October, we as a body did not approve of the action you have taken. If you will take into consideration we have advance 45% of the cost of the equipment. However that is up to you gentlemen, for we feel we do not care to carry on with the very poor equipment you have at present. Therefore as a body, tender our resignation to take effect on the morning of November the 10th, 1926. Signed on behalf of myself and Fire Boys. N.J. Barwick  (Information: Merritt Herald and Merritt Museum) The new fire truck for the City of Merritt Fire Brigade, arrived at the local Kettle Valley Railway depot on Monday evening, and its addition to the fire fighting equipment for the local fire boys should be a valuable acquisition. The truck was supplied by the American La France Fire Engine Company, who lost no time in shipping the truck when the order was finally placed with them by the Merritt City Council. Indeed it was not expected to arrive from the works at Toronto until the first of February. The truck is modernly equipped for the use of both hose and chemicals. It is mounted upon a General Motors Chevrolet one truck chassis by the R.F. Barrett firm of this city. The value of this fire truck to the local fire department should be excellent. This added assistance to the fire boys will be fully appreciated by all citizens.  (Information: Merritt Herald and Merritt Museum) Bob Wilson  a paid on call fireman is pictured along side the 1926 Fire Engine. This fire engine serviced the community up until 1960. This particular fire engine is known as a chemical car. The plan is, to hopefully replicate the Soda Acid Tanks that were used in this era. Soda Acid Tank Sulphuric acid, when combined with bicarbonate of soda forms a chemical reaction which produces carbon dioxide. When mixed, the pressure created forces the mixture out of the chemical tank and propels it onto the fire. It was a very good show, lots of variety of vehicles and happy people (Yvonne Tessier) You never know what you might see at the Nicola Valley Cruisers car show. 2019 saw over 150 cars registered. So watch for details and get those engines polished and revved and ready to cruise back to Merritt, BC Canada for the Nicola  Valley Cruisers car show in 2020. Great Show (Ken Bramham) Tourism Nicola Valley Box 159, Merritt, BC, Canada 1 250-315-3290 Mo-Fr: 8:00-19:00 Sa: 8:00-14:00 So: closed We invite guest bloggers to post their Merritt and Nicola Valley blogs, photos and videos. >   More Information 