Eugene Tong | BoF 500 | The People Shaping the Global Fashion Industry He directs the fashion office at one of America’s most-read men’s magazines and styles for tailored streetwear label Public School. The BoF 500 is the definitive professional index of the people shaping the $2.4 trillion fashion industry, hand-selected by the editors of The Business of Fashion, based on hundreds of nominations received from current BoF 500 members, extensive data analysis and research. Taiwanese-born fashion editor and style consultant Eugene Tong was style director of men s magazine  Details , having worked his way up from Paris and American market editor when he joined the Cond  Nast title, until its closure in 2015. He currently works as an independent fashion consultant, collaborating with the likes of John Elliott,  W Magazine , Nike, The Kooples and Kith. Named the most stylish man in fashion by men s lifestyle magazine  Complex  in 2013, Tong  a self-confessed shoe devotee  began mixing sneaker brands like Supreme and high-end labels like Dries van Noten before the proliferation of  " high-low dressing. "  Street style photographers Tommy Ton and Scott Schuman regularly feature Tong on their blogs for his sartorial rotation of accessible, easy going streetwear essentials and luxury investment pieces. Tong credits his affinity for dressing with his regular travels to Asia, observing Japanese men taking interest to magazines such as  Popeye  and  Men s Non-no,  which he discovered were very different to American titles at the time. A native of Cherry Hill, New Jersey, Tong attended Boston University and moved to New York City after graduation to search for a job. To occupy his time, he took an internship at  FHM Magazine  and was eventually hired as a freelance fashion assistant. From there, he became the accessories market editor at the now-defunct  Cargo  magazine, and then jumped to  Details , where he was promoted to senior style director after five years at the publication. The magazine has since folded. During his time there, Tong has seen an uptick in reader interest for fashion content and advice. In 2018, Tong conceived the  Urban Explorer  installation for Bloomingdale s series of pop-up shops within its US locations. Tong also styles for New York streetwear-meets-tailoring label Public School , which won the 2013 CFDA Swarovski Award for Menswear. Most recently, Tong styled the  Sergio Tacchini  STLA collection, as well as Dyne s Autumn/Winter 2019 unveiled at New York Fashion Week Men s. 2005 - Present  Paris, France  2003 - 2005  2002 - 2003  United States  Chief Executive Founders, Ambush Design Designer, Thakoon Stylist, Journalist  &  Producer 77676Followers George Yabu  &  Glenn Pushelberg Architects, Yabu Pushelberg Mathias Augustyniak  &  Michael Amzalag Art Directors, M/M Paris Sam McKnight Hair Stylist Juergen Teller Photographer Site Map  2019 The Business of Fashion. All rights reserved. For more information read our  Terms  &  Conditions  and  Privacy Policy . 