Blog: Style file upload and browse button | Tudip 24 June 2016 Developers often find it difficult to make file upload appear same across the browsers OR to style the nasty browse button to match the overall layout of the website. This article would take help of simple JQuery, CSS and HTML to achieve a fully customized file upload UI that actually looks same across the browsers. Moreover you can also customize that nasty Browse button to merge with the overall styling of your site. We wrap a  html input file  with  html input text  and simple html button. Notice the classes in the following code. These CSS properties have main role to play while customize UI of our file upload. We do 3 main things using css here: You can try following with changes in CSS. You can put custom validation code in following Jquery code. For example on Change()  event, we are replacing  fakepath  prefix which is applied by chrome browser. Put above code together in one html file and check with your browser. We have tested it with Firefox and Chrome. Don t forget to put  jquery-1.8.2.min.js  in same folder of your html file or load JQuery using Google CDN. By tweaking CSS elements you can make your File upload look like: All content provided on this blog is for informational purposes only. Tudip Technologies provides no endorsement and makes no representations as to accuracy, reliability, completeness, suitability or validity of any information or content on, distributed through or linked, downloaded or accessed from this site. Tudip Technologies will not be liable for any errors, omissions, or delays in this information or any losses, injuries, or damages arising from its display or use of the information on this site. All information is provided on an as-is basis without any obligation to make improvements or to correct errors or omissions. This site may contain links to other websites. Tudip Technologies makes no guarantees or promises regarding these websites and does not necessarily endorse or approve of their content. You may not modify any part of the blog. The inclusion of any part of this blog in another work, whether in printed or electronic or other form, or inclusion of any part of the blog in another website by linking, framing or otherwise without the express permission of Tudip Technologies is prohibited. This site may not be used for any illegal or illicit purpose and Tudip Technologies reserves the right, at its sole discretion and without notice of any kind, to remove anything posted to this site. By using this site, you hereby acknowledge that any reliance upon any materials shall be at your sole risk. Our Vision “Is to be a Global partner and the first choice for our customers by providing leadership in specific domains to help our customers accelerate the value creation process.” Our Mission “Is to create a niche’ by offering cutting-edge integrated services across technologies empowered by innovation, best in class process and best of breed technology.” India Sr. No. 241/3/A, Datta Mandir Road, Wakad, Pune, India   411057 info@tudip.com +91-20-4674-0881 United States  1999 S. Bascom Ave Suite 700, Campbell CA. 95008, USA info@tudip.com +1-408-216-8162 Canada  64 Caracas Road North York, Toronto Ontario M2K 1B1, Canada info@tudip.com Nigeria 22 Kumasi Crescent, Wuse 2, Abuja,  Nigeria info@tudip.com 2019 © Tudip Technologies Pvt. Ltd. All rights reserved. 