Property Crimes | Hackensack New Jersey Criminal Law Blog A man from Guttenberg, New Jersey was recently placed under arrest after allegedly  trying to burn down his ex-girlfriend’s home  in Ridgefield Park, NJ. The suspect is a 23-year-old Guttenberg NJ resident. According to the Bergen County Prosecutor’s Office, the suspect broke into his former girlfriend’s apartment and used a lit candle in an attempt Law enforcement in Park Ridge NJ is currently investigating a  possible arson incident  at a condo complex that sustained significant property damage during a fire. The large condominium complex is located on North Maple Avenue in Park Ridge, NJ. According to local officials, the Park Ridge Police Department received an emergency 911 call a short Law enforcement is investigating a fire in Fair Lawn, New Jersey that could be classified as an intentional  arson incident . The fire was initially reported to authorities around 11:15 p.m. The Fair Lawn Police Department got a 911 call about smoke coming from the Knights of Columbus building on Maple Avenue in Fair Lawn, Garfield NJ police recently  arrested two underage boys  who allegedly  started a fire  at a vacant home. The scary incident happened around 3:40 p.m. Garfield NJ firefighters were sent to the site, a single-family home located at 54 Schley Street in Garfield, after receiving a report of a fire quickly spreading out of control. When Palisades Park NJ law enforcement is looking for a man accused of  stalking a female  and  breaking into her house . The burglary incident occurred a short time after 5:00 a.m. on June 18, 2017. According to law enforcement officials, the suspect illegally entered a home on Fourth Street in Palisades Park, New Jersey. Once A Hopatcong New Jersey man accused of  burglarizing residences  located across New Jersey was arrested in Elmwood Park, NJ. However, the suspect was later released from jail, only to then allegedly commit another burglary. The suspect is a 34-year-old man from Hopatcong, New Jersey. According to officials, the suspect impersonated a public works employee by Police recently arrested a fifth person who was allegedly part of a crew that committed a  burglary spree  in Englewood, NJ. The five suspects allegedly carried out the burglaries at residences located on Route 17 in Englewood, New Jersey. According to law enforcement, the suspects got away with large sums of cash and expensive personal An East Rutherford New Jersey man allegedly  burglarized  a church located in Lyndhurst, NJ. The suspect reportedly committed the burglary by breaking into St. Michael’s Church in Lyndhurst, NJ. According to law enforcement officials, the suspect waited on a balcony outside the church. The suspect allegedly stood on the balcony for a number of hours Police recently arrested a Lyndhurst NJ man accused of  burglarizing  a Manchester NJ home. The break-in attempt occurred at approximately 5:00 a.m. at a residence on Molly Pitcher Boulevard. The burglarized house is part of the Crestwood Village 4 section of Manchester, New Jersey. According to law enforcement officials, two men attempted to gain entry Police in Moonachie New Jersey arrested a Paterson NJ man who allegedly  committed a burglary  and  stole  imported cheese valued at $160,000. The suspect allegedly committed the break-in around 11:30 p.m., with company employees noticing the theft the next morning. According to law enforcement, the suspect stole the gourmet cheese products from Grace Kennedy Foods Travis J. Tormey is a criminal defense and DWI attorney with offices in Hackensack, New Jersey who represents clients charged with a wide range of criminal offenses including marijuana possession, gun charges, robbery, burglary, and sex crimes. Travis graduated summa cum laude from Rutgers University and cum laude from Seton Hall University Law School. During law school, Travis worked for the United States Attorney’s Office in Newark for now-Governor Chris Christie. Travis J. Tormey is an experienced criminal defense and drunk driving (DWI) lawyer who represents clients throughout Bergen County including in Elmwood Park, Englewood, East Rutherford, Fort Lee, Garfield, Hackensack, Lodi, Lyndhurst, Mahwah, Montvale, Palisades Park, Paramus, Ridgefield Park, Saddle Brook, Teaneck. 