Dynamics of Engineered Artificial Membranes and Biosensors by William Hoiles We use cookies to distinguish you from other users and to provide you with a better experience on our websites. Close this message to accept cookies or find out how to  manage your cookie settings . CUP Global header Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email Print AddThis Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email Print AddThis Learn about the state of the art in building artificial membranes and synthetic biological devices, and in constructing mathematical models for their dynamics at multiple time and spatial scales with this comprehensive book. Drawing on recent advances in bioengineering and biochemistry, it describes how to engineer tethered bilayer lipid membranes, bioelectronic interfaces, high-resolution biosensors, and diagnostic devices for non-invasive cellular measurements and electroporation. Multi-physics models combining atomistic (molecular dynamics and coarse-grained molecular dynamics), mesoscopic (Poisson–Nernst–Planck), and macroscopic (reaction-rate theory) dynamics provide a complete structure-to-function description of these devices. Experiments and dynamic models explain how anti-microbial peptides penetrate membranes, how molecular machine biosensors built out of artificial membranes can detect femtomolar concentrations, and how electroporation can be controlled. Supported by atomistic simulation code online, this is essential reading for researchers, students and professionals in bioengineering, chemical engineering, biophysics, applied mathematics, and electrical engineering. To send content items to your   account,please confirm that you agree to abide by our usage policies.If this is the first time you use this feature, you will be asked to authorise Cambridge Core to connect with your   account. Find out more about sending content to  . To send content items to your Kindle, first ensure no-reply@cambridge.orgis added to your Approved Personal Document E-mail List under your Personal Document Settingson the Manage Your Content and Devices page of your Amazon account. Then enter the ‘name’ partof your Kindle email address below. Find out more about sending to your Kindle . Note you can select to send to either the @free.kindle.com or @kindle.com variations.‘@free.kindle.com’ emails are free but can only be sent to your device when it is connected to wi-fi.‘@kindle.com’ emails can be delivered even when you are not connected to wi-fi, but note that service fees apply. Find out more about the  Kindle Personal Document Service . You can save your searches here and later view and run them again in "My saved searches". Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email Print AddThis Full text views reflects the number of PDF downloads, PDFs sent to Google Drive, Dropbox and Kindle and HTML full text views for chapters in this book. Book summary views reflect the number of visits to the book and chapter landing pages. * Views captured on Cambridge Core between #date#. This data will be updated every 24 hours. Usage data cannot currently be displayed Copy and paste a formatted citation or use one of the options to export in your chosen format 