Crow / Raven Spirit -- Brass Animal Totem Pendant   HIBERNACULA Hibernacula: An Esoteric Boutique! Celebrating the scientific, the sacred, and the sublime Hibernacula: From Latin, meaning \u201Cwinter dwellings.\u201D In Biology, Hibernacula are the nests and hives, pods, cocoons and subterranean burrows, which protect plants or animals through long periods of dormancy. Though they may appear humble, each holds within it a treasure: a dreaming mind, a living heart, a seed, and the promise of awakening. The Hibernacula team are artists in the true Renaissance spirit: Scientists, philosophers, mystics, and inventors.  More than a shop: we are a living museum, presenting works that excite curiosity and ignite the imagination. Storewide 5% Discount: Enter hiber5off during checkout! Your satisfaction is guaranteed!  We take great pride in our work and stand by it, so if you are displeased for any reason please contact us and we will endeavor to make it right.  Our materials are quite resilient but if the worst should happen you are welcome to contact us to discuss repairs.  Our items are water resistant but not waterproof so try not to submerge them or leave them in steamy or humid environments.  Our chains and metals are pure brass and bronze; lead safe and nickel free.  By accessing this web site, you are agreeing to be bound by these web site Terms and Conditions of Use, all applicable laws and regulations, and agree that you are responsible for compliance with any applicable local laws. If you do not agree with any of these terms, you are prohibited from using or accessing this site. The materials contained in this web site are protected by applicable copyright and trade mark law. Permission is granted to temporarily download one copy of the materials (information or software) on Studio Hibernacula's web site for personal, non-commercial transitory viewing only. This is the grant of a license, not a transfer of title, and under this license you may not: modify or copy the materials; use the materials for any commercial purpose; attempt to decompile or reverse engineer any software contained on Studio Hibernacula's web site; remove any copyright or other proprietary notations from the materials; This license shall automatically terminate if you violate any of these restrictions and may be terminated by Studio Hibernacula at any time. Upon terminating your viewing of these materials or upon the termination of this license, you must destroy any downloaded materials in your possession whether in electronic or printed format. The materials on Studio Hibernacula's web site are provided \"as is\". Studio Hibernacula makes no warranties, expressed or implied, and hereby disclaims and negates all other warranties, including without limitation, implied warranties or conditions of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, or non-infringement of intellectual property or other violation of rights. Further, Studio Hibernacula does not warrant or make any representations concerning the accuracy, likely results, or reliability of the use of the materials on its Internet web site or otherwise relating to such materials or on any sites linked to this site. In no event shall Studio Hibernacula or its suppliers be liable for any damages (including, without limitation, damages for loss of data or profit, or due to business interruption,) arising out of the use or inability to use the materials on Studio Hibernacula's Internet site, even if Studio Hibernacula or a Studio Hibernacula authorized representative has been notified orally or in writing of the possibility of such damage. Because some jurisdictions do not allow limitations on implied warranties, or limitations of liability for consequential or incidental damages, these limitations may not apply to you. The materials appearing on Studio Hibernacula's web site could include technical, typographical, or photographic errors. Studio Hibernacula does not warrant that any of the materials on its web site are accurate, complete, or current. Studio Hibernacula may make changes to the materials contained on its web site at any time without notice. Studio Hibernacula does not, however, make any commitment to update the materials. Studio Hibernacula has not reviewed all of the sites linked to its Internet web site and is not responsible for the contents of any such linked site. The inclusion of any link does not imply endorsement by Studio Hibernacula of the site. Use of any such linked web site is at the user's own risk. Studio Hibernacula may revise these terms of use for its web site at any time without notice. By using this web site you are agreeing to be bound by the then current version of these Terms and Conditions of Use. Any claim relating to Studio Hibernacula's web site shall be governed by the laws of the State of New York without regard to its conflict of law provisions. General Terms and Conditions applicable to Use of a Web Site. Your privacy is very important to us. Accordingly, we have developed this Policy in order for you to understand how we collect, use, communicate and disclose and make use of personal information. The following outlines our privacy policy. Before or at the time of collecting personal information, we will identify the purposes for which information is being collected. We will collect and use of personal information solely with the objective of fulfilling those purposes specified by us and for other compatible purposes, unless we obtain the consent of the individual concerned or as required by law. We will only retain personal information as long as necessary for the fulfillment of those purposes. We will collect personal information by lawful and fair means and, where appropriate, with the knowledge or consent of the individual concerned. Personal data should be relevant to the purposes for which it is to be used, and, to the extent necessary for those purposes, should be accurate, complete, and up-to-date. We will protect personal information by reasonable security safeguards against loss or theft, as well as unauthorized access, disclosure, copying, use or modification. We will make readily available to customers information about our policies and practices relating to the management of personal information. We are committed to conducting our business in accordance with these principles in order to ensure that the confidentiality of personal information is protected and maintained. The Messenger, the Magician, the Trickster, the Judge: For ages untold, crow has watched the living, and feasted on the dead, welcoming the fires of change: His char-black feathers mark him as creature of both light and darkness, truth and deception; a keeper of mysteries. To the alchemists, crow represented transformation.  In tribal legends he was one of the trickster-gods that played a part in the world's creation. --Original illustration by artist, Kelly Kotulak --measures 20mm in diameter --Chains are now purchased separately. All chains are hand-finished brass and designed especially to match our pendants. Visit the new \"chains\" section of our shop to choose your preferred length and style. Hibernacula: An Esoteric Boutique! Celebrating the scientific, the sacred, and the sublime Hibernacula: From Latin, meaning \u201Cwinter dwellings.\u201D In Biology, Hibernacula are the nests and hives, pods, cocoons and subterranean burrows, which protect plants or animals through long periods of dormancy. Though they may appear humble, each holds within it a treasure: a dreaming mind, a living heart, a seed, and the promise of awakening. The Hibernacula team are artists in the true Renaissance spirit: Scientists, philosophers, mystics, and inventors.  More than a shop: we are a living museum, presenting works that excite curiosity and ignite the imagination. Storewide 5% Discount: Enter hiber5off during checkout! The Messenger, the Magician, the Trickster, the Judge: For ages untold, crow has watched the living, and feasted on the dead, welcoming the fires of change: His char-black feathers mark him as creature of both light and darkness, truth and deception; a keeper of mysteries. To the alchemists, crow represented transformation.  In tribal legends he was one of the trickster-gods that played a part in the world's creation. --Original illustration by artist, Kelly Kotulak --measures 20mm in diameter --Chains are now purchased separately. All chains are hand-finished brass and designed especially to match our pendants. Visit the new "chains" section of our shop to choose your preferred length and style. Sign up with your email address to receive news and updates. We respect your privacy. Policies  •  Reviews  •  About Hibernacula 