Watch 2019 World Snooker Championship Live Stream Online Guide Update: 7 May 2019, Tuesday  Congratulations to Judd Trump for winning the 2019 World Snooker Championship!  Read more about it here from The Guardian . We ll see you folks back here again next year.  The  2019 Betfred World Snooker Championship  begins from  20 April to 6 May  in Sheffield, England at 1000GMT.  Qualifying rounds are starting on 10 to 17 April at the English Institute of Sports also in Sheffield and will be contested by 128 unseeded players. The best 16 unseeded players will then advance to the main draw to go up against the seeded 16 players.  Live coverage will be available through BBC and Eurosport (UK), and Facebook Live (Americas and Asia). Here are the match coverage breakdown for the different countries: (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); 2018   Mark Williams (Wales)  2017   Mark Selby (England)  2016   Mark Selby (England)  2015   Stuart Bingham (England)  2014   Mark Selby (England) Qualifying Round:  10 — 17 April 2019 Tournament Period:  20 April — 6 May 2019 Official 2019 World Snooker Championship Full Schedule If you re not currently in your local country or any other country offering the World Snooker Championship stream, then you ll need to connect to a VPN first before streaming the matches from your usual providers. 1)  Sign Up  with a recommended VPN provider.  2) Install the VPN on any device that you ll be using to watch the 2019 World Snooker Championship.  3) Ensure that you connect to the appropriate country VPN server that is supported by the provider. For example, connect to U.K for BBC.  Don t Have a VPN yet? Sign up now by clicking the button below for unlimited access to both VPN and SmartDNS services. Watch all live World Snooker Championship games from BBC for free. Whilst BBC doesn t charge for their content, you ll still need a BBC account to access them.  Learn how to sign up for free here .  Commentary:  English  Availability:  UK only   Connect to the UK VPN servers first before starting the stream!  1) Head to the  BBC iPlayer website  or download the BBC iPlayer app on  iOS  or  Android .  2) Search for the live stream and start watching to the tournament! Tip:  World Snooker Championship will be airing live from 20 April 2019 on BBC One and BBC Two. BBC s Snooker Championship Schedule  &  Broadcast News Here Access BBC One here Access BBC Two here Watch all live World Snooker Championship games including the qualifying rounds from Eurosport. However, you ll need a paid subscription with them to watch the games live.  Commentary:  English  Availability:  UK only   Connect to the UK VPN servers first before starting the stream!  1) Head to the  Eurosport s player website  or download the Eurosport app on  iOS  or  Android .  2) Search for the live stream and start watching the tournament! Tip:  World Snooker Championship qualifying rounds will be airing live from 10 April 2019 on Eurosport 1 with the main events starting on 20 April 2019. Eurosport s Snooker Championship Broadcast News Here As a bonus, World Snooker has made live stream available via Facebook Live in selected territories in the Americas and Asia. You ll need to be in the appropriate countries to access them.  Check country list here  1) Head to the  World Snooker Facebook page .  2) The live stream should be become available when the tournament starts. Be sure to follow them to get a notification! Tip:  World Snooker Championships will be airing live from 20 April 2019 on World Snooker s Facebook page. (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});  Don t Have a VPN yet? Sign up now by clicking the button below for unlimited access to both a VPN and SmartDNS services.  We hope you found this article informative and useful. Please feel free to share it with your friends or family that want to watch the World Snooker Championship too!  If you need any help, our support team is just an email away at  support@my-private-network.co.uk  and we’ll try our best to assist you. Advertisement WARNING: Gamble with care. If you need any advice with safer gambling, kindly visit  BeGambleAware . *3 DAY FREE TRIAL - NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED 