Justin Madders delays Leasehold Reform Bill and calls on the Government to provide justice for leaseholders - Leasehold Knowledge Partnership Leasehold Knowledge Partnership Secretariat of the All Party Parliamentary Group on leasehold February 2, 2018  By  admin Justin Madders MP:  I have had positive conversations with the Housing Minister about the other steps that I am calling on the Government to take and I hope that they will use this opportunity to do what is right Labour MP for Ellesmere Port  &  Neston, Justin Madders has delayed the second reading of the Leasehold Reform Bill until  October 26 2018. The Bill seeks to introduce a statutory formula for enfranchisement and lease extension similar to schemes in Northern Ireland and Scotland. It will end the incessant game-playing and revenues from the lease extension racket. The change in law is all the more important following the defeat last month of the Mundy case in the Court of Appeal. It rejected the leaseholder-friendly Parthenia model, championed by chartered surveyor James Wyatt. The case revealed the flaws in existing models – commissioned by the country’s most powerful freeholders – but failed to persuade the court to accept Parthenia. Justin Madders, who is deputy chair of the APPG on leasehold reform, said:   “I was very pleased to see the Government agree with my proposal to look at introducing a straightforward and inexpensive system for purchasing the freehold of properties.  If they get this right, it could enable tens of thousands of people to escape from the leasehold trap. “The Government has now asked the Law Commission to devise such a scheme and to report back by the summer, so I am delaying the next stage of my Bill until after that process has taken place.  I have had positive conversations with the Housing Minister about the other steps that I am calling on the Government to take and I hope that they will use this opportunity to do what is right. “As it stood, my Bill was seventh on the Order Paper on the 2nd February, so in reality it stood no real chance of being debated.  I hope that in the months ahead, the Government will be prepared to work with me on developing a law, with cross-party support that can deliver the changes required. “The Bill has a much better chance of being debated in October and by this time the law commission are expected to have reported back.  If their recommendations are broadly in line with the proposals in my Bill then we stand a much better chance of getting the Government to endorse it.” Filed Under:  APPG ,  Gleeson Homes ,  Justin Madders MP ,  Latest News ,  News ,  Parliament Tagged With:  Court of Appeal ,  James Wyatt ,  Justin Madders MP ,  Parthenia The leasehold game is weighted against ordinary home-owning leaseholders, who aren’t professional players. LKP was set up to redress the balance, to help you win your disputes or at least avoid disasters. If you have a leasehold problem, you can email  sok@leaseholdknowledge  or take a chance on calling 07808 328 230. Or  fill out this form, which ensures that you provide the essential information. The following advertisements are from firms that seek business from leaseholders. Click on the logos for company profiles. Law Right to manage Lease extension / enfranchisement Insurance Landscaping Big managing agents are big because they have got business from developers or large-scale freehold owing companies. Doubtless they are very obliging. Not a single one is big through consumer choice. Managing agents accredited to LKP want business from leaseholders. Many  are  former leaseholders. All have signed undertakings of good practice and have provided extensive references   from leaseholders. They can also hand-hold leaseholders through right to manage at minimal cost. Contact Sebastian O Kelly at LKP for further details: sok@leaseholdknowledge.com, 07808 328 230 Please click on logos for link and details Ilfryn Price says February 2, 2018 at 5:19 pm Why? Fleased says February 2, 2018 at 6:03 pm Also leasehold replaced with commonhold, past ground rent set at zero and a Regulator to stop service overcharging to be added to the Bill. Kim says February 2, 2018 at 9:00 pm Wotever! Alec says February 3, 2018 at 8:59 am Once again, this is excellent news from Justin Madders and follows on the measures announced by Sajid Javid on 21 December. With the Law Commission report expected in the summer, and Justin s 2nd reading scheduled for September, regulation and legislation is fast approaching. And signs are emerging that the criminal wing of this unscrupulous  Ground Rent  industry is now running for cover! Kim says February 3, 2018 at 9:15 am I do hope that you are correct Alec. I have great faith in Madders. Oh sweet Joy when rogue Agents/ unscrupulous ground rent acquisitors / shonky solicitors and compliant “ Surveyors” are made to atone for their sins. EG legislation will dictate that the aforementioned will no longer be able to carry out their nefarious doings with impunity. severe financial penalties or a custodial sentence must be imposed to prevent these individuals carrying out their venal acts/ dirty tricks. The sooner the better. Pauline says February 4, 2018 at 10:57 am Ground rent should definitely be abolished for all new flats and houses. Many leasehold properties already have a peppercorn ground rent and it looks like ground rent is now extinguished by a statutory 90 yr lease extension (fantastic!) Arguments that this proposal would create a 2 tier market or disadvantage investors just don t stack up. On the contrary, such a move would more rapidly eliminate the existing two tier market and existing investors (including pension funds) receive the premium paid for a lease extension so they won t lose out. Tenants with very long leases (e.g with a residue of 999 yrs) who would never need a lease extension perhaps might get left behind but I d hope a very long lease could still be extended simply to extinguish the ground rent so people have this option. Where ground rents increase over time, the sooner the lease is extended, the better as the current cost of the ground rent is a key factor in determining the cost of the lease extension. In my view ground rent is a grossly unfair charge   it is  money for nothing  and the sooner it is wiped out, the better. Genrys FARLEY says February 5, 2018 at 5:29 pm Time all Retirement flats were Commonhold. Unfortunately the Law Commission takes far more notice of the likes of McCarthy  &  Stone than the residents. We should not be paying large sums of money to faceless landlords Sir Peter Bottomley, freshly re-elected as a Conservative MP by the voters of Worthing West, has attacked the Wellcome Trust for advancing its aggressively monetising lease extension practices in the courts. Sir Peter was commenting on an article addressing the Wellcome Trust’s investment finances, which include a £25 million gain on backing the pound before [ ] UPDATE: Statement from ARMA below The Financial Times has reported the work-around by the leasehold sector and mortgage lenders to undo the damage caused by the government’s Advice Notice 14 which has made thousands of high rise flats unsellable. The FT writes: “Apartment blocks more than six storeys high will need to pass new fire [ ] Bellway is to pay up to refurbish Samuel Garside House, the site at Barking Riverside, east London, that had wooden balconies which went up in flames in the summer. This is the first time a developer has stepped in to make safe a low rise building of less than 18 metres   all the post-Grenfell [ ] By Harry Scoffin The media spotlight returned to the leasehold scandal over the weekend, with both Sky News and the BBC reporting on the nearly 300 house lessees in the north-west clubbing together to buy out their landlords. As leaseholders of houses can enfranchise individually, unlike flat lessees, this collective bid for the freeholds – [ ] By Harry Scoffin The sector has today announced its long-awaited workaround to the government-issued Advice Notice 14, which had been causing zero valuations on many blocks and stalling the flats market in England and Wales. The new industry-wide process agreed for valuation of residential buildings over 18 meters was spearheaded by the Royal Institution of [ ] By Harry Scoffin A freeholder and his leaseholders secured victory at the Court of Appeal last week, with the insurer ordered to pay a £10.8m bill for works to make a Manchester development safe. Although the faults pre-date Grenfell, it is the first court case win for private leaseholders over safety and structural defects since [ ] By Harry Scoffin A millionaire travel tycoon has marched his freeholder to court over a failure to provide internet to his luxury flat in The Heron, Barbican. Stephen Shalson, 70, moved into the apartment in London’s Square Mile in February 2014 and claims he had to endure “about a thousand days” of non-service. He says [ ] [The response form had a glitch. Now fixed] By Sebastian O Kelly LKP director The Leasehold Knowledge Partnership is holding a parliamentary meeting at Westminster on January 9 at 5pm to address the cladding crisis. It is clear to LKP – and should be to officials and ministers – that thousands of flat owners living in [ ] LKP sadly announces the death of one of its trustees, Professor James Driscoll. James was a solicitor, an academic, an author and a mediator. For eleven years he sat as a judge on the First-tier Tribunal (Property Chamber). Siobhan McGrath, President of the Property Chamber said that  James had been a talented and popular Judge [ ] The secretive Long Harbour fund came under further scrutiny today, with an article in The Times on leasehold house owners in the north-west mounting a collective challenge for their freeholds. But who owns these freeholds, where the beneficial ownership is hidden behind nominee directors of a company secretary group headquartered in Jersey? Families challenge Long [ ] Seventy families in Ellesmere Port in Cheshire are locked in a battle to gain the freeholds to their Bellway homes that were sold off to William Waldorf Astor’s secretive Long Harbour fund, The Times reports today. Katie Kendrick, co-founder of the National Leasehold Campaign and LKP trustee, has organised her neighbours to demand the freeholds. [ ] By Harry Scoffin The cladding crisis has rippled through the insurance market, with leasehold tenants in dangerous apartment buildings “being hammered” by “inflated bills”, BBC Radio 4’s You and Yours programme was told yesterday. Lessees of flats in Birmingham’s Islington Gates, a mixed-use development with 144 properties wrapped in Grenfell ACM (aluminium composite material), claim [ ] By Harry Scoffin Survivors of the Grenfell Tower fire have this week joined forces with leaseholders stuck in privately-owned blocks clad with deadly combustibles, telling the major party leaders of their “deep and grave concern that a Grenfell-like fire is going to occur again”. In a letter sent on Tuesday to Boris Johnson, Jeremy Corbyn [ ] By Harry Scoffin Consumer affairs champion Martin Lewis (above) has challenged the major party leaders to explain their policies on leasehold as part of an online election debate. Election 2019: The MSE Leaders  Debate It s the biggest consumer decision most will make in 2019. While it s important to factor everything in, voting to choose who [ ] The Financial Times has reported concerns about pensions invested by Rothesay Life in the ground rent portfolio of Vincent Tchenguiz. Rothesay Life has loans of some £1.7bn to the Tchenguiz interests, which are secured against ground rents that are paid annually by residential leaseholders. UK regulator under fire over £12bn annuity deal The UK s Prudential [ ] By Martin Boyd A growing number of leaseholders are discovering that selling their flat has become more difficult. Prospective buyers need to obtain a valuation for their lenders. Now, on thousands of homes, this may mean they need something called an ‘Advice Note 14’ (AN14) report and it many cases these reports do not exist! [ ] The legal somersault that is lease enfranchisement – the right of a private individual compulsorily to acquire the property (the freehold) of someone else – has come under the scrutiny of the Supreme Court. Hautford Limited owned the lease of a six storey building, which could be either residential or commercial depending on the consent [ ] Persimmon fatcat says he isn’t going to hand over freeholds at Bluebell Meadow   Even though taxpayers through Help To Buy subsidised these flawed purchases, which also helped make him a multimillionaire Persimmon CEO David Jenkinson, who received a controversial bonus of £45 million which saw his predecessor sacked, has said he will not be [ ] By Harry Scoffin Almost two years on from the announcement of a ban on the sale of new-build houses as leasehold tenancies, developers are continuing to cash in on the practice. According to government figures published yesterday, the first half of 2019 has seen Help To Buy equity loans taken out on 395 leasehold houses. [ ] By Harry Scoffin Influential crossbench peer Lord Richard Best told the Homes UK conference in London s Excel centre yesterday that retirement housebuilders need to up their game following devastating reports last week in both The Times and The Guardian. Both newspapers drew on the work of LKP s sister organisation www.BetterRetirementHousing.com to condemn dismal resale values [ ] More Posts from this Category Copyright  &# x000A9; 2019 Leasehold Knowledge Partnership 