The 5 Best Shops, Hidden Gems  &  Ways To Kill Time At La Guardia Airport   CBS New York Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Reddit AddThis (The Met Store/Facebook) Central Terminal, Food Court Near Concourse D (718) 396-8594 Hours: Daily, 7:a.m. to 7:30 p.m. store.metmuseum.org You ll forget that you re at the airport the minute you step into the Met Store. It instantly creates a connection with the museum and with the world of art. Pick up distinctive gifts and souvenirs for your family and loved ones that are enjoyable, educational and inspirational. Plus, nearly all of the products offered at the Met Store are based on actual artwork that can be found at the museum. Terminal C, Food Court (718) 424-5693 otgmanagement.com Take a trip to Italy without ever leaving the airport, with a visit to Cibo Bistro  &  Wine Bar, part of the OTG portfolio. Enjoy a large selection of wines from around the world, while you nibble on authentic  Italian cuisine  made fresh daily and served in minutes. Sample several of the small plates like mussels with spicy sausage or ahi tuna with a medley of Tuscan olives. Escape from your delay with a delicious meal at Cibo Bistro  &  Wine Bar. Terminal C, Across from Gate 15 (718) 205-2041 Terminal C, Main Food Court near Gate 1 (718) 672-1091 Click here for packages xpresspa.com XpresSpa is a little piece of tranquility among the chaos that comes with air travel. Remove all your stress by indulging in one of their many services, which includes everything from reflexology and massage therapy to facials, manis and pedis. And the best part is, you can do it all while you wait to board. (credit: Afaze/Facebook) Central Terminal, Near Concourse C (718) 205-7193 afaze.com Newly opened, Afaze will speak to fashionistas everywhere. This accessories sanctuary caters to those in search of the latest trends, with its huge assortment of jewelry, scarves, handbags and sportswear that won t break your budget. (credit: Figs) Central Terminal, between Concourse B  &  C on the first floor (718) 446-7600 Hours: Daily, 8 a.m.   8 p.m. figslga.com  From acclaimed chef, Todd English, Figs Restaurant offers award-winning Mediterranean cuisine like white bean soup and fig and prosciutto flatbread pizza. Here  a spot where you can relax and enjoy a fabulous meal if you are the  get to the airport super-early type  or when you re flight is unexpectedly delayed. Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Reddit AddThis These cookies are essential for the proper functioning of our properties. In addition, we use the Google and Tealium Tag Managers. Essential cookies cannot be switched off in our systems. You can set your browser or device to block or alert you about these cookies, but some parts of the site will not work.  These cookies allow us to collect information about how visitors use our properties. Some examples include counting visits and traffic sources, so we can measure and improve the performance of our site. If you do not allow these cookies we will not know when users have visited our properties and will not be able to monitor performance. These cookies enable the website to provide enhanced functionality and personalization. They may be set by us or by third party providers whose services we have added to our pages.    If you do not allow these cookies then some or all of these services may not function properly. These cookies may be set by us or through our property by our advertising partners. They may be used by those companies to build a profile of your interests and show you relevant adverts on other properties. If you do not allow these cookies, you will still see ads, but you will experience less relevant advertising.   These cookies are set by a range of social media services that we have added to the site to enable you to share our content with your friends and networks. They are capable of tracking your browser across other sites, building up a profile of your interests to show you relevant content and adverts on properties. If you do not allow these cookies you may not be able to use or see these sharing tools. Back Button Back Search Icon Filter Icon Clear Fliters All Consent Allowed 3 Purposes Arrow Consent Purposes Location Based Ads Consent Allowed Legitimate Interest Purposes Personalize Features Location Based Ads 