Yoon Eun-Hye - AsianWiki googletag.cmd.push(function() { googletag.display('div-gpt-ad-1431704070868-0'); }); Current user rating:  87  (16195 votes) You didn ' t vote on this yet. // //  Name (required)  Mail (required but will not be published)  Website K Marie Aug 23 2019 10:19 pm Miss Yoon Eun Hye, pls make more drama. Im a big fan since Goong. Thank you for coming back. I just think you’ll look great in a drama with oppa Yeon Woo Jin, I hope you get chance to work with each other soon. God bless. A fan from Ph. mylene Jun 14 2019 1:06 am more kdrama please! Cathy Dominguez Jun 11 2019 12:22 am Yoon Eun-Yye. Love you, forever!!! Shirta aulia Apr 23 2019 5:44 pm I'm very happy with you Yoon Eun-Hye❤ you're very talented and beautiful?? Krystel Apr 17 2019 7:01 pm Hi, yoon eun hyeI hope you can visit in the Philippines. A woman so adorable, humble and charming person ♥ ♥ ? Tel Mar 30 2019 8:38 am Welcome back! U're really a great actress! I'ts fun to watch ur beauty  &  cuteness overload. It's good to see that you did not change. The story is a bit poor but you still stood out great in all episodes. Hope you'll get a better drama soon. I super love the way you dress! Fighting! Dennis Cardinal Mar 13 2019 2:03 pm She is a legend. And the most beautiful actress. K Mar 12 2019 8:57 pm Hope to see you act again. Please give her more upcoming dramas this year. cel Mar 09 2019 9:55 am fighting! cel Mar 09 2019 9:54 am < 3 Dhel Feb 20 2019 1:25 am My favorite actress since the launching of "Princess Hours"...so Happy for your comeback...Looking forward for more movies and teleseries to come. Ata Dec 29 2018 9:23 am My fav ??actress .. Thank you for coming back we support and love you all the way from Tonga?... marrium Dec 29 2018 2:53 am YEH I love your acting you are awesome I can wait to watch your next drama... and please don't the criticize get you... Im your are Biggest Fan ... your acting was really awesome in this drama storyline was good.. I waited so long for your come back you are my all time favourite actress I have seen all your drama in your best.. congratulation are you come back please do more Dramas I love you so much thank you for giving us the awesome dramas Sol Dec 11 2018 1:07 am I agree PAMMO said.....i wish another drama for you my dear idol,,with the best writers also,,bcz your the best korean actress,acting on the screen,,your not deserving that kind of poor drama,.waiting to u again that new, either drama or movies,,wish u the best idol,..your still pretty,younger than ur age....... Pammo Dec 09 2018 7:45 am I was so thrilled to see you in another drama. Your acting is so invigorating and enjoyable. I am watching Flattering Love and realize after 8 episodes that the writers and directors did not have focus and now you are entwined in a drama that is listless and basically unfeeling , but you have held your own in spite of the poor writing. I pray your agent finds you a better script to highlight that smile and enjoyable infectious personality of yours in the future. You are always the star and you should use your star power to get better scripts. Welcome back -- and waiting to see you in another drama. You look gorgeous girl. Kimuli Brenda Dec 07 2018 5:25 pm Fighting Unni! .✊✊✊..am so happy to see you back on screen.surely ur very pretty and good at acting. Wish you the best my dear. We love you so much. We really appreciate your work. Thanks for making us happy. Keep it up. Am your number one fun. Doris ang Dec 04 2018 10:48 pm My all time favorite korean actress, the beautiful and talented actress Yoon Eun Hye. I am so glad you return on the screen. We missed you YEH Guiltypleasure Nov 25 2018 11:03 pm The best rogelyn Nov 15 2018 5:23 am im so happy you comeback on screen, me and my family we support and love all your movies and drama specially missing you, please after the fluttering warning please please please act on a drama again as soon as possible you are a great actress a queen you and your movies and drama deserve a high rating, fighting. mylene Nov 11 2018 3:45 am Fave korean actress- pair wuth so ji sub too 'Macoolman Nov 10 2018 9:44 pm have been waiting for so long... she is now on screen. Love her since 1999.. wishing her for all of the best.. Cristina Montiel Oct 30 2018 1:01 am Congratulations on your come back kdrama...I’m an avid fan of yours... unni fighting ?❤️?God bless and more power on your kdrama ???? Sol Oct 02 2018 9:29 am Hello ms.yoon eun hye..Until now still waiting your come back..please... i wish you both with gong yoo,,i hope in the real life you and GY..your the best couple that i think...not only on the screen but in real...May the lord bless you....imissedyou... Rizza Lee Aug 10 2018 10:20 pm My favorite korean actress Yoon Eun Hye... Glad that your back ! Do more dramas and movies . Mike Jun 23 2018 1:44 pm This actress captured my heart in Coffee Prince. I don't care much for celebrities and never wanted to meet one, but this lovely lady is quite spectacular in a modest way. I hope to see her on screen again soon. tifany May 15 2018 10:25 pm my favorite korean actress of all time and the best among all actresses in her generation..!!salute..... Axelonie May 14 2018 8:00 am Hope you come back as soon as possible. Love you, miss you?? Chairilia May 14 2018 7:54 am Miss you your drama and movie so muchhh... Princess eonni??Comeback soon with your best passion,,,, Hwaiting!!!?? Yeh Apr 30 2018 12:03 am I love u princess....I loved your acting in coffee prince as eun chan ..you and Gy had a wonderful chemistry on-screen and off screen too..I'm praying to God that once again you both should pair.. legendary couple....I liked your acting in goong..and in miss you ,you looks soo beautiful...plz come back unnie...we really missed you..and plz update your ig often...i really want to know your love life..hope you have a bf I really wish you to be end with Gy..coz I had seen your off screen chemistry..and you always said Gy is your ideal type even Gy too said you are his ideal type..boyish type inside and a ordinary women and you are the one..hope u comeback soon...I can't wait anymore..I hope u find peace ,u have survived a lot coz of unnecessary controversies...your dear you human reality show was a hit in Korea and Japan I'm happy about that..hope your movie after love release soon and I really wish u accept the upcoming drama..hope Gy will be the leading guy..coz I can't imagine a better guy other than Gy for u... Unnie I really miss u...be happy and healthy...hope we can see your drama soon...♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️ Flor Deanon Apr 22 2018 9:43 am I love this lady...she is so pretty and talented...i wish she can do more movies and drama series. I am curious if she is into relationship, she seem to be tied up with career, i hope she would find a man who can really take care of such a beauty. i wish you all the best specially good health, peace and joy. May God bless you. i love you beautiful girl...take care and more projects to come...cheers!!!! Trexie Ann Apr 19 2018 9:26 pm waiting for your comeback! Fighting! Rico Apr 06 2018 12:21 am Please make a comeback in a wonderful movie or drama Yoon Eun Hye, I really really really miss you so much!!! I Love you... San Apr 02 2018 10:36 pm Comeback eunni can't wait...?? Atleast do a commercial... Marfe Mar 28 2018 1:45 pm I really miss her Sherin Mar 25 2018 9:01 am So thirsty for her.I do really miss Eun hye in drama land. Once again, I need her so bad. Please, someone bring her back. It would be so damn difficult because she is busy doing her personal activities. But if I can get one chance to see her once again, I will be satisfied and happy enough. I've lost interest in Kdrama land for more than 2 years now. Picky enough to enjoy a drama, but kdrama and their new face of actor/actress nowadays is so so.Taiwainese, japanese, and even thailand drama are feel better to watch. So hard. Friez Mar 22 2018 12:47 am In 2018 i'm still waiting for your new drama... please come back eonni... we miss you a lot Sunny Mar 21 2018 7:46 pm I miss you , wish you come back with a new drama ❤️❤️❤️ Raajiv Feb 18 2018 11:01 am Hi Eun Yoon Hye.... I was amazed with your Coffee Price.... I really hope you can comebck to television drama series bck.... Even from Malaysian like me, you have alot of fans... Do consider it unni... ? kudoschic Feb 03 2018 7:13 am Where is she... wish she comes back in drama series with Joo Ji Hoon. Pretty girl and good actress. She has many fans. Wish more dramas to come tim lee Feb 01 2018 11:08 pm too many years.. i need eun hye  < 3 comeback  < 3 Louise Jan 29 2018 6:02 am Oh dear Producers, please reunite Gong Yoo and Eun Yoon Hye . Louise Jan 29 2018 5:58 am Please make a film or TV series with Gong Yoo. Gail Dec 27 2017 9:21 am please comeback I cant believe your last drama was back on 2013 I'm already missing you so much, please do comeback you're my fav actress back in gong/princess hours. WE BEG YOU yoon eun hye Dec 25 2017 9:46 am i miss you nuna. waitng for your new drama love like a human i hope you wll accept the offer. please accept it. im waiting for you in almost 4 years.... Sajna Nov 11 2017 10:36 pm Saranghae unnie???? ShashaKawaii Nov 10 2017 10:35 am Please comeback ?Your birthday it's same with my daughter..I always watching your drama, and my fav when you playing drama with Kang ji-hwan oppa ? Asma Oct 26 2017 4:49 pm Pls come back you are great actress i watched all drama you act in it . Pinky_chan Oct 10 2017 1:18 am Please come back, i miss u so much ??? Char Sep 25 2017 1:02 am I want to see her again on screen. :( Please surprise us a comeback drama or movie! You are my favorite actress in South Korea. Bogosipda, Eonnie. Fighting~ ^^ Abdoo Aug 23 2017 11:49 am I have one dream is to see Eun Hye in Running man with Kim jong kook hhh Nachiya Aug 08 2017 1:35 am Eun hye noona, am ur big fan.. I want to say am from South India.. Even Indians want you to come back soon.. my personal request i want you to act with Gong Yoo again.. u both r really made for each other :-) despacito deapacita Aug 01 2017 7:47 am i miss you where are tou now? Goblin bride Jul 29 2017 5:16 pm Eun hye, please make new drama for all your fans please!!!! We miss you!!! Sarangheo!!! miss cupcake Jul 27 2017 8:12 am Please make a comeback in kdrama. I miss you :( fuxo Jul 25 2017 6:00 am I really miss u, looking forward for ur new drama :') Trexie Ann May 24 2017 10:19 am Please comeback Unnie. We love you so much and we miss you so much. scyld Apr 25 2017 1:35 am I'm trully waiting for your comeback in kdramas. You are such a great actress. My husband and I love u dearly. I have watched all of your dramas. Please come back cutie Feb 04 2017 8:51 am like to see you acting with Gong Yoo.. ! hoping both of you are real couple in reality too.. :) tirashine Jan 28 2017 7:12 am Please comeback eonnie. I want to see you play with the drama Gong Yoo oppa again. I hope you can meet again in the latest drama after 10 years of drama " Coffee Prince " finished. I miss seeing two of you acting ! Mel Jan 26 2017 1:54 pm I miss you Unnie.. pls make a comeback in Drama Series Victoria Tan Jan 24 2017 8:04 am I want to see in a drama series please coz i miss her faiibby Jan 22 2017 2:21 pm Beautiful and charming actress ,l love you and l want you to marry gong yoo on my behalf cz l know l cant hev him and u guyz made an amazing couple...... kyakyari Dec 30 2016 1:12 pm for whatever korean netizen said or every issue has spread in korea remember that you still have a loyal fans in another place, in another country that willingly buying and having every thing about you, even we collect the magazine that makes you as its cover. I always love your drama and movie and especially your photo shoot in every magazine, they are all so gorgeous. i thankfully enough with goong team production that make goong as your debut drama since i love too with the manhwa so that coffee prince. so please unnie keep strong even when other people badmouthing about you remember you still have fans world wide not only in korea. we all know human makes mistakes but it doesn't mean she or he doesnt even deserve a second chance. for drama team production with good and consistent story please remember that Yoon Eun Hye was the actress who ever makes dramas became popular and big hit. love her good personality, professional and cheerful attitude while shooting. fighting unnie! (hope unnie or her agency read all of testimonies about her here) Lhen Nov 23 2016 9:14 am New drama please Sandy Shafer Nov 17 2016 4:13 am Where are you I would to see you in drama!Your the best! Mia Oct 19 2016 5:13 am you are so gorgeous..Fighting!!From the philippines!! Mia Oct 19 2016 5:10 am Hi Princess/Lady Yoon Eun-Hyewe are so happy that you are already came back in the korean drama television..we hoping for your new k drama with Lee min ho, kim hyun joong,, song joong ki, Jo Juk Suk, and Gong yoo again..Fighting!!!!we love you so much, god bless.... Rain ruth Oct 15 2016 7:20 am When will you come back?I miss youWatching princess hours again for the 6th times moniq magno Oct 07 2016 8:18 pm I really love you as an actress and it makes me giggles every time i watch your drama's. Hope to see you in a new project i started loving kdrama's because of Yoon Eun-Hye, most specially the coffee prince even my hubby cant stop me from watching it all over again, and even choosing one of the soundtrack's of Lie to me in my wedding day. when we will see you again having a drama with Gong Yoo?Saranghae :-) leephao Oct 04 2016 2:06 am You're so great and very talented, can't wait to see you in your new project. Your the goddess of beauty .. I really like the way you act and your fashion .. really miss you Yoon Eun-Hye ,. Saranghae  < 3 Lilipoetry Sep 18 2016 8:45 pm Yes, she will come back for the new project at the beginning of 2017. Can't wait to see her on screen. Hopefully, she will get the best drama. Love you eun hye :) taeyang Aug 23 2016 6:23 am Eun Hye is honestly one of the best actresses in SK,and truly deserves many awards especially for her roles in Coffee Prince and Goong. But I feel like the problem is the way she chooses her scripts, I feel like her talent was wasted in Marry Him If you Dare tbh. Even though I liked her in Lie to me and My Fair Lady the plots were not that great. I believe by carefully choosing the right kind of dramas,she would be way successful than she is now. Looking forward to your future projects after all this plagiarism scandal. Hwaiting Unnie!! Kaoru Aug 21 2016 11:55 pm Please Yoo Eun Hye and Joo Ji Hoon, i want to see them again in drama :) Tel Jul 30 2016 1:06 pm Hi.. pls do a come back. You're one of the best no matter what... NuruJoong Jul 30 2016 2:21 am why she not comeback with a new drama ?? plzz director make a new pairing .. YEH with jI chang wook or Hyun Bin .. herfi Jul 16 2016 8:52 pm I miss you so much,Eun hye. Please comeback to drama series. I am watching uncontrollably fond, suzy A episode 4 there reminds me of eun hye Malu Jun 26 2016 3:35 pm Hi how are you.. pls do a come back but make sure it's a good drama. I really miss your charms.. I am already re-watching most of your dramas.. Jai Jun 14 2016 10:57 am The goddess of beauty.. my favorite korean actress..yoon eun hye.. eunkeyk Jun 01 2016 7:33 am I really miss YEH. Please come back. :'( Red ginger May 28 2016 1:09 am When is she gonna have a new drama?? Mary ann santos May 03 2016 6:42 pm Ur a good and pretty actress in "Coffee Prince" since ive watched it last 2007 and up to the present that im on my work vacation i had watched it again the whole episode for just 5 days and i have still the "pirated" dvd of it...i just love to watch it over and over again... cahill Apr 22 2016 11:25 am Please come back Yoon eun hye... You're are the one that make me love dramas. I follow you since Xman days. And YES she lights up the screen. I don't understand why she isn't well loved in his country.! From a french fan . Putri Safira Apr 13 2016 7:15 am eonni please come back :' Kit Apr 10 2016 4:12 pm One of the best actress..beautiful lady inside and out..missing you in dramas and shows..please come back.. REVERDRAMA Apr 05 2016 2:52 pm she is so natural in mhiydof the all dramas she formed with the lead actor an ideal couplethey look a good match together i would like to see them again togetheri hope to see her soon Smeghead Jones Apr 03 2016 10:27 am Yoon Eun-Hye lights up the screen. I am surprised her rating is so low on this site. I've watched most of her dramas and Little Black Dress. I hope she comes back to dramas. She has incredible range as an actress, and she is beautiful!!! Papoi Mar 30 2016 2:07 am I miss Yoon Eun Hye so much!!! Please come back with drama!! I love you!!! herfi Feb 29 2016 7:50 am I also miss eun hye so much.... my favorite actress ever. Always look fabulous, cute , and act naturally. I love all of her dramas. Please comeback to the drama series, eun hye..... Mrs. Ki, Feb 18 2016 10:45 am I really miss YEH. YoPlease comeback to SK and do more drama and movies. You're really good actress. I love you. Saranghae! Mimie Feb 18 2016 1:43 am I really miss u YEH, please do a drama this year... you're the reason why i loved to watch korean dramas, movies and listen to a korean songs. the first time I saw you in drama titled "My Fair Lady" I really admired you a lot... you're so gorgeous and good actress. Yoon Eun Hye!!! SARANGHAE < 3 < 3 < 3 fighting... lala Feb 16 2016 2:56 am youre awesome Hazel Feb 02 2016 3:40 am Yeah!Looking forward to thisFrom your ardent fan Pia Jan 20 2016 8:59 pm --I so dearly miss you..--Stay healthy..--You're the reason I've known dramas..--We love you, pls come back on a very good drama this year.--More power to you!!! Irene Jan 16 2016 10:24 pm I really love you!! I'm waiting for another drama of yours!! I hope you'll be casting in one of the dramas this year!!❤️ Your drama "Lie to me" makes me inspired and makes me got into kdramas, amazing right? mamei Jan 04 2016 4:58 am Pls do a drama this 201 perhaps with gong yoo or hyun bin? I am so YEH deprived for so long. I miss you. You are so beautiful inside and out. Kissie Nov 14 2015 12:08 am You're beautiful, talented and one of the best!!L♥ve you unnie...♥♥♥♥♥ fighting!!Waitiing for your nest drama. Tel Nov 14 2015 12:02 am ♥ ♥ ♥Support Yoon Eun Hye!! No Matter what the haters say: YOU'RE our fan and will forever be. Haters, hate till your bones are filled w/ hate.. and for us we're happy that our fan is doing great despite of haters, bashers who are too full of them selves. who has nothing to do but put obnoxious comments into the net.. I'm glad I'm not one of them. YEH's fans: Spread love and proudly endy our day w/ a smile!! Cheers to good personality! ♥ ♥ ♥ Tel Nov 13 2015 12:24 pm ♥ ♥ ♥Support Yoon Eun Hye!!No Matter what the haters say: YOU'RE our fan and will forever be. Haters, hate till your bones are filled w/ hate.. and for us we're happy that our fan is doing great despite of haters, bashers who are too full of them selves. who has nothing to do but put obnoxious comments into the net.. I'm glad I'm not one of them. YEH's fans: Spread love and proudly endy our day w/ a smile!! Cheers to good personality! ♥ ♥ ♥ Tel Nov 13 2015 12:10 pm to lead: hmm u even came here to post something bad... I guess you don't have something good to do or something worthwhile to do.. Love yourself so you can love others okay...Slanderer.. There are other Korean artist that I don't like.. but I don't go to their page and be posting a LOWLY comment. Anyway, if someone is really LOW and CROOKED then I guess, they can't be stopped. Congratulations Yoon Eun Hye for winning 2nd place. INDEED you're a designer. AvidFan Nov 13 2015 10:44 am I'd love to see you together w/ Hyun Bin plssssss consider a movie w/ him. Pls Directorssss and writersssss plsssssssssssssssssssssssss make it haapppennnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn!!! BINHYE COUPLE in an action good movie or drama huhuhu ..I Super ship them together!!!!!!!!!! Tel Nov 13 2015 9:23 am Reposting my comment: It's my way of supporting my forever idol Yoon Eun Hye. I'm glad the Muse Dress 2 is over and She's the 2nd placer. In regard to the mob mentality about her plagiarizing; pls. watch the episodes so that you'll understand how she came up w/ each design.Yoon Eun Hye has talent in designing ever since she's a high-school-er if you research on her background and the "s0-called" plagiarized designs are not "exactly" the same for it to be really plagiarized.I myself love fashion and I've encountered a lot of design which are VERY SIMILAR but hadn't been reported to be plagiarized because they weren't worn on a TV show featuring designs. Who knows there might have been, but designers didn't give shits on it as they know the essence of fashion. She also clearly explained why  &  how they came up w/ he design and did not just copy them. Here's a designer's idea about fashion: fashion is the emergence of "Fashion Trends". Trends exist because fashion can’t be copyrighted. Fashion design is “utilitarian” and anything considered utilitarian (like cars, clothing and food) can’t be copyrighted. Ex: Canned goods: a lot are alike but they're made of diff ingredients; varied rolled rice: almost the same but w/ diff taste and ingredients etc..This is the same as dresses designed by designers! The logic is this: “everyday things" are important in the society, that if someone were to hold "power" over them, we’d likely all be walking around naked, eating raw and getting around on horseback(many vehicles are alike). Fashion is an everyday need and that makes it a creative "free-for-all". If you love fashion, then be open minded and understand how it works as well!! and...jeeeez! Yoon Eun Hye HAS BRAINS, she's not someone who will put herself and the show in a difficult situation. Especially that she joined the show only bec. IT'S HER INTEREST:DESIGNING!! "NOT FOR MONEY". Hoping this simple explanation cleared those questioning thoughts about what happened in Muse Dress 2. Yoon Eun Hye  &  partner painstakingly think and correlate each designs they made according to the theme of the episode. They did not just get the coat and thought of hmm.. we'll copy this but let's redesign and restyle the ruffles.Anyways, enough of this. I'm so glad that it's over and she's in the 2nd place.Let's spread love and support to all K Stars, after all we all love their dramas.Fighting Yoon Eun Hye!! You're one of the greatest so heads up but keep your feet on the ground. xoxo fans Nov 08 2015 5:43 am I knew korean drama first because of her (YEH). her acting is so excellent, i don't know what the real is happened. I have read a lot of articles. I think the vice president also must looking for the proof, not only heard by one side (the designer or the another). The designer was wrong also because his announcement on media sosial without confirmation to the actress or agency with hard effort. I know YEh has so many talent, she is able to draw, design also. If YEH was wrong, why the designer didn't bring it to the law. fans Nov 02 2015 7:17 am I like your all drama, you r so talented k-star Nov 02 2015 6:15 am I was mesmarized by your performance in coffee prince. You are the best of all  < 3  < 3 saranghae unniee. gee Oct 25 2015 1:52 pm I would suggest to Yoon Eun Hye to just IGNORE haters comments and remind yourself that you are probably 100 times Happier and More Successful (with more money) than people who waste their time tearing others down online. Haters are indication that you’ve “made it” to an extent. You are a bright, smart, talented, gifted and beautiful person. Don't let other people tear you down. You are dearly loved and respected all over the world.I am proud to be your fan. May God Bless Yoon Eun Hye! Gee Oct 25 2015 12:55 pm He who conceals hatred has lying lips, And he who spreads slander is a fool. Proverbs 10:18 Tel Oct 24 2015 7:57 pm I Love you unnie and support you no matter what!We've been Yoon Eun Hye deprived on dramas already hoping to watch you soon w/ good write-ups and perfect leading man. 'Be waiting for "After Love".Fighting you're doing great! and congratulations for winning another design on the show..You're beautiful inside and out that's why you're at what you are right now. I've come to know K dramas because of you in Princess Hours! Thanks to you!Take care and God bless more you endeavors! Fighting! Tel Oct 24 2015 7:45 pm To the haters.. watch the reports/episode and compare the "so-called plagiarized white coat" w/c I also did, before you comment here.Yoon Eun Hye have a talent in designing ever since she's a high-schooler if you research on her background. And the coats are not "exactly" the same for it to be COPIED/PLAGIARIZED.I myself love fashion and I've encountered a lot of design which are VERY SIMILAR but hadn't been reported to be plagiarized because they weren't worn on a well known TV show featuring designs or who knows there could have been but designers didn't give shits on it as they know the essence of fashion.She also already explained how she came up w/ the design and did not just copy the white coat. And to clarify or help those who doesn't really know about fashion; to enlighten you guys: Fashion is the emergence of "Fashion Trends". Trends exist because fashion can’t be copyrighted. Fashion design is “utilitarian,” and anything considered utilitarian (like cars, clothing and food) can’t be copyrighted. Ex: century tuna and corned beef: appearance are almost the same, but thy're not. Another ex; different types of rolled rice prepared by different cook: this is the same as dresses designed by designers!The logic is these: “everyday” things are important in the society, that if someone were to hold power over them, we’d likely all be walking around naked, eating raw and getting around on horseback.Fashion is an everyday need and that makes it a creative "free-for-all". A plagiarists buffet if you will. Hoping this explanation cleared those questioning thoughts regarding the issue. Yoon Eun Hye DID NOT plagiarize, she clearly explained how she/they came up w/ the design. They did not just get the 'white coat' and thought of hmm.. we'll do this but let's redesign the shape and ruffles.OKAY!! If you love fashion, then be open minded and understand how it works as well!! Fighting unnie and... let's spread love and support to all K Stars, after all we all love their dramas. mamei Oct 23 2015 1:21 am Please make a come back soon, period drama series. I would love to see how beautiful you are in a hanbok. If not, any drama will do, with hyun bin perhaps? I just want to see you acting on screen. I miss you so much. We have been YEH deprived for soooo long. I love you and i wish you all the best...... libra girl Oct 13 2015 6:45 am The way she responded to her latest scandal is very rude. "Do not use the name of Yoon Eun Hye". Dear, the accusation is not for him to use your name, but to tell the world that you plagiarized his design. The design that he spent effort, time, brain cells, talent. Also, even the head designer of Princess Hours has enough evidence that you plagiarized her designs too. What a shame. You should at least apologize. Not because you are famous, you can make everyone bow to you. Probably one of the rudest actress in the history of Korea. Please stay humble and do not let the success rise too much on your head. If an ordinary person is accused of plagiarism, maybe everyone is scrutinizing him/her. But because you are famous and has many fans you have the guts to stay proud even though IT IS VERY OBVIOUS that you did wrong. I USED to like you. What a shame. miss singapore Oct 03 2015 9:36 pm With all the evidences against her (even the head designer of Princess Hours accused Yoon Eun Hye of stealing her work, sad how the designer of the white dress is the only one bullied ny Yoon Eun Hye fans), it seems Yoon Eun Hye is really guilty of plagiarism. As much as you guys want to say that it is OK to plagiarize in fashion just to defend Yoon Eun Hye, imagine how the designers whose designs stolen by Yoon Eun Hye feel right now. They put effort in designing dress and shoes only to be stolen by others, and worse, the design was praised but the credit is not to them. I don't have something against Yoon Eun Hye, but we must look at the other side of things. I also experienced to my ideas stolen, so I can relate to what those designers are feeling right now. HRY Sep 29 2015 10:10 am I know and love Eun Hye in Marry him if you dare. I was impressed by your character Na Mirae. I love the storyline, it´s so different from other kdramas. Keep working well eonnie reverdrama Sep 26 2015 3:47 pm she is loved cause she is so natural ,cute ,she has the face that we have to love she is attrative face cause she is not the perfection that why she a value sure .i love her in "marry him if you dare "i felt the lead actor and she make something like passionate love cause the storyline is very good director are good and it seems that love is reincarnated endless love i hope that we can see her again and again ...... YEHchaego!!!! Sep 18 2015 6:51 am I don't know if you'll ever read this, but I just want to say that I have been your fan ever since Goong and regardless of whatever is going on right now with your life I will still continue to support you. Fighting! Don't let the haters win! And I know I'm not the only one who will say this: We love you! Grace2Yoon Sep 13 2015 7:41 pm In her fascinating TED Talk, Johanna Blakley points out that the side effect of plagiarism in fashion is the emergence of fashion trends. Trends exist because fashion can’t be copyrighted. Fashion design is “utilitarian,” and anything considered utilitarian (like cars, clothing and food) can’t be copyrighted. The logic goes that these “everyday” things are so important in our society, that if someone were to hold power over them, we’d likely all be walking around naked, eating raw and getting around on horseback. Fashion is so fundamental to our daily lives, and that also makes it a creative free-for-all. A plagiarists buffet if you will. Grace2Yoon Sep 13 2015 7:39 pm Coco Chanel once said that “Copying is the ransom of success.” And we hate to be the one’s to remind you, but fashion is all about copying. There is no such thing as an original style (those things called trends basically mean we’re all going to be dressing the same forever); and even fashion photographers seem to run out of original ideas. Sora Sep 12 2015 6:42 am DId you hear about her copying other designer's works and claiming them as her own? What hilarious story. At least admit that they were references or for inspiration rather than copying off the whole thing. Taking someone else's work and claiming that they are yours are none other than stealing or robbery. Hope she learns her lesson and grow up. Malu Sep 05 2015 3:57 am Anyeong idol, been a while.. 'really hoping that you'll do supernatural drama/movie w/ either oppa Song Seung Heon or oppa Joo Sang wook. I'd like to see you in other genre..I miss you and I love the whole you, I've watched a lot of K dramas and you're one of the best, leveled w/ Ha Ji Woon.. love you both..facial expressions, dancing, acting and all. Just pls choose a good story line and a leading man lols.... I was a bit disheartened w/ Marry Him if you Dare. Anyways, fighting and more power to K Dramas!! They're great and I'll continue to patronize it.. madonna Aug 14 2015 10:53 am Looking forward to see you in tv.we miss your natural and genuine acting,watched lots of kdrama but you surpassed them because of unique personality and multi -talented person with a humble heart,I watched almost of your video accepting an award how humble you are and showed good manners by giving your flowers to your co-winners.loaded with works yet still have time to do charity works..you are such a lovely person in and out. Thel Aug 11 2015 8:21 pm Hi YEH, I miss to see you in a real good drama.. I've watched all your dramas and you really do ROCK! you keep me hooked w/ K Dramas.. because of you I've come to love a lot of K dramas.I just love the way you naturally act in every role you got.The beauty just comes out naturally w/o you overdoing your roles.. I love  &  miss you. Waiting for your up coming drama w/ Park Shi Hoo. Hoping to see you act w/ Ji Sang Wook, Ji Chang Wook (lolz, korean names..) or Song Seung Heon... Love you all.. Fighting unnie!! yham Jul 29 2015 2:43 pm hi yoon uen hye!!!you`re such beautifull,simple and gorgeous actress and how i wish i meet you in person when you visit here in philippines.i liked to watched your movies,drama series esp my fair lady,an rich girl  &  successor that fall in love to a gigolo... anne Jul 20 2015 7:35 am hi ms.yoon eun hye..i was amaze your all your dramas series especially the three of them..lie to me,coffee prince..princess hours..i hope you came here in philippines,like lee min ho  & park shin hye.your one most adorable face in korea.hope you can visit us here cris Jul 14 2015 4:47 pm your movies make me fall in love. thank you for the movies, your such a great actress. greetings from the pearl of the orient seas. how i wish i can marry a girl as pretty as u. Ella Jul 06 2015 11:14 am I watched Lie to Me around 2012, and I loved it... Then I watched Coffee Prince this year... and I fell in love with her... Her acting skills are superb. Her emotions and acting are pretty natural... So I researched more about her and found out, she is the leading lady in Lie to me. Since I loved her acting in Coffee Prince, I rewatched Lie to me and loving it all over again. She is one of my favourite actresses.  < 3 Saranghaeyo! Sally Jul 05 2015 10:24 am I cannot count anymore how many Korean dramas and movies I have watched. There are many stars that are so talented but for me still she is the best. YEH topped them all.. :) No one can surpassed her acting ability, her beauty and her total personality. I am really too excited to see her acting again, in the small screen. Please, please... comeback soon... Love and misses your dramas, many are waiting to see your beautiful face again!! YEH , embodies PERFECTION, you are a GODDESS.. Oura Jun 17 2015 12:17 pm really miss her :"( malzz Jun 08 2015 4:57 am i hope that you will getback with kjk or at least join running man with kjk:)  < 3 romeo May 30 2015 4:00 pm Officer, Engineer and Crew of M/V Helsinki Bridge likes your movies and drama series so much. We like the way how you act in the scene and you make them laugh and cry. And also you make them in love because you are so lovely. We love you noona♥ More power to you and hope you make more movies and drama series and we will wait for it. Take care noona♥ 세종대왕 May 21 2015 4:09 pm I just read you dabbled in film making as a graduate student. That's cool. I had some friends who did that. They knew all this technical stuff about production, but then had the worst tastes in films. Ironic. Nice enough, though. Nana May 17 2015 9:27 pm i hope she will be reunited with gong yoo in a romantic-comedy drama again kk May 15 2015 6:03 am I like your drama. ... coffee prince, lie to me, my fair lady, I miss u.. I love u noona ♥ magayonako May 13 2015 6:21 am i love you noona! i really liked your dramas kk May 10 2015 9:40 pm u r so cute....great actress...  &  u look like jung so min .. love u unni...  < 3 Sheila Giles May 10 2015 9:35 pm I have watched most of the drama series you have appeared in. I am an true fan. You are very talented and your depth is totally amazing. I enjoy seeing you on screen. I hope to travel to Korea and it would be a great gift to see you. You truly appreciate and love your culture. It is represented in every drama/movie you make. You have taught me a great deal about your culture in the dramas you've have acted in. I image you to be a very down to earth person, who is warm and extremely modest. I also think that you represent what is beautiful, bright and talented in Korea. I extend to you continued success, happiness and love. Asian Drama Pearls May 04 2015 3:39 am I have watched "Coffee Prince" (one of my very favorite kdramas) and now "Lie To Me" (another show for my Favorites List). Yoon Eun-Hye is one of the most talented actresses I've seen! I am going to watch all of her shows and movies that I can find--she is amazing!! When is her next tv series coming out please? Thank you. LuLa Apr 26 2015 11:31 pm She is seriously my favorite actress, she is amazing  &  so talentedI actually want to see her act again with Gong Yoo. I hope in the near future they team up again, they are sincerely amazing. androuchka Apr 26 2015 9:49 pm I would love to see you acting with So ji sub oppa, Lee min ho and Hyun Bin...comeback to the dramaland please this year if possible, i miss you unnie sandra Apr 26 2015 8:42 pm I am willing to sell my soul to the devil to see a drama with Hyn Bin and Yoon Eun Hye.Make It Happen! SBS MBC KBS ABCDEFG!!! ploat Apr 21 2015 2:31 pm YES!!!!! SOMEBODY FINALLY SAID IT!! I WANT TO SEE HYUN BIN AND EUN HYE IN A NEW DRAMA SOON!!!! hyun bin just finished his drama and so busy with his ads and cf's and fan meeting and eun hye her new movie so next year both of them having a great comeback together?? please let it be trueeeee Ship Apr 21 2015 2:38 am i really wanna see her and hyun bin together in a drama together lool one of my dream couples in a drama pleaseeeeeeeeee make it happennnn!!!!!!!! Steffany Villanueva Apr 12 2015 7:13 am I had watched all of the TV series of Yoon Eun Hye. and I really Love it all. I admire her a lot.I'm a big fan of yours! I love you. Phoenix Lee Apr 10 2015 9:53 am I can't hardly wait to see you on your new drama series..! Soonest for sure...^_^ Faye Apr 08 2015 7:38 am She's so pretty. It brings me interest watching her dramas ^^ Sooki_yaki0001 Mar 14 2015 9:43 pm I luv ya yoon eun hye wish to see you some day and I'm your fan support you  ma. vida amor vieja Mar 14 2015 2:58 am i love you yoon eun hye.. i wish i could see you in person.. i want to go to korea just to meet you. Christine Joy Mar 11 2015 4:28 am I love you Yoon Eun Hye (Eonnie) I'm your fan. I hope that i can see you someday :) Anna Marie Fualo Mar 09 2015 7:21 am M an avid fan of GYEH, love the drama series CP, i just hope they will be given another chance to work together in a drama, they really look good together. I love GYEH forever. t Feb 27 2015 7:54 pm sarangae unni, lots of love from sri lanka, be happy always! God bless you! samantha Rose Feb 16 2015 1:53 am .more DRAMA and MOVIES for YOON EUN HYE .. Please! One of the most watched Korean actress ..she's great and awesome actress .. I love her acting skills .. FIGHTING always unnie .. !! ^___^ you're the best .. I watched all of your drama and movies .. Its really AWESOME!! fight.fighting unnie .SARANGHAE  < 3 ema606 Feb 02 2015 11:19 am i just love her dramas. i never got bored with any of her drama. she has good choice,she totally gets deep into her character and thus plays well.love her fighting eonnie YEHfan Jan 08 2015 5:11 pm Yoon Eun Hye is a great and excellent actress. All she needs is a good script and an awesome chemistry between the two leads. I loved her chemistry with all her leading men in all her dramas. The chemistry was so natural, believable and hot!!!! From what I saw she was very good in the kissing scenes with the other leading guys. I also know what you mean about her crying, I can’t get through any of her crying scenes without crying with her. She has this ability to just suck you in and when she cries, I cry along with her. Niru Jan 08 2015 4:22 am I really like her! she's awesome. I first saw her in Coffee Prince and I'm in love with the movie. She and Gong Yoo are perfect together YEHfan Jan 06 2015 7:48 pm When it comes to guests on Running Man, there has never been a person more requested for than Yoon Eun-hye. If you watched enough Running Man, you would have realized that the name "Yoon Eun-hye" appears more often than most of the guests who've already been on the show. The Running Man members themselves, especially Yoo Jae-suk, occasionally drops Eun-hye's name during episodes and the re-enactment of the classic "Of Course" game is almost always referenced.If you don't know why Eun-hye is THE most requested for guest, you'll have to go back to the days of SBS's X-Man, when she and Kim Jong-kook were the variety world's power couple. They were like the Monday Couple of X-Man. The situation has escalated to a point that should Eun-hye appear in a future episode, the Running Man ratings for that week will undoubtedly go through the roof.But ratings aside, here are 4 more reasons why Yoon Eun-hye should appear on Running Man. YEHfan Jan 04 2015 11:14 am Yoon Eun Hye’s Go Ah Jung in Lie to Me is so relatable – she’s that hard working girl next door who doesn’t seem to have the time (or care) to get married, and who’s secure enough of herself that she knows exactly who she is. She will not get jerked around by some chaebol – she sees him as a person rather than a “status” since she holds on to her morals. I enjoyed her spunk in paying back Kang Ji Hwan’s Hyun Ki Joon, and then going on to prank the other guests because the opportunity was there and it would be oh-so-hilarious. I loved her in the bathroom scene, when she rushes to pee in the suite. She’s a natural at these kinds of roles – the spunky girl. Not rich spoiled girl. dscorpion Dec 13 2014 9:08 am YEH: Down-to-earth, beautiful, heart of gold, multi-talented. You're simply ADMIRABLE! Wishing you for more success and good health always! Lou Dec 12 2014 2:00 pm please make another kdrama for Gong Yoo and Yoon Eun Han . Please please!!! Their first team up was a hit! Why not make another one for them? Please team them up for another drama. Please . Thank you . abieislove Dec 12 2014 6:13 am Whats new with yoon eun-hye?.. I love watching all her dramas, hope she will have another drama this coming 2015..  Jen Nguyen Nov 27 2014 1:42 pm If Gong Yoo and Yoon Eun Hye are reunion, I am the first person to cry out for happiness. You couple GYEH can act different drama or movie. I just hope to see your guys in short interview or some new pictures, but it is so hard to have it. Please listen our request and love to GYEH couple. shindo Nov 22 2014 5:10 am YOON EUN HYE  &  GONG YOO please make another kdrama together. We love to see again with GY.... surely it will hit another mark if you make film together because many people loves to see you together. It has been seven years since coffee prince was aired in tv but we still enjoy watching CP again and again and again..... please hear our request bless Nov 16 2014 6:04 am Great news!!! Glad to see that Yoon Eun-Hye is confirmed for movie "After Love" with Park Si Hoo. Both of them are very good actors. I admire her courage to openly face the great hostility against her and finally accept the female lead role.I want to wish to both of them: GOOD HEALTH AND GOOD SUCCESS WITH THE MOVIE "AFTER LOVE"! June Nov 12 2014 12:47 pm I would enjoy to see you in the "After Love" drama with Park Shi Hoo. It's too bad that you had to close your website due to unwanted criticisms. I loved all your dramas and movies!! Via Youtube, I was able to see you singing and dancing with the Baby Vox concerts, X-man programs, charity work, designing clothes, shoes, painting, drawing ,modeling and now a director for Dear.me band. Also, owner of "Jacob's Ladder" coffee shop. So busy. You are my favorite all time Korean actress. Keep your head up high, choose the right. God's blessings to you for all that you do! You are a special lady. **** UNIQUE**** Jen Nov 06 2014 5:51 am Hope you accept the Role together with Park shi hoo.. (After Love) vania Oct 24 2014 9:46 pm Yoon Eun Hye forever with u ... fighting Mark Oct 15 2014 3:34 pm I'd been watching lots of Korean movies, but my first KDrama series was Lie To Me. I just completely fell in love with YEH. As much as I've watched many many many other KDramas since, I have yet to find anyone close to how much I just adore her. I think the reason is, the more I know about her, the more I'm just in total admiration. She's beautiful, extremely down-to-earth, heart of gold, multi-talented (act, sing, artist), travel to very poor areas giving her time and money to those in need...etc. So yeah, I watch other Kdramas, but I'm always looking forward to seeing YEH in her next project. By far my favorite actress. Amy Oct 12 2014 7:16 am 11 K-drama gender-benders Ranked by Realness:Gender bending is an incredibly popular K-drama. Some of these dramas are more convincing than others in terms of how believable the act is. Here are our rankings of who sold their boyish features best:1. Coffee PrinceBelievability score: 20/20Yoon Eun Hye is the clear winner when it comes to selling her androgyny. She captures both the looks and mannerisms of a boy, and she sells her performance. Sandii Oct 09 2014 7:51 pm I think that Yoon Eun Hye's versatile look and down to earth personality helps with creating amazing chemistry with her male co-star. What I appreciate from her is that she tends to re-create herself emotionally and physically with each project that she does. I don't see any other K-actress who looks different in each project/drama/modelling as she does (with a simple change in the hair department), and I think it contributes to matching with her male co-star.-------You're right about YEH always having chemistry with all of her co-stars. I think that's one of her appeal that makes people keep watching her dramas no matter how high or low the rating is. No matter how ridiculous the plot is she always invest herself into the character she portray. In "Coffee Prince" she cut her hair  &  learn the way of man's talk  &  walk, in "Vineyard Man" she tanned her skin, in "My Fair Lady" she colored her hair and in Lie To Me she wasn't afraid to cut her hair when the drama progressed to immersed herself into her character. And I believe she won't be afraid to portray a retarded or a killer character if it's needed. I think YEH good qualities beside her talent is that she doesn't hold back  &  she doesn't think of her image when it's come to acting. That's make her a good actress in my book. Kim Oct 08 2014 8:20 pm K-dramas are always toying with our emotions. In one episode we might go from rolling on the floor laughing to sobbing uncontrollably. But for the K-drama actors creating these scenes, mastering the tears isn't always so easy. Some actors are too stoic, only showing a single tear that kind of looks like someone put eye drops in two minutes before filming. At the other end of the spectrum are those who go too far, wailing like a sack full of dying cats. Even the most talented K-drama actors struggle with emotional scenes from time to time, but there are some who just happen to be natural criers. Here are 12 of the most convincing K-drama criers—the ones who can pull tears from us every time. Much like her kissing, Eun Hye wrote the book on K-drama crying. In every drama, every time, she makes it feel real. Oh Ha Na Oct 01 2014 3:39 pm Happy anniversary! Let God make you more and more beautiful movie for us, yours fan! Mitch G. Oct 01 2014 2:46 pm Very beautiful  &  good actress :) Myba Sep 30 2014 4:53 pm YEH is a woman with so much talent just has not had the opportunity to explore it in all ranges, even she has a lot to explore, she is unlimitedly full of talent that I do not doubt for a moment in their abilities to perform any type of paper and that special thing she has done really unique in its field, so I'll be patient for your next project. YEHfan Sep 30 2014 4:13 pm Comment from a YEH fan:What I've gathered from the past eight years of watching Korean dramas is that, while the players, both male and female, are nearly always extraordinarily talented and fun to watch, the time constraints and week to week writing, and shooting schedules are often the source of weakness in the scripts and character development. As time is measured and ever moving, while deadlines are constantly to be met, it is the writers and directors who are ultimately responsible for how a drama moves and comes out in the end. Even for an obvious talent like Yoon Eun Hye, not knowing the behind the scenes realities can often confuse the viewer. We like her. We will continue to like her, and the more that one learns about her background and personality, the more smitten with her one is likely to become. We root for her and we have sometimes felt let down by various works that have seen her qualities and abilities under and misused. All actors and actresses have suffered the slings and arrows of poor production and vacuous script writing. This is not a new thing. The one control as far as a performer's input goes is their own effort and ability. And not once can any informed viewer say that this area has been in any way lacking on any project throughout the career of Yoon Eun Hye. The production may fail her, but she will never fail the production. Not to worry though as she will get plenty more chances because she will be around for a long, long time... Suzy Sep 27 2014 8:38 am Yoon Eun Hye is without a doubt my favorite Korean actress. She was the main star of the Korean drama I ever saw, and she was so impressive that I was compelled to watch all of the dramas starring her. Up to now, I am still have not been disappointed with all her work, she has played everything from a gawky princess to a tomboy and in every role she played them perfectly and so realistically. I can recommend every single one of her dramas. Ganee Sep 24 2014 5:43 pm When journalists asked Yoo Seung Ho about who’s the actress that he most enjoyed working together. He replied that Yoon Eun Hye-noona is very easy going person, he really enjoys working with her the most. mj Sep 24 2014 10:42 am You are one of the very few actresses who has made a huge impact on me .I've been watching Korean dramas ( more than 140) for a while now and the roles you played on coffee prince,princess hours,vineyard man keeps coming back to my mind quite often.Your screen presence is amazing and thank you for those wonderful characters... a fan from India... Jen Nguyen Sep 14 2014 9:45 pm I feel sorry for the one who is jealous with Yoon Eun Hye. You know, the more you are be angrier and hater, you will be sad and not have a happy life. Just think about life is too short. So, we need to forget all issues, forgive mistake of others, and enjoy this life. Hope you can understand more about the value of life. Jen Ng Sep 14 2014 9:40 pm I feel sorry for the one who is jealous with Yoon Eun Hye. You know what the more you are be the hater and angrier, you will be sad and not have the happy life. Just think about the life is too short, so we need to be forget all issues, mistake others and enjoy life. Hope you can understand on what I am mention. Mitch G. Sep 07 2014 4:31 pm You're sooo pretty  &  a good actress...I keep on repeating your 1st korean drama GOONG, Princess Hours...Very popular  &  addictive korean drama i watched..I'm looking forward for another matured love story with the goong crown prince, Joo Ji Hoon...I'm sure lots of korean watchers esp. those goong fans will be very excited to see both of you in a drama together again..You really look like a princess to me...Stay cool, happy  &  pretty girl....=)) aasma87 Sep 05 2014 2:54 pm I think you are a really good actress and your life story is really inspiring. I look forward to all your dramas and watch them with fervor even though I am not a Korean native but you are the reason I started watching K-dramas. I hope you all the best for your upcoming dramas as well as movies and wish you to be safe from jealous people and ill wishers. All the best! Fighting! 87 nanah Aug 31 2014 9:12 am hey my chan...................I really love your movies, you are awesome. sarang hae...... Mitch G. Aug 30 2014 9:04 pm She's very pretty...Looking forward for another drama for yoon eun hye  &  joo ji Hoon of Goong.. Mary May Castro Aug 30 2014 2:53 am There's many reason why I really like Yoon Eun Hye. and maybe one of the reason is she have a good heart and that's really important......... I LOVEEEEEEE YOUUUUUUUUU and I promise I'll be your #1 Fan no natter what happen :) yeah! Aug 21 2014 4:46 pm Comments from a YEH fan:GOONG(2006)Shin Chae Gyung (main role)- playful childish princessIt was funny and made me LOL numerous times. It also had me getting angry at the characters and falling in love with them. That’s how I know it was awesome! Yoon Eun Hye was beautiful as always but Shin Chae Gyung childish acting sometimes got to my nerves. Though the drama is your typical modern day Cinderella story, Yoon Eun Hye’s acting and portrayal of a pure innocent teenage high school student which she got her life upside down by the arranged marriage with the crowned prince made the whole show a pleasure to watch. The OST, the clothes, the scenery was all like a new World for me.The Vineyard Man (2006)Lee Ji Hyeon (main role) - striving sweet city girlJi-hyun, an extraordinary girl who will show the world her great achievements someday, left home to work in a small village. It's surprisingly entertaining because it creates a fun environment from start to finish. The high dose of humour helps a lot, as does the strong chemistry between the actors. The characters are nicely developed. Fun stuff that's worth seeking out. Eun Hye is EXTREMELY GORGEOUS. She’s both believable and admirable in her role and loved her marvelous acting about how she learns to releases her inner beauty and her arrogance added humour in the drama in a sweet, warm way.The 1st Shop of Coffee Prince (2007)Go Eun Chan (main role) - Tomboyish but adorableCoffee Prince is one of those drama you can’t do other than loving and re=watching all the time. My Chan, a 24-year-old tomboy, is the “head” of her household. When her family was entangled into more debts, she seeks employment at “Coffee Prince”, which only hires handsome guys, and disguises herself as a boy to get the job. Eun Chan is very mature and logical and tries to keep an optimistic personality. She‘s very lovable character, making her almost impossible for people to hate. She bonds with her male co-workers. In my opinion, no girl has been able to act as a guy better than Eun-hye. She didn’t only cut her hair, but also adapted the mannerisms of a male. She did such good job that sometimes I forgot that she was actually female. Moreover, her chemistry with Gong Yoo was indescribable. They portrayed a love between a man and a woman so realistically. The writers  &  actors did a wonderful job with their characters, and their acting was SUPERB.Take Care of the Young Lady (2009)Kang Hye Na(main role) - spoiled  &  bratty but good heartedHye Na is a horrible spoiled brat, but has a definite innocent child-like aura to her that makes it forgiving. Life is easy for her and she gets what she wants. Although she was at first self-centered, she matured throughout the whole drama not just at the end, so that’s the best thing that happened is the character development Yoon Eun Hye as usual impressed me with her magnificent acting, she really can pull off any role and I really loved how the main leads truly fell in love and their relationship.Lie to Me (2011)Gong Ah Jung (main role) - workaholic and strong-willed Eun HyeAh Jung gets entangled in a web of lies when she mistakenly lies that she’s married to Hyun Ki Joon, a hotel manager. Ah Jung considers herself a servant of the people. She has plenty of energy and has a tomboyish charm. Eun Hye makes for a very convincing every day woman. You have to appreciate that kind of freedom. You just can’t help kind of relate to her. Kang Ji Hwan and Yoon looked fabulous together with a lot of humour potential in the pairing. Their combination doesn't just look like it should work but explode with fireworks. They had amazing senses. And for me the coca cola kissing scene was the best.Missing You (2012)Lee Soo Yeon (main role)- feared but still cheerful romantic Eun HyeSeeing YEH previous drama we see that most her drama are on the rom-com side, but this one is a melodrama. So prepare your tissues. It was BEYOND WORDS !! I was amazed  &  stunned by her great acting and impersonates her character as if she was real, she proved that she's a talented actress that can pull off such a complex sad agonist character like Su Yeon, I praise her for that. It wasn't all tragedy though: She had great chemistry between both Yoo Seung Ho and Park Yoochun. They had intense passionate kisses, and good chemistry together that progressively developed throughout the drama and made their characters much more rich, as well as their interactions. She seriously never disappointed me, I hope she keeps improving like that in the future. Her acting was flawless. She strongly portrayed her role, and it was worth the tears.Marry Him If You Dare (2013)Na Mi Rae (main role) – ordinary lady wants to reach her dreamMi Rae is a bright and lovable 32-year-old with a frizzly crimped hair who spends her days scraping her job. But one day her future self appears in front of her to persuade her to believe in herself and reach for her dream. It’s really entertaining. I really love Eun Hye’s acting, she just always surprises me in her superb acting and her attraction for Kim Shin feels so real. mimiya Aug 17 2014 9:37 am @YEHfan .... I agree w/ u on these reasons to love her --- > > >  ...3)...She is ****Convincing as a BOY****....... ........ 5)...She's a ****Good KISSER****....... ........ 6)...Good Chemistry w/ her male leads ....... ........ 7)... Her ****CLASSY Style****....... ........ 9) she is a Natural ....... ........ 10)...we want to befriend her characters (Quirky, Awkwardly Endearing) ....... ...... ...... ...... I disagree about --- > > >  ...2)...IMO , it is the opposite ! ...not much natural beauty..... she is Photogenic and needs the makeup to make her look STUNNING as a Model.... But... she is Pretty , Cute and has a nice Body ....... ...... ...... ...... ....... ...... ...... to sum it all up --- > > > ... she has ***** CHARM , CHARISMA and TALENT ***** ......and .... I love her QUIRKY  &  AWKWARDLY ENDEARING ways !!! YEHfan Aug 14 2014 5:28 pm Here are 10 reasons Yoon Eun Hye has won our love in every drama she's ever done.1. She can rock a bad haircut…Many Korean dramas feature awkward female characters in serious need of a makeover, but no one goes all out quite like Yoon Eun Hye. This woman seems to have no boundaries when it comes to painful styling choices, and we love her for it. Remember the bowl cut from Coffee Prince?2. She’s stunningly beautiful…If you only knew Yoon Eun Hye from her acting, you might assume that she wasn’t much to look at. Take a look at her modeling, though, and suddenly you realize how much effort it must have taken to make her look frumpy. She has a natural beauty that shines through in her photo shoots. What I like the most about her is that she has had little or no plastic surgery, her teeth she leaves a bit crooked, her nose is her nose, maybe a little lip plumping, but she is captivating.3. But can also make us believe she is a boy…There are a LOT of cross-dressing dramas out there, and 99.99999% of the time, it’s absurd to believe that anyone would mistake these women for men. A bowl cut isn’t a replacement for an Adam’s apple, and it’s a testament to Yoon Eun Hye’s versatility as an actress that she was able to pull of Go Eun Chan so convincingly. I love Yoon Eun Hye. I've seen every one of her shows on dramafever and even some movies that aren't on the website. She is an amazing actress and so inspiring, one of the few actresses that I simply can't wait to show up on the screen. I'm excited to watch her new drama, I know she will do soo well. YEH FIGHTING!!!4. She is a good person in real life…Yoon Eun Hye has been consistent in her charity work. Sometimes it can be easy to assume that celebs only give as a publicity stunt, but Yoon Eun Hye has a pretty consistent track record that proves otherwise. She has been working with orphanages since her teenage years. Who doesn’t want to support talent like that? My favourite Yoon Eun Hye character is Yoon Eun Hye, as seen in Road of Hope. A truly beautiful person, who also happens to be a gifted actress (especially in romantic comedies) and a great fashion model. When I look at Yoon Eun Hye, I just feel really good...you could totally feel that she's a good person who you wanna root for. She treats everyone well, from her staff to the people who works behind the scenes and they have attested to her good nature.5.She knows how to kiss…THANK YOU, YOON EUN HYE. Many Kdrama leading ladies hold perfectly still and let the men do all of the work, but that has never been Yoon Eun Hye’s style. She understands that kissing is a passionate two-way street. One of the major reasons I love Yoon Eun Hye is for her kissing ability. She's one of the very few Korean actresses I've seen that could make a kiss look passionate.6.She creates chemistry with her male leads…This goes beyond just kissing. She builds strong chemistry through all of her interactions with male leads, whether it’s arguing or laughing or bantering. This consistent spark makes her eventual kissing scenes even more believable.7.Her classy style…Sometimes celebrity styling can go overboard, but Yoon Eun Hye is consistently edgy and sophisticated. I want to become her best friend and then raid her closet! Yoon Eun Hye has the "it" factor. She has that natural charm and confidence that translate well onscreen. There are so many other actresses who are far prettier, but YEH possesses that "it" factor that far outshines "pretty".8.Her crying face…Her crying face gives me a crying face. I just can’t resist those sobs! And it's true, I get teary whenever she cries on screen. She's that good. Also can't help but smile when she laughs and get tingly when she kisses fill-in-the-blank hot actor costar.9.She is a natural …Whether she is acting or modeling, there is a sense of ease about Yoon Eun Hye that is disarming. Haven't watched a Yoon Eun Hye drama I haven't liked!! She's an amazing actress!! I liked all her dramas very much - she's such a lovely and expressive actress.10.We want to befriend her characters…Yoon Eun Hye is known for her quirky, awkwardly endearing characters. We would love to hang out with these people in real life! Just the best. She can literally give justice to the role she portrays whatever is thrown on her. For me, she can go to a corner, act a role that can make the audience laugh, then move to another part of the stage and make the audience cry. She is that awesome! Love her to the end.Wow! Those are my reasons too! Those are just few from the thousands reason why I'm so excited to watch her! YES we love YEH!!! lisa Jul 27 2014 3:51 am i love yhe she is one of the most beautiful and gorgeous woman in the world she is simple and kind …. i always watched her movies and dramas any leading man are matches to her keep the good work yhe tc and GBUA Elisa Jul 22 2014 8:07 am YEH became my idol since goong day.I love her carisma and acting is her God given talent.i never get bored wif her dramas lyk some pple claim they do.To me,YEH is the most beautiful,respectful,talented  &  everloving actress in korea....its a #fact Milky Cayetuna Jul 21 2014 7:54 am Yes it's true ..Im not from koreaIm a filipina the first reason why Im watching koreanovelaIs because of my idol yoon eun hye..She is my role modelWhen I become a full grown woman I wantTo be like her.. Kristine Jul 19 2014 3:31 pm Me too, I will go to Korea someday hoping to meet Ms.Yoon Eun Hye. I hope you work with my another favorite Korean actor, Ji Chang Wook! Lovely to see both good-looking Koreans on-screen sometime. Madonna Ramos Jul 03 2014 9:26 am Reading the comments of all the fans,and watching yeh drama repeatedly to the extent of going to bed very late it worthy because I agree that yeh is a very rare gem.she has the. Face of an angel,you can sense that she has a pure heart,there is humility and generosity in. Her personality,as a behaviorist and took psychology I analyze her personality bases on her acting,photos,there is no comparison to other Korean actress,after watching some of her dramas she is a genuine and versatile actress,that is why I can't understand those people who gave bad comments,Korea should be thankful to Yeh achievements because of this there are a lot of people all over the world who want to visit the country because of her.a tually I'm looking forward to come to Korea just to meet here. Because we have. The same faith and same advocacy to help the needy.keep up the good work .God is always with you whatever your undertaking in your career hope to see you in Korean drama again with park Chun because your both A 1 actor and actress.sarangmeda.. madonna ramos Jul 01 2014 1:45 am YEH is really a gem,I watched a lot of Chinese and korean movies and dramas YEH acting is superb and versetile actress she can perform different kinds of roles which is very rare in an actress,I agree to her fans and now I considered myself as her fan.i was able to study her personality as a behaviorist YEh has an outer and exterior qualities that you of the storyline.dont blame to them.u was able to watch some of her dramas all the casts especially YEh was so great.keep up the good work and your charity work and zGod will bless you abundantly in all his provisions.I pray that the Lord will give somebody that will match your pure heart just pray for your critics that's part of showbisnessHope you will have another drama of ji Kwan and Mickey. fan.gyeh Jun 09 2014 11:06 am Yoon Eun Hye and Gong Yoo always be in heart to all fans GYEH including me. We love your couple a lot. Love.YEH May 30 2014 4:11 pm Hey,Your coment is right. YEH does not care about money. She can give her money to help these poor people. Also, she is very humidity and friendly to every one especially to these handicape and poor children. That why I am love her a lot and I am ready to wait for her new movie. HEY May 29 2014 9:13 pm I'm so happy that YEH will be in the movie Chronicles of a Blood Merchant. Although she is not the main female lead, I think her role as Ha Jung Woo's character's first love seems interesting. This will be a good experience/opportunity for her to work with good movie veterans and learn more about her craft. They also say that YEH is doing the movie for free as a friend to actor/director Ha Jung Woo, YEH really is a kind and generous friend. I also like that in the group picture of the entire cast/crew for the movie, YEH sat at the corner instead of beside Ha Jung Woo and Ha Ji Won. Although YEH is also an A-lister like the 2 HJW's, YEH knows her place and so gives the center stage to the main leads of the movie. Such is her humility. Gracie May 25 2014 8:21 am ANY KOREAN DRAMA WITHOUT Yoon Eun Hye SEEMS LIKE NOT WORTH WATCHING. I loved all her dramas from Goong (Princess Hours), Vineyard Man, Coffee Prince, Take Care of the Lady(My Fair Lady), Lie to Me, Missing You and Marry Him If You Dare. She captivated, entertained and inspired me watching her dramas. I will patiently wait for her next drama and will support her 100% no matter what ratings and critics says. Because Yoon Eun Hye won my heart. She is the only Korean actress I really like, love and will always follow. A true Korean icon and role model to women from all ages and walks of life. You truly are an inspiration to us all. We miss you YEH and we love you! liza sarang kang ji hwan May 22 2014 8:17 pm i love you kang ji hwan saraaaaang kang ji hwan kiss :* love you somath my babytayangan ulang donk lie to me drama korea lbs tv k-drama kong ah jung May 22 2014 8:01 pm yoon eun hye its beutiful saranghe kang ji hwan yehfan May 14 2014 4:50 pm Reading all the translated articles from her interview brought me to a whole new level of understanding and appreciation for Yoon Eun Hye. Just when I thought I couldn’t love this young lady any more than I already do, she just gave me more reasons to love her even more. Her inner self glows with that imperishable quality of a gentle and quiet spirit, a caring heart that seeks the good of others above her own. She is a big star but her greatness is built deep on a foundation of humility and meekness that is evident not only in her words but more so in her actions. She is so selfless, making no effort to glorify herself with her own words but generously gives praise to others. Many women seek to enhance their beauty by every means possible, but YEH possesses the kind of beauty that lasts because it emanates from the affections of a beautiful soul within. I pray to God that Yoon Eun Hye would find a man who would truly treasure her for the very rare gem that she is. bella May 13 2014 8:30 pm Yoon Eun Hye has beautiful face and heart. Believe me, I will always be your fan until death, Jng May 12 2014 7:44 am If I were Yoon Eun Hye, I will very thankful for all comments of YEHfan. I always said it in my life " Listenning and improving are two improtant key in life". Also, I do not care about what other people judge me because that is their opinions. The most important, I will do how to improve my life better and help poor people and children around the world. I know you are very smart Yoon Eun Hye, so you will understand what I am said " Just thankful for comments even it bad or good. Listen and improve is a key for successful life. yehfan May 11 2014 12:43 pm To YEH,Your positive character and determination amidst life's difficulties will always be an inspiration to those who do not have the same courage you possess. During these trying times, showing us your feelings - whether good or bad, makes your personality shine even more brightly and that's what true fans love about you. Don't worry so much about those who put you down or even those who disregard your achievements. You're our one and only YEH! And no one will ever make us change our admiration and respect towards you! neri May 10 2014 4:36 pm YEH walks in beauty but not everyone sees it nor appreciates it. As one of the most-watched Asian celebrities of her generation, YEH finds herself thrown into the arena of public scrutiny every time she makes an appearance. But while critics have been generally kind, not everyone sees her with the same set of approving eyes. All too often people judge celebrities based on their appearance - how nicely they are dressed, if the hairstyle goes with the dress, what or who they are wearing and if they look good in pictures. Even us, ordinary mortals fall into the trap of measuring ourselves against those standards. But isn’t this all just external? Beyond the flawless makeup, expensive clothes, hairstyle, fancy nails, designer shoes, jewelry and accessories, there is a kind of beauty that cannot be bought by money, manufactured or re-engineered by science. Contrary to popular notion, looking good actually begins from the inside, not from the outside. Outward beauty may appeal to the eyes for a time, but it’s what’s inside that attracts and connects to people’s emotional, intellectual, physical and spiritual levels. In my life I have seen quite a few women who have that kind of imperishable beauty; among celebrities YEH is definitely in my books and it’s easy to see why. YEH’s beauty glows from within and unless people take time to look beyond skin deep, they will miss the true vision of a beauty that’s unfading, the kind of beauty that the latest technology, fashion, cosmetics, precious stones or medical surgery can't produce. YEH’s inner beauty emanates from an attitude of humility, kindness and quietness of spirit. It flows from a heart that understands and gratefully accepts who God made her to be and stays true to her calling. Because of these inner qualities, no matter which way critics’ thumbs may go, in my eyes YEH will always be one who “walks in [true] beauty.” yehfan May 10 2014 3:37 pm Some fan comments on YEH... YEH walks in beauty but not everyone sees it nor appreciates it. As one of the most-watched Asian celebrities of her generation, YEH finds herself thrown into the arena of public scrutiny every time she makes an appearance. But while critics have been generally kind, not everyone sees her with the same set of approving eyes. All too often people judge celebrities based on their appearance - how nicely they are dressed, if the hairstyle goes with the dress, what or who they are wearing and if they look good in pictures. Even us, ordinary mortals fall into the trap of measuring ourselves against those standards. But isn’t this all just external? Beyond the flawless makeup, expensive clothes, hairstyle, fancy nails, designer shoes, jewelry and accessories, there is a kind of beauty that cannot be bought by money, manufactured or re-engineered by science. Contrary to popular notion, looking good actually begins from the inside, not from the outside. Outward beauty may appeal to the eyes for a time, but it’s what’s inside that attracts and connects to people’s emotional, intellectual, physical and spiritual levels. In my life I have seen quite a few women who have that kind of imperishable beauty; among celebrities YEH is definitely in my books and it’s easy to see why. YEH’s beauty glows from within and unless people take time to look beyond skin deep, they will miss the true vision of a beauty that’s unfading, the kind of beauty that the latest technology, fashion, cosmetics, precious stones or medical surgery can't produce. YEH’s inner beauty emanates from an attitude of humility, kindness and quietness of spirit. It flows from a heart that understands and gratefully accepts who God made her to be and stays true to her calling. Because of these inner qualities, no matter which way critics’ thumbs may go, in my eyes YEH will always be one who “walks in [true] beauty.” gracie May 10 2014 10:25 am Someone wrote this somewhere that truly depicts who Yoon Eun HYE really is to all her fans who respect and admire her from all over the world after watching her dramas/movies on TV and online. I just want to share it here.... Each and every YEH’s drama has been very significant, be it commercially successful or not, because in her every drama, she was able to show to people her personal traits which are truly commendable and worth emulating. 1. Goong – HER STRONG WILLED and DETERMINATION – though her capabilities as an actress has been questioned even before the drama start airing, wherein petition for her to be removed as the main character has been made, it never stop her in taking the role for she believes that turning down the role will only prove her detractors wrong. Since she never gave up and determined to succeed, everything now is history. Chae-kyeong is undeniably has become one of the most loveable and known character in the k-drama history. 2. Vineyard Man – HER HARDWORK and PROFESSIONALISM – I have been reading over and over again how the PD of this drama has praised her during the filming. Even in scorching heat under the sun, she never heard her complain, which I think is so rare for an actress like her. Even her senior co-stars predicted that she will go a long way in the industry because of her work ethics and warm personality, and their prediction turns out to be right. 3. Coffee Prince – HER PASSION – for me, her believable portrayal of Go Eun Chan cemented her status as an A-list actress, wherein praises for her acting is beyond words. She has since begun became the point of reference for every cross-dressing character. Too bad, YEH has set the bar too high, wherein I have never seen any actress who had acted as a cross-dresser any way closer to YEH as Go Eun Chan. 4. My Fair Lady – HER HUMILITY – criticism about her pronunciations/enunciations has become the hot topic during the airing of this drama, and she, too, acknowledge it. The mere fact that an A-list actress like her is so vocal about her limitations and shortcomings, made me adore her more, for she just proves that, no matter how great she is as perceived by other, she can never be perfect for having those limitations and shortcomings, because she is just a human like us after all. 5. Lie to Me – HER LOYALTY – her detractors may say that flop may be the first word that they may remember whenever Lie to Me will be heard, but for me LOYALTY will comes first in my mind whenever I will be reminded of this drama. YEH’s track record may have been tarnished because of this drama, but the fact remain that YEH has decided to take the lead on this drama after TWO YEARS of waiting because of the promise that she had made with the production’s CEO who may face great financial loss due to an unforeseen incident related to now been shelves Love Song drama, which is a rare gem in the entertainment industry, although honestly, I don’t want this to repeat again in the future. 6. Missing You – HER FLEXIBILITY AS AN ACTRESS and GENEROSITY – her portrayal of Lee Seo Yeon in a dark melodrama genre has silenced her detractors who believes that she can only pull-off rom-com dramas, she may not been able to have an acting award for this , however, no acting controversies has been cast against her, it is because she really aced it. Generosity would be an understatement to coin the term when she, together with her male co-lead in the drama gave an all-expense overseas trip to all the drama’s production staff and crew. I think they are the first and only actress and actor who done it so far. Lastly, in her world when everything is just make-believe, she continually proves that “humane” entertainer like still do exist, who will always be an exemption to the k-world rules. Grace May 10 2014 10:15 am I think YEH is my favorite actress is because when I see her on screen for anything where it be cf, drama, game shows, etc my eyes follow. I think this girl has something that makes me want to know her, there's no barrier between her and the audience. Melyn May 10 2014 8:35 am YEH congrats to your new Cafe but please come back to the small screen we missed you...grace us with a new drama soon.. rivanaraja May 10 2014 7:57 am Yoon Eun Hye is always the best and creativeThere is a large company such as other women supportedYoon Eun Hye trust in themselves and love of his fans Annie May 05 2014 4:25 am Always so good on screen and unafraid to give her role everything. J'adore. Annie May 05 2014 1:27 am An actress with so much natural charm and unafraid to do any role. Love her in all her roles. marie star May 01 2014 3:42 am You are the most beautiful Korean actress for me Ms. Eun Hye :)Saranghe starrr May 01 2014 3:37 am hehehe You are the most beautiful Korean actress for me :) suhaila Apr 26 2014 5:35 am sarangae yoon eune hye, i wish u good luck i lov your drama special i miss u, kupushkui am from tanzania zanzibar Jen Ng Apr 21 2014 8:30 am I am sorry Yoon Eun Hye to write this comment because I just want to share all my emotions to all victims for Korean ferry sink bad new. All of fans Yoon Eun Hye around the world, please pray for these victims and their families will become happy soon. Pray for god help. mervebozcan Apr 03 2014 3:47 pm YEH is my favorite actress,she is very talented and beautiful.Her last drama is very disappointed but this is not her fault just story was bad.i will wait for her future drama and i will always be NERİ ^^ Jess Tanaka Apr 01 2014 9:40 pm really miss GYEH..more drama @ movie of GYEH please.. nizza Mar 29 2014 11:21 pm I like yoon eun hye and ju ji hoon .. Miss them both so much .. I wish they're together again in new drama next Sheng Mar 28 2014 10:56 pm more drama with goong yoo please..i love both of them... LoveKdramas Mar 27 2014 9:38 am Yoon Eun Hye acts very well, she should get more awards! I love her in ''I Miss You''!! She Acts REALLYYYY well. She should deserve more!!!!! She is just beautiful!!!!  < 3  < 3EVERYBODY SHOULD WATCH  ' ' I MISS YOU ' !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! chai Mar 25 2014 8:55 am Among her leading actors, i should say that Ju ji-hoon is the best for her. they must be together again. Jen Ng Mar 23 2014 2:12 pm I love Yoon Eun Hye so much because she acts so nature,beautiful actress, and kindness heart. I wish she gets good rate all her dramas, but I am a little disappoint for low rate for her last drama Marry Him if You Dare. For my own opinion, the drama is not make sense to me and result of drama doesn't know who is the man that she chooses for . Lilbit Mar 20 2014 3:37 pm She persuaded me to love comedy. I'm not the comedy type, but she's the best. I'm also surprised at the low rating. Amazing actress; that why I like to judge for myself. Usbaldo Mortonson V Mar 08 2014 10:13 pm Wow...I seriously expected Yoon Eun Hye's rating to be close to 100%! I'm completely floored to see this low of a number. Beyond shocked to the point of losing my faith in humanity. You sorry, sods, you. This is a complete outrage. I'm beyond words. A complete outrage! Upon my word... sanaoon Mar 04 2014 8:39 pm I want to see her in another drama with Gong Yoo;) redddish Feb 28 2014 3:18 am i really like her! she's so beautiful..,i hope she has new drama and ill promise to watch it. i love you!! JESSA Feb 20 2014 6:13 am Im her fan. I LOVE YOU YOON EUN-HYE . i`ll watch your all movie i want to see you in personal. I know there are still millions of JU JI HOON and EUN-HYE fans out there hopefully waiting for another drama having them as the lead actor and actress. i`ll watch your movie princess hour its so amazing and im your no. 1 FAN. I LOVE YOU..... SARANGHAE.... aya Feb 19 2014 2:56 am I'm her fan. and among the actors she was paired up, i can say that she must pair with Ju ji-hun again. Their pairing is really fantastic because they have a great chemistry. I know there are still millions of Ju Ji-hun  &  Eun-hye fans out there hopefully waiting for another drama having them as the lead actor and actress. I hope this message/wish will be granted  < 3 Jessenette Delgado Feb 17 2014 4:22 pm I really love Yoon Eun Hye..... after watching coffee prince i made efforts to find her biography and everything about her made me like and love her so much.... i in the near future if God will permit and finacially able, i will go to korea to see and meet my idol Yoon Eun Hye............ I will be your fan forever....... SARANGHAE.......... Cristina Feb 09 2014 4:10 pm i love this korean girl...im your no.1 fan forever mbPhilippines Feb 07 2014 12:11 pm Hi Eun Hye! the very first drama that i have seen from you was the Princess Hour, since then I've following your latest update,photo shoots/fan page/shows abroad etc. your such a great actress and a good person in and out, keep up the good work, i love your acting in Missing you, just disappointed of your latest drama Marry Him...good casting but not the story...boring, i thought after missing you you will be discreet in selecting your role please never do it again, don't waste your talent with such kind of story also choose a lead actor that has a good chemistry with you, like Jun Ji hoon, Goong Yo, Park Yoo Chun or may be try to be pair with Lee Min Hoo, Song SeunHun, Kim SooHyun, Yoo Ah In or Bi-Rain surely you will have a good chemistry with Rain co'z you're also a dancer and singer...hoping this message will reach you.. God Bless! saranghae... zojan Feb 06 2014 11:31 am Yoon eun hye is my # one in the list best korean actresses, very versatile and natural,I watched all her dramas and movie and I really like and love them, and watched..again..and..again and again..A little bit disappointed in marry him. rose shell garcia Feb 04 2014 9:54 pm I'm hoping that there will be coffee prince part 2 with your leading man gong yoo T4x1 Jan 31 2014 4:20 am Eun hye,... Pls come to Jakarta, Indomesiaaaaaas! Saranghae engineer Jan 12 2014 6:22 am I really hope you could continue the supposed to be Goon 2 :) #Hoping Denise Jan 12 2014 3:54 am please have a sequel of princess hour together with ju ji hoon i really love your chemistry with him FanFromPhillipines Jan 10 2014 9:17 am Hi Yoon Eun Hye/Gong Ah Jong/Princess HoursI want to see you. But I think i cant see you anymore because my eyes is getting blurred.Please come and visit me in Philippines before i die this is my last wish.Thank you.. hershean tuscano Jan 09 2014 3:34 am Hi NoonaI like you very much because of your beautiful face, and very good acting,one day i want to meet you... i love all of your korean novellas  &  dramas... jane Jan 04 2014 5:23 pm she is great and beautiful give her more projects with beautiful story and very handsome leading men for korea to produce super blockbuster series like song seung hoon and ok taecyon make a dream project for her she is worth it plus make her do a very good hairstyle honestly the last one marry me if you dare her hairstyle there was a disaster, it did not do her beauty any justice or better yet ask them to make a korean version of fated to love you like i suggested use song seung hoon and ok taecyon as her leading men i am sure it will be a blockbuster worth the budget maira Jan 01 2014 7:22 am I love you so much my prettiest unni ^.^ Aza Riana Dec 25 2013 8:17 am Hi Unni I'm Azza from Indonesia and I part of your big fans. you so pretty and beautiful. I love you Unni, please follback my twitter @azzaDWI hope you follback my twitter :) Eina Dec 24 2013 6:28 pm Hi Unni eun hye..you are so pretty... When i watched some of your dramas you are a good actor even in Princess Hours.. You with joo ji hoon... I am 10 years old, a no. 1 fan of you,joo ji hoon,and kim so hyun in philippines jolo, sulu.. I love you unni! Pete Bestinghouse Dec 14 2013 11:45 pm You sods are sure hard to please! Yoon Eun Hye is the best actress of her generation and has yet to turn in anything less than a first rate performance. Whether you like her characters, or the stories that she's in, is a completely different matter. This is a top tier actress, and if you don't think that she is you are not very perceptive. University life is not for you and never, ever will be. Fortunately, there is still many a floor in need of sweeping... Lacy Quest Dec 12 2013 7:44 pm Miss You was good... The rest... I don't know Triana Dec 09 2013 7:40 pm she has a good ability and has got much awards but here's only a few that displayed.. i love her so much... Sowl Dec 08 2013 7:59 am i like you in Princess Hours... Princess Hours only. :( alex Dec 06 2013 1:00 am Liked her better in Goon and Lie to me. Coffee prince is crap for me. But i can watch her drama and enjoy her cute charisma. She is most charismatic actress in korea. Beautiful ? nope. jeloinabasnillo Nov 20 2013 6:09 am hi yoon eun hye since i watching princess hours i never stoped watching all of her movie and drama shes the only korean actress that i really reallly like ..................... your so beautiful ...............mwah mwah Ticy Nov 16 2013 10:26 am I first saw Yoon Eun Hye in Goong, since then I never stopped watching all of her movies  &  drama. She's the only korean actress that I really really like, her kind and bubbly personality is perfect and her latest lingerie photo shoots made me admire and idolize her more. She doesn't even look 29, she's probably the prettiest korean actress I've seen so far. Sarah Nov 16 2013 9:45 am Yoon Eun Hye ... I'm a big fan of you  &  KJH (LTM) ... Hope to see guys together in the next drama series/movie project. jenny Nov 12 2013 11:57 am really love #pricesshours... thanks thrz a replay sahel Nov 03 2013 12:55 pm i love you very much! you're the best korean actress :-) Fitri Oct 25 2013 11:03 pm You're the best Korean actress... Park Mai ssi Oct 25 2013 3:57 pm Hello! I'm an ultimate Yoochun oppa fan! And I really love chunhye couple! You guys make such a beautiful pair. l love that fate makes its way for both of you to meet again after xman!!! ❤️ I been really distracted these days stalking you eonni and yoochun oppa, finding clues and all in forums. Is oppa's song he composed himself "walking with her in the rain" dedicated to you? I am really moved by it. I will be extremely happy when you guys make a public declaration that you are dating/in a relationship!!!!! Han Jung Woo and Lee Soo Yeon hwaiting!!! ❤️ lisa Oct 23 2013 12:13 am Yoon Eun-Hye you are most the beautiful  &  talent actor in Korea. So nice to see you and Lee dong gun together in this drama. Always keep your smile  &  take care. Love you both! Nancy Oct 19 2013 10:13 pm She is an amazing actress, she can do the so many different roles, she is so pretty and real in her acting, she is one of my fav actress on my top 3, she needs more movies too.All here dramas are guarantee of good stories, she's is 2 years younger of me but I call her unnie really wonderful actress, unnie fighting! Love from Mexico Elizabeth Oct 18 2013 5:31 am she is the best actress in korea. keep up the good work girl. l would love to see you acting with hyun bin as lovers. believe me the two of you makes a hot combination Leonor "En-En" Modina Oct 18 2013 4:58 am You're not just pretty but a good actress as well. You act naturally that catches the heart of the viewers. And I just wanna say that I'm a big fan of yours and I do believe that we will meet someday.Keep up the good work and God Bless!!!!! angela Oct 18 2013 12:44 am I really like Yoon Eun Hye's acting skills that make you feel that it is not a drama/movie that you are watching but a live footage of real life if that even makes sense lol. I would really love if HYUN BIN  &  YOON EUN HYE do a drama together i.e. they end up with each other and ALSO IN REAL LIFE. Please marry each other lol ;P vania Oct 09 2013 10:01 am yoon eun hye my favorite actress the best ..... and the new drama is spectacular Marry Him If You Dare ...♥ lynel tumanda Sep 23 2013 6:01 pm im a big fans of yours.. im happy for you vania Sep 19 2013 4:42 pm yoon eun hye you are the best of the world saranghae... unni .. i am happy or new drma marry him if you dare with lee dong gun and jung yong hwa.. fighting..♥ sogand Sep 18 2013 9:07 am ILOVE YOU YOU ARE SO CUTE YOU ARE ABSOLUTLY FAMOUS HER IN IRAN WE LIKE YOU GOOD LUCK gladys Sep 16 2013 6:00 am i love you yoon eun hye and happy birth day in oct,03i love you so much i love your allKOREAN DRAMA AND ALSO YOUR NEW DRAMA  < 3 < 3:) roseannBacani Sep 12 2013 6:46 am annyeonghaseyo...I like you the way you act...you are absolutely famous here in the philippines...muah, muah..Fighting vhatyma Sep 02 2013 11:39 am anyongaseo............ hi............yoon eun hye beautifuland good acktrisis the best......................coffie prince, my fair lady, princes hours, and lie to me,,,,,,,,,,,i like it................ GOOD JOB YEH............ thanya Aug 30 2013 10:25 pm i hope someday you and lee min ho will have a drama together :) ali Aug 29 2013 8:25 am i love your film. i miss you. the legend of seven cutter.pricess hours.coffee prince.lie to me daniella Aug 21 2013 6:22 am Ever since I've watched you, i can help my myself but to admire you, you are so beautiful, a very good actress, im starting to watch all your dramas and movies , and i just cant still get enough of you...Haisst, i wish i could see you in person, Take care Ms. Yoon Eun Hye, kaycee Aug 19 2013 10:58 pm Hi miss yoon eun hye i love you so much..I wish someday that you will visit the Philippines because you're my first Korean idol,i watch all you're dramas and movie and you're so beautiful and good actress in Korea.. anj_86 Aug 12 2013 12:43 pm Lee dong gun and YEH will be partnered in a drama. If this will be real, I am gonna watch. I am so big fan this two actors. lyn Aug 12 2013 5:41 am yun eun hye you are the best fateme Aug 11 2013 3:37 pm i love her BIG BIG heart ! she is nice to everyone ^_^ roza Aug 10 2013 1:39 am I am interested in yoon eun hye. she is something different between other korean actresses.she has a lovely aound. Cookie Aug 06 2013 12:38 pm I started watching Korean Drama 2 years ago. My two daughters suggested that I watch an episode with them. Well, the rest is history. Now I watch it every day/night. One day, I searched for top Korean Dramas and Coffee Prince was one of them. Ever since I watched Coffee Prince, I became a huge fan of Yoon Eun Hye. I watched all of her Dramas and movies. I can't wait to see her next project. I categorize Eun Hye with Meryl Streep. They both transform themselves to the character they are acting as. That is what are unique about them. I love Eun Hye. I will forever be her fan. princess Jul 13 2013 10:45 am I was impressed by your acting skills on coffee prince. I also watched lie to me, you were really good there too.You are really good at acting. princess Jul 12 2013 1:12 pm I was impressed by your acting skills on coffee prince. You are really good at acting. denise Jul 11 2013 11:31 am Hi Ms Eun Hye, I enjoy watching all your dramas especially Coffee Prince, My Fair Lady, Lie To Me and I MISS YOU. You are a very talented and indeed fantastic actress. I like you best in I Miss You. You and Park Yoo Chun acted very fine together and look good as a couple. Both of you are my favourite. Looking forward to seeing you and Park Yoo Chun in yet a movie. Many Jul 11 2013 5:24 am Hi Yoon eun hye unnie! I love ur role in I Miss You with park yoochun so much! Hope to see u in more dramas and movies with park yoochun oppa again!!! Ma. christine olino Jun 30 2013 5:08 pm yoon eun hye you are my idol, your movie ( missing you ) is very beautiful, thank you for that movie. Tom C Jun 28 2013 2:36 pm lol...talk about crazy...i hope my son finishes up his directing studies soon so we pursue Ms. yoon eun hye to do a movie for us. I know she will be so good at a comedy drama action and my son has some ideas to make her into a bigger star than she is now..Always a big fan... dash Jun 26 2013 7:11 am yoon eun hye you really did amazing in your dramas.i want to see you and ju ji hun again.i hope my wish come true ronia mae Jun 21 2013 9:40 pm i love yoon eun hye! you are my idol so much i love how way your fashion and you act w/ park yoo chun... WIlliam Jun 13 2013 11:07 am Unnie,you're will pass 30 in next year,so why don't you find a boyfriend ?wish i know you :) Nikita Jun 02 2013 4:36 am Very like your act in all of your movie unnie .. And you're so beautifull .. :) alphy May 29 2013 3:23 am Miss Yoon Eun-Hye you are my favourite KOrean actress. I love watching your drame My Fair Lady. I have seen it many times.. and now I am watching Coffee Prince. You are great. From your fan from Aus. jara acoon Apr 26 2013 2:33 am youre my preetiest idol among them all:))iwish icould meet you \\\ CherryCarrots Apr 25 2013 2:37 pm i get her confuse with Park Shin Hye! They look like sister until i found out they are not the same person!! julii anita Apr 24 2013 5:41 am unni you're my idol joeciel Apr 17 2013 5:02 am i am your fan girl unnie! ! i really love princess and hours,lie to me and i miss you ! i can say that you are so talented and very good actress ,and everytime i watch your drmas, i nver got disappointed,'coz you are great , ^^ you have a charisma whenever u act and i am always fond of your love teams . . . sooo romantic! keep up the good job unnie ,i will be your fan grl forever! hwaiting . . ! debbie Apr 05 2013 4:02 am i love u yoon eun hye i lke you heheheheheh and take care always Kim Jong Kook Apr 04 2013 1:35 am When will you marry me? Anne Apr 02 2013 11:31 pm Hello Yeh i really like your personality and i really love to watch Lie to Me 20 times ..My family love you and Kang ji hwan ur the best couple...Hope someday u wil be in real life and get married..fighting humplin Apr 02 2013 6:27 am i'll forever be your fan girl....keep it up!!!!!!well, i've watched all your dramas and as a fellow girl i just wanna say that"no matter what,you are the best"..love you much and always praying for you and wishing luck in everything.... debbie Mar 26 2013 1:49 am i lke yoon eun hye u r funny girl heheheh debbie Mar 23 2013 5:01 am yoon eun hye i love so much and take care always hehee i love ur all movie especially in lie to me and miss you hehehe god blesss u  < 3 muahhhhhhhh Nikko Paolo Mar 17 2013 10:26 am I MISS YOU Soo Yeon. You are now my ideal woman. I wish to see you in person. Keep it up. Mwah. hnin lei Mar 03 2013 9:29 am Yoon eun hye unnie,i love u so much,i love all your drama,i love your smile and acting so much,you are a good actress,i am your fan forever,i want to cry when u cry in missing you drama,your latest drama missing you is so good,i love that drama fateme Feb 25 2013 8:54 am hope to see you with hyun bin dating in real life ! :D hannah Feb 23 2013 12:22 am We look forward that someday lee joon gi and yoon eun hye will have a project together... and we hope that our request will come true.. maria Feb 14 2013 8:47 am Yoon Eun Hye...you're the best, you act perfect like a guy in "Coffee Prince", i love you more and more after watching your korean dramas one by one, i've watched all your dramas except "I Miss You", i've heard from my friends that it was also a great one..i'll gonna watch it ASAP!!! Setsuna Jan 23 2013 2:42 am Love her sooo much in Missing you! Great actor and natural pretty! So pretty that I even started to copy her style. I tried to buy the same shock pink lipstick that she was using in the drama I miss you, but it was totally sold out of the market because of her... @_@ Grace arias Jan 22 2013 5:36 am I'm a mother but I love this girl one of my best dress actress and good actress(/^o^)/♡ jayde Jan 20 2013 7:25 pm your a great actress.. i cry seeing you cry all the time.. maimai Jan 17 2013 1:42 pm yoon eun hye is a very good person that's why she is so blessed!!! wishing her all the best!!! hope she finds her true love soon,someone as kind as her and all... angel eunhye Jan 17 2013 12:33 pm YOON eun hye and yoochun gave five days trip overseas to all of cast and crew of i miss you :;D mogh Jan 16 2013 7:14 pm yoon eun hye once bought shoes (puma shoes) for entire my fair lady crew !she did the same ( with jeans ) for lie to me cast and crew ! how generOUs she is :D kat Jan 16 2013 10:38 am yoon eun hye, i will always love you :) ! u r good at everything acting , singing, panting, dancing and u r not only a pretty girl but u r a girl with a BIG HEART !i will always ADMIRE u ! ::***************** Bonnie Lynn Katzell Muench Jan 12 2013 1:15 pm Phenomenal actress, seen you in Personal taste, Coffee prince and now watching I miss you... Awesome acting Keep up the good work and God Bless.. cutie Dec 30 2012 1:33 am Is she the one from the playful kiss with hyun? astrid Dec 25 2012 7:08 am OH MY GOOODD !!! you are the only one my Idol in Korea. I love you, in other way (u know what I mean) seriously, i love you in every single movies you've played. santino Nov 29 2012 2:18 am YEH is so sexy in her drama I Miss You ...so seductive and sensual...love it.. miss Nov 22 2012 8:09 pm wow BATH SCENCE in I MISS YOU ep 6 made me cry !your such a great actress ! im proud of me becaz im a fan of great actress like you miss eun hye :* Luh Nov 15 2012 12:02 pm She always acts with handsome guys. Even in CF (with TOP).. How lucky she is!! fateme Oct 11 2012 8:12 am we are gonna see another great drama ((i miss you)) ! i can feel that ! givey Oct 07 2012 7:39 am only matched pairs with joo ji hoon melanie Oct 07 2012 4:30 am hi Yoon Eun hye i just finish watching lie to me..wow!!its very awesome!!i love you!! you're so beautiful!! santino Oct 03 2012 10:01 pm hoping that your next screen partner will be either kim hyun joong or joon il woo..i want to see her again with goong yoo and joon ji hoon... ain_reina Sep 10 2012 10:54 pm everything they said represent my thoughts..hehe..love Yoon Eun Hye {^^}v christine Sep 08 2012 7:19 am I love lie to me. .i think it should have part two..because it so beautiful and fantastic.. Patience Sep 06 2012 8:20 am She is very beautiful and lovely.funny.i luv her most on coffee prince. LILY Sep 05 2012 9:28 pm i'm looking forward for a new drama of YOU AND GOONG YOO. You two create a great chemistry a perfect match... god bless you both...im pretty sure it will be again a blockbuster around the world... just like the coffee prince superb... you give your heart in the drama ... two thumbs up... you two act naturally as if its true...I LOVE IT...AWESOME... As goong yoo a leading man to you can easily touch the heart of the viewer that they will watch over and over again... i'm a GOONG YOO EUN HYE fan already i've watch many korean drama already but your team up its very different to far different from the other leading lady of goong yoo same way with your leading man. there is something in the name "GOONG YOO EUN HYE... LOVE TEAM" love you Sep 01 2012 11:08 am YOON EUN HYE !! play in more dramas !! plzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz im crazy about you and always check net to see that u want to go to asther drama ! i love you !take care :*********** ANJIE Aug 31 2012 8:29 am Yoon Eun-Hye and Lee min-ho in a romantic comedy kdrama pls.....please............................... fateme Aug 28 2012 10:16 am most beautiful girl in korea !!! i think u r better than all of the other actresses like ha ji won or shin min A and park shin hye or song hye kyo or kim tae hee ( i like them but i love you more ) waiting for new drama of you ! princess of asia  < 3 < 3 < 3 < 3 fan Aug 19 2012 2:18 pm Yoon Eun-Hye. An not asian, am an african and girl you rock! seriously, how do u manage to act such different characters so beautifully? OMG!! i couldn't believe it when i realised that u were d same girl in 'you're beautiful' and 'coffee prince'. That's some raw talent right there! Amazing stuff dear. Keep up d good work. Am now a fan of all ur koren dramas. Never been dissapointed. All ur dramas rock! wwwwwwwwoooooooow Joven lee A. Dancil Aug 15 2012 4:02 am Hai Eun Hye I like your face it so cute. Your good in acting like a child i like it. Then the way you act it so cool. And I admire you. Take care always. God Bless you. Archen Flores Aug 15 2012 2:24 am Yoon Eun-Hye is not only Pretty but a very Good actreesI love her so much  < 3  < 3  < 3 kimgabby Aug 14 2012 7:59 pm yoon eun hye i like you very much. me and my husband love to watch lie to me. i hope there will be part 2 of that tv series. you're so beautiful. hope your romance with kang ji hwan will continue in real life. I love you. Alex Aug 06 2012 7:48 am love u the most forever! no actress like u in my mind. hope u and kang ji hwan oppa will play together again, or make part 2 Lie to me cos just want to see both of u marry each other in that drama and in reality!!! Carla Manila Jul 30 2012 1:52 am Eun-hye u are so adorable..especially in LIE TO ME! you and Oppa kang ji-hwan looks so good together.. i hope you make another series or movie together! :) MARILYNTING Jul 29 2012 7:01 am take unni you really good actress and singer too , i like all your tv drama hope you do with gong yoo again in future. good luck unni!!! anne Jul 29 2012 3:54 am hai ms.yoon eun-hye ur so beautiful..im frm the philippine me and my sister we really admired u,because we lyk u d way u act..were very enjoyd watching lie 2 me.cauze the show is very great.keep up d good work ms.yoon eun-hye! godbless=)) blacktastic Jul 27 2012 6:21 am Hy yoon eun hye unnie,I admire u since u play role as kang hye na in take care of the young lady drama..u're very awesome and I really like chemistry between u and yoon sang hyun oppa,both of u very compatible I think joy Jul 27 2012 1:53 am I really like you. your such a best actress my dear. TC analyn_templonuevo Jul 22 2012 1:06 am i really like ms Yoon Eun- Hye ..i wish she would paired up with lee min ho or lee dong wok.. ili Jul 21 2012 8:11 pm yeh im ur fan till my last day !!!!! u r really lovable lady !!!! TEna Jul 21 2012 8:10 pm i saw lots of movies on youtube . most famous people when see fans they start running like that fans are killers! but i saw yoon eun hye onni talking with them and smiles at them wave her hands for them U R such a classy and humble woman ! erl5 Jul 21 2012 7:08 am i really appreciate the korean drama series.. lie to me... i hope they will do the part 2 of the series... marie Jul 14 2012 6:28 am YOON EUN HYE... your the the best!!!! part2 of lie to me plzzzzzzzzzzz...... Sean Herbert Siy Jul 11 2012 1:34 am Yoon Eun Hye is impressive young actress of Korea. She is best in acting especially in "Lie to me" movie TV episodes. cutiemae88 Jul 09 2012 12:26 pm never heard of an actress as generous as she is. you are really beautiful inside and out YEH. keep it up! we wish you more projects! John Mark Kennedy Jul 04 2012 11:42 am Yoon Eun Hye Your SO BEAUTIFUL .. i love you :* Lie ann Jun 22 2012 10:19 am I love yoon eun-hye so much. I've watch a lot of her drama: princess hour,my fair lady,coffee prince and now currently watching Lie to me.,hoping to find the little black dress..i wish her the best and good health.,hoping to be paired with Lee min-ho..please!.please!.please!..hayy,..just keep it up,.FIGHTING! jasminne Jun 16 2012 4:03 am have to listen to my sister,you're so pretty,i never missyour latest news sisteri beg you deep inside,so my sister to see the wordsi Jasminne of Indonesia,wil always waiting to hear the latest news sistersister is my inspirationplease read sister,thank youGAMSA HABNIDA EONNIE izie Jun 02 2012 3:36 pm im so agree with bigfan((i love yoon eun hye and sth is weird about her is that she always make good match with any men who yoon was played in drama with or she had taken some photoshot with !!!!!!! ilke kim hyung joon. yoon sang hyun - joo ji hoon - kim jeong joon- gong yoo - kang ji hwan - lee min ho in personal taste and hyun bin ...i was forgot ......................... t.o.p !!!! they made really hot match .... i love to see her new dramas with hyun bin and kim hyun joong !!! they look amazing together !!!)) Roya May 22 2012 2:17 pm Hi. I'm realy Love u And also your playing. I come from lran. I watch perince coffee Shop. That is wonderfullll. Your'e so beautiful. :) CaRLo May 11 2012 5:02 am Your My fair Lady~!!!!! ali May 07 2012 9:01 pm YEH i like u so much, Dee88 Apr 30 2012 1:03 am Love this girl, can't wait to see you in drama again . God bless and more power . fighting anggia dita Apr 28 2012 7:07 am Hai unni,I'm your fans from indonesia,I'm like your film lie to me,so sweet,last time coming at indonesia.ok unni. Kaos Bola Online Apr 18 2012 4:35 am realy..realy beautifull..You always look young Karen Apr 08 2012 4:49 pm Almost done with "lie to me". Love it! Her chemistry with Kang Ji-Hwan is really good. She's very pretty. IMO she looks like a Korean version of Miley Cyrus. bigfan Mar 26 2012 2:32 pm i love yoon eun hye and sth is weird about her is that she always make good match with any men who yoon was played in drama with or she had taken some photoshot with !!!!!!! ilke kim hyung joon. yoon sang hyun - joo ji hoon - kim jeong joon- gong yoo - kang ji hwan - lee min ho in personal taste and hyun bin ...i was forgot ......................... t.o.p !!!! they made really hot match .... i love to see her new dramas with hyun bin and kim hyun joong !!! they look amazing together !!! Gasenadia Feb 19 2012 5:48 am Funny and down-to-earth portrayals of hard-working, everyday people. That's what has attracted me to this tremendous actress. What range in Lie to Me! From comedy to bathos. The sizzling chemistry in Coffee Prince. Sorry the illegible subtitles and high school setting stopped me from watching Princess Hours. Many blessings from Puerto Rico. ebbyba Feb 17 2012 11:03 am yoon eun hye!!!just lov u so much.....hope for great life n career always!fighting girl ! elmer Feb 13 2012 7:45 am I'm a guy,..yet I'm sooo freakingly obssesed with a korean actress..(what will I do?) I even have dreams of her being my girlfriend! (I'm doomed..) this all started when I watched her in My Fair Lady/ Take Care Of Agasshi..I guess her role in that drama amuses me..high tempered brat who would do anything impulsively..but because Yoon Eun Hye was a certified cutie, she was able to give a different light to Kang Hye Na's character. After that, as long as I'm not busy, I would find time to watch and follow her in everything, ( drama -old and latest-, interviews, etc..) as long as she's in it. Even in her character as a tomboy makes me want my girlfriend to be dynamic and charming as Go Eun Chan. I even laughed like crazy in her two dramas Goong/ Princess Hours and The Vineyard Man (I've just watched it lately though ). Right now, I' watching her Lie to Me ..I'm not yet done but the guy there was sure lucky to have kissed my dream-girl plenty of times huh?..(-.^)..Jealousy!jealousy! But well,.the guy she would end up with.. (in real life) would be half lucky and half doomed for sure, -lucky to win her heart.. yet doomed to carry out the burden of having a very popular girlfriend -chased by men.. (good for you dude) :p .She really have the ability to make all the character she portray stands out and lives a mark. She is the only korean actress that captures my deepest interest. If only I'll be given a chance to be with her..i would really steal a kiss from her gorgeous lips and stare like forever in her calm, innocent, expressive eyes.The more I see her in her dramas, shows and interviews I realize that she really has a very adorable personality coz you can read it through the way she talks, stare , act, smile, or even her gestures or habits..all these sums up to one reason..Yoon Eun Hye's aura is very captivating,.what will I do now?..it's already too late for me to stop loving her. -------(Sigh.......)----  < /3 --- But anyway, Happy Valentines my Dear Yoon Eun Hye, Agasshi. bebs Feb 12 2012 3:01 am shes a natural fateme Feb 11 2012 7:00 am i love yoon eun hye and every single drama that she played on !!! i think she is the best korean actress! Bouncy Jan 17 2012 8:22 pm I absolutely love her acting. The characters she portrays aren't always the best but she manages to pull them off. My favorite performance from her is in Coffee Prince. The whole cast did an incredible job. The lines they gave her were very powerful. She's one of my faves. guilas Dec 27 2011 12:35 pm hello ms. pretty sweet yoon eun hye. I've watched all her dramas and she's really an amazing actress. Radge Dec 17 2011 5:52 am I like her so much...very nice in acting hehehekeep up the good work lady Ann Dec 03 2011 8:09 pm OMG! I love her from drama "Take Care of the Young Lady", she's the best actress! I hope she is gonna act in another drama soon :) amira amilin Dec 02 2011 5:19 am yoon eun hye. you are so cute and funny. i hope you will be the best korean actress. Lianna Nov 06 2011 8:28 pm Hello!I've never followed any drama here,but accidentally when I turn on the TV WOW!Koreans acting amazed me. You're so sweet I couldn't resist following the episode. Would like to congratulate the Korean talents of their God given gifts in acting. Educated actors,actresses must not neglect the knowledge they obtained,Knowledge is Power! True knowledge is to fear our Great Creator!Beauty is inside the heart!I've know you as a sweet girl ,hope you remain the sweet simple image. Many loves you,God loves you!゛A good name is better than silver and gold ”Thanks to every one involved to the success of the drama. green Nov 02 2011 12:05 am yoonenhye is my idol.I want her to see someday to meet her.She is very beautiful wowan and i love her movie my fair lady(lady castle)and i love yooneunhye(dash girl)song  < --- this is my favorite song.. alliana Oct 30 2011 1:34 pm hi yoon eun hye" i hope u will fine and what to see u in person u r my insiration idol. u so cute unique brillant sexy perty in korea. my fovourite actress now mayeth g. Oct 24 2011 4:38 am Would also love her to be paired with Choi Si Woon of Super Junior if possible. Fighting mayeth g. Oct 24 2011 2:47 am I have seen you in Princess Hours, Coffee Prince, The Man form the Vineyard, My Fair Lady and Lie to Me, I could tell, you are perfect in every role, but love you the most in Coffee Prince. I hope you could be paired with Kwon Se-In in a romantic comedy or with Goong Yu. Love to meet you in person, if not, just to see you in more dramas in the future. God Bless. Goongster Oct 19 2011 8:11 am YEH great actress, dancer, model and singer ;DStill drowning in X-Man vids xD Delivers all her roles in perfection~ 100%!Cheukahae Eonni! Hwaiting!~ :B butlerleo03 Oct 17 2011 6:19 am your my inspiration i hope someday i can meet you... hartman Oct 16 2011 6:05 am i really like your acting., your so cool and cute.,ur my crush., kristine Oct 05 2011 12:25 am i'm waiting for ur up coming dramas.. in princess hour ur like a little princes.. in coffe princess well u really make ur char unique for being lesbiian... in myfair lady u really grown up... wait for ur next dram.. GL... kristine Oct 05 2011 12:23 am i'de waited for your up coming dramas.. i lyk u in the princess ur so cute.... renj mercado Sep 30 2011 4:06 am wow, astig. may comment na vern Sep 25 2011 7:59 pm has just watched "Lie to me",it's one of the best k-drama i've ever watched,from now on, im already one of ur big fans, you're so pretty and brilliant actress.!!God bless always..more projects to come!!! nana Sep 18 2011 9:21 pm Yes she is my favourite korean actress. Looking forward to her new movie! ryeh Sep 18 2011 5:11 pm YEH is my favorite actress...she's so awesome...... jc Sep 18 2011 2:53 am I have been following all her dramas including the xman variety shows. She is versatile in acting and modeling. Am looking forward to her new movie with chow yun fat. irandokht Sep 07 2011 1:10 pm you are so cute i love you so much. i watched Princess Hours and Coffee Prince and My Fair Lady and Lie to Meyou are the best actress harliechan Sep 05 2011 1:45 am Love YEH! harliechan Sep 05 2011 1:44 am I love yeh since watching Goong. Love her in Coffee Prince and can't stop watching Lie To Me. So far I've seen all her work except for Vineyard Man. Great actress and seems so sincere and down to earth. Love her work :) Keep fighting! Watched lots of her on Youtube. justAfan Aug 28 2011 1:50 pm i love YEH ever since xMen!! young warrior she has the power, strength, wit  &  on top of that --beauty!! :) clsf Aug 27 2011 2:24 am love yeh, best actress with a BIG heart, makes every role comes to live, humble, kind and generous, deserves to be every so success Jim Aug 23 2011 11:44 pm Yoon Eun-Hye reminds me of Marlo Thomas on "That Girl". Yoon Eun-Hye has that very likable personality. asian Aug 09 2011 10:39 am my favorite Korean actress. Matt Jul 12 2011 10:30 pm saranghaeyo!!saranghaeyo!!!! Such a gorgeous girl...really beautiful.. brahim Jul 12 2011 5:22 am i love eun hye beautiful you bonyface ceo Jun 30 2011 10:20 pm saranghaeyo!! funkyboy Jun 28 2011 7:20 pm this girl makes me laughh..i hope more korean girls like her..honest, funky and funny , love u yoon eun hee.. yi yaing Jun 24 2011 2:09 pm She's awesome, funny and beautiful.. i mean really beautiful, i really have no idea if she did surgery, but she looks like herself and not like the other typical korean beauty celebs, cause i hate that dolly dol look!!! Joyce Jun 21 2011 6:31 pm I love her acting esp in Goong and Lie to Me. So glad to see her back on stage... zy Jun 16 2011 2:28 am i love her acting skillespecially lie to me drama keep it up and God bless you hwang soo-hee Jun 13 2011 7:18 pm my favorite actress and role model xPP 화이팅!! yazz Jun 06 2011 1:07 am aja aja fighting  > >  i like your acting an u'r epoooo choonyang Jun 03 2011 6:15 am the first kdrama i watch was goong and i start to like and watch her every drama since then. she is really cute i mean beautiful. i wish YEH and JJH could team up again..^_^ choonyang Jun 03 2011 6:04 am i really love YEH mali-chick Jun 02 2011 6:39 pm the first asian drama i watched was coffee prince ever since watching that i believed that you were a good actress at the moment im watching lie to me and i love it keep performing your best regardless of what others say you still have fans all around the world trust me im one of them ^^ yoon eun hye FIGHTING Ajianne May 29 2011 2:11 am Eun Hye is one of the best actress in Korea.She's pretty :) and really good in acting! jenny May 22 2011 1:30 pm How can anyone hate her? She's an amazing actress, and all of the dramas she's in are amazing. YOU GO YOON EUN HYE!!! Kenzo May 11 2011 12:26 pm YOU ARE A GREAT ACTRESS, don't let all those who are jaelous of you, get you down,BECAUSE you are very talented and a real actress No One Mar 31 2011 11:13 pm She looks like a guy...... bella Feb 22 2011 9:58 pm I am a huge fan of her. I've watched all her dramas and i think she's an amazing actress especially on her role on the drama Coffee Prince. Oh i just loved it soo much! i wish to see more of her in the future, i hope. cullengabriela Feb 14 2011 9:27 pm great act and woderfull talent..................u always memmorable in my mind....!!!!!!!!!that's why all of ur drama was so...so...good.....!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!SARANGHE MEK Jan 24 2011 11:09 am BTW- I have seen all your dramas and movies....i mean all of them... MEK Jan 24 2011 11:08 am I wish you would do more drama and movies....I'm one of your biggest fan...You are the cutest! Arya_kennedy Dec 24 2010 2:29 am I'm the biggest fans of YEH ever! U have always my support! ;-) ayu fujikage Dec 19 2010 10:16 am I really love Yoon Eun Hyeesp in Goong as Shin Chae-Kyung with joo ji hoonmany mistakenly identified PSH as YEH but for me there are lots of differences of course YEH is prettier neeh^^(sorry for PSH fans)i still wasnt able to watch the full series of the k drama my fair lady Skr Dec 19 2010 6:27 am i like Yeh so muuuchand i very like when Yeh in "Goong"she looks cute, funny and beautifulI hope Yeh play together again with JJH, they verrrrry compatible and best couple 4ever prqpaporn Dec 18 2010 6:37 am i like her in the vineyard man because she played smoothly . She is very cute . l am waiting to watch her in " Love song"loue yoon eun hye mmmuuuuccchhh. cherrypie Oct 29 2010 11:25 am omg i've watched mostly all her dramas except the vineyard one....i love this girl she's awesome < 3 fatima Aug 31 2010 10:41 pm i even bought her dvd's. darn so good, but havent watched fair lady. and the personal preference did not work out also the love song. i wanna see her again in TV!! Lark Jul 10 2010 1:01 pm I've seen Coffee Prince  &  Princess Hours so far, and I've just started My Fair Lady. I am such a huge fan of hers! sasha May 17 2010 10:43 am wish u all the best i like for your drama good luck^^ risa May 17 2010 10:40 am good luck for ur drama..wish u all the bestcome to indonesia please..hehe..thank you very much Deozee Nov 15 2009 11:26 am I really love yoon eun hye,especially in coffee prince.she's so funny NightLizard Sep 02 2009 1:22 pm Funny, beautiful girl and I can say that she is a great actress too! She can be so different! :) AsianWiki.com . All rights reserved. |  Privacy Policy  |  Contact 