Discovering the Eastern Ghats in a Maruti Suzuki Alto Snigdha Bhowmick |  August 16, 2018 In a year’s travel calendar, road-trips seldom appear for me on account of many reasons; one person being on the wheel, road conditions, distances, and space for everyone. But after a recent trip, I will never underestimate the power of a good set of wheels when planning a holiday. In February this year, I set out with four friends on a self-drive trail of Visakhapatnam and Araku Valley, thanks to the ‘Wheels of Wander’ campaign by   Maruti Suzuki Alto  and Outlook Traveller and Outlook Traveller. Out trusted friend, the car ensured that the holiday was glitch-free and thrilling. More so, stopping for photo-opportunities or re-fueling the bellies was not a problem. We traversed the Eastern Ghats in a Maruti Suzuki Alto K10, ideal for young travellers. The car scores over any other for many reasons. The Maruti Suzuki Alto is no doubt a great city car, but seeing it perform smoothly on the twists and turns of the Eastern Ghats was a pleasure. There were many narrow roads and sharp turns, along with other traffic. But the Maruti Suzuki Alto K10 navigated the curves with ease. The 1000 cc engine provides for enough acceleration to power through the elevations and the car shifts seamlessly from higher speeds to slowing down, thanks to the Automatic Gear Shift (AGS). This new age gear shifting technology also helps to negotiate the congested roads of the city as well as the dips and peaks of the mountains. The AGS also allows for a tireless driving experience as it takes out the repetitive clutch plate activation and endless gear shifts on the mountain roads. Our journey was so smooth, that even the laziest one of us wanted to get behind the wheel.  This seamless transmission also helps to conserve fuel and boosts the mileage of the car chugging out 24km per litre. This makes it an ideal pocket-friendly option as young travellers are always concerned about the expense. Not only that, the 160 mm ground clearance allows it to go through the most uneven of roads with ease. One of the biggest complaints on the Indian roads is potholes and overall bad conditions. This is where the gas powered suspension of the car helps. In our case, no one complained about any body aches on account of the roads. Talking about body ache, one of the major reasons road trips become cumbersome is the leg space for the back seats. In the new Alto K10, the front seats are such that they provide for extra leg room which transcends to a safer, tireless journey. The moulded headrests and handles above the back windows allow for a comfortable ride.  One of my major points on the checklist for choosing a self-drive car is the way the sound system responds on the road. The system of the Maruti Suzuki Alto K10 offers a piano style finished stereo that has USB, CD drive and radio. Music was a constant companion for us. Naturally, there was tussle on the playlist, but that’s what adds to the fun when travelling with a group. The car also packs in a multitude of safety features that makes it an even better choice for the road. The super powerful braking combined with the driver side air bag, fog lights and the power steering give it the best safety features in its category. Thankfully, there was no use for a safety bag during our trip, but the brakes sure helped during our hill-drive to Araku Valley. The new Maruti Suzuki Alto K10 is a vibrant car for the youth of today that packs in a slew of features in a very pocket friendly way and makes for a tremendous ride whenever you’re planning a road trip. With an experience such as this, all doubts have been abated and I can’t wait to plan the next road trip with friends. 