The Administrator of Panama Maritime Authority Visits Japanese Authorities on the Sidelines of the Meetings of the Advisory Board of the Panama Canal in Tokyo. « EMBASSY OF PANAMA IN JAPAN From April 6 th  to 8 th , 2015, the Meeting of the Advisory Board of the Panama Canal was held for the first time in Tokyo, which counted on the participation of the Administrator of the Panama Maritime Authority (AMP), Mr. Jorge Barakat. On the sidelines of the Advisory Board Meeting, Administrator Barakat visited important companies and organizations of the Japanese maritime sector, such as Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha, Ltd. (K-Line), Nippon Yusen Kabushiki Kaisha (NYK), Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd. (MOL) and The Japanese Shipowners  Association (JSA), in order to express gratitude for their preference for the Panamanian shipping registry, as well as to inform about the new policy of the AMP under the government of President Juan Carlos Varela. During the meetings, Administrator Barakat informed about the opening of new SEGUMAR offices in the world, including in Imabari, Japan, with the purpose of maintaining the high quality of the technical service to the shipping industry. Administrator Barakat was also interviewed by the maritime newspaper Kaiji Press Co., Ltd., taking the opportunity to explain about the new projection of the Panama shipping registry, including the transparency and improvement of the technological platform of services rendered to the customers. During the meeting with the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism of Japan (MLIT), Administrator Barakat reiterated the commitment of Panama to strengthen the maritime cooperation between Panama and Japan, as well as to improve the standard of the world’s maritime operation. The official visit concluded with a meeting at the Tokyo MOU, during which Administrator Barakat submitted Panama’s application to become a member of this important organization, which monitors the inspections and detentions of vessels in the Asia-Pacific region. At the present time, Panama is registered in the White List of Tokyo MOU due to the excellent level of the Panamanian shipping regulations. The Secretary of Tokyo MOU, Mr. Mitsutoyo Okada, welcomed the application, pointing out that Panama provides a high standard of maritime safety. During this visit, Mr. Jorge Barakat was accompanied by H.E. Ritter N. Díaz, Ambassador of Panama to Japan, Mr. Samuel Guevara, Chief of SEGUMAR Office in Tokyo, as well as technical officers of the Consulate General of Panama in Tokyo. During the meeting with Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha, Ltd. (K-Line). During the meeting with Nippon Yusen Kabushiki Kaisha (NYK). During the meeting with Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd. (MOL). During the meeting with The Japanese Shipowners '  Association (JSA).  At the center, Mr. Jorge Barakat, Administrator of the AMP, to his right, Mr. Osamu Suzuki, Vice-president of JSA, and H.E. Ritter N. Díaz, Ambassador of Panama to Japan. From left, the Director General of Maritime Division of MLIT, Mr. Toshiya Morishige and the Administrator of the Panama Maritime Authority (AMP), Mr. Jorge Barakat. During the meeting with Tokyo MOU, Mr. Jorge Barakat, Administrator of the AMP submitting Panama’s application to the Secretary of Tokyo MOU, Mr. Mitsutoyo Okada, with the purpose of becoming a member of the organization. This entry was posted  on Monday, April 27th, 2015 at 3:33 pm and is filed under  event .You can follow any responses to this entry through the  RSS 2.0  feed. Both comments and pings are currently closed. Copyright (C) 2010 EMBASSY OF PANAMA IN JAPAN. All Rights Reserved. Powered by  Codia . 