Baby boomers made it OK to talk about menopause, but myths abound | Better Living | Dallas News arrow-right camera carousel-next carousel-prev check close comment down facebook-sq facebook feedback identity instagram mail minus nav-down nav-left nav-right nav-up plus print refresh rows search thick-close twitter up youtube thick-close rows nav-right identity search nav-right close facebook twitter instagram youtube down facebook twitter instagram youtube thick-close rows nav-right up up facebook twitter mail print mail close facebook-sq arrow-right The baby boomers didn't take menopause lying down. They turned it into a pop-culture phenomenon — and a billion-dollar business. What was once shrouded in shame and mystery became a source of sassy celebration soon after the first boomers reached menopause in the 1990s. Instead of suffering in silence, women in this generation turned out to see  Menopause: The Musical  or watched TV shows like Hulu's  The Hot Flashes . They listened as Oprah Winfrey and Suzanne Somers openly detailed their menopausal journeys on talk shows. And just as boomers took control of their sexual health with The Pill, and then transformed childbirth, they've taken charge of their care in menopause, the phase marking the end of a woman's ability to bear children. They expected their physicians to offer relief, and if that didn't work, they turned to alternative practitioners or specialty clinics. In 2017, the youngest boomer women turn 53, two years past the average age of the onset of menopause. The next generation of women is inheriting a vastly different landscape. Dr. JoAnn V. Pinkerton is executive director of the North American Menopause Society. "Women are researching menopause and they're talking about it," says Dr. JoAnn V. Pinkerton, executive director of the  North American Menopause Society .  "Boomers grew up with the book  Our Bodies, Ourselves , which urged women to look for answers. They want to know that their problems can be improved or fixed." That's how Deborah Simmons, 61, approached menopause when she first noticed symptoms several years ago. Hot flashes and night sweats were mostly an annoyance, but then she started having difficulty concentrating. At the time, she was a practicing attorney, and that wasn't acceptable. "I felt like I had attention deficit disorder," she says. "I wasn't able to have sustained focus on complicated reading, and I couldn't process the content the way that I needed to do." Simmons reviewed medical studies online, and then discussed treatment with her doctor, who recommended a low-dose estrogen patch. Within days, the problems resolved. Determined to minimize any cancer risk, Simmons weaned off the patch with her doctor's guidance after a few months. When she started having trouble focusing again eight months later, she resumed the patch for three months, then stopped again, and hasn't had problems since. Simmons sees a sharp contrast in her experience with that of her mother's generation. "They did not have choices about managing menopause," she says. "They just had to deal." "Women became partners in their medical decisions," Pinkerton says. "Today, you see ads for products addressing conditions that, 30 years ago, wouldn't have even been talked about." Despite the increased awareness and openness, Pinkerton says that myths and misinformation still swirl around menopause — much of it related to hormone therapy. Some physicians stopped prescribing hormones, spooked by the results of the Women's Health Initiative published in 2002 and 2004, which highlighted cancer and heart disease risks. But further analysis showed that, in the right doses, hormones are safe for many women under 60 or within 10 years of menopause. (Hormone therapy isn't an option for women with a history of breast or uterine cancer, liver disease, blood clots or heart disease.) To help clear up confusion, the North American Menopause Society will release a physicians' statement this summer, giving practitioners more specific guidelines for prescribing hormones, so that they can more confidently prescribe hormones for women who can safely benefit. Hormones are now available in topical creams, gels and patches, which may have lower absorption and thus fewer risks than oral medication. The menopause group petitioned the FDA to change the warnings on packages of topical estrogen creams, which are currently based on studies of oral estrogen. The goal is to make sure women aren't missing out on the benefits of hormone therapies because they, or their doctors, are overestimating the risks. For those struggling with symptoms, hormones can improve quality of life significantly. "Hormone therapy definitely works for menopausal symptoms, and it works quickly," says Dr. Richard Kaye, medical director of women's services at Texas Health Plano. "We need to take away the fear of hormone therapy for women when it's appropriate," says Pinkerton. "Women need to understand that loss of estrogen is also a health risk." Worried about the risks of synthetic hormones — or wanting more aggressive treatment — many boomers looked beyond their primary physicians to manage menopause. Hormone clinics are popping up in strip malls, dispensing testosterone and other hormones to women in menopause as well as men who want to reverse the effects of aging. Pharmacies and practitioners touting custom-compounded hormone therapies as superior alternatives to FDA-approved hormones are burgeoning. Some clinics market hormones as part of treatment regimens involving multiple visits and tests, at a cost of thousands of dollars, typically not covered by insurance. "This is where marketing rears its ugly head," says Kaye. "Some women think if they have more visits and more blood work, they'll feel better than if they have less intensive therapy. But for most, it's not necessary to continue to have hormone levels checked." Hormone therapy is complex, and there's little data to back many of the claims that custom-compounded hormones are safer or more effective than FDA-approved medications. But the fact that women have become vocal and proactive patients reflects progress in the past 30 years, says Karen Giblin, who founded the Red Hot Mamas, a menopause education program. "We no longer look at menopause as the time when you're 'over the hill,' " she says. "We know that there's going to be 30 more years left that we can live healthy, fulfilling lives." Many patients think hot flashes are the only symptom of menopause. But menopausal women may also experience sleep disturbances, headache, mood swings, forgetfulness, difficulty concentrating, depression or anxiety, loss of libido, painful intercourse, vaginal dryness or incontinence. Lifestyle changes, hormone therapy and other treatments can help with these issues. "Many don't want to talk to their doctors about these symptoms, either because they're too embarrassed or assume there is no fix," Pinkerton says. "Yet there's help available." Many internists and general practitioners don't get in-depth training in medical school in treating menopausal women, or updates as new research becomes available. For that reason, for the past 10 years, the North American Menopause Society has certified physicians and other practitioners who are versed in menopause-specific medicine and who obtain continuing education in this area. To find a practitioner, visit  https://www.menopause. org/for-women/find-a- menopause-practitioner Mary Jacobs is a Plano freelance writer. comment By submitting, you agree to our  Terms of Service  and  Privacy Policy . facebook twitter mail print See More arrow-right See More arrow-right See More arrow-right See More arrow-right See More arrow-right See More arrow-right See More arrow-right facebook twitter instagram youtube 2019, The Dallas Morning News Inc. All Rights Reserved. close 