Gaga and Timothée Chalamet met each other during Governors Awards - Page 2 - News and Events - Gaga Daily Forgot your password? This topic is now archived and is closed to further replies. Started  November 25, 2018  byRiver Phoenix in  News and Events     https://www.eonline.com/ap/news/988822/the-famous-people-s-club-unites-at-the-2018-governors-awards Does someone know from which video is this gif??? I need a pic but YAY I hope Villeneuve is looking at her for Dune, tbh.  Truly the queen of the gays. He really is.  I NEED PICS I hope Villeneuve is looking at her for Dune, tbh.  Have not read the books but which role do you think would be good for her? (And perhaps a non-spoilery description, hah) Omg I love this gif Inb4 it’s another case of “Excuse me waiter can I have another glass of Pinot Grigio please thanks” “but it’s me Timothee??” ”Yes now make it snappy” I feel complete  Nope, there are no pictures of them together so that’s devastating   I hope Villeneuve is looking at her for Dune, tbh.  I had the same thought. The coolest female role (IMO) is Lady Jessica, but I feel like they'd cast older for that one (like 40+ with a big name actress).  I feel like they'd want to someone the same age as Timothy for Chani. Maybe she could play Princess Irulan - the interglactic Grace Kelly thing is something she could pull off.    Slightly OT but Timothee should grow his hair long again. Does someone know from which video is this gif??? You should check The academy YouTube channel for Governors Awards videos. It should be in one of those. But I found this gif from twitter  Slightly OT but Timothee should grow his hair long again. He only cut it short for a role Does someone know from which video is this gif??? From one of the vids I posted in the Governors thread. Can't link now, but you can look it up  https://media.giphy.com/media/MncRccQYx7LVu/giphy.gif celeb in  Entertainment News music news in  Entertainment News news in  News and Events musician in  Fan Base life in  News and Events new music in  Entertainment News opinion in  Gaga Thoughts politics in  World News charts in  Charts and Sales new video in  Entertainment News event in  Entertainment News music news in  Entertainment News question in  Gaga Thoughts new music in  Entertainment News celeb in  Entertainment News question in  Gaga Thoughts celeb 4 minutes ago new music 36 minutes ago event 43 minutes ago politics 47 minutes ago question 1 hour ago politics 1 hour ago opinion 1 hour ago new video 1 hour ago music news 1 hour ago Special thanks to the brilliant  IGGY_PROOF  for designing our logos! Powered by Invision Community 