Book flights to Quetta | flydubai MENU Select language Welcome to Emirates Skywards, the loyalty programme for Emirates and now flydubai. From the downtown bustle to the peaceful mountains, experience both sides of life in Pakistan when you book flights to Quetta with flydubai. Relax in our bright, spacious cabin and enjoy a variety of entertainment and refreshments while you fly to the capital city of the Balochistan province. We have a number of check-in options available, so you can choose the one that’s most convenient for you. For service with a smile, head to one of our check-in desks, found at every airport we depart from. Here, our friendly team will check your travel documents, sort out any hold luggage and present you with your boarding pass. Alternatively, you could check-in from the comfort of your home or hotel with our online service. You can now download your boarding pass onto your phone when flying from a range of destinations. If you’re departing from Dubai International Airport (DXB) we also have a number of self-service kiosks available for all our passengers to use, adding convenience to your journey. In Economy Class, we have plenty to keep you entertained above the clouds, including a tempting variety of snacks, amazing deals on duty free products and more than 2,000 hours of entertainment on your personal HD touchscreen. Depending on the length of your journey, our cabin crew will serve a delicious menu of hot meals. Available in both Economy and Business Class, these pre-booked options include curries, pasta and creamy omelettes. If you’d like to enjoy dining at 30,000 feet, simply book your selection online any time up until 24 hours before your flight. Upgrade your fare and relax in the luxury of Business Class. This exclusive section is fitted out with all the latest technology, so you can watch a movie on your larger personal touchscreen or connect your devices to our speedy inflight WiFi - all from the comfort of your extra-wide, Italian-leather chair. Once we’ve taken off, you can adjust the back and extend the foot rest, making the most of your extra legroom. To top it all off, our dedicated team will serve drinks, snacks and refreshments to your seat whenever you like. Explore the region’s military history at  Quetta Fort  – also called Qila Miri - which stands guard in the central district. Originally built by the British, the sand-coloured fort is now open to the public, although you still need to seek permission from the local forces to go inside. Just 10km outside the city, the tranquillity of  Lake Hanna  is within easy reach. Relax on the banks with a picnic and admire the panoramic mountain scenery, or hire a boat and soak up stunning views from the turquoise waters. Join the crowds at the city’s  central bazaar , weaving through downtown streets and vibrant stalls. Aromatic spices and local cloth can be found in abundance, as well as woven sandals and household decorations such as ornate mirrors. The perfect place to pick up a souvenir of your trip. Bolstered by rocky mountains on all sides, the city of  Quetta  is an urban pocket in the sandy lands of south-west Pakistan. Lively bazaars and atmospheric restaurants line the streets, providing plenty of entertainment for visitors. For a change of scenery, head out to the parks, lakes and hills that surround the city and explore the natural landscapes of this part of the world. You’ll find a fascinating array of museums in Quetta – if you know where to look, that is. Head to  Quetta Museum  on Waffa Road to see archaeological artefacts from as far back as the Stone Age – in addition to more modern exhibits, such as those chronicling the difficulties of the 1935 earthquake. Continue your exploration at the  Geological Survey of Pakistan Museum , where you can see weird and wonderful fossils, including a ‘walking whale’ said to be 47 million years old. Sink your teeth into a succulent menu of local favourites, including tender  Khadda Kebab . This Pakistani dish is made from succulent lamb, fruits, vegetables and spices blended together and slow-cooked underground on smouldering coals until tender and juicy. Another one for foodies to try is  Sajji . These rich, meaty skewers – usually chicken or lamb – are cooked whole on open fires for a rustic, smoky flavour. Often, they’re stuffed with rice and served with soft naan bread. There are a number of restaurants in Quetta which serve up this regional classic, including popular local haunt, Lehri Sajji House. Popular with visitors of all ages,  Askari Park  is a community hub in the north of the city. If you’re into fitness, you could stretch your legs on the running track. There are a number of fairground rides here too - perfect for entertaining youngsters. As the sun beams down, wander around the park and admire the majestic statue of three white stallion horses which stands in the centre. On the western outskirts of the city,  Omagh Park  offers a more stripped-back experience, with sandy trails winding through the shadows of the looming hills. Venture out into the surrounding area and uncover natural beauty in the arid plains of Balochistan. A sparkling pool surrounded by desert mountains,  Wali Tangi Dam  is one such jewel which draws visitors with its vivid colour contrasts and natural beauty. Follow the footpath all the way around the perimeter, chancing on tumbling waterfalls and scenic seating spots as you go. The dam is about one hour and 25 minutes away from Quetta and is easiest to reach with a hire car. Visitors from most countries will need to apply for a visa ahead of their trip to Pakistan. Check with your embassy for more information. The currency in Quetta is the Pakistani Rupee (PKR). Frequently used notes include: 10, 20, 50, 100, 500, 1000 and 2000. In Pakistan, the national languages are Urdu and English. You’ll find most people in Quetta speak Urdu. However, many signs will also be translated into English and you’ll usually be able to request help from an English-speaker in hotels and restaurants. The city of Quetta enjoys high temperatures of 34°C between July and September, with lows of 5° between January and March. The main thing to consider when organising your trip is the wet monsoon season, which is usually between June and September. Rickshaws are the main way to get around Quetta. For longer journeys, such as travelling to and from the airport, you can book a taxi. Your hotel will often help you organise this. You’ll also find rental car services at the airport. Located about half an hour’s drive from the city centre,  Quetta International Airport (UET)  is a convenient travel hub. Inside the terminal building, you’ll find facilities including restaurants, shops, prayer rooms and a business lounge. Policies Terms and conditions The browser you are using may not be compatible with our website. Please upgrade to the latest version of Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, Internet Explorer or download another web browser. Google Chrome Mozilla Firefox Internet Explorer 