The [Mostly] Complete Hamlet Beta Food Guide [Spoilers] - General Discussion (Open to all) - Klei Entertainment Forums Forgot your password? Or sign in with one of these services This topic is now archived and is closed to further replies. Please be aware that the content of this thread may be outdated and no longer applicable.  By  Duxe ,   October 21, 2018  in  General Discussion (Open to all) I'm writing this up for myself and anyone that wants a one stop shop for the food information. I've seen crockpot recipes somewhere, but I haven't seen everything food together in one area, so here goes. Also by all means correct me or tell me to add stuff that I miss, this isn't down to the wire perfection in the first place because I couldn't be bothered to test out some stuff say which filler goes with  every  crockpot dish [but let's be real, if sticks work are we  really  going to use another filler?]  or spoilage time and I don't know things like priority values since I didn't jump into the code. Here's all the stand alone new items (I think): Thanks  Magic water has 300+ for the hunger value because I don't know what the actual value is, it full heals wolfgang's hunger and there is no character with a higher value soooo... anyone wanna jump in the code for me so I can remove the question mark? And then the ten new crockpot recipes currently in the beta (I don't know the actual code recipes, I did my best testing em out):   Tea   Iced Tea  Asparagus Soup   Spicy Veg Stinger   Nettle Rolls   Snake Bone Soup   Hard Shell Tacos   Steamed Ham Sandwich   Feijoada   Gummy Cake   And an additional five unused (to my knowledge) food images in the code (courtesy  @watermelen671 , for the above images as well):   Bubble Tea    French Onion Soup     Lotus Chips     Slaw     Poi Thanks  @FuffledBeeQueen  for the names. If you are a newer player and don't know how food values work or what priorities are, I suggest reading this page from the Don't Starve wiki: http://dontstarve.wikia.com/wiki/Crock_Pot I heard tea (iced and hot) increases your movement speed? And Tea turns into Iced tea when fully spoiled?  I heard tea (iced and hot) increases your movement speed? And Tea turns into Iced tea when fully spoiled?  Yes. But not great as coffee boost(about half). I heard tea (iced and hot) increases your movement speed? And Tea turns into Iced tea when fully spoiled?  Tea = Coffee Speed Boost/2 Iced Tea = Coffee Speed Boost/3 Yes. Tea turns into Iced Tea upon spoilage   Nettle roll can be made with even monster meat, but I dare not tried asparagus 'the absolute'.... Nettle roll can be made with even monster meat, but I dare not tried asparagus 'the absolute'.... Nettle Roll has a priority of 0, while Asparagus Soup has a priority of 10. So Asparagus would kill your Nettles immidiently  Magic water has 300+ for the hunger value because I don't know what the actual value is, it full heals wolfgang's hunger and there is no character with a higher value soooo... anyone wanna jump in the code for me so I can remove the question mark? I believe it's 450 hunger.  Thanks for the replies and info, I've updated the initial post. I forgot the speed boost from tea when I wrote the original post, thanks for the reminder. I don't think it's necessary for me to bother with adding any priority information to this set but I guess I would if someone gave me the priorities for all 10 recipes and same goes for spoilage time. The tea turning into iced tea when it spoils has got to be a bug. Thanks for the replies and info, I've updated the initial post. I don't think it's necessary for me to bother with adding any priority information to this set but I guess I would if someone gave me the priorities for all 10 recipes and same goes for spoilage time. The tea turning into iced tea when it spoils has got to be a bug. no, it just turns cold, its intentional no, it just turns cold, its intentional Eh... I mean I can accept it if it really is, but I guess this is one of those things that just doesn't make sense logically. A real tea couldn't cool past room temp and magically have ice form plus also then whats the point of there being a separate recipe? Bubble Tea and Poi!  < 3  Maybe there'll be poke and Pig-Free Spam.  Eh... I mean I can accept it if it really is, but I guess this is one of those things that just doesn't make sense logically. A real tea couldn't cool past room temp and magically have ice form plus also then whats the point of there being a separate recipe? It's specifically set to spoil into icetea in the code. So it's at the very least, not a bug. --------------------------   Priority  ---------  Perish Time  --------------  Special Stuffs Sani Tea:                      25                     1 Day                 Counts as Veg,Turns into Ice Tea, Half the Efficiency and Duration of the Coffee Speed Buff Ice Tea:                         30                    6 Days                Counts as Veggie,One Third the Efficiency and Duration of the Coffee Speed Buff Asparagus Soup:        10                   15 Days               Counts as Veggie Spicy Veg Stinger:      15                   15 Days                Counts as Veggie Nettle Rolls:                  0                     6 Days                Counts as Veggie, 720 units of Anti Histamine (idk what that is, but it's hayfever preventing) Snake Bone Soup:      20                   10 Days               Counts as Meat, duh Hard Shell Tacos:         1                    15 Days               Counts as Veggie Steamed Ham:              5                     6 Days                Counts as Meat, duh Feijo-Bug Stuff:           30                    8 Days                Counts as Meat Gummy Jello:               1                     20 Days              Counts as Meat The other 5 foods aren't implemented in the files... yet thanks for the helpful meals info, everyone   i've used cooked seed pods to cure hay fever plenty of times, not sure of the timer though or if uncooked works as well. thanks for the helpful meals info, everyone   i've used cooked seed pods to cure hay fever plenty of times, not sure of the timer though or if uncooked works as well. Oh I didn't realize those worked. Interesting. I've gone ahead and looked into it, and here's what I found. From lowest to highest: Uncooked Seed Pod (Value of "60") Cooked Seed Pod (Value of "120") Nettle (Value of "200") Nettle Rolls (Value of "720") New + helpful information is always such a tasty find for me. I also didn't know seed pods work for that. I do wish there was a super compiled list of tips to help the newer players on here but also to help me when the game goes live and I inevitably forget some of the useful tips scattered throughout the forum. Maybe I'll make one if I have time. Thanks again Fuffled and Zeklo I'll add those up to the top post. Powered by Invision Community 