The Heavenly Lake - 长白山天池 - Review of Changbaishan Tianchi, Baishan, China - TripAdvisor There are two “TianChi 天池” in China, one in Xinjiang (Tianshan Tianchi 天山天池) at the West and the other on top of Changbai Mountain at the East (Changbaishan Tianchi 长白山天池). >The Changbaishan Tianchi is located at the China Eastern border with North Korea. It’s a dormant volcano lake – in the amazingly beautiful caldera on Changbai Mountain. Locals also believe there are some monsters in it. Some shops in the mountain area display photos capturing some images but yet to be proven (another similar story such as Loch Ness Monster in UK?).<br > >Going up the summit is easy as AWD vehicles are available to bring visitors up. Tianchi - the crater lake is just a short walk from the summit station. Weather at the top is unpredictable, there could be snow or fog, cloud and rain any time throughout the year. Don’t be too disappointed if you cannot catch a clear view on Tianchi. Locals say you need good luck to see this heavenly lake. So be prepared for the unpredictable weather and just be there. Whichever month you go, it is wise to bring along a water-proof wind-breaker. The locals say, snow can be expected from October to June and raining often from July to September.  So, you bet and good luck!<br > >Take note that July to September is high season for this very popular attraction, and there will be sea of people (locals and tourists). There will be long queues everywhere, particularly transports to the summit.< span> Having read all the previous reviews, you will be clear with the geography of the place and how it is a lake in a caldera. The whole experience is amazing, you travel for about 20 to 30 mins, in a small minibus, the views as you climb are great. However as you get the to base of the 1400  steps it becomes a sea of people. There are a few stalls at the base, selling fried squid,, blueberries etc and large thick coats to hire for the summit. The walk up is steady, you can't go quickly as there are too many people. Once at the lake, you have to push yourself to the front, although once there you can enjoy the amazing views. Watching the people are equally amazing, the families, enjoy a picnic on the top.  >Once you have descended to the base of the steps you queue up again like cattle to get the minibus back down. We stopped at a waterfall for about 5 minutes, then for some lunch at the fast food restaurant. That was not very good quality, a help yourself buffet. the place was remarkably quiet as most people brought their own. We had a couple more stops, both for very interesting walks, one to see a gorge and the other for a walk to a small lake. The second walk was almost deserted, hard to believe when there were so many people at the Heavenly Lake. <br >Would definitely recommend a day out here, it is unbelievable, just the restaurant and lack of toilets let it down.... Wonderful scenary of a volcano lake at the North Korean Chinese border. Quite hard to climb more tan 1400 steps, but it worths it Changbai (always white) shan (mountain) summit in July under blue skies provided an incredible view of Tianchi lake ( > 300 metres deep) occupying the heart of the volcano destroyed in 935AD by a huge eruption that sent volcanic ash to Greenland. The surrounding rocky peaks were covered with patchy snow, emerald green grass and abundant orange,red and yellow alpine flowers. A truly world-class location which gets 5* for uniqueness, beauty, and serenity (away from the masses) and the fact that it is being preserved for posterity as a Geopark. Anyone who loves the natural environment cannot be but hugely impressed and leave with a feeling that you have visited somewhere very special. >Check the weather forecast as you may be lucky as we were and can wear shorts &amp; T shirts but 5 days later there were storms and driving rain. Always carry water, sun block, a hat and a wind breaker.<br >(NB  < 1* for (a) the shear madness of the drivers who take you at brake neck speed in packed vans, with tyres squealing round multiple hairpin bends to the summit without any seat belts, (b) the lengthy queues for buses, shuttle vans and then the summit vistas and then the return journey, and (c) the lack of modern amenities that one would expect in a busy tourist park) Also known as Mt Baekdu to North Koreans, this is a volcano with a caldera that is by itself very beautiful.  The fact that it is shared with North Korea makes it even more interesting. It is said by North Koreans that Kim Jong Il was born at the sacred mountain.  ><br >We drove all the way from Beijing, and as with any long drive in China is always interesting. We took 2 days to drive and passed through the provinces of Jilin and Liaoning, and as the journey went deeper into the smaller towns, things got more interesting. ><br >Instead of taking the main road, we branched off to take the S303 which runs along the Yalu River that acts as the border between China and NK. The border point started at the town of Linjiang. We were literally a stone's throw away from NK.  ><br >The contrast in scenery between the China side and NK was apparent. On the Chinese side, there were lots of people and shops, not so many farms. On the NK side, houses were made of wood, and farms grew all the way up the hills. Where there are villages or houses, there's a big picture of the founder Kim Il Sung. ><br >As it was getting dark, we stopped at the small border town of Changbaizhen (http://goo.gl/TvW8IO). Its one of those surreal places where hardly any foreigners go to, but it is a thriving town where a lot of ethnic Chinese Koreans and Hans do business everyday trading with the opposite NK town of Hyesan.  ><br >Most Chinese are themselves very curious of the hermit kingdom too. So much so that there is a small park built where curious visitors can sit and observe the other side.  ><br >On the NK side, every few hundred metres, there's a small guardhouse looking back into the town, presumably they are more concerned of people getting out of the country rather than looking out at China.  ><br >By dusk, many North Koreans come out to the river to bathe, wash their clothes, bicycles etc.The Chinese do their washing with tap water and washing machines - so no Chinese use the river. By night, the entire town goes almost dark, while the Chinese side is bright and full of shops still doing business. ><br >At dinner, we had ... naturally Korean food. North Korean food is lighter than the South versions. Most of the people here are ethnic Koreans. It is a peaceful town, away from the spotlight of the North-South Korean DMZ border that you see on news. Chinese do cross the border everyday here for business. Life and trade goes on here without the world needing to know. ><br >In the morning, we made our way to Changbaishan. It was another 2 hours drive away. Like all big Chinese tourist places, you cannot these days drive all the way to the attraction. You have to buy an entrance ticket and in addition, the rip-off tour bus ticket ... and it is full of people. There are a couple of stops along the way for you to take pictures, and the last leg you will have to hike up stairs. I can't remember how high it was but, there were probably 1000 steps. ><br >Bring a long a bottle, as besides the steps there's a fresh ice-melt stream where you can literally scoop up spring water to drink. We drank and didn't get sick, but up to you. The water was very cold, probably just a few degrees above freezing. So for the trip, even in summer you need to bring along a winter jacket. If you forget, they do have rental jackets. If you're a foreigner, you might even just want to rent those big green overcoats from the Mao days just for the heck of it. ><br >At the summit, you see the caldera. When we went there, the cafe was still under construction. You can walk around, and there ware soldiers guarding you from wandering further so that you don't end up in NK. ><br >All in all, it was a good site - but I personally thought the journey there was the highlight of this trip. This is a truly awesome place, like Crater Lake at a very high altitude. We went there in May and the lake was still partially frozen. The drivers of the bus that you have to take seem to take a perverse pleasure out of scaring the heck out of the visitors (you have to take the bus, private cars are not allowed). Other than that, a very interesting experience, so close to North Korea, so beautiful, definitely worth going to see. 