100 good and interesting powerpoint presentation topics for college students As a college or university student, you will have to write a number of presentations in the course of acquiring your degree. Choosing a suitable topic for  your college essay, research papers  or presentation that will keep your audience engaged is extremely essential. We know how hard this can be at times. To get you started, we have prepared a detailed list of 100 topics to get you thinking. Before you start on that, he are a few points to note in preparing and delivering your presentation. There is nothing as boring as a dull power-point presentation. It keeps the audience disengaged and 90% of the time, it does not convey the message intended. There a number of ways you can keep presentation entertaining and persuasive. Here are a few options. Begin by having an ice breaker . This can be something catchy that grabs the audience’s attention.  The core message on the topic should be deciphered in a subtle way, and a brief outline of the topics to be covered offered.  The audience should understand and create a mental picture of the topic or message immediately. The body of your presentation must be attractive to the audience. Ensure use of relevant quotes which will provoke curiosity to the listener. Use of humour is acceptable too. Make bold statement both in print and how you project your voice while presenting. This presents you as knowledgeable in the subject matter you are handling. Get your audience to participate.  Make their energy levels go up with a short activity to avoid their attention wandering off from the presentation.  An example would be to ask a rhetorical question and have two to four different answers from the audience. All the noteworthy facts of your subject must be incorporated in your presentation with short easy to remember points. This is a summation of the key points in your presentation. The conclusion slide should  have a punch line which will be unforgettable to to the audience. This can be done by reinforcing your theme and reminding audience purpose of your presentation. Once you are done presenting  allow a question and answer segment. Be ready to answer questions in depth. If the question does not touch to your specialty,  kindly refer the question to someone who can correctly answer it. Remember to thank your audience in your last slide before the Q and A You have your content as outlined above, however your slides should have an order for that visual effect to be more enticing. Scotts simple five stage process  helps you with the structure of the presentation slides. Ask yourself the question at the end of this presentation what do I want to have achieved? Identifying your objective and that of your audience is the first step. Always have a beginning, middle and end. All your slides should have a heading which flows seamlessly with other slides topic. A slide with a table of content might simplify your work when flipping through topics in different slides. Keep the prose good and clear. Neatly type each point you want to deliver, preferably  in  one slide. Have a set summary from each slide content in summary form. This is a resource you may use separately for your guidance. Content with fluff is unattractive.  Read through your presentation and remove all unnecessary bullets and replace them with something more interesting. Now you have your presentation in check. Let’s discuss a few highlights on how you present yourself to the audience. Dress like a slob and nobody will take you seriously. When you command your presence with your dressing, people will judge that you are knowledgeable in the subject matter you will present. This brings confidence to the audience that you are knowledgeable to the subject matter. When one does not make eye contact they are seen to be hiding something. Chewing gum distracts your audience and it is unattractive. It helps to practice speaking in front of a mirror or ask your relatives to listen to you while speaking. This builds your confidence. No worse way to start your presentation late when your audience is all fidgety. Always reach on time to the venue. Ensure your computer and any accessory you need for the presentation is set and working. Technology may at times fail you. Have your presentation printed out on hard copy. In case you cannot use your soft copies presentation. You may continue with your hard copies. A good way to end your talk Wondering which software you should use? Below is a list of the five alternative software for your PPT presentation. A free open source, so accessible to all. Has a good variety of features and templates at its disposal. It has limitation of certain features found in current PPT versions, like the animated  diagrams, internet broadcast and collaboration. It has some pretty refreshing features like the import/export compatibility with keynote files and support for embedding fonts in your presentation. A free Apple grade package. It is the flagship of Apple for presentation software.  It is freely available for anyone who owns a post mac 2013. A little similar to the desktop version, meaning you will have a few challenges. Some times documents  will not be supported with the online version. Any presentation can be shared online via a simple link. Similar to PowerPoint but with plenty of choice. Previously known as Kingsoft Office. The interface has the elements to perform every task you expect a slide to have. Stable application and has a wide range of templates to choose from. Presentation without traditional slides? Prezi does that for you in a very sleek way. This next generation tool gives you dynamic presentations and brilliant looks. The downside of it is that all presentation made by the free tool are made public. Need an eye catching presentation with a twist.  Those animated infographics is what powtoon can offer. Create video presentation, music presentation and much more. Includes a traditional editor for making perfect slide decks. There are many more software; we have just outlined a few. Your email address will not be published.  Required fields are marked  * Comment Name  * Email  * Website Essays Research Papers Assignment Services Homework Services Presentations Speech 