The Pressure of Competitive Sports - The New York Times Whether you re an armchair quarterback or barely notice when fall football season starts, you will be entertained by an essay today from my friend and former colleague Stefan Fatsis. Stefan, a Wall Street Journal sportswriter and author of the popular scrabble book  Word Freak,  recently joined the Denver Broncos training camp to see if he could cut it as a placekicker. He chronicles his experiences and those of his teammates in his new book,  A Few Seconds of Panic: A 5-Foot-8, 170-Pound, 43-Year-Old Sportswriter Plays in the NFL.  An excerpt from the book appears in today s Wall Street Journal. Even if you ve never played football, the lessons he learned will resonate with weekend warriors and parents of teens who play competitive sports. My goals were twofold, to see if I could bridge the gap a little bit with these guys, with these great athletes,  said Stefan in a video interview.  And also to really get beneath the surface of our 24-7 media obsession with sports and find out what the athletes really thought and cared about and felt intellectually and emotionally. Stefan says he was often surprised by the level of introspection he saw among his teammates.  We tend to think of football players as not terribly smart,  he said.  It s an incredibly complicated sport. You cannot be a dummy and make it at any position in the N.F.L. In today s essay, he writes about the first time he was asked to kick in front of the team. Unfortunately, it didn t go well. I did not perform terribly well in my debut as an N.F.L. kicker with everybody looking on,  he said.  It was really one of the most pressure filled moments of my life and one of the most deeply humiliating. After that kick, fullback Kyle Johnson spoke to him, while waiting to take a mandatory drug test. How was that for pressure?  he asks. More than anything I ve felt in my life,  I reply. That s what it s like every play of every game,  replied Mr. Johnson.  It ll keep you up at night   if you let it. To read the full essay and watch a video interview with Stefan, click  here . Comments are no longer being accepted. I think most parents would benefit their kids by impressing on them Stefan s comments that many athletes wonder whether the effort is worth it.  Most pro sports careers are very short.  The superstars make most of the money (the old 80%/20% rule).  And, especially in the NFL, the pressure to play hurt is enormous.  If you can t play because of injuries, you will get released.  (Unless you are one of the aforementioned superstars).  So, I think it s OK to dream to be a pro athlete, you must have a Plan B or Plan C. The position of kicker that Stefan played is the most tenuous of all.  Several missed kicks in pressure situations will get you waived. George Plimpton did something similar in Paper Lion except he tried at QB.  It s a great book and I highly recommend it. If you let it,  indeed. We as a nation have repeated ly  let it,  as evidenced by Tod Papageorge s recently-released photo book,  American Sports 1970: How We Spent the Vietnam War.  Little has changed in the decades since the 70 s. I d venture that on the whole Americans today pay more attention to college and professional sports to say nothing of Little League and youth soccer than they do to the war in Iraq and Afghanistan. One has only to flip through the channels late at night to see ESPN analysts straining to impress viewers with the dire importance of an NBA team s 54th round draft pick. On another sports station the College World Series is being broadcast: it is the middle innings and the score is 17-7. The announcers  voices are dripping with fake intensity as the team that is behind manages to get a baserunner with no outs. And so on. Sport on nearly every level in our culture from its participants to the fans is just another form of consumption. But wait here comes the Olympics! Yet what does professional sports really add to our culture?  The author may have missed a place kick but no one died as a result, financial markets did not collapse, hunger did not ensure.  In the real world we care more about the price of gas and whether the bus is ontime than we do about the success or failure of professional athletes.  In the end it is just a passtime, a diversion and perhaps a drug that keeps us from delving into bigger issues like what will our presidential candidates do if elected. Too bad we don t pay our police officers and teachers more and our athletes less. I love individual sports like gymnastics, running, skating, skiing, etc. where you are performing by yourself and the outcome depends on your performance (and not others).  Everytime I stepped out to compete the outcome was not a surprise because I was doing what I practiced.  With all this pressure put on an individual performance I felt like the only opponent and person I could blame or take in all the glory was myself (there were no teammates to blame to cover up my bad performance)!  It (individual sports) made it very easy to socialize and befriend others in the same sport as I was waiting my turn to practice, perform, etc.  We would share in the fun, complain about the coach punishing us with sets and suicides and try to find ways out of doing boring sets.  Lastly, we were never told to beat, attack our opponent which I think when taken to extremes can be misconstrued to cause friction, jealousy, (and even advocate) violence.  This is strange when that opponent may become your teammate later on. I never participated in team sports except in gym class and I thought they were soo boring   standing around on the sidelines, waiting or running after the ball.  I didn t like the fact that other people could effect my performance either and I didn t like to rely on others for that too.  In this way I  think individual sports taught me to be independent and responsible for my actions. Looking back, parents should encourage kids to play a wide variety of sports.  It teaches you to be a little competitive (let s face it   life is competitive) and it makes it easier to take up sports later in life. I think that there is a great deal of positive things that can be derived from participation in competitive team sports: teamwork, communication, dealing with adversity, friendship, fun, organization, winning and perhaps just as importantly, losing. Without question, however, our sports driven culture has a tendency to take things to the extreme. Often undermining the positive aspects of sport. The mouth guard used by the majority of the N.E. Patriots was designed with boxers. Fighters with TKO and Knockout history were compared to those who had no history. By comparing their TMJ condition the doctor determined a superior position in the prevention of TKO and Knockouts. Marvin Hagler initiated this research now proven to drastically reduce concussion and its symptoms with professional football players. Hagler never got TKO d or knocked out wearing the Maher mouth guard,go to  //www.mahercor.com  for info. Competitive sports is just one thing. It isn t necessary for health, it isn t morally superior, you don t need it to succeed in business. Get over it. Your kids can be heathy with walks in the woods, swimming, dance, backyard non-competitive tennis, touch-football and a whole host of totally non-competitive sports. On the other hand I work in a doctor s office and the worst injuries we see are sports injuries ALWAYS from competitive sports.  To me it is 1 step down from smokers  lung cancer as the great self-inflicted pain of our era   competitive sports has been made a god in this country it isn t. It might be just the opposite. I compete as a masters rower on a regular basis.  Competing gives me the motivation to train harder than I would otherwise.  There is great pressure on the race course but there is great camaraderie when we are off it. How was that for pressure?  he asks. More than anything I ve felt in my life,  I reply. That s what it s like every play of every game. It ll keep you up at night   if you let it. I expect it to. I ask Shanahan whether he ll give me another chance. He says he will. ___________ What a small world to test and perfect yourself in. Sorry for my cynicism here, but if Plimpton already did it so well in  Paper Lion  at a time when football was still the game of heroes here in the US, I m curious to know why Mr. Fatsis chose to retread steps instead of taking up a newer, more relevant American sport like soccer, especially if he s playing at kicker. What kind of deal was made between publication, PR agency, writer s agent, and sports team? Soccer is relevant in the US?  Hey I love the sport and coach two youth teams but aneas you are wrong.  Soccer is just not relevant to most Americans. Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions  |  All  Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. Advertisement Continue » Forgot password? Terms of Service Privacy Policy Don’t have an account?  Sign Up Terms of Service Privacy Policy Contact Us Already have an account?  Log In 