Spellbinders Indie Collection Blog Hop - Giveaway | Layered Oak Tree - Bibi Cameron Beautiful cards! I love the tree dies! Lovely cards with this beautiful Layered Oak Tree die set! So many possibilities! Love the Happy Expressions set too! I adore the layers of the tree. Yours are so subtle and pretty... love the use of watercolor on the trees. denayc denay.parke@us.yazaki.com Great cards and dies. Beautiful cards! Great cards. Love the layering. Wow, I love everyone one of your tree cards, you created an amazing mix of different styles and it really shows the versatility of this set! My faves are the monochromatic ones! Wow I love that tree die... It can be used in so many unique ways for different occasions.  Super beautiful and fun cards! Beautiful set and I love the variety of styles you ' ve created. Thanks for the inspiration. Love the new collection and your cards are gorgeous. The Layered Oak tree is quickly becoming my favorite. I see the beauty in all the color variety. Thanks for sharing your inspiration. Such fun!  I love seeing all the different ways you used the tree dies.  thanks for the inspiration. Gorgeous array of cards! The first two are simple, but quite elegant. The last one ... a cherry tree, maybe? I love it!! I loved all of your variations on the tree cards!  I am so happy you used the tree die... these are so lovely. Great examples of how wonderfully this die can be used. Nicely done. Bibi, I just loved seeing the many ways you used this tree layering die set. Your designs lend themselves so well to adding a quote as you ' ve shown so well. tfs and inspiring me. You have an amazing artistic way that you create cards. I watch your videos over and over. Great inspiration! Beautiful cards. I love the tree dies.. Thanks for sharing... Love your cards. Each tree is different  &  beautiful. Beautiful cards Bibi - the tree dies are gorgeous.  xx Beautiful card! I especially like the copper/white version, it is very elegant and understated. Of course I can ' t help but love a shaker card too :) WOW these are so AMAZING! So many different and fun ways to use the tree layered stamp! I am so in love with these new dies! The tree has to be my fav, it ' s so versatile.  For that particular one I ' ve already thought of a lot of ideas, sunsets behind, African scene with little tiny animals stamped in silhouette.  As I said this one could be used in so many ways--even sympathy! Thanks for sharing your ideas, the cards are beautiful! Beautiful trees Loving all these variations.  I was beginning to picture this die set in this way, so I am glad to see that someone actually did it!!!  I especially love the whimsy of the watercolored tree.  It is so much fun.  Thank you.  Beautiful cards!  Thanks for the inspiration! Excellent illustrations of the tree die! Amazing cards!  Loving the tree die! Thanks so much for sharing.   Wow it was so cool to see you use this tree die in so many different ways. All of your cards are beautiful! I really love the monochromatic look of this die on the first cards you shared :) So beautiful.  I would have never imagined pastel trees, but yours are gorgeous.  I visited your country a couple of years ago (a little village named Luss near Loch Lomand) and it was so wonderful.  You must be inspired by the beauty surrounding you every time you look out your window.  I love my home state of Texas, but nothing I ' ve seen here is as breathtakingly beautiful. Love the cards! Beautiful cards Bibi. Love the layers on the pretty trees... lovely colors too!  I like all the ways you showed the tree die cuts. You showed its versatility. Oooh, these are so beautiful!  Your cards are so beautiful! I think your cards created from the interesting tree dies are perfect and beautiful. Oh such beautiful cards!  I particularly like the water color tree and now the tree die is on my wish list! Great cards and showcase of the many ways this die can be used.  Thanks for sharing! Gorgeous and elegant cards!  So fun to see the oak die used in so many different ways. Love the inspiration cards. Especially the first two in pastels. The new release is really great! Really loving this new tree die!  Each of these is so pretty!  Love the different ways you used the dies! Congratulations Miriam You won the giveaway! Ill be in touch! thanks and thanks to all those who have participated. x Bibi Your cards are absolutely fabulous!!! I am really falling in love with this tree die!! Beautiful cards Bibi. Love all the variations you showed that can be done with this oak tree. Thank you for sharing.  Love your cards and the tree die! Fabulous cards!! Love all the different takes on the tree die!! That Layered Oak Tree is fabulous! I love all the cool ways you did it... how versatile! Love all of your cards! That tree die is so beautiful and versatile! I especially love the shaker card! Thanks for the inspiration! How versatile!  Each one is beautiful and different.  Great job! Im so in love with this collection  Beautiful cards!! love them. Love the variety of trees you created. This is a tree for any season! Love all of your colors. TFS. Wow.. so many wonderful creations!  Love the rainbow tree thought.. Wish I could sit under one and have all my dreams come true :) Your cards are just beautiful!! Now I need that tree die! Thanks for sharing your talent! Love your beautiful trees. Thanks for the fabulous inspiration. I love the monochromatic trees, they re so precious !! [margessw(at)icloud(dot)com] Soft and beautiful creations! :) Thanks for your comments.  All Rights Reserved. 