The 10 best hotels near Convention  &  Exhibition Center Station in Shenzhen, China Loading Pick your preferred language. We speak English and 42 other languages. View vacation packages to Hotel in Futian, Shenzhen(0.2 miles from Convention  &  Exhibition Center Station) Centrally located in Futian District, The Ritz-Carlton Shenzhen offers luxurious accommodations with free internet and free parking.  Hotel in Futian, Shenzhen(0.2 miles from Convention  &  Exhibition Center Station) Offering outdoor pool and indoor pool, Four Seasons Hotel Shenzhen is directly opposite Shenzhen Convention and Exhibition Center.  Hotel in Futian, Shenzhen(0.3 miles from Convention  &  Exhibition Center Station) Ideally located in the commercial center of Futian District, the Futian Shangri-La Hotel Shenzhen stands at 40 stories, making it one of the city’s landmarks.  Hotel in Futian, Shenzhen(0.1 miles from Convention  &  Exhibition Center Station) Sheraton Shenzhen Futian Hotel offers accommodations in the heart of Shenzhen’s Central Business District. It features 354 units and 4 dining options.  Hotel in Futian, Shenzhen(0.5 miles from Convention  &  Exhibition Center Station) Offering an indoor swimming pool, Wyndham Grand Shenzhen is located in Shenzhen.  Hotel in Futian, Shenzhen(0.2 miles from Convention  &  Exhibition Center Station) Located a 2-minute walk from Shenzhen Exhibition Hall, the Wongtee V Hotel features an outdoor pool and fitness center. Its rooms include free wired internet and an iPod dock.  Hotel in Futian, Shenzhen Popular with guests booking hotels in Shenzhen Hotel in Futian, Shenzhen Popular with guests booking hotels in Shenzhen Hotel in Futian, Shenzhen Popular with guests booking hotels in Shenzhen No.5 Xin Sha Road, Futian District, Futian, Shenzhen, Shenzhen Popular with guests booking hotels in Shenzhen Hotel in Futian, Shenzhen Popular with guests booking hotels in Shenzhen Hotel in Futian, Shenzhen Popular with guests booking hotels in Shenzhen Hotel in Futian, Shenzhen Popular with guests booking hotels in Shenzhen cross of zhenhua Road and Huafu Road, Huaqiang North, Futian, Shenzhen, Shenzhen Popular with guests booking hotels in Shenzhen Hotel in Futian, Shenzhen Located in Huaqiang North Business District, Huaqiang Plaza Hotel features comfy accommodations with free Wi-Fi. It offers a tour desk, a fitness center and a business center with meeting facilities.  Location Right in Center of Electronic Wholesale Market Area. Great ! Hotel in Futian, Shenzhen Located in Shenzhen, within 1.1 miles of Shenzhen Civic Centre and 1.8 miles of Shenzhen Convention  &  Exhibition Centre, Hilton Shenzhen Futian has a bar.  Service was fantastic - particular shoutout to Zora, who was very kind to my grandmother Hotel in Futian, Shenzhen Four Points by Sheraton Shenzhen is a 10-minute walk from Lok Ma Chau Port, Huanggang and Futian Border Crossing, and a 10-minute drive from Shenzhen Exhibition Center.  The staff went above and beyond to accommodate to our needs. Hotel in Futian, Shenzhen Named as one of Shenzhen ' s Top 10 Historical Buildings, Shenzhen Shanghai Hotel offers modern rooms with free Wi-Fi and wired internet.  Its near metro and electronic  market, only 4 station to railway to guanzhou, very clean and quiet,... Hotel in Futian, Shenzhen Towering over prosperous Futian District, Grand Skylight Hotel is only a few steps from Huaqiang Road Metro Station on Line 1.  Location. Service. Staff was very accommodating and friendly. Hotel in Futian, Shenzhen Opposite Shenzhen Golf Club, JW Marriott Hotel Shenzhen is an upscale setting centrally located along Shennan Boulevard, the thriving commercial area of Futian District.  The location and services As always Marriot Hotel in Futian, Shenzhen Marco Polo Shenzhen is located about a 5-minute walk from Shopping Park subway station and Futian Station. Shenzhen Convention  &  Exhibition Center is located around 14 minutes '  walk away.  Food, room , service location every thing... Hotel in Futian, Shenzhen Featuring free WiFi, Quchuang Hotel offers accommodations in Shenzhen. Shenzhen Stadium is 1.2 mi from Quchuang Hotel, while Shenzhen Civic Center is 1.8 mi from the property.  Location was great. It ' s located near the electronics shopping area. Hotel in Futian, Shenzhen Attractively located in the Futian district of Shenzhen, JI Hotel Shenzhen Shennan Avenue Huaqiang is located 1.9 miles from Shenzhen Civic Centre, 2.2 miles from Shenzhen Stadium and 2.2 miles from... Excellent stay at this hotel. If you are visiting the electronics market, it is about 10min away. Hotel in Futian, Shenzhen Hanting Hotel Shengzhen Huaqiang North Zhengxing Road is located in Shenzhen, just a 6-minute car ride from Shenzhen Stadium. Guests can enjoy the on-site restaurant.  Staff offered fantastic customer service and helped with everything during my stay. Hotel in Futian, Shenzhen Featuring free WiFi throughout the property, Motel Shenzhen Huanggang offers accommodations in Shenzhen.  Only the location all other things are too bad Hotel in Futian, Shenzhen Featuring free WiFi throughout the property, Vienna Hotel Shenzhen Fuhua Road is located in the Futian district in Shenzhen, 1.4 mi from Shenzhen Convention  &  Exhibition Center and 1.4 mi from... Big rooms and comfortable beds Hotel in Futian, Shenzhen Shenzhen Shangpin Hotel is located in Futian District, 656 feet from Gangxia Subway Station (Line 1). Free WiFi access is available as well as free parking.  Staff is good. Cleanliness is superb. Best connectivity to centre. Hotel in Futian, Shenzhen Norinco Hotel is a one-minute walk from Huaqiang Road Station (Metro Line 1) and a 5-minute walk from Shenzhen Central Park. It has a fitness center, a hot tub and 3 dining options.  Very near to electronic market. Hotel in Futian, Shenzhen Asta Hotel is in Shenzhen’s commercial center, a 15 minute walk from the Convention and Exhibition Center. It offers 3 dining options, free parking and rooms with free wired internet.  Nice Location , lobby looks beautiful and new , room has big space Hotel in Futian, Shenzhen Offering air-conditioned rooms in the Futian district of Shenzhen, Xana Hotelle is 1.2 miles from Shenzhen Civic Centre.  Hotel in Futian, Shenzhen Located in Shenzhen, an 11-minute walk from Shenzhen Civic Centre, Harmony International Hotel has air-conditioned accommodations and a seasonal outdoor swimming pool.  Nice hotel, very spaccious rooms, clean. Big bathroom. Big comfortable bed. Very good breakfest Hotel in Futian, Shenzhen Located a 5-minute drive from Convention and Exhibition Center Metro Station (Line 1 and Line 4), Jinjiang Inn – Shenzhen Fumin Road offers accommodations with free WiFi.  Very close to the Fumin metro station, so it’s easy to move around the city. Hotel in Futian, Shenzhen Featuring a shared lounge, Idea Jar Hotel is located in Shenzhen in the Guangdong region, 1.9 miles from Shenzhen Civic Centre and 2.2 miles from Shenzhen Convention  &  Exhibition Centre.  I didn ' t eat, but the beds were comfy. Hotel in Futian, Shenzhen Only a 10 minutes '  drive from the exhibition center, Hui Hotel Shenzhen is located in Futian District, Shenzhen. It features stylish spacious rooms with tasteful decorations and modern interiors.  Large rooms, comfy beds! So spacious. The staff is incredibly friendly and accommodating. Hotel in Futian, Shenzhen JI Hotel Shenzhen Expo Center (Huaqiang Bei) is ideally located in Futian District, 6 minutes by car from Shenzhen Civic Center. Free Wi-Fi access is available in all areas.  The rooms are nice, clean and big. It was just one night Hotel in Futian, Shenzhen Grand Skylight Garden Hotel Shenzhen is located in the center of the city, a 10-minute walk from Huaqiangbei Metro Station. It offers an outdoor swimming pool, restaurant, and rooms with free... good staff, clean, in city center Hotel in Futian, Shenzhen Offering air-conditioned rooms in the Futian district of Shenzhen, Hanting Express Shenzhen Huaqiang North Branch is an 8-minute drive from Shenzhen Stadium.  Good location near the markets and central of Shenzhen. Futian railway station is by metro 8min. Hotel in Futian, Shenzhen Located 1.5 miles from Fu Ming Metro Station Line 4, LVGEM Hotel features a spa and fitness center. Free internet access and free parking are provided. Rooms offer cable TV channels.  Always comfortable executive Rooms, which is why I stay at this hotel each year. Error: Please enter a valid email address. Error: Oops! An error has occurred. Thanks! We've sent you an email so you can confirm your subscription Refer a property List your property Booking.com is part of Booking Holdings Inc., the world leader in online travel and related services. We have more than 70 million property reviews, all from  real, verified guests . 1 The only way to leave a review is to first make a booking. That's how we know our reviews come from real guests who have stayed at the property. 2 When guests stay at the property, they check out how quiet the room is, how friendly the staff is, and more. 3 After their trip, guests tell us about their stay. We check for naughty words and verify the authenticity of all guest reviews before adding them to our site. If you booked through us and want to leave a review, please sign in first. Check-in date Check-out date 