Affordable and At-Scale Unique biweekly insights and news review from Ray Schroeder, Senior Fellow for UPCEA Affordable degrees at scale have arrived. The momentum behind this movement is undeniable, and its impact will be significant, Ray Schroeder writes. Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email Copy Link (Editor ' s note: This is the initial entry in a new  Inside Higher Ed  blog,  Online: Trending Now,  by Ray Schroeder, founding director of UPCEA s National Council for Online Education. Ray, professor emeritus and associate vice chancellor for online learning at the University of Illinois at Springfield, has been publishing  Online: Trending Now  on the  UPCEA  site.  Inside Digital Learning  is pleased to bring his postings to our readers now.) *** How many times have we been told that major change in our field is on the near horizon? Too many times, indeed. The promises of technologies and practices have fallen short more often than not. Just seven years ago, I was part of the early MOOC movement and felt the pulsating potential of teaching thousands of students around the world in a single class. The  year of the MOOC  was declared in 2012. Three years later, skeptics declared that the MOOC had died an ignominious death with high  failure  rates and relatively little recognition by employers. However, the skeptics were too impatient, misunderstood the nature of MOOCs and lacked the vision of those at Georgia Tech, the University of Illinois, Arizona State University, Coursera, edX and scores of other institutions that have persevered in building upon MOOCs  premises to develop high-quality, affordable courses, certificates and now, degrees at scale. No, these degrees are not free, but they are less than half the cost of on-campus versions. No, they are not massive in the hundreds of thousands, but they are certainly at large scale with many thousands enrolled. In computer science, the success is felt across the country. Georgia Tech alone has enrolled 10,000 students over all in its online master s program and is adding thousands of new students each semester in a top 10-ranked degree program costing less than $7,000. Georgia Tech broke the new ground through building collaborations among several partners. Yet, that was just the beginning, and many leading universities have followed. Coursera now offers a dozen online degrees  from top universities at half the normal tuition or less. Eight more degrees are  currently offered through edX . I recently attended the third  Affordable Degrees at Scale  symposium at Georgia Tech. This small, limited-invitation gathering provides an insider s view of the technology, pedagogy, design and financial aspects of reinventing higher education in an affordable, effective and worldwide format. Sidebar conversations abound on how to fine-tune delivery, design, engagement and effectiveness. It has the feel of the gathering of start-up entrepreneurs who are sharing their  secret sauce  as well as their goals for new initiatives with peers whom they respect. Much credit goes to  Nelson Baker, dean of professional education at Georgia Tech  and incoming president of UPCEA, who created this symposium. Along with  Associate Dean Yakut Gazi , they brought together the national leaders in this field and created an open discussion atmosphere through the  implementation of  Chatham House Rule  that protects anonymity and respects confidentiality in the symposium. A highlight of each of the three symposia I have attended has been to share some minutes with  Professor Ashok Goel , who is well-known for his creation of the virtual teaching assistant  Jill Watson,  and her later iterations as well as  nano-tutors that populate his courses . It is his work and the work of others who share his passion to bring effective learning practices to scale that has made  at-scale  learning possible by engaging students and meeting their needs through artificial intelligence. As AI technologies are deployed, there is the prospect that such programs will more fully offer personalized learning than on-campus programs. This advancement in higher education is expanding rapidly. Know that these initiatives will impact your recruitment and enrollment in graduate programs in the coming years. Master s tuition at half price or less among top-ranked universities in at-scale programs with essentially unlimited capacity is a factor that all of higher education must consider. If your university is not engaged in planning for this, perhaps you should lead the discussion today. jump to comments Study suggests that professors should standardize their grading curves to boost women's enrollment i Men are banding together in class-action lawsuits against discrimination in Title IX cases (opinion) A new (Jesuit) model for community colleges How to write an effective diversity statement (essay) The colleges and universities with the most online students in 2018 Protesters demand removal of UT Austin professors Professor Removed Then Reinstated Over Discussion on Race The Annual Extra-Credit Warning PSA | Confessions of a Community College Dean Colleges explore ways to reduce academic stress Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email Copy Link Be the first to know. Get our  free  daily newsletter. Expand  comments Hide  comments    —   Join the conversation! 