Free Verizon Pixel stand? : GooglePixel use the following search parameters to narrow your results: e.g. subreddit:aww site:imgur.com dog see the search faq for details. advanced search: by author, subreddit... 896 users here now For answers, support and more information on the Pixel devices and Google ' s hardware, from the community and Google. Everything you need, including support, flair info, leaks, and AMAs, is right here. If you ' re having issues getting a problem solved with Google Support,  u/dmziggy ' s ticketing system can help you get it escalated. This post by  u/jaykresge  may help to explain why you ' re still waiting for the latest update, and why carriers may be the reason. Report  major recurring bugs  by messaging the moderating team. NOTE: You must be signed into your Google account to view bugs on the Google Issue Tracker. Also, a reminder to users visiting links to the Issue Tracker: star the issue. DO NOT COMMENT unless you have evidence to share. Join us in our chatrooms on  Telegram ,  Allo  RIP Allo , and  Discord ! Subscribe to  this calendar  to follow the biggest events coming to  r/GooglePixel . Click on each rule for its full description. (In the case of discrepancy, the rules linked above will take precendence.) Posts must be related to the Google Pixel devices and the  #madebygoogle  lineup. No battery posts unless excepted. No low-quality memes or NSFW content. No URL shorteners or referral/affiliate/self-promotion links or codes. No flaming or trolling. No disinformation or illegal content. Keep reposts to a minimum. AmAs, Q & As, giveaways, and other community-facing content must be approved by moderators. Restricted topics. And as always, be nice and follow  reddiquette . the front page of the internet. and subscribe to one of thousands of communities. Free Verizon Pixel stand? ( self.GooglePixel ) submitted 6 months ago by huskerpat Anyone know when these are supposed to ship?  There was no real confirmation other than we ' ll ship them. Post a comment! [–] The_Keebla Pixel 3 128GB  2 points 3 points 4 points 6 months ago (2 children) So I did this as well and didn ' t receive anything. If you go to the My Verizon app and chat with them they will send it next day. As long as you pre-ordered through the app on day one you won ' t have a problem. Just tell them that you never received an email or anything [–] heffalumpedbywoozles 1 point 2 points 3 points 6 months ago (1 child) I tried chatting via the website and was just told it would come sometime. Then I tried calling on Friday and was told it will ship within 3 weeks. Maybe I should chat through the app if yours was shipped the next day.. [–] The_Keebla Pixel 3 128GB  2 points 3 points 4 points 6 months ago (0 children) Yeah I definitely recommend trying that. I didn ' t try the other methods so idk if we just had different situations. Could ' ve just been a good rep. They sent me one as if I bought it then they waived the fee of it  [–] ImNotPanicking 1 point 2 points 3 points 6 months ago (0 children) I just did the app chat as Keebla recommended and was told I ' ll receive it after the next billing cycle.  While that seems like a long wait, it falls in line with the Google Daydream promo timeline from 2016 [–] snoopysmom13 1 point 2 points 3 points 6 months ago (3 children) If you ordered the free Pixel stand from Verizon, call them to make sure the order was processed through. Called after I received my phone and it turns out the order was never processed. Glad I called.  [–] huskerpat [ S ] 0 points 1 point 2 points 6 months ago (2 children) I did a chat session, but I have a very low level of confidence with who I was speaking too.  He was unaware of the promotion altogether. [–] snoopysmom13 0 points 1 point 2 points 6 months ago (1 child) That ' s what I had a problem with. The sales associate who picked up when I called to follow up had no idea. Took him about 20 minutes of digging into my file notes and looking at old promotions to find it. Eventually he had to get help from his supervisor who said he had been doing overrides all day to get those sent to customers who were supposed to get a free stand. I ' d call the customer support line.  [–] snoopysmom13 0 points 1 point 2 points 6 months ago (0 children) If it gives you any idea of a timeline - I did my follow up call on Friday October 19th. Stand was shipped the next day and I am supposed to have it within the next couple days  [–] Jiggaman508 1 point 2 points 3 points 6 months ago (0 children) Chatted with a rep through the app, she told me they would arrive this week!  [–] BluegrassMotorsport 1 point 2 points 3 points 6 months ago (0 children) I wondered the same thing and called Verizon Support today. The support agent found a note from his management (apparently many have have called about this issue) and said the Stand will ship 7-10 business days after the phone ships. My phone shipped and delivered last week so he said to expect the Stand no later than the 29th.  [–] mobilehavoc Pixel 3 XL 128GB  1 point 2 points 3 points 6 months ago (0 children) I got no email or confirmation but there ' s a FedEx label created that ' s supposed to come to me this week from VZW. I didn ' t order anything from them so must be Pixel Stand. Due to issues I canceled my original Pixel order and reordered so I ' m not sure they ' re actually going to ship to me or just created the label. Hopefully I get it.  [–] ifdinosruled 1 point 2 points 3 points 6 months ago (1 child) Just did a chat and was told they are shipping in the next 3-4 days. [–] spirolateral Pixel 3XL 64GB 0 points 1 point 2 points 6 months ago (0 children) They told me that last week too. I don ' t believe anything they say at this point. I ' ve chatted with them multiple times now without any real answers.  [–] Imlulse 0 points 1 point 2 points 6 months ago (0 children) Are these actually in stock at stores? Google has been telling me both the Stand and Fabric case I ordered directly from them are out of stock, the order was delayed with no ETA, pretty ambiguous and annoying. [–] spirolateral Pixel 3XL 64GB 0 points 1 point 2 points 6 months ago (0 children) Finally got a shipping notification. Arriving Friday!  [–] huskerpat [ S ] 0 points 1 point 2 points 6 months ago (1 child) Mine came in today.  Never received a shipping notice. [–] crazeguy 0 points 1 point 2 points 6 months ago (0 children) Same. I never even received any sort of confirmation I was eligible for the offer. It was weird. They sent me 3 so I can ' t really complain  [–] twogsandanm 0 points 1 point 2 points 6 months ago (0 children) Mine arrived today, 10/26. What ' s funny is I cancelled my Pixel 3xl pre-order with Verizon on 10/18 because I could get it faster and cheaper by buying through Google directly. Hmm... Do I send it back, or keep it to make up for so many if the damn extra fees they have charged me over the years? Posts are automatically archived after 6 months. We are unable to post your link or media unless you can verify to us that you own the rights to it. And if you’re just a small-time creator and not a big media conglomerate, good luck with that. ><br >JUST KIDDING (your post is fine). But we won’t be kidding if the new EU Copyright Directive passes the European Parliament. Learn more about how to contact your MEP and what else you can do to #saveyourinternet. Posts are automatically archived after 6 months. We are unable to post your link or media unless you can verify to us that you own the rights to it. And if you’re just a small-time creator and not a big media conglomerate, good luck with that. ><br >JUST KIDDING (your post is fine). But we won’t be kidding if the new EU Copyright Directive passes the European Parliament. Learn more about how to contact your MEP and what else you can do to #saveyourinternet. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy .   2019 reddit inc. All rights reserved. REDDIT and the ALIEN Logo are registered trademarks of reddit inc. By having a Reddit account, you can subscribe, vote, and comment on all your favorite Reddit content. Sign up in just seconds. Already have an account? Log In Skip for now Reddit is filled with interest based communities, offering something for everyone. Check out some communities and we recommend you subscribe to at least 5. Your username is how other community members will see you. This name will be used to credit you for things you share on Reddit. What should we call you? Having a hard time picking a name? Here are some available suggestions. Rendered by PID 18621 on  r2-app-026961e52fcf4801e  at 2019-04-27 02:36:39.918155+00:00 running 4c1f176 country code: US. 