WMNF | Volunteer at WMNF - WMNF WMNF Home Support Volunteer at WMNF WMNF volunteers have fun providing a variety of needed services to keep your community radio station alive and kickin . Volunteers do everything here from paperwork to programming; recycling to refiling records; and during our on-air Marathons, it s the volunteers who put the  fun  in fundraising. All we ask is a commitment of time. Can you spare two hours a month? Ten? One hundred? You can sign up  here  to volunteer. We use  Signup Genius  to manage volunteer positions at events and during the fund drive, and for some of our volunteer positions. If you create an account with them (using the same email address as the one used with WMNF), you can see WMNF s calendar of volunteer stuff. For more information, contact help@wmnf.org to find out how you can help, and check the calendar for upcoming Station Meetings. 1210 E Dr Martin Luther King Jr Blvd Tampa, FL 33603-4417 813-239-9663  (Air Studio) dj@wmnf.org  (Email the DJ) 813-433-0885  (Text the DJ) 813-238-8001  (Office) WMNF is non-commercial community conscious radio  we survive only due to the generosity of listeners like you. Please consider a sustaining monthly contribution and receive annual coupons for swag when you  Join the WMNF Circle of Friends . We use cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. For details, see the  WMNF Privacy Policy . We use cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. See the  WMNF Privacy Policy  for details.  WMNF Privacy Policy NOTE:  These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Google Analytics allows this website to record anonymous data such as your IP address and the pages you visit. This is of great importance to WMNF so that we may continue to improve on your experience. For complete details about how WMNF handles your data, see the  < a href= " /privacy "  target= " _blank " > WMNF Privacy Policy < /a > 