50 55 + Senior Apartments near Kansas City, MO| A Place For Mom Talk to a local advisor for FREE Searching for Senior Apartments facilities in Kansas City, MO? Expert Senior Living Advisors from A Place for Mom can help direct you to Senior Apartments facilities. Together, we’ll find the perfect fit for your loved one; and we’ll provide direction and support as needed. We partner with 50 Senior Apartments facilities in MO and the surrounding area, so there are many options to choose from. A Place for Mom is the largest senior living referral service in North America, and we can help you make a good choice at no cost to you. Looking for general info?  Click here for more on Senior Apartments in Kansas City. Affordable housing for seniors 62 or BETTER. Your rent and deposit will be based off of 30% of your income. This beautiful oasis is near downtown Kansas City, Kansas. Our beautiful community features fully shelved library, a comfortable community room complete with computer lounge with Wi-Fi access,... Immanuel Manor Apartments-55+ years old and/or disabled.  This lovely building has charm and is a very warm place to live. Not only is it centrally located,we have ton of activities waiting just for you. In the summer we have a community garden adjacent to our property. The Newest 55+ Apartment Community in North Kansas City!  Move into your brand new home today!  We have one bedrooms starting at $975 and two bedrooms staring at $1150!  Restaurants and shopping at your door! Delaware Highlands Assisted Living is focused on providing assisted living services for the low to moderate income senior adult.  Delaware Highlands offers a warm home-like setting for all our residents. We provide affordable assisted living in a compassionate, caring manner so that senior adults... Questions? Call one of our advisors. We value your privacy. By clicking Request Info, you agree to our  Privacy Policy . You also consent to our reaching out to you using a system that can auto-dial numbers; you do not need to consent to use our service. Mount Washington Senior Apartments Offers a unique living experience with this historically restored building which was once the first elementary school of Independence. Mount Washington appreciates its historical roots with its warm designs, in-home chalkboards, restored hardwood floors, and large... Our Senior Independent Living is awaiting you today. The Owners' of Canyon View Capital, Regional Manager, full time Maintenance,  &  Marlina, the Community Manager  take pride in the history and upkeep and maintaining of Bowen building. Our number one priority is to ensure Comfort Living in a quiet... Apartment complex for Senoirs 58 and older. There are three spacious floorplans, two different one bedrooms and one two bed and two bath. We are a gated community, we have a heated pool, walk in closets, washer/dryer hook-up, pet friendly and a van for transportation. There are also activities... Newly Remodeled Studio Apartment Homes  John Calvin Manor is a premier independent senior apartment community located off 50 Highway, 1 block south of Chipman Road in Lee's Summit, Missouri.  John Calvin is an ideal community for individuals 62 yrs of age and up or individuals under 62 with a... Luxury Resort Style Community for Active 55+ Adults Experience affordable, luxury living in a beautiful Colorado inspired community. Our homes feature designer finishes with spacious floor plans to fit your style and unique taste. Enjoy maintenance free living with new friends in a community that... Garden Grove Senior Apartments feature studio and one-bedroom apartments that blend quality, service, and affordability within a caring senior community.  Best of all, we offer a sliding rent scale - based on income - so qualified residents do not pay more than 30% of their income for rent and... Apartment Amenities -All electric -Full kitchen including: -Range and oven -Refrigerator with ice maker -Garbage disposal -Dishwasher -Ceiling fans -Full size stackable washer and dryer in each unit  Community Amenities -Community room with full kitchen -Computer library -Fitness room -Billiards... Welcome home to Chapel Hill Commons III! We have beautiful 2 bedroom apartments available in our comfortable 62+ senior community. Spaces are limited so tour today! The Gardens, a Bethesda Senior Living Community is a non-profit, faith- based independent retirement living community that has been located in southwest Springfield, Missouri since 2001. This retirement community has everything active seniors are looking for and great customer service provided by... Tera Vera is a sophisticated gated community that offers stress-free, upscale living for Springfield's 55+. Every detail of the community is centered around supporting your active lifestyle both today and in the years to come. Thrive in a welcoming, pet-friendly atmosphere that features an on-site... Opening in mid 2016, Ingram Mill Villa's is Springfield's Premier 55+ Luxury Lifestyle! 1 and 2 bedroom villas with hardwood floors, granite counter tops and space galore will be just among the few features that you will love about this community! The Villas are part of The Wooten Company, which has... The Fremont Senior Living is a Continuum of Care community offering Independent Apartments and Patio Homes, Assisted Living Level Two Suites, and a Memory Care Cottage. The Fremont is a locally owned and operated community that has been providing the highest level of customer service and care to... Fairbury 23 Apartments is a former high school that has been renovated into apartments for low-income seniors, and is on the National Register of Historic Places. Trophy cases along the hallways display memorabilia of former students, some of who are now residents. Much of the original woodwork... CAMELOT VILLAGE is located in Council Bluffs, Iowa, and is made up of units including 29 one-bedroom and 7 efficiency apartments. Four of these units are designed specifically for physically handicapped persons. Apartment amenities include a shower with tub, safety rails in bathroom, electric... Malone Manor is an affordable, older adults housing community. It's 50-unit, three-story senior living community is set amidst a lovely park-like setting. Directly across the street is a popular city park, boasting many trails for hikers and bicyclists alike. The Joanne Maxey Senior Center (right... At Skyline Assisted and Independent Living, you will discover more than our well-appointed community and extensive range of services. You will find a warm dedicated staff committed to creating a place you will be delighted to call home.  From nutritious healthy meals, fun interactive activities, and... Enjoy countless opportunities to connect, grow and live up to your full potential. Sedgwick Plaza offers exceptional personal care and support that suits the individual lifestyles and personal needs of each and every resident. Sedgwick Plaza is more than senior living - it's a way of life. Sedgwick... Alice Place Apartments is a brand new complex located on the Eastern edge of Waukee. We offer 1 and 2 bedroom units with all appliances. This includes the washer/dryer , stove, refrigerator, dishwasher and microwave in each unit. Each resident is given a storage unit at no charge and has access to... Virginia Park Apartments is a lovely, contemporary two-story building surrounded by a spacious, open lawn, which boasts mature trees and colorful flower gardens. This community is located just minutes from downtown Des Moines. Within walking distance is a grocery store and convenience store. The... Thomas Place at Waukee opened in March of 2011. We are a smoke free, pet free independent living apartment community. We offer many features in our building to help keep you independent such as indoor mailroom, indoor heated parking garage, exercise room, hair salon and more.  Our grounds offer... Ramsey Village Continuing Care Retirement Community located on 10-acres of beautiful landscapped land provides a full range of choices for today's seniors. Choosing a senior living community represents a lifestyle choice and we understand that our residents are choosing much more than a comfortable... Pioneer Manor is a three-story building with lush trees on the west side and pine shrubbery at both entrances. The interior has an elevator, coin laundry and 20 one-bedroom units. Each apartment is approximately 540 square feet with individual heating and cooling, an electric range and a... We provide maintenance free living for seniors and multi family tenants in one and two bedroom apartments in Beloit, Kansas (KS). Quiet Retirement Community for residents 55 and older.One and two bedroom spacious apartments.  Safe, Fenced, well lite property.  All Units come with Garage  &  Storage unit with all utilities included except electricity! The Mound City Apartments are senior apartments located in the serene community of Mound City, Holt County , MI. When looking for an area with small town charm and lots of things to do, then the Mound City Area is the place for you. There is a very strong sense of community in here, which is why... Glendale at the Mansion is an affordable senior housing community located in the large city of Independence, Jackson County, MO. The community is conveniently local to nearby shopping and dining and in close proximity to the large Van Hook Park. It is also nearby many historical attractions,... Nettleton Manor Apartments is a senior, 62 and over housing community located in Bonner Springs, Johnson, Leavenworth, and Wyandotte counties, KS. Our community is located in the metropolitan city, but is within walking distance to a local park and the Kansas River. The views make it a great place... Cedar Square is a senior housing community in South Cedar, Ottawa, Franklin County, Kansas. It has a very active senior housing program for citizens aged 55 years and older. It is tucked away from the bustling noise of the city with the greenery surrounding the locality creating a stunningly... Clinton Manor is a premier senior apartment located in downtown Clinton, Henry County, MO. The Clinton Manor is an appealing place to live. It neighbors the lake and has one bedroom apartments that suits 62-years old and over. The disabled can also live here. The location is convenient and has easy... The Center senior Apartments is a 62+ residence located in the charming city of Chillicothe, Livingston County, Missouri. With comfortable and affordable units and friendly residents, The Center Apartments is a great choice for your new home.  Known as 'The Home of Sliced Bread', Chillicothe is a... Broadview Towers is our beautiful senior living facility located in Emporia, Kansas. Our community is open to seniors who are 62 and older; however, qualified disabled individuals may also become residents. Broadview Towers has recently undergone major renovations to make the community an even safer... Horizon Plaza Apartments is located in old timey beautiful Emporia, Lyon County, Kansas. Emporia has the charm and elegance of history all over town with 13 structures that are listed on the 'National Register of Historic Places.' Emporia has a small town love for people. Emporia was also the first... Oakwood Terrace senior housing is in Princeton town, Mercer County, Missouri. The low-income housing is only a two-hour drive Northeast of Kansas City. The 55+ who are looking for convenient onsite accommodation will be attracted to our all bills paid 35 senior apartments. From our apartments, the... Loess Hills Estates has been around and providing excellent care since 1961. This is a place that offers many different living situations for residents. Located in Glenwood, IA this is a place that can provide the relaxed environment that many people are looking for in the retirement years. This is... Villas at Quail creek is a senior housing community located in Springfield, Greene County, Missouri. At least one person in the family should meet the minimum age of fifty-five years to get a place in the community. The community setting attracts many due to its location in the middle of a quite... Chatelaine Residences is a senior living community that is located in Lincoln, NE. Lincoln is the capital city of Nebraska and is the second most populous city in all of Nebraska. Chatelaine Residences is conveniently located nearby local shopping, entertainment and dining. Although the city is very... Charles Senior Housing is a senior housing community situated in Lincoln, Lancaster County, Nebraska. Tucked between the capitol and the city county buildings one gets a tree top view of the Lincoln. Its location provides a suburb feel as residents can easily access a nearby shopping mall that has... Benton Place Apartments is an affordable and pleasant senior housing community located in the charming city of Albia in Monroe County, Iowa. Albia is a quiet but active community with friendly citizens. Albia hosts many different community events, such as shows and farmer's markets. Must-sees are... Shelly Rose Estates is a high-quality senior housing community located in the Midwestern city of Des Moines, Polk County, Ohio. Des Moines offers many opportunities to experience cultural activities and events, such as attending the Des Moines Symphony and visiting the many local art galleries and... Proximity to hospitals might be a significant consideration when choosing the right retirement home. In total, there are 2 hospitals located in Kansas City which offer emergency services and other healthcare. The top hospitals in Kansas City include University Of Kansas Hospital and Providence Medical Center.  The neighborhood in which a facility is based will have a huge impact on the price of care. The total cost of living can be a big influence when deciding which community works for your loved one. The sales tax in Kansas City is 6.50%. The median home value in Kansas City is $136,124 and the median rent is $1,017 per month a month. The rent burden for Kansas City is about 17.7% of the average person's monthly income.  The air quality, humidity, and air temperature of a city can have a significant influence on the overall health of your loved one. Monthly, Kansas City measures around 3 inches of precipitation. The most precipitation historically occurs in June with an average of 6 inches in a month. For snowfall, Kansas City receives on average 16.00 inches of snow per year. The average humidity rating for Kansas City is around 59%. Humidity ratings peak during the month of December at approximately 65%. The average air quality index rating in Kansas City is about 51.6. The average air quality conditions are rated as moderate. This means that those who are unusually sensitive should consider limiting the amount of time spent on outdoor exertion. The air quality index rating reaches its max in the month of December at around 74.7. During this time, the average air quality conditions are rated moderate. This means that those who are unusually sensitive should consider limiting the amount of time spent on outdoor exertion.  In the summer, Kansas City is approximately 80°F. The low summer temperature drops to around 68°F during June. The summer high is at roughly 91°F in the month of July. In winter months, the temperature in Kansas City drops to approximately 35°F. The high winter temperature gets to about 47°F in the month of February. The low winter temperature is roughly 23 °F in the month of January. Kansas City has a humid subtropical type of climate.  In terms of education, 12.6% have a graduate degree, 26.0% have a high-school diploma, and 33.5% have a college degree. Out of the total population of Kansas City, 5.5% are widowed, 13.3% do not have health insurance, 17.3% live in poverty, and 13.0% have some form of disability. In terms of Christian denominations, out of the total population of Kansas City 16.1% practice Catholicism, 13.3% practice another Chrisitan faith, and 10.0% are Baptists. In Kansas City, 50.3% are nonbelievers. In terms of non-Christian denominations in Kansas City, out of the total population 0.0% practice Judaism, 0.1% practice an Eastern religion, and 0.4% practice Islam. During the last presidential election, 32.1% voted Republican, 6.7% voted for a third party candidate, and 61.2% voted Democrat in Jackson county. In Kansas City, 7.2% of the population are veterans. Kansas City is considered neutral to members of the LGBTQ+ community. Racially, the population of Kansas City is 4.4% other or not specified, 0.4% Native American, 28.7% black, 3.3% mixed race, 60.3% white, 2.8% Asian, 0.1% Pacific Islander or Native Hawaiian, and 10.2% Hispanic. In terms of crime, Kansas City has 9.1 violent crimes per 1000 residents and 32.6 property crimes per 1000 residents. Out of the total city population, 48.7% are male and 51.3% are female. The median age of Kansas City is 35 years old. In Kansas City, 22.8% of the population are over the age of 55, 9.8% are over the age of 60, 5.0% are over the age of 70, and 3.2% are over the age of 80.  The current population of Kansas City is growing at a rate of 0.000%. Kansas City has a population density of 599 people per square mile.  In terms of resources, Missouri has a cost of living index of 88.8, a grocery index rating of 96.6, and a housing index rating of 70.6. These index ratings are based on a system where 100 is considered the national average and anything below 100 is considered less expensive than the national average. Overall, Missouri ranks 28th in quality of life and 41st in healthcare compared to other US states. Based on natural beauty, Missouri ranks 9th in the nation. In total, Missouri has 128 general hospitals and 212 health centers that provide care for 6,144,344 citizens. The three highest ranked hospitals in Missouri are Mosaic Life Care At St Joseph, Mercy Hospital St Louis, and Mercy Hospital Springfield.  In the most recent presidential election, 57% of Missouri residents voted Republican and 38% voted Democrat. The state has a median age of 39 and 30% of its population being over the age of 55. Thirty-seven percent of Missouri residents regularly attend a religious service from one of the state's 9,001 different congregations. The top three Christian denominations in the state are Evangelical Protestant-36%, Mainline Protestant-16%, and Historically Black Protestant-6%. The top three non-Christian denominations in the state are Jewish- < 1%, Muslim- < 1%, and Buddhist- < 1%. In Missouri there are 414 masonic lodges. In terms of diversity, Missouri ranks 35th in the nation.  Missouri experiences an average humidity rating of about 69%.  Humidity levels tend to reach their peak in the month of December at around 75%. The average amount of precipitation peaks during the month of June at around 6.57 inches.  On average, the state receives 3.63 inches of precipitation a month. During the winter, the average temperature in Missouri drops to around 33°F. During the winter, the average high temperature peaks at around 51°F during the month of February. The average low temperature during the winter drops to around 12°F in the month of January. During the summer, the average temperature in Missouri is around 76°F.  The average high summer temperature is around 92°F in the month of July. In the summer, the average low temperature drops to around 57°F during the month of June. The average air quality index rating in Missouri is 37.3 AQI. The highest seasonal air quality index rating occurs in the month of May with a rating of 48.7 AQI. While residents of Missouri mostly enjoy pleasant conditions, it's important to be aware of inclement weather as well, which in Missouri can include floods, earthquakes (moderate), and and tornados.  The state of Missouri has a diverse array of plant and animal life. Local plant life can consist of dogwood, kentucky bluegrass, wild grape, and kentucky bluegrass.  While venturing throughout the state, you might see animals such as the silver-haired bat, the cougar, the mule deer, or the long-tailed weasel.  The state animal of Missouri is the the mule.  A Place For Mom is the largest assisted living referral service. We are paid by our participating communities, therefore our service is offered at no charge to families.  Find out more  Copyright  2019 A Place for Mom, Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Privacy & Terms . 