Pin on Motivation for a healthier lifestyle See 83 photos and 11 tips from 656 visitors to Zamboanga City.  " I’d advice that you take a look around the main town, then the nature surrounding it.... " A modern hand-lettering pioneer, Lindsay Letters Studio offers foil ART PRINTS and heirloom-quality CANVASES with meaningful phrases and abstract art. ❤ What I Learned Memorizing and Studying Luke 6:38 Care packages filled with beautiful, handmade treasures and a heartfelt message sure to bless you or someone you love. Copy of hand-drawn print reading And now these three remain, faith, hope and love. But the greatest of these is love. - Instant Download - DETAILS - ↟ 8x10 inch design ↟ PDF File ↟ High resolution 300 dpi in RGB. ↟ Personal use only ↟ Print onto A4, 8x10 or letter paper ↟ This listing is for a A darker blue version of one of my designs from the popular song, Oceans by Hillsong United. This print coordinates with these: https://www.etsy.com/listing/249998128/oceans-you-call-me-out-upon-the-waters?ref=shop_home_active_1 This print was inspired by lyrics from the following hymn penned by HOratio Spafford.  " It is Well with My Soul "  When peace like a river, attendeth my way, When sorrows like sea billows roll; Whatever my lot, Thou hast taught me to know, It is well, it is well, with my soul. Refrain: It is well, (it is well), With my soul, (with my soul) It is well, it is well, with my soul. Though Satan should buffet, though trials should come, Let this blest assurance control, That Christ has… Shop Luke 6:38 Canvas created by GoodMeasureCreative. Personalize it with photos  &  text or purchase as is! Christianity is facing great opposition. No one is being thrown to lions, but many followers of Christ face persecution because of their beliefs. At the very... Do everything in love 1 Corinthians 16:14 The Bible indicates that love is from God. In fact, the Bible says God is love. God has endowed us with the capacity for love, since we are created in His image. This capacity for love is one of the ways in which we are created in the image of God. 1 Corinthians 16:14 tells us to do everything in love. -Floral Theme -Different size options available -Frame not included -Instant download high resolution option Originally drawn and colored in my ESV Journaling Bible... these four (4) original Bible Verse Bookmarks are ready for you to print and color however you like... adding your own personal and loving touch. Included are: Luke 10:27, Luke 11:9, Luke 12:31,  &  Luke 13:35. Use them for bookmarks, tuck God &# x27;s Plans is a mixed media by Shevon Johnson which was uploaded on September 15th, 2010. The mixed media may be purchased as wall art, home decor, apparel, phone cases, greeting cards, and more. All products are produced on-demand and shipped worldwide within 2 - 3 business days. Shop Grey  &  White Wedding Welcome Hashtag Wedding Sign created by printabledigidesigns. Personalize it with photos  &  text or purchase as is! Shop Inspirational Faith Quote Poster - photography created by MaleahTorneyDesigns. Personalize it with photos  &  text or purchase as is! ♥Welcome to Seeds of Faith!♥ As a deer longs for streams of water Psalm 42:1 BUY 3 Get 1 FREE! Use code: B3G1F Before placing your order, please take time to read the information below. - No physical item will be shipped. - You are purchasing a high resolution file - Save money and print yourself! See Psalm 28:7  " The Lord is My Strength and My Shield " . Download and share images from our entire collection of encouraging Bible verse art for free! “The Lord is my strength...” 25% of all bible verse prints will be donated to buy bibles for people in Asia! - https://www.gfa.org/ Your Word is a Lamp to my Feet and a Light to my Path. - Psalm 119:105 This listing is for an INSTANT DOWNLOAD of this print and no physical item will be shipped to you. All Mini Press designs Biblical words of inspiration and encouragement for our daily walk with Christ. The latest Tweets from Melissa (@Lissy315). NEVER LIE TO SOMEONE THAT TRUSTS YOU AND NEVER TRUST SOMEONE THAT LIES TO YOU. Auburn University graduate - hobby photographer - follower of Christ. Alabama ******* New ******* Our pieces are now printed on fine art smooth matte paper. The 11x14s and larger are also adhered to 1/4 lightweight matboard for durability. They can still be framed. With our new paper options colors are richer and the the texture is softer. They are BEAUTIFUL!! Gallery Wraps Are you bored of your room appearance and paint and you cannot redo the paint at the moment for any reason, then don`t worry there is a cheap option available for you. You can go for DIY wall words. This will not only make your room look attractive and appealing but it will also show ... See 1 tip from 3 visitors to Grandridge.  " foursquare vs pinterest.com/2019-2020/facebook.com " Best Inspirational Quotes About Life QUOTATION - Image : Quotes Of the day - Life Quote But first pray #iphone #wallpaper Sharing is Caring - Keep Scripture from devotion, Dirty Truck Because sometimes we all need the reminder that God &# x27;s character is far different from our own. While we have can all have short fuses, seeds of bitterness and unforgiving hearts, God &# x27;s love never wavers. For many singles, marriage looks like the solution to years of loneliness. What could be better—after years of waiting—than being committed to another person for the rest of your life? While marriage is a beautiful depiction of Christ and the church, a place of support and encouragement, and God’s design for exercising sexuality, it comes … We &# x27;re already on week 7 of our Beatitudes study, a little series within the normal Weekly Truth routine that focuses on 8 verses in Jesus &# x27; Sermon on the Mount. We &# x27;ve been learning what these truths mean for us in our day-to-day lives, and as always, I &# x27;m sharing a free phone wallpaper to aid in memor “Be careful for nothing; but in every thing by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known unto God.” - P... Shop Now for all your quality, funny and trendy home decor, stationary, jewelry and accessories at amazing prices. Perfect gifts for the ones you love! I learned that in order to strengthen and preserve your marriage, you must say intentional prayers over your husband. Based on that fact, I created a list of powerful, daily prayers for your husband . Remember, God promises that if we do our part in prayer, he will take care of all the heavy lifting. Through God &# x27;s Eyes - http://savannahdejarnett.simplesite.com/ Are you excited for Christmas? Are you getting into the Christmas spirit? No, I am not talking about Christmas movies (though watch those if you’d like). I am asking if you are wrapping your mind around the great blessing that was Christ coming to earth in the form of a baby, showing us how to live, and ultimately dying in our place to conquer death once and for all. The coming of Christ was prophesied in the Old Testament, and therefore long-awaited by followers of God. The world was… 