Optica prints, vue optique, Realetti Prospettive, Guckkastenbild By Kees Kaldenbach. More info about the  author . See some samples of  optica prints for sale Little has heen published (particularly in English) on the type of print known as the perspective view, intended for use in an optical diagonal machine. Nevertheless these prints were highly popular in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, and still appear regularly on the art market. lt therefore seems worth collecting what information is known and adding what I have heen able to discover.  1  This article opens with a discussion of the various types of optical diagonal machine andhow they function. This is followed by a brief sketch, based on material taken from eighteenth- and nineteenth century catalogues and household inventories, of the social classes who owned thern. The final section is devoted to an examination of the different characteristics of the perspective views produced in the four main centres,  London, Paris, Augsburg  and  Bassano : particular attedtion is paid here to two draughtsmen who worked for publishers in Augsburg. The optical diagonal machine (zograscope) The optical diagonal machine is a viewing apparatus whose main components are a large, double convex lens and a mirror fixeddirectly behind it at an angle. These are attached either on top of a pyramid shaped box or on top of a stand. When the spectator looks at perspective views through the lens of the viewing machine, an illusion of recession is produced. In principe, a similar illusion of distance can he achieved simply by using a single, detachedconvex lens which is larger than the distance between two human eyes (at least ten centimetres). When this lens is held just in front of the eyes, the spectator is looking at the perspective view through its two edges which function like two prisms. Light rays bouncing off the print are refracted in such a way that they enterthe eyes in a parallel direction. The brain interprets the incoming parallel images as a single image seen from a great distance. The important function of the lens in the optical machine is not its magnification but its creation of an illusion of depth in binocular vision. So that the greatest illusion of recession can be achieved, theperspective view should be designed according to strict principles of linear perspective, with a distant object placed in the centre of the print. For example, a view looking down a receding street works well because all horizontal lines in the buildings appear as lines converging at the same vanishing point. The interior of a large building, such as a cathedral, is also suitable for creating a successful illusion of depth (fig. 37). The least effective pointof view is perpendicular to a facade, such as a row of houses, or to the front of a palace, because from that viewpoint there is no effect of perspective. In any case, the angle of vision for anyperspective view should be wider than the angle of forty-sixdegrees which corresponds to the human eye's normal range ofvision. This explains why perspective views have an appearancesimilar to a photograph taken with a wide-angle lens. Of courseperspective views are not the only images which can be used withthe optical machine: any two-dimensional image, such as a paintingor a mural, would be suitable. However, the illusion of recessionthe latter would give to the spectator, would depend on theemphasis on linear perspective their images had. The most basic and, at thesame time, effective model of a viewing machine is the table modelon a stand whose lens is at eye level when the viewer is seated. Infigure 36 the woman, Louise-SebastienneGély (later to marry Danton) is showing a perspective viewto a boy (probably Antoine Danton'seldest son). So as to avoid any distortion which might be causedthrough the print curling if it were held manually, this model ofthe optical machine incorporates a mirror, fitted at an angledirectly behind the lens which thus permits the prints to be viewedlying on a flat surface. The function of the mirror is simply toget round the problem of curling; it plays no part in creating theillusion of depth. Nevertheless it has the consequence that theimage is seen upside down and reversed. For this reason, many viewshave the text not only at the bottom of the print in the normaldirection, but also at the top, in reverse (and often in largecapitals) so that it can be read when viewed through the opticalmachine. Some views, but not all, were also executed in mirrorimage so that they would be seen in the right direction through theviewing apparatus (see fig- 38, for example). This of course issimple for the engraver who does not have to worry about problemsof reversal when engraving the plate. Perspective prints (optical prints) Perspective views were produced from the early eighteenthcentury to the beginning of the nineteenth, the greatest number ofthem probably between c. 1740-1790. 3 lt is difficult to give them a precise definition because oftheir many variations, but there are a number of  commoncharacteristics. Firstly, they are usually etched and invariably designed to be seenthrough a viewing machine, with consequent reversals of text andimage. The size of the image is about 23 by 40 centimetres and theentire plate, with text, about 30 by 45 centimetres: sizes vary by5 to 10 centimetres at the most. Perspective views are alwayshorizontal in format, since the subject-matter is usuallytopographical. They often show monumental buildings (palaces,churches or town halls) or characteristic parts of towns (gates,squares, streets or harbours for example). More rarely they showportraits, depict moralistic or biblical themes, or historicalevents such as the demolition of the Bastille or the ascent ofhot-air balloons, to name two of the more popular. The etcher would usually work after existing prints, less oftenafter specially-prepared drawings and more rarely still afterpaintings; the plates were probably etched in the workshops of thepublisher. lt is likely that the publisher controlled the wholeoperation, although there is no evidenee that the printing andhand-colouring were done in the same workshop. All theseperspective views have a strong common factor in the nature oftheir execution. The etcher paid special attention to the straightlines in architecture, and accentuated horizontal lines inbuildings to enhance the perspective. At the same time he paidlittle attention to surface detail or texture, or to the contrastbetween light and shade. lt is often impossible in these prints todetermine the material of which a building has been constructed -brick, stone or stucco, for example - although to some extent thisdifficulty is overcome by the use of hand-colouring. The care takenin this, however, was only noticeable in views produced in London.In general one can say that the quality of colouring in perspectiveviews is superior to that found on popular woodcuts of the time,although nowhere near the standard reached in prints designed asworks of art. Perspective views served a different purpose fromartistic prints. The viewer could make a  voyage imaginaire  for his own instructionand pleasure. By selecting a certain series of views, he could makea 'journey' (possibly together with others) through cities eitherknown or unknown to him. The prime concern was whether the imagewas recognizable; its artistic quality was less relevant. Thestylistic changes of the period do not appear to have held anyinfluence over the etchers. The contemporary authors speak of theimportance of obtaining an illusion of reality: for exampie, JohanBischoff states in 1764 that Names for the viewing machines and perspectiveprints Names for the viewing machines and perspectiveprints vary more in Britain than on the continent. Cataloguesproduced by British print publishers of the eighteenth andnineteenth centuries give a number of alternative tities. In hiscatalogue of 1717 Henry Overton I calls them 'prospects', a termalso used in the 1731 John Bowies catalogue: 'Prospects neatlygraved each on one large Sheet of Paper'. If the Henry Overton IIcatalogue of 1754 merely mentions 'Views, each on One Sheet ofLarge Paper', a much fuller description appears in the CaringtonBowles catalogue Of 1784: 'Sets of fine prints. Perspective views. The following Setsconsists of a large Variety of perspective Views, containingremarkabie Views of Shipping, eminent Cities, Towns, Royal Palaces,Noblemen and Gentiemans Seats and Gardens in Great Britain, Franceand Holland, Views of Venice, Florence, Ancient and Modern Rome,and the most striking public Buildings in and about London.' Meanwhile, the Laurie and Whittie catalogue of 1795 speaksof Similarly, Robert Laurie's 1824 catalogue lists: ' Perspective views , coloured for the  Show Glass  or  DiagonalMirror  . . .' It was probably the scientifieinstrument-maker George Adams who coined the term ' Zograscope ' to replace all these cumbrousexpressions, but the name did not catch on. On the continent, namesfor the viewing machines and perspective prints were less diverse.In France, where the viewing machine was believed to haveoriginated, the prints were called ' vued'optique ' or ' vueperspective ', and the apparatus itself simply' optique ' or ' boîte d'optique '. In Germany, the viewswere known as ' Guckkastenbild 'or ' Guckkastenblatt ' (literally'looking-box-sheet'), while the optical machine wascalled ' Guckkasten '. Meanwhilein ltaly ' Realetti Prospettive 'were viewed in ' CamereOttiche ', whilst in Holland an ' opticaprent '  was looked at in an' optica '. Various models of the viewing machine Various models of theviewing machine are known. The Rijksmuseum, for example, boaststwo. The first model consists of a lens with a mirror placed at anangle directly behind it, and is held in a simple wooden frame,supported by a wooden pillar (similar models are shown in figs. 36and 43). The Science Museum in London has a comparable model, madeby the scientifie instrument-maker Edward Nairne of the firm Nairne &  Blunt, whose premises were at 'No. 20, Opposite the RoyalExchange, Cornhill, London'. This is a more sophisticated machine,with a balancing system for both the lens and the mirror, while thetop section can be raised and lowered into the pillar. lt is 66centimetres in height, has a lens of 11 centimetres in diameter,and also an ornamental frame. 5 The second viewing machine in the Rijkmuseum, donated in 1980 byLady C.J. Six (together with a collection of perspective views) isa wooden, four- sided, pyramid-shaped model, about 70 centimetreshigh (see fig. 39). lt has three closed sides and one open side,the latter bearing a row of candle holders which permit the printsto be viewed by candlelight as well as daylight. This model can beingeniously folded up into the book shaped box which constitutesits base. On the spine the book title reads PERSPECTIVE VIEWS, inEnglish. Cut out or illuminating optica  A horizontal variation of this standing,pyramid-shaped model is the 'illuminating optica', which has a lensbut no mirror (fig. 40). Views for this type of apparatus had to bespecially prepared. The print was first glued on to stiff card, andholes were cut out of those sections where the building hadwindows, whilst punchmarks served to indicate where Chineselanterns and festoons might hang. On the back of these windows andholes, coloured paper was glued - often bright red and oiled. Infront of and behind the view candles were lit, giving to the wholea magical and otherworldly quality. The Theatre Museum in Amsterdamdisplays such an 'illuminating optica'. lt has an unusual lens,ground out of a square piece of glass, which gives a lesserillusion of depth than the two models in the Rijkmuseum. 6 Around 1850 thestereoscope, and the accompanying double 'stereo' photographs,appeared on the market. This instrument produced an illusion ofdepth greatly superior to that of the standard viewing machine. Inthe period of transition hetween the viewing machine and thestereoscope, another simple apparatus had been invented which wassuitabie for viewing both perspective views and stereoscopicphotographs. This consisted of a vertical panel, about 35centimetres high (fig- 41) on the upper part of which was fittedone large lens, and on the lower part two smaller ones, behindwhich the stereoscopic photograps could be placed, in a smallframe. The panel was hinged at the bottom to a box, which wassomewhat larger than the panel itself. 7 In addition to these apparatus, other optical gadgets were available on the market which appear to have been equally popular with collectors, as canbe seen hy examining Dutch auction catalogues of the period. Take, for example, the catalogue of the auctioneers J. Gaillard and B. Scheurleer of The Hague, dated 16 September 1782, which describes the estate of the physician J. Westerhoff.  11  Towards the end of this catalogue, which mainly lists books, there is a section headed 'curiosities' which includes a number of scientific instruments. Some of these, such as prisms and magnifying lenses, would be considered serious instruments by the standards of the twentieth century, whilst others, such asmagic lanterns and shadow games, would be judged more like toys; others still would belong to a different category, that of anamorphosis. Anamorphoses are images which appear unintelligible to normal perception; only by the use of mirrors and glasses to correct the distortion do the images appear as recognizable shapes.The various optical instruments listed in this catalogue are specified as follows. Item 53 mentions 'a very nice Englishedge-pillar mirror of metal, very finely ground and polished, in a tin tube, to which belongs an artful painting in oils, wide 27,high 21 thumbs'. This ' edge-pillar ' (or in Dutch:  kantzuil ) may bedefined as a cylinder having one or more flat surfaces - Item 55goes on to describe'a very fine English cone mirror, as finelyground as the preceding, in a tin tube', which is listed togetherwith two accompanying paintings. Here the spectator would view thecone, with one eye immediately above its point, and see thereflection of the painting on which the cone itself was positioned.Meanwhile, item .59 describes a cylindrical mirror with a paintingwhich was to be looked at at an angle from above, in a very similarfashion to item 55; it is listed as 'A very nice English pyramidmirror, as admirable as the preceding, also in a tin tube.' Item 64was 'an Anamorphosis on a mahogany frame, together with twofacet-glasses', with which were also listed four drawings placed ona base. Then, item 65 mentions a viewing machine: 'a very nicemahogany illuminating box, high 24 and wide 18 thumbs, to which aneyeglass and twelve punctured illuminating views'. Finally, a fewother items of interest can he mentioned: number 43, describing 'atin magic lantern with 36 movabie and fixed images painted onglass, to which a mirror and a tube to use with rays of the sun',and also numbers 46 to 50 which list a convex, and a number ofconcave mirrors. Perhaps the  earliestdescription  of a viewing apparatus is that given by J. C.Kohlhans in 1677 when he writes about a camera obscura used as aviewing machine and stresses the necessity of binocular vision inorder to achieve an illusion of depth: In 1753, the Englishman S.Parrat described a box-shaped viewing apparatus with a lens but nomirror (see fig. 42). 10  In order to standupright in this machine, a perspective view had first to be gluedonto stiff card: the Rijksmuseum has a number of these prints.Meanwhile, the concave mirror is described in carlyeighteenth-century books as an instrument used to create anillusion of depth when looking at images. For example, Ozanam( Récréations mathématiques et physiques , Paris 1735)describes the way a concave mirror works when placed in a'cham- breoptique'. The spectator looked through a hole in a box and saw inthe concave mirror on the opposite wall the reflection of a viewplaced below the viewing hole. One can oneself put this to the testby using an ordinary shaving mirror, which is concave and thusmagnifies. If one holds an architectural view at chest height andthen stands with the mirror at arm's length in front of one, theresultant image has a noticeable illusion of depth, even if themirror has a relatively small diameter. Another early descriptionand illustration of a viewing apparatus appears in the famous Encyclopédie  of 1767 by Diderot and d'Alembert. Figure 43,taken from the  Encyclopédie , shows the simple model of theviewing machine on a pillar with a lens and a diagonally-placedmirror. Since there are no side walls on this model, the amount oflight entering the machine is unlimited. Three years later Guyot,in a sequel to Ozanam's book,  11  alsopublished a description of the viewing machine, together with anillustration. He wrote: 'the looking-box with a diagonal mirror. This type oflooking box is very well known because they are in manyhands'. Little has been written about the question as to what type ofhousehold owned the viewing machine. The most useful source ofinformation is the study by Marie van Dijk on  Dutch household inventories  during the first halfof the nineteenth eentury.  12  Altogether,Van Dijk researched 3,507 inventories (probates and personalestates) in 105 municipalities in Holland, and analysed them interms of the ownership of toys and games. She differentiated five social groups: a) farmers, b) labourersand workers paid by the day, c) those without a trade, d) tradesmenand shop- keepers, e) notables and the well-to-do. Only the lattertwo groups were found to own optical machines, in five cases fortradesmen and shopkeepers, and in fourteen for notables and thewell-to-do. The numbers of items recorded were as follows: viewingmachines (12), magic lanterns (5), concave mirrors (5), conemirrors (2), peep-shows (2), a cylindrical mirror (1) and anilluminating optica (1), all of these apparatus being listed withaccompanying views either in the form of prints or views painted onglass. One individual, an 'entrepreneur', owned several of theseoptical instruments. The conclusion from van Dijk's study, then, was that theseoptical apparatus were owned only by the well-to-do. In order tomeet the demands of the tax authorities, these inventories suppliedestimated values. The Dutch guilder (Hfl or Dfl.) was worth roughlyis 8d at that time. Van Dijk found that the value of viewingmachines ranged considerably, from Dfl. 3 or Dfl. 5 to as much asDfl. 8 (in an example where the apparatus included 100 views of thehighest quality) or even Dfl. 10 (citing two cases, one in whichthe apparatus was estimated together with 60 views of the highestquality, and the other referring to the viewing machine alone). Amagic lantern was estimated at Dfl. 7, while a cylindrical mirrorwas esti- mated, together with a cone mirror, at Dfl. 12. Finally,a peep-show was estimated at Dfl. 6, a price which included itsviews, lamps and base. Prices for optical pritns and viewingmachines Prices in  London  forperspective views and viewing machines can be found out moreeasily. For example, most auction catalogues give the price for aperspective view; 1s. for an uncoloured print and 2s. for coloured.Only the larger and more elaborate views of Roman antiquities (seefig. 44) were considerably more expensive, costing 10s. 6duncoloured and £ 1. 5s. coloured. A viewing machine, meanwhile,could be bought in some publisher's shops, as is apparent from theLaurie and Whittle catalogue for 1795:  Diagonal Mirrors, forthe shewing of these views, neatly fitted up in Mahogany, withLooking- Glass. One Guinea each'. lt was also sold by scientific instrument-makers such as GeorgeAdams for prices varying in the year 1769 from 18 shillings to £ 2.12. 6d., although in subsequent years (for example 1789 and 1797)the prices listed in his catalogues are more constant. In  Augsburg , perspectiveviews ranged in price from 1 to 2 Augsburg Florins, or about is.8d. to 3s- 4d. at the rate of exchange in that period. 13 However,  prices in  Paris were much lower. An indication of wholesale prices in Paris hasrecently been estimated by Pierre Casselle investigating theprobate inventory of the print publisher Laurent Pierre LaChaussée, which was drawn up by his colleague Louis Mondhare in May1782.  14  Casselle gives the followingprices: 328  livres tournois  for a group of 138 plates (whichis 6 livres, or 5 shillings each) ; 112  livres tournois  fora stack of 2,800 perspective views in black and white, of'demi'-fine' quality (which is less than a sou, or about one pennyeach); and 6  livres tournois  for 14 viewing machines, anestimate which should probably he understood as 6 livres for themall. The publisher Remondini from  Bassano  lists in his 1772 catalogue fourperspective views for 1  lira  (or five pennies) if uncolouredand for 2  lire  when coloured. By 1784, however, his priceswere about 20%. lower, with a wholsesale price of 20 lire for 100uncoloured views, or 35 lire for 100 if coloured. Later still, in1817, these prices dropped even further, to 12,50 and 20,50 lirerespectively. 15  Remondini's prices are thusclearly lower than those in London and Augsburg, but still higherthan the average price for a perspective view in  Holland , which cost about two pennies eachaccording to the rate of exchange already cited. 16  The latter information is derived from a collectionof late eighteenth-century Dutch sale catalogues of books andcuriosities.  17  Some thirty of these havehad the prices of the books and curiosities jotted down in themargin, evidently by the customer or the auc- tioneer. These pricesare as follows: from Dfl. 1 to Dfl. 10 for a viewing machine, fromDfl. 4 to Dfl. 36 for an illuminating optica, Dfl. 5 foranamorphoses, from Dfl. 7 to Dfl. 32 for magic lanterns (with theexception of one which was priced at Dfl. 112) and finally Dfl.0,10 (or 2 pennies) for perspective views (sold in bundles of 10 or20) and a little more, Dfl. 0,12 for illuminating views (also soldin bundles of 10 or 20). The evidence indicaties, then, that only the well-to-do couldafford perspective views and the viewing machine.  18  On an average wage of no more than one to twoshillings a day, the German, British or Dutch labourer would havehardly been likely to afford such luxuries. However, the lesswell-off were able to become acquainted with perspective views atfairs and markets, where travelling showmen displayed their views,often with an accompanying story, for a small fee. As late as 1932the German author Elsner von Gronow could state that 'the optica  is only known to our contemporaries from the annualfair'. Perspective views produced in London Perspective views produced in  London  are generally of high quality. Publisherswere apparently prepared to invest in competent draughtsmen,engravers, printers and colourers. They can also be distinguishedfrom these made in the other centres by their colouring; thus skiesare sometimes coloured in atmospheric perspective with dark blue atthe top shading towards a lighter blue on the horizon. In general,prints produced in Londen are easy to identify in that, inaccordance with the copyright act of 1734, they carry on them thename of the publisher and the date of publication. This, however,may not invariably have heen done, and many impressions have beentrimmed as part of the mounting operation. There are thereforecases where certainty is not easily reached. Most of the views produced in London are of what may be termedthe'European standard size'- about 12 by 18 inches (300 by 450 mm). This consistency of size would have followed the construction ofthe optical machines and doubtless promoted internationaldistribution of the views - and also made copying and piracy aneasy matter. The numbers of different prints produced in Londen cannow be readily reassessed by examination of these catalogues putout by publishers of the period. Of these, six have been examinedwhich offer information of importance to this study.  19  They are as follows: (a)  Henry Overton I , at the WhiteHorse without Newgate, 1717. This contains 24 pages listing, in arather disorganized way, maps, 'prospects' and 'views', which maybe understood as perspective views. Of these I counted a total of164. Overton's stock descended to his cousins, Henry II, or to RobertSayer, or to both (see below) - (b)  John Bowles  at Mercer's Hall,Cheapside, 1731 - Of the 63 pages, these on pages 28-30 list 56perspective views, under the title 'prospects'. (c)  Robert Sayer  of the Golden Buckopposite Fetter Lane, Fleet Street, offered 202 views in 1753(although the title-page boasts 206); a further 14 can be found inhis 1755 supplementary sheet. Sayer's stock was taken over by Laurie  &  Whittle . (d)  Henry Overton II , also at theWhite Horse without Newgate, listed 493 different views on pp.23-36 of his 1754 catalogue. Typographically, it falls into twoparts; a clearly laid-out text en pp. 23-29, and a closely set texton pp. 30-36. (e)  Carington Bowles  at 69 St Paul'sChurch Yard, had 267 views on pp. 70-83 of his catalogue Of 1784.(f) Finally  Laurie  &  Whittle  of 53Fleet Street had 231 views in 1795, listed on pp. 49-57- (Note: See all the way below for an addition tothis chart - KK 2004) Apart from these publishers, known through their catalogues, I have seen the names of other publishers on views in the Rijksmuseum print room. These are  John Tinney , John Boydell  and  F. Mayor . Other prints were jointly published: combinations of names that appear are Sayer  &  Ardell, Overton  &  Sayer, Sayer  &  Boydell, and Sayer  &  Boydell  & Overton. Some perspective views remained popular for many decades; others did not sell as well, and were discontinued and the printing plates sold. In order to get an idea of the total number ofexisting perspective views and the continuity in popularity of certain groups of views, I made a table of concordance of the titles found in these six catalogues. From this table I compiled a 'flow chart' (fig. 45, above). In the flow chart, a closed box indicaties one catalogue cach. An arrow indicaties a descriptionwhich is the same in the two catalogues, and the number on the arrow indicaties the number of identical titles. It should be notedthat identical titles might mean that the plate was the same, or it might point to a different plate - whether a copy or completely unrelated. As can be seen in the chart, there is surprisingly little similarity between the titles of perspective views in these catalogues. Similarities exist in a few places only: the 1753 Sayer catalogue is almost entirely the same as the first part of the 1754 Overton catalogue. Wording, subdivisions and typography are very similar. The C. Bowles 1784 catalogue is quite different from theOverton 1754 catalogue, except for a few scattered views. Only two groups of prints, the ' Gardens al Stow ' and ' Monamy's sea pieces ', have identical tities. Greater similarity exists between the Laurie and Whittie 1795 catalogue and the combination Sayer 1753 / Overton II 1754. There are 100 views with identical titles, which means that more than half of Sayer's stock has been omitted. Similarities exist in the sections London, Scotland,Ireland, Holland, Paris, and  Monamy's sea pieces . The main problem that remains to he resolved is the significance of what appear to be identical prints being offered simultaneously by different publishers. Did they own the plate jointly, or did they, as suggested by Antony Griffiths in his article on Britishprint publishers (referred to in note 19), exchange stocks of prints from their own plates against stocks of prints from other publishers in order to spread the risk and balance their inventory?Further questions are raised by an examination of the collection of over 110 Perspective views published in London which is now in the Rijksmuseum. Many of them were given by Lady C. J. Six, who alsodonated the unique copy of the 1753/1755 Sayer catalogue (fig. 46). Since no fewer than 83 of the 202 prints listed in the 1753 catalogue, and 13 of the 14 included in the 1755 supplement are to be found in the Rijksmuseum, the conclusion seems highly plausible that the catalogue was actually used by the Six ancestors when placing their orders in the 1750's. No less than three versions of the Lord Mayor's mansion in London are to he found in the Amsterdamcollection (figs- 47-50). They show the bewildering numbers ofcopies made of popular subjects and reveal the difficulties indeciding where any copy may have been made. The first is animmaculate, carefully coloured print (fig. 47) with blue skies,white clouds and a pale horizon, the buildings and street a reddishbrown, sand colour and light brown, and many bright colours in theclothing of the pcople and the carriages. The caption reads: This print first appears in Sayers's 1755 catalogue. 20 The second is a mirror-image copy after the first. Very closecomparison shows that it is not a counterproof, hut amazingly copied to the smallest detail. Figure 47a shows the right-hand bottom corner of the Sayer print with next to it the almost identical part of the second print (fig. 48a). 21 The latter has been glued onto stiff card and punched with tiny holes, but it doesnot succeed as an iliumination view. The paper on the back is white, neither coloured nor transparant. The overall impression shows a somewhat lesser quality of engraving. The hatching in thebuilding does not contributie to the perspective as successfully as in the first view. The text has been partially omitted and misunderstood by the engraver. lt is likely that the (French or ltalian?) engraver did not know English: 'Publiskdaccording to Aclof Paliament Aag 20 1751' (fig. 48). Another copy of the secondprint, of which figure 49 shows a detail, has successfully been turned into an illumination view, with various holes cut into the cardboard. The colouring is done in a sloppy way.  22  The third print (fig. 50) is a copy by Daumont from Paris, with a Latin and French caption, also a mirror image of the first.  23  The sky is a solid blue on top and pink towards the roofs. Only certain parts of the carriages are coloured red and yellow. Perspective views produced in Paris The fundamental study on perspective views from  Paris  is the article by de Keyser published in 1962, from which most of the following information is derived. 24  Perspective views made in Paris are in general of a lower quality than those made in London. The colouring is generally of a lesser quality than was customary inLondon, and applied with a brush, never through a stencil. Parisian publishers of perspective views were clustered in the Rue Saint Jacques, and the ateliers almost exclusively employed the technique of etching. The names of the publisher and the city they lived in were usually printed, but those of the engraver and designer seldomoccur. De Keyser has supplied a list of those names that are given. He observes that they are not to be found in the standard reference works on the history of printmaking, and draws the evident inference that the artists must all have been on a humble artisanal level. In some cases it is clear that the publisher and theengraver are one and the same, for example with Chéreau and La Chaussée. According to Elsner von Gronow,  25 the publishers issued the following numbers of different prints:174 by  Chéreau , 86 by  Daumont , 160 by  Mondhare , 77 by  Huquier  and 47 by  Maillet . He does not state how many were issued by La Chaussée  and  Beauvais . The total production, which must haveheen considerable in Paris, declined after 1790 and was muchreduced by 1820. Only  Basset  keptpublishing until 1840, but hawkers were still showing such prints in the early twentieth century. 26  The beginnings of the  genre  are more difficult to trace, but deKeyser places it in the 1740s. The subjects of the prints, as in other countries, were predominantly topographical, showing towns and monuments from all over the world. The implication is that views from outside France were plagiarized from other prints; possibly many French views were as well. Other subjects that werepopular were great events and public festivals. Religious or moral themes are rarely found in France (despite their great popularity in Augsburg). De Keyser remarks on the gross inaccuracy of many prints, and the fantasy that frequently inspired them, which brings them more into the realm of the popular print than the fine print. lt is, however, clear that even French ' vues doptique ' never descended to the level Of the popular woodcut. The market for themwas rather with the professional and middie classes, and they seem to have enjoyed a wide circulation around the country. The true popular print - almost invariably a woodcut - on the other hand was restricted in circulation and usually remained confined to the country or even locality in which it was produced. A good exampleof the fantasy employed by French publishers is given by the crude copy of a print or a painting by Claude Lorrain, which duly acknowledges him as the inventor, but yet boldly states that the scene shows the harbour at Rotterdam (figs. 51 and 52). Perspective views produced in Italy Thanks to the large company run by the  Remondini  family, the ltalian town of  Bassano  grew into an important centre of printed images. Perspective views were only one of the many kinds of prints made in their workshops. Giuseppe Remondini employed an extensivenetwork of sales representatives in many European countries. In order to compete successfully with the established European houses, he had numerous perspective views copied from existing Augsburg,Paris and London ones, and issued these himself, giving no indication of his own name and city, but instead copied intact the original captions and the original publisher's name. Such underhand practices led to a lawsuit in Augsburg and a stock of Remondini views was subsequentiy confiscated. This may well have taken placeat the shop of Fietta who represented Remondini in Augsburg. This verdict did not restrain Remondini, who persisted in issuing copied views. 27  A number of catalogues was issued between 1772 and 1817, in which different kinds of prints were advertised: religious prints, maps and popular prints, amongst which were perspective views. The number of different views was about 100 in 1772, about 200 in 1784 and almost 300 in 1817, ofwhich 200 were views of ltalian towns. Remondini's views can be recognized by a code of numbers and three letters in the lower left-hand corner. There is also often a bilingual text. Other ltalian publishers issued small numbers of perspective views.  Giuseppe Zocchi  put out views ofFlorenee and Tuscany, and Marieschi views of Venice. Perspective views produced in Augsburg Augsburg  was another importantcentre of books and prints. The Augsburg publishers succeeded in cornering an important part of the perspective view market from their London and Paris competitors around 1770. The period of considerable production lasted until c. 1790, after which the production in all centres declined.28 The Augsburg views were usually copied from existing prints, often from foreign perspective views, but errors were sometimes made in the captions, possibly outof ignorance or carelessness. Thus a view by G.B. Probst with the title  View of the Kettel Gate in Delft , depicts another town entirely. The quality of the colouring in Augsburg ranges from mediocre to sloppy. Patches of strong colour are applied by a pad or brush, red for the roofs and clothing, green in the trees, andbrown in the water. The number of colours is limited to four or five. There are no changing hues of colour, nor are the outlines of the objects coloured in carefully, as in the London views. This bold way of colouring was customary in catchpenny prints.  Mr. Wolfgang Seitz, the authority on Augsburg views, states thatabout 90% of the views he has seen were coloured. For many years, he has collected information on the different types of Augsburg views, (not only perspective views) in an index card system whichpresently contains over 10.000 cards. In his typescript publication he mentions the most important publishers of perspective views.  Georg Balthasar Probst  (1732-1801) wasan engraver and publisher of at least 340 different views, with captions in four languages (figs. 53, 56). His prints almostinvariably carry an imperial privilege, and give the size (for example, 'Med: Folo' = Median Folio) and group number, with another number in:the top right-hand corner which gives the serial number of the print (the words 'Excud. A. V.' mean published in Augusta Vindelicorum, that is Augsburg). The  Kaiserliche Franziskische Akademie  was active between 1775 and 1779. Despite its grand name this institution was no more than a publisher's firm. At least 520 different views wereissued, with captions in two languages and the line: Josef Carmine  (1770- c.1830) both etched and published about 150 different views with captions in three languages. Other Augsburg publishers started a lawsuit against this 'miserable charlatan' who produced mediocre work and also spied on other publishers.  DominikusFietta  (active 1788-1807) both etched and published about 40 different views with captions in three languages. He was one of Remondini's many agents. The muitilingual captions of the Augsburgpublishers promoted the international sale probably more successfully than those from Paris, London or Bassano. Whereas they usually give the name of the publisher, it is unusual to find the name of the designer or engraver. A number of exampies are known of  draughtsmen  who had a long-termrelationship with Augsburg publishers. The first is the German  F. B. Werner  (1690-1776) who travelled throughout Europe between 1727 and 1736 and drew profiles of townsand buildings for Augsburg publishers. The fact that he worked for several publisbers at the same time cut down the cost. 29  According to Ms. Angelika Marsch, who studied Werner extensively, he made sketches during the daytime, and reworked these into drawings the size of the final print. He did this either at night, at the inn he stayed in, or in his workshop during the winter, when he was not travelling. A second draughtsman mentionedon views issued by Probst is  Isaac van Haastert  (1753-1834) from Delft. Three drawings in theRijksmuseum print room, for which the artist and the purpose werenot previousiy known, can be recognized as preparatory drawings forperspective views. The first drawing (fig. 54) shows the  SouthEnd of Delft , on the right the Rotterdam gate and in the middlethe Schiedam gate.30 The second drawing (fig. 55) shows the weaponwarehouse ' magazijn de Geer ' on the Geer canal (thisbuilding is also visible on the first drawing, to the left of thebridge). The third drawing, not reproduced here, shows the 'Haguegate' on the road to The Hague. These three drawings clearlyconstitute a series. Each sheet, roughly the same size (300 x 400mm), has been folded in the same manner, and bears the samewatermark. The titles form a characteristic feature, because theyare repeated at the bottom centre and at the top centre, wordedslightly differently. On the bottom right- hand side are themonograms Jchi and Achi, whose meaning has not yet been determined.A perspective view publisbed by Probst (fig. 56) is clearly basedon the second drawing. The lettering on the print identifies thedraughtsman as Isaac van Haastert, a local Delft artist. Accordingto the documents of the St Luke's Guild he was one of the fewprofessional artists at the time, and was chief (hooftman) of theGuild for a period around 1790. The manuals state that he painted,etched and engraved townscapes and village views, and laterlandscapes as well. His work can be seen in the municipal archiveand in the municipal museum 'Het Prinsenhof' in Delft. The drawingswere clearly not meant as finished works of art. In the first (fig.54) the artist has redrawn the horses, and the skies have been leftblank. They give a sterile, traced impression. Van Haastert didindeed trace over his black crayon outlines with pen and ink, buteven these crayon lines have little of the character of a sketch.The architecture has been executed schematically, withouthesitation or shakiness of line. All three drawings have been givena somewhat exaggerated perspective by stressing the orthogonals.Because the first drawing shows buildings frontally, Van Haasterthad to perform some tricks. By choosing a wide angle, and addingperspective elements to the quay, ships and position of the masts,he succeeded in obtaining an illusion of depth. lt is notable thatsimilar distortions were also added by the engraver. Comparison offigures 55 and 56 shows how he emphasized elements at both sides ofthe composition so as to stress the perspective; furthermore, so asto simplify the appearance of the building, Van Haastert left outone entire floor of the warehouse. The connection between VanHaastert and Probst was of some significance. Many other views ofDelft and other nearby towns such as The Hague and Schiedampublished by Probst bear his name as draughtsman. They alsocollaborated in a series of smaller sized topographical prints of amore artistic nature. In this series the buildings' outlines areless important and textures have been depicted. Perspective views produced in TheNetherlands Outside Augsburg, in The Hague , an isolated series ofperspective views was produced by Hendrik Scheurleer (1734-1768).He etched and issued a series of 30 views of The Hague and nearbytowns in the regular size of a perspective view. His technique istopographically reliable hut artistically somewhat awkward. One ofScheurleer's copper plates, a view of the royal  House in theWoods  in The Hague, found its way to the publisher Robert Sayerin London. Sayer then erased Scheurleer's name and replaced it withhis own, as was the normal procedure at the time. Impressions ofboth versions can be found in the Rijksmuseum print room. Thedecline in popularity of the perspective view between 1790 and 1850is difficult to explain, but stereoscopic photographs, whichappeared on the market after circa 1850 entirely supersededperspective views because of their superior illusion of depth. =================NOTES================ As this text was electronically scanned in 2001from the printed edition, minor errors may occur. Please see theprinted copy when professionally referring to thisarticle. This published article is an elaborated version of onepublished in Dutch ( De Boekenwereld , 1, nos. 2 and 3, 1985).I should like to thank all those colleagues, in Germany, France,ltaly, Holland and England, who have offered invaluable assistance,in particular the following: Drs. F. J. Heijbroek of theRijksmuseum and editor of  De Boekenwereld  who generouslyedited my original draught, Mr. M. D. Haga, also of theRijksmuseum, who suggested I write about the Van Haastert drawings;Marie van Dijk of the Meertens-Institute who kindly allowed me toread her research notes; Antony Griffiths of the British Museum andAnne Lyles for their enthusiastic help; and also Angelika Marsch,Wolfgang Seitz, Véronique Léry - and finally Brenda Kaldenbach whoedited the text and helped with the artwork. The only collectionwhich I have systematically examined is that in theRijksmuseum. 1. The most important literature on perspective views is thefollowing: F. Pouy,  Les anciennes vues d'optique  Amiens1883; H. Elsner von Gronow, 'Guckkasten und Guckkastenbilder', Orpho  XXIII, 1932, pp. 1-53; E. de Keyser, 'Un domaineméconnu de I'Imagerie: Les Vues d'Optique',  Bulletin de laSocieté' Le vieux Papier ', XXIII, fáscicule 198, 1962, pp. 137-68. V. Léry, 'Les Vues d'Optique',  100 Vues d'optique etcuriosités , exhibition catalogue, Pontoise Museum 1977, and W.Seitz, ' Augsburger Vedutenstecher der 18. jhdt. Daten undWerke ' (typescript), Augsburg 1982. Literature on the viewingmachines is described below. 2. This term is that most commonly used in English; the machinewas also often known as 'zograscope'. The term used in Dutch isoptica, which is derived from the French optique. In Germany themachine is a Guckkasten and in ltaly it is the Camera Ottica. Seealso p. 90. 3. De Keyser (op. cit., pp. 143-44) claimed that no perspectiveViews were published before 1725, dismissing as copies (afterexisting prints) those views which A. Dubois had argued ('Les Vuesd'Optique',  Bulletin de la Societé 'Le vieux papier'  XXII1958/60) could be dated to the same year as the events theydepicted (variously 1677, 1678 and 1687). Keyser also claimed(idem, p. 146) that Perspective views only began to decline inpopularity as late as 1820. 4. J . Bischoff,  Beyträge zur Optik , Ulm, Frankfurt,Leipzig 1764, quoted by Elsner von Gronow, op. cit, p.14. Reference works Balzer, Richard (1998) Peepshows: A Visual History Harry N Abrams, New York. The text is quite short, the bulk of the book being given over to 180 antique print illustrations showing peepshows in use. Chaldecott, J A (1953) The Zograscope or Optical Diagonal Machine Annals of Science, Vol 9 No 4, London (article). Chaldecott is noted as an Assistant Keeper, The Science Museum, London. Clayton, T (1997) The English Print 1688-1802 Paul Mellon Centre / Yale University Press, New Haven and London. See pages 140 and 141 of this major and comprehensive work. Clayton also illustrates several perspective prints. Kaldenbach, Kees (1985) Perspective Views Print Quarterly, June 1985, London (article). Sayer and Bennett (1775 edition) Catalogue of Prints Holland Press, facsimile reprint 1970, London. (The small text reproduction is taken from this reprint). Stanley, Ted (1997) The Polyrama Panoptique and Other Optical Views: Conserving a Fusion of Science and Art  IPC Conference Papers, 1997, London (article). An interesting general review of optical instruments, before focussing on the paper conservation issues. Optical prints currently available. Go to Top 