Medtronic Minimed Paradigm Quick-set Infusion 25g 9mm X 60cm Spend $99 for Free Shipping OR $7.95 Express Delivery learn more Please select a price: Superpharmacy Orders will be packaged in plain, impervious packaging that is unmarked for security and privacy reasons. Orders will be dispatched as soon as possible once payment is received. We will dispatch most orders within 1 business day from Monday to Friday, assuming all items are in stock. All other orders will be dispatched as quickly as possible thereafter. For Orders containing prescription items please see the prescription processing procedure. We offer  Standard Shipping for $4.95**  with approximately 3-6 business days of transit time based upon your location within Australia.* We also offer an Express Delivery Service for $10.95**  with approximately 1-3 business days of transit time based upon your location within Australia.* All Australian orders $99 or more in value (and under 3kgs) will qualify for  FREE Standard Shipping or Express Delivery at $7.95 Any orders over 3kgs will have our Online Team be in contact with further information regarding shipping. All orders of Prescription items will receive  FREE Delivery regardless of order value. *These estimations are based upon transit time once dispatched from our locations. Please note our couriers do not operate on weekends and public holidays. **These delivery costs do not represent orders that we consider  ' Bulk Orders ' .  Bulk Orders will have our Online Team be in touch in order to discuss appropriate shipping costs. For clarification on what we classify as a  ' Bulk Order ' , refer to our terms and conditions or give us a call. Orders for prescription items can only be processed once we physically receive your prescription paperwork. Prescription product orders will be dispensed and dispatched on the business day the prescription or valid repeat authorisation is received at the SUPERPHARMACY registered premises. Please send your prescription paperwork to the appropriate store NSW, NT and TAS:  SUPERPHARMACY PO Box 1877 Hornsby Westfield 1635 QLD:  Superpharmacy 187 Days Road, Grange QLD 4051 SA : Superpharmacy 41 Hindley Street, Adelaide SA 5000 VIC:  Superpharmacy 92 Lygon Street, East Brunswick VIC 3057 WA: Superpharmacy 259 Walcott Street, North Perth WA 6006 Ensure to allow sufficient time for the delivery of your prescription or repeat authorisation paperwork to us and the subsequent order delivery via our specialised delivery network. We recommend considering a total of up to 7 days for metro areas or 10 days in remote areas. If we do not already hold your prescription paperwork, it will be necessary for you to send the prescription paperwork to us before we can dispatch your order. Please also allow the appropriate time for the prescription to reach us and for the order to be sent back so as to avoid running out of your ongoing prescription medicine. We partner with well-known and trusted delivery services to minimise delivery times. These include: The end goal is to get your order to you as fast and as securely as possible. Details of the delivery process and conditions are included in the Superpharmacy Terms and Conditions found  here It may be necessary for some orders to be shipped in more than one box from different distribution sites and therefore you may obtain these parcels at different times. We will notify you via email if there is a delay in the delivery of an item in your Order and what action we have taken. Order processing and delivery times may vary in peak times with special arrangements during peak volume times such as Christmas, Mother ' s Day and Superpharmacy promotions. Contact our Customer Service on 1300 4MEDICINE during business hours or email  customerservice@superpharmacy.com.au for more information. We do not currently deliver outside of Australia We are happy to offer refunds or exchanges on any item (excluding restricted items*) that you have purchased from us. Important: You are not entitled to, or guaranteed, a refund for Change of Mind returns. They will be processed at our discretion. We reserve the right to charge a restocking fee for Change of Mind returns. You will be responsible for the cost of shipping to return goods to us unless we specify that we will cover the cost. Note: Legislation prohibits us from accepting Prescription Items for refund or exchange. All we ask is that you follow the below to qualify: Allergy returns must be less than 20% used upon arrival back to us. Please don ' t dispose of the item without informing us. If you qualify for free return shipping, our Customer Service Team will make this clear to you in your request. Unfortunately, we are not able to cover return postage fees on all return types. We will not accept Change of Mind Returns for the following items: QCPP accreditation details : Superpharmacy Hornsby. 21 Florence St, Hornsby, NSW 2077. Superpharmacy Brunswick East. 92 Lygon St, Brunswick East, VIC 3057. Superpharmacy North Perth. 259 Walcott St, North Perth, WA 6006. Superpharmacy Grange. 187 Days Rd, Grange, QLD 4051. Superpharmacy Adelaide, 41 Hindley St, Adelaide, SA 5000. Proprietor : Warren Turner. Pharmacist available - Monday to Friday 8am to 8pm Saturday 8.30 to 6pm and Sunday 9am to 4pm (NSW time) 