Fantasy Archives | BOOK RIOT Time travel books have it all: adventure, historical fiction, romance, social commentary, mystery, humor, poetry. Enjoy these must-read time travel books. Joe Abercrombie is releasing his newest book, "A Little Hatred" in September, so here's a reading guide for his First Law fantasy universe. Ever miss reading about dragons? Miss it no more! Here's a list of amazing dragon books for grown-ups that will make your heart soar. Love fantasy novels but don't know where to start with comics? Give these graphic novels a try. Featuring middle grade, YA, and adult novels, these unmissable fantasy books by women authors reflect the diversity of the genre. Because you know you want to know what scent pairs with which character. . . again! Your favorite Harry Potter characters got matched up with a perfect-for-them fragrance. One reader on how reading RF Kuang's THE POPPY WAR took them back into their own personal history. From picture books to comics to adult novels, indulge in your fantasies with six fantastic contemporary and fantasy books about queer princesses! Here at Book Riot, we love the supernatural and this round-up of 7 dazzling Djinn books is guaranteed to take you on a magic carpet ride. The real history behind Game of Thrones is full of intrigue, murder, and war. Learn about the real-life people who inspired your favorite characters. 20 great fantasy children's books for Harry Potter fans who aren't quite ready for all the death and fascism that await in... You've got the magic in you! But what kind? Wave your magic wand, pull that rabbit out of your hat, and take our literary magician quiz to find out! Follow the stories of huntresses, princesses, and puppeteers as they choose between life and death in these eight magical fantasy books. Get ready for an atmospheric read with these dark fantasy books, many of which feature an anti-hero and deal with moral ambiguity. Even more ways to connect with the Riot More bookish content delivered straight to your inbox Can't get enough? Good. Cos we've got enough Podcast material to keep you occupied for roughly 2 years and 147 days. 