Tornado Caused Amazon Building Collapse That Killed 2   CBS Baltimore Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Reddit AddThis BALTIMORE (WJZ)  Baltimore City Fire officials identified the two men who died at an Amazon facility Friday night after a tornado hit the region. The men killed in the Amazon building collapse Friday were identified as 54-year-old Andrew Lindsay and Israel Espana Argote. No age was provide for Argote. The two men that died in the collapse at the Amazon center were identified as Andrew Lindsay 54 yo and Israel Argoteia no age provided.  pic.twitter.com/AHs1qthU0V  Baltimore Fire (@BaltimoreFire)  November 4, 2018 The National Weather Service confirmed Saturday that a EF-1 tornado touched down along the Baltimore city-county line. Firefighters remained on scene Saturday, searching through rubble for victims. Severe  Weather Could Be Factor In Fatal Amazon Building Collapse Fire Chief Roman Clark confirmed that one person was found under debris at the center on Holabird Avenue at Broening Highway Friday. He was taken to a hospital, where he was pronounced dead. Another man s body was found in the rubble Saturday morning. Baltimore Fire officials identified the men killed at Amazon on Friday as 54-year-old  Andrew Lindsay and Israel Argoteia. No age was provide for Argoteia. It Sounded Like Bombs  | Amazon Employee Describes Building Collapse According to the National Weather Service, a tornado touched down in Baltimore City at 9:42 p.m. causing the damage. Initial damage was to a tractor-trailer, which was blown over on I-95 just north Fort McHenry tunnel, and a fence line that was blown over on South Newkirk street. The tornado tracked east from there moving parallel to Hollabird Avenue. It blew in large garage doors on both sides of the Flexi-Van Leasing facility, according to the NWS. The tornado then reached the Amazon facility, reaching a peak of 105 mph. It blew off the roof of the building, including iron rafters. An 8-inch concrete wall then collapsed into the building, killing two people. About a dozen tractor-trailers were pushed over, moved or rolled by the wind and several car windows were blown out. Then the tornado continued eat along the south side of Hollabird Avenue, uprooting large trees and snapping dozens of large tree branches. A Baltimore City firefighter saw the swirling debris and the funnel cloud as it passed. The tornado lifted as it reached Dundalk Avenue. NW said the tornado briefly touched down again at the  Hollabird East Apartments on 4 Georges Court in Dundalk , pulling off part of its roof. The damage displaced residents. Senior Vice President of Operations for Amazon, Dave Clark, issued this statement on the collapse: Last night, severe weather impacted one of our facilities in Baltimore City resulting in two fatalities. First responders remain onsite assessing the damage. The safety of our employees and contractors is our top priority and at this time the building remains closed. We are incredibly thankful for the quick response from emergency services. Our thoughts and prayers go out to the families impacted by Friday evening s tragic event. According to Rachael Lighty, Regional Manager of External Communications for Amazon Operations, the two victims were third-party contractors and not Amazon employees. Severe weather in the area caused  damage to the roof of an apartment building in Dundalk  as well, displacing residents. A  Mt. Airy TJ Maxx also reported damage  from stormy weather. Gov. Larry Hogan tweeted his condolences Saturday. This story is developing. Follow  @WJZ  on Twitter and like  WJZ-TV | CBS Baltimore  on Facebook window.NREUM||(NREUM={});NREUM.info={"beacon":"bam.nr-data.net","licenseKey":"103fa8ca15","applicationID":"144794115","transactionName":"ZwdaZBdUX0VTVEBRC15NeVMRXF5YHV5aXAFI","queueTime":0,"applicationTime":194,"atts":"S0BNEl9OTBoQVhYCH00f","errorBeacon":"bam.nr-data.net","agent":""} Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Reddit AddThis These cookies are essential for the proper functioning of our properties. In addition, we use the Google and Tealium Tag Managers. Essential cookies cannot be switched off in our systems. You can set your browser or device to block or alert you about these cookies, but some parts of the site will not work.  These cookies allow us to collect information about how visitors use our properties. Some examples include counting visits and traffic sources, so we can measure and improve the performance of our site. If you do not allow these cookies we will not know when users have visited our properties and will not be able to monitor performance. These cookies enable the website to provide enhanced functionality and personalization. They may be set by us or by third party providers whose services we have added to our pages.    If you do not allow these cookies then some or all of these services may not function properly. These cookies may be set by us or through our property by our advertising partners. They may be used by those companies to build a profile of your interests and show you relevant adverts on other properties. If you do not allow these cookies, you will still see ads, but you will experience less relevant advertising.   These cookies are set by a range of social media services that we have added to the site to enable you to share our content with your friends and networks. They are capable of tracking your browser across other sites, building up a profile of your interests to show you relevant content and adverts on properties. If you do not allow these cookies you may not be able to use or see these sharing tools. Back Button Back Search Icon Filter Icon Clear Fliters All Consent Allowed 3 Purposes Arrow Consent Purposes Location Based Ads Consent Allowed Legitimate Interest Purposes Personalize Features Location Based Ads 