O.A.No. 1624 Of 2013 vs The General Manager on 27 July, 2015 The applicant retired from Railway service as Assistant Commercial Manager on attaining the age of superannuation on 31.10.1994. According to him, there was no Railway medical facility available at his place of residence, and hence, he was compelled to opt for fixed medical allowance of Rs.100/- per month after his retirement. He suddenly fell ill and developed severe pain in his left arm with unstable angina and was admitted to the local civil hospital on 22.1.2003. The civil surgeon diagnosed and advised for his proper and immediate treatment by cardiologist surgeon. He was shifted from MGRG to Umakal Hospital and M.P. Heart Research Institute, Gurgaon. After examination by a team of doctors, he was further admitted to Metro Heart Institute, Sector 16A, Faridabad, which was a Private Nursing Home. Finally, he was admitted to Escorts Hospital and Research Centre, Faridabad, which was approved and recognized by the Railways as a Hospital for specialized treatment. An expenditure of Rs.1,36,975/- was incurred by him for medical treatment at different Hospitals. All the requisite documents were submitted by him to the Senior DPO, N.W.Railway, Bikanear, on 9.6.2003 for reimbursement of the said expenditure of Rs.1,36,975/- in his favour. He submitted a number of representations to the Divisional Medical Railway Manager, North West Railway, Bikaner; the General Manager, North  West Railway, Jaipur; and the Chief Medical Superintendent, N.W.Railway, Lalgarh, during the period from 2003 to 2011 to expedite the payment of medical claim. There being no response, a legal notice dated 11.6.2012 was also served on the General Manager, N.W.Railway, Jaipur, and the Chief Medical Superintendent, N.W.Railway, Lalgarh (respondent nos. 1 and 3), but to no avail. Respondent no.3, the Chief Medical Superintendent, N.W.Railway, Lalgarh, vide his letter dated 19.9.2012, gave a reply to the said legal notice as follows:  In reference to your legal Notice dated 11.06.2012, the reply on behalf of Railway Administration is as under:- (1) That the employee has not submitted his RELHS Card (Medical Card) and other relevant documents required to examine the claim of reimbursement.  (2) That in absence of the required documents medical card etc. the claim of medical reimbursement cannot be entertained appropriately as it is a condition precedent that Medical reimbursement claim can be granted to those retired Railway employees, who are the member of RELH Scheme. It is made clear that the Retired Railway employee who is not a member of RELH Scheme under the provisions of Railway Board Circular No.97/H/28/1 dated 23.10.1997 (PS No.11489/97) is not entitled to obtain Medical reimbursement for their treatment. (3) That the said Railway Board s Circular provides the membership of RELH Scheme to obtain medical reimbursement of the treatment. In this case, the employee is not a member of this Scheme, hence the claim of medical reimbursement in question cannot be granted to him. It is further mentioned here that the citation of Court s judgment mentioned in Legal Notice is not applicable in the circumstances of the present case. Hence, the applicant filed the present O.A., seeking the following reliefs:  i)Direct the respondent no.2 to arrange payment of Rs.1,36,975/- incurred on medical treatment in approved and recognized Hospital along with 18% interest thereon for creating mental agony and financial hardship. ii) Any other relief which the Hon ble Tribunal may deem fit and proper.   2.The applicant also filed MA No.1253 of 2013 seeking condonation of delay in filing of the O.A. For the reasons assigned by the applicant in the MA, the delay in filing of the OA is condoned. Accordingly, MA No.1253 of 2013 is disposed of. 3.Opposing the O.A., the respondents have filed a counter reply. It is, inter alia, stated by the respondents that the applicant has opted to draw Rs.100/- per month as medical allowance, instead of obtaining medical card under RELHS-97. The applicant has been getting fixed monthly medical allowance and, therefore, he is not entitled for medical reimbursement. The employees, who are medical card holders under RELHS-97, can avail of all the medical facilities, like medicine, reimbursement of medical expenditure, etc.  As the applicant has not been issued medical card under RELHS-1997, he is not entitled for reimbursement of expenditure incurred by him for medical treatment.  4.In his rejoinder reply, the applicant, besides referring to a large number of decisions in support of his claim, has stated that the Chief Medical Superintendent, North West Railway, Lalgarh, is neither the sanctioning authority nor controlling authority so far as the medical claim of the applicant is concerned. Therefore, the rejection of his medical claim by the Chief Medical Superintendent, North West Railway, Lalbag, vide communication dated 19.9.2012, is illegal.   5.On 15.5.2014, the applicant filed copies of the Railway Board s letter dated 18.9.1996 mentioning the names of the hospitals recognized by the Railways, and the Railway Board s order RBH No.10/2008 regarding DRM s power to sanction all reimbursement claims up to Rs.2 lakhs in emergent cases.  6.I have heard Mr.Khairati Lal, learned counsel appearing for the applicant, and Mr.Shailender Tiwari, learned counsel appearing for the respondents. 7.It transpires from the records that the applicant made representations not only to the Divisional Railway Manager, and General Manager of the N.W.Railway, but also to the Chief Medical Superintendent, N.W.Railway, Lalgarh, in the matter of reimbursement of his medical claims.  It also transpires from the records that in response to the legal notice served by the applicant on the  Chief Medical Superintendent,N.W.Railway, Lalgarh, the letter/order dated 19.9.2012 has been issued by the said Chief Medical Superintendent.  Therefore, I find no substance in the plea raised by the applicant that the Chief Medical Superintendent, N.W.Railway, Lalgarh, acted without jurisdiction and authority in considering and rejecting his claim for medical reimbursement.  8.The members of RELHS-97, their spouse and family members/dependant beneficiaries are provided with full medical facilities as admissible to serving employees in respect of medical treatment, investigations, diet, and reimbursement of claims for treatment in Government or recognized non-railway hospitals. Those who join the RELHS-97 hold identity cards with photographs of all the beneficiaries.  It is the plea of the applicant that as there was no Railway medical facility available to him at his place of residence, he was compelled to opt for fixed medical allowance.  This plea is untenable inasmuch as the RELHS-97 does not stipulate that the beneficiaries under the RELHS-97 are entitled to Railway medical facility only. Had the applicant become a member of the RELHS-97, he would have been entitled to full medical facilities as admissible to serving Railway employees in respect of medical treatment, investigations, diet, and reimbursement of claims for treatment not only in Railway hospitals but also in Government or recognized non-railway hospitals. Having willingly opted for being paid monthly medical allowance and further not having become a member of the RELHS after his retirement from Railway service, he cannot be allowed to seek reimbursement of expenditure incurred by him for obtaining medical treatment. The applicant has also not produced before this Tribunal any rule, or instruction issued by the Railways showing that retired Railway employees, like him, who are not members of RELHS-97, are entitled for reimbursement of expenditure incurred by them for obtaining medical treatment from any Government hospital, or private hospital, or hospital approved and recognized by the Railways.   The Railway Board s letters dated 18.9.1996 and 8.8.2008, filed by him on 19.5.2014, regarding recognition of private hospitals, and delegation of power to General Manager for reimbursement of medical expenses are of no help to his case.  Therefore, I do not find any infirmity in the decision taken by the respondent-Railways in rejecting his claim for reimbursement of expenditure on medical treatment obtained by him. 9.In support of his case, the applicant has placed reliance on the following decisions: (v) Tulsa Ram v. State of Rajasthan and others , 2005(1) SCT 745; and (vi) Kishan Chand v. Govt. of NCT  &  others, W.P. ( C ) No . 889 of 2007, decided on 12.3.2010. 10. In Dal Chand Vashisht v. Government of NCT of Delhi and others , 2008 VI AD (Delhi) 44, the petitioner retired from Sarvodaya Vidyalaya, INA, New Delhi, as PGT (English) on 31.5.1991 and settled down at Faridabad. He suffered from heart related medical ailments and was admitted to Metro Hospital at Faridabad in emergency on 5.5.2004. His treatment bill came to Rs.1,30,000/-. He was discharged on 9.2.2004. He submitted a representation dated 15.7.2004 to the concerned Ministry, seeking reimbursement of the medical expenses as aforesaid. Since he did not hear anything from the respondents, he preferred OA No.2510 of 2005 before the Tribunal. The said O.A. was disposed of by the Tribunal with a direction that the representation of the petitioner be decided. Pursuant thereto, the respondent passed an order on 17.3.2006 rejecting the petitioner s claim for medical reimbursement on the ground that he had applied for membership of Delhi Government Employees Health Scheme (DGEHS) by paying the requisite fee only on 11.3.2004, and that he became its member only on 23.3.2004, i.e., after having undergone treatment at Metro Hospital, Faridabad. It was further stated that the aforesaid scheme was optional for teachers and they could become members of the scheme only after their retirement. During their services, they were governed by another scheme of the Government of India contained in Ministry of Education Office Memorandum dated 2.8.1985. It was further stated that the claim of the petitioner was not covered under the Central Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1944 since retired Government officials are not governed by the said Rules. This order was challenged by the petitioner by filing OA No.939 of 2006. The Tribunal, by its order dated 13.11.2006, rejected the claim of the petitioner.  Challenging the Tribunal s order, the petitioner filed writ petition before the Hon ble High Court of Delhi. The Tribunal took note of its Full Bench  decision in Ram Dev Singh etc. etc. v. Union of India, 2003 (2) ATJ 19, wherein the it was held that till such time as the Central Government permits a scheme for reimbursement of medical expenses incurred by retired Government employee for indoor treatment, the Government servant may enroll under the CGHS initially, and that if the retired Government servant resides in an area not covered under the said scheme, he would not be entitled to claim reimbursement immediately. In support of his claim, the petitioner placed reliance on a number of decisions, including the decisions in B.R.Mehta s case, S.K.Sharma s case, P.N.Chopra s case, and V.K.Jagadhari s case, which are cited before the Tribunal in the present case.  The Division Bench of the Hon ble High Court, in paragraphs 20 to 26 of the judgment, held thus:  20. Often Health schemes, including the DGEHS are contributory in nature, and are structured on the same lines as the insurance schemes, where the burden is shared by all the contributories collectively for the benefit of those who may need to draw from the common pool thus created. If such contributions were permitted to remain contingent on the employee/pensioner first suffering illness, and incurring substantial expenses (which are more than the contribution he would be liable to make under the Scheme, because only then the employee/pensioner will find it worthwhile to become a member of the Scheme), the entire scheme may collapse. No employee/pensioner would feel the need to get covered by such a scheme in advance, to cover the risks which the scheme protects against. Only such persons who see it as a profitable proposition, i.e., those who have incurred more expenses and are in a position to claim more reimbursement than the contribution required under the scheme would then become members under the scheme at their own convenience. The concept of a large body of employees/pensioners contributing a very small fraction of the costs to meet the expenses of a few who actually suffer large amounts of expenses on medical treatment would be completely defeated. No doubt, even in contributory schemes for employees/pensioners, the Government may provide funds from its coffers as well to top up the expenses/out go from such schemes, but essentially they are contributory schemes. 21. A constitutional Bench of the Supreme Court in  Confederation of Ex-Servicemen Association and Ors. v. Union of India and Ors . (2006) 8 SCC 399 has pronounced upon the nature of the CGH Scheme and the extent scope of the rights of a retired employee vis-a-vis his health services. In the said case the court was considering the claim being made by the confederation of Ex-defense Personnel who were claiming the right to full and free medical aid for themselves and their families as a fundamental right. The Health care Scheme introduced by the Government, wherein the retired Army Personnel were required to subscribe to the said scheme by paying a contribution was challenged on the ground that no amount could be asked from the beneficiaries towards subscription. The stand of the Petitioners before the Apex Court was that while they were in service free and full medical aid was being provided to them and they were similarly entitled to the same post retirement benefits and the imposition of a condition prescribing contribution by the employee to avail the facility post retirement, had violated the fundamental rights to free and full health care. This, according to them, was discriminatory. An analogy was also sought to be drawn from the scheme available for members of Civil Services and it was contended that members of the Civil services were also being provided all the medical facilities irrespective of the status of they being 'in service' or 'retired'. It was contended that the retired civil servant and the retired defense personnel stand on the same footing and no discrimination or differential treatment could be meted out to them. The Supreme Court while rejecting the contentions of the Petitioners held:  In our opinion, such a contributory scheme cannot be held illegal, unlawful or unconstitutional. Ultimately, the State has to cater to the needs of its employees - past and present. It has also to undertake several other activities as a "welfare" State. In the light of financial constraints and limited means available, if a policy decision is taken to extend medical facilities to ex-defense personnel by allowing them to become members of contributory scheme and by requiring them to make "one-time payment" which is a "reasonable amount", it cannot be said that such action would violate the fundamental rights guaranteed by Part III of the Constitution. In State of Punjab v. Ram Lubhaya Bagga  a three-Judge Bench of this Court had an occasion to consider the question of change of policy in regard to reimbursement of medical expenses to its employees. Referring to earlier decisions, the Bench took note of the ground reality that no State has unlimited resources to spend on any of its projects. Provisions relating to supply of medical facilities to its citizens is not an exception to the said rule. Therefore, such facilities must necessarily be made limited to the extent finances permit. No right can be absolute in a welfare State. An individual right has to be subservient to the right of public at large. This principle equally applies when there is any constraint on the health budget on account of financial stringencies. (SCC p.132, para 35) We are in agreement with the above view. In our considered opinion, though the right to medical aid is a fundamental right of all citizens including ex-servicemen guaranteed by  Article 21  of the Constitution, framing of scheme for ex-servicemen and asking them to pay "one time contribution" neither violates Part III nor is it inconsistent with Part IV of the Constitution. Ex-servicemen who are getting pension have been asked to become members of ECHS by making "one-time contribution" of reasonable amount (ranging from Rs. 1800 to Rs. 18,000). To us, this cannot be held illegal, unlawful, arbitrary or otherwise unreasonable. Observations made by this Court in the cases relied upon by the petitioner and interveners including  Consumer Education  &  Research Centre v. Union of India  referred to earlier, must be read as limited to the facts before the court and should not be understood to have laid down a proposition of law having universal or general application irrespective of the factual situation before the court. To us, the policy decision in formulating contributory scheme for ex-servicemen is in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution and also in consonance with the law laid down by this Court. We see no infirmity therein. We, therefore, hold that getting free and full medical facilities is not a part of the fundamental right of ex-servicemen.  22. With regard to the classification between in-service and ex-service employee, the court observed that such classification was legal, valid and reasonable and extension of the same benefit to retired employees as they were enjoying while in service cannot be claimed as a right. The court was also guided by the fact that the CGHS for retired civil servant was also a contributory scheme and thus retired civil servants, who are members of the scheme are covered by the scheme and they are also provided medical service on payment of a specified amount under the scheme. Since the court has clarified that there is no right to full and free medical facility, though there is a right to medical aid, all persons, upon their retirement must make the requisite contribution and exercise their option to become a member of such schemes before they can seek to obtain the benefit under the said scheme where it is contributory. The court has taken judicial note of the limited financial resources, which the State is possessed of, in coming to its aforesaid conclusion. We also, cannot lost sight of this factor. Having taken note of the aforesaid recent pronouncement of the Supreme Court, we revert to examine the various decisions considered by the learned single Judge of this Court in V.K. Jagdhari (supra). 23.  In Deen Dayal Sharma v. Municipal Corporation of Delhi , 135 (2006) DLT 32, a learned Single Judge of this High Court based on the decisions in S.D. Sharma (supra) and T.S. Oberoi (supra) held that the said decision had extended the benefit to those who had become members even after the treatment was obtained. Since, as per the our understanding the said decisions do not lay down any such universal proposition, and the ratio of the said decision cannot be extended to all cases, the decision in Deen Dayal Sharma (supra) is overruled on the said proposition of law. 24.  In B.R. Mehta v. Union of India  , the Court proceeded on the basis that government had already granted sanction to the Petitioner for treatment and therefore the stand of the government that he was not a member of the CGHS was rejected. 25. The decision in  S.K. Sharma v. Union of India and Anr ., was rendered in a situation where the Petitioner who earlier was a member of the CGHS decided not to continue as a member of the scheme when he shifted to Bareily, since benefit of the CGHS was not extended to Bareily. The court was therefore guided by the consideration that the retired officer should not suffer on account of the failure on the part of the Government to extend CGHS to all areas of the Country. This decision proceeds on the foundation that the retired government servant has a fundamental right to unconditional medical aid, irrespective of the fact whether the retired servant is a member of a health scheme or not, and whether or not he has paid the subscription therefore. This is contrary to the decision of the Supreme Court in Confederation of Ex-Servicemen Association (supra). Both S.K. Sharma (supra) and B.R. Mehta (supra) proceed on the basis that if the retired government servant lives in an area which is not served by the CGHS he need not become a member of the scheme and still would be entitled to the benefits thereof i.e. for reimbursement under the scheme. We do not agree with the reasoning of the Court in these decisions. In case the retired government employee is situated in a location not serviced by CGHS, or the concerned scheme the retired government servant can legitimately claim reimbursement for any emergency treatment even from a non-recognized hospital at the maximum of the rates prescribed under the scheme. In our view, nothing stops the retired government employee from contributing to the scheme and obtaining treatment in a CGHS area even though he resides in a non CGHS area. Even while living in such non CGHS/other scheme covered area, he is entitled to be compensated for any treatment obtained in an emergency situation at the prescribed rates. This has been held in  Narendra Pal Singh v. Union of India and Ors . . 26. To be able to obtain the benefit of a scheme, it is essential that the person/claimant is a member of the said scheme. If the membership is automatic, i.e., it comes with the status of the person, the person would be entitled to the benefits thereof, unless he expressly, or by his conduct evinces his intentions not to participate in the scheme - e.g. where he does not pay the subscription due from him. However, where has an option, - whether or not to subscribe to the scheme and the scheme is contributory and voluntary in character, he cannot claim any benefits under the scheme unless he exercises his option to get covered by the scheme and also takes the necessary steps by paying the subscription therefor.  11.In Tulsa Ram s case (supra), the petitioner was serving under the Government of Rajasthan. Rule 7 of the Rajasthan Civil Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1970, provided for treatment of a disease for which treatment was not available in the State. The Medical Board referred the petitioner to AIIMS. As the waiting list in AIIMS was quite lengthy, he got operated from hospital recognized under the said Rules. Considering these facts, the Hon ble High Court of Rajasthan held that the petitioner could not be denied reimbursement as he decided to act with promptitude in interest of self-preservation, which is a part of right to life, by taking treatment in an approved hospital and, therefore, the order issued by the respondent declining his claim was arbitrary, unreasonable and unjust.  Accordingly, the Hon ble Court directed the respondent to reimburse him the medical and travelling expenses.  Hence, the decision in Tulsa Ram s case, being distinguishable on facts, does not help the applicant in the present case. 11.1Shri Khairati Lal, learned counsel appearing for the applicant, drew my attention to paragraph 19 of the judgment in Tulsa Ram s case (supra), wherein observation of the Hon ble Supreme Court in  Surjit Singh v. State of Punjab ,  1996(2) SCT 234 (SC): AIR 1996 SC 1388, has been quoted as follows:   It is otherwise important to bear in mind that self preservation of one's life is the necessary concomitant of the right to life enshrined in  Article 21  of the Constitution of India, fundamental in nature, sacred, precious and inviolable. The importance and validity of the duty and right to self-preservation has a species in the right of self defence in criminal law. Centuries ago, thinkers of this Great Land conceived of such right and recognized it. Attention can usefully be drawn to versus 17 18, 20, and 22 in Chapter 16 of the Garuda Purana (A Dialogue suggested between the Divine and Garuda, the bird) in the words of the Divine . In Surjit Singh s case (supra), the appellant, while posted as a Deputy Superintendent Police, Anandpur Sahib, Distt. Roper, Punjab, developed a heart-condition on 22-12-1987 and, that very day, went on a short leave extending it uptill 10-1-1988 on medical grounds. However, six months later, he obtained leave from his superiors from 15-6-1988 to 8-9-1988 and went to England to visit his son. While in England, he fell ill due to his heart problem and, as an emergency case, was admitted in Dudley Road, Hospital Brimingham. After diagnosis, he was suggested treatment at a named alternate place. Thus, to save himself the appellant got himself admitted and operated upon in Humana Hospital, Wellington, London, for a Bye-Pass Surgery. He claimed to have been hospitalized from 25-7-88 to 4-8-88. A sum of Rs.3 lacs allegedly was spent on his treatment at London, borne by his son. On return to India, the appellant on 6-11-1988 submitted a Bill for medical reimbursement claiming that very sum, in the office of the Senior Superintendent of Police, Ropar, which was forwarded to the Director General of Police, Punjab, Chandigarh, and the Home Department of the State of Punjab. Some correspondence took place between the appellant and the Department. As per office requirements, some more certificates were sent by the appellant in support of his case. Vide letter dated 21-1-93, the Department, however, expressed its inability to sanction the bill for medical reimbursement. This led to the appellant moving the Hon ble High Court of Punjab and Haryana at Chandigarh in writ jurisdiction. As required by the Hon ble High Court, the State responded by filing its counter affidavit. At the time of hearing, the Assistant Advocate General for the State of Punjab made a statement to the effect that the State was ready to pay to the appellant the expenses incurred for Bye-pass Surgery and Angiography at the rates prevalent in the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi (for short 'AIIMS'). Applying that yardstick, as suggested, a sum of Rs.30,000/- on account of Bye-Pass Surgery and a sum of Rs.10,000/- for Angiography was thus ordered by the Hon ble High Court to be paid to the appellant within six weeks. The writ petition on 18-4-1995 was disposed of on such terms. The said sum, as claimed by the State stood paid to the appellant. The appellant challenging the order of the Hon ble  High Court disposing of the writ petition in such manner pitched before the Hon ble Supreme Court his claim to payment on the basis of rates prevalent in the Escorts Heart Institute and Research Centre (for short Escorts'), reducing his high claim to the expenses incurred for medical treatment in London.  In the above context, the Hon ble Supreme Court made the aforesaid observation. It was further observed by the Hon ble Supreme Court that the appellant had the right to take steps in self preservation. He did not have to stand in queue before the Medical Board the manning and assembling of which, bare-facedly, makes its meetings difficult to happen. The appellant also did not have to stand in queue in the government hospital of AIIMS and could go elsewhere to an alternate hospital as per policy. When the State itself had brought the Escorts on the recognized list, it was futile for it to contend that the appellant could in no event have gone to the Escorts and his claim could on that basis be allowed on suppositions. In the facts and circumstances, had the appellant remained in India, he could have gone to the Escorts, like many others did, to save his life. But instead, he had done that in London incurring considerable expense. The doctors causing his operation there were presumed to have done so as one essential and timely. On that hypothesis, it was fair and just that the respondents pay to the appellant the rates admissible as per Escorts. 11.2But in the instant case, as already found, the applicant is not at all entitled to reimbursement of medical expenditure under any rule. Therefore, the aforesaid observation of the Hon ble Supreme Court does not improve the case of the applicant in any way.   12.The decision of the Division Bench of the Hon ble High Court of Delhi in Dal Chand Vashist s case (supra) was not brought to the notice of the Hon ble Single Judge while deciding Kishan Chand s case (supra).   In view of the decision of the Division Bench of the Hon ble High Court in Dal Chand Vashist s case (supra), the decision of the Hon ble Single Judge in Kishan Chand s case  (supra) hardly improves the case of the present applicant. 13.The Division Bench of the Hon ble High Court of Delhi in  Union of India and another v. Shanti Devi Sharma,  W.P. ( C ) No . 12711 of 2009, decided on 12.7.2010, the predecessor in interest of the respondent Late Sh.Tara Chand Sharma who was in Government service, post retirement, opted not to pay the requisite contribution to be a member of Central Government Health Scheme. Unfortunately for him, after availing medical aid, he applied for being issued a CGHS Card on 04.03.2003. It was then that he paid the requisite money and was inducted as a member of the Central Government Health Scheme. But the medical bills prior thereto were rejected on the ground that when medical treatment was taken, he was not a member of the scheme. Proceeding to the Central Administrative Tribunal, Late Sh.Tara Chand Sharma succeeded when impugned order dated 14.01.2008 was passed. While passing the impugned order, the Tribunal followed the ratio in S.K.Sharma s case (supra) and V.K.Jagadhari s case (supra).  Challenging the Tribunal s order, the Union of India filed writ petition. The Hon ble High Court took note of the decision in Dal Chand Vashisht s case (supra) and allowed the writ petition by setting aside the Tribunal s order and dismissing the O.A.  14.After having bestowed my anxious consideration to the facts and circumstances of the case, and the rival contentions of the parties, in the light of the decision of the Full Bench of the Tribunal in Ram Dev Singh s case  (supra),  and the decisions of the Hon ble High Court of Delhi in Dal Chand Vashisht s case (supra) and Shanti Devi Sharma s case (supra), I have found that the applicant is not entitled to reimbursement of the expenditure incurred by him for his medical treatment as he is not a member of the RELHS-97, and that there is no infirmity in the decision of the respondent-Railways rejecting his claim.  I have also found that in view of the decision of the Full Bench of the Tribunal in Ram Dev Singh s case (supra) and the Division Bench decisions of the Hon ble High Court in Dal Chand Vashisht s  case (supra) and  Shanti Devi Sharma s case  (supra),  none of the decisions cited by Shri Khairati Lal, learned counsel, is of any help to the case of the applicant.  15.Accordingly, the O.A. being devoid of any merit is dismissed. No costs. (RAJ VIR SHARMA)JUDICIAL MEMBERAN 