dereistic thinking Medical dictionary .    2011 . dereistic  — Living in imagination or fantasy with thoughts that are incongruent with logic or experience. * * * de·re·is·tic (de re isґtik) directed away from reality; not using normal logic; see dereistic thinking, under thinking …  Medical dictionary wishful thinking  — Synonyms and related words: alienation, autism, autistic thinking, avoidance mechanism, bamboozlement, befooling, blame shifting, blind faith, bluffing, calculated deception, circumvention, compensation, conning, credulity, credulousness,  …  Moby Thesaurus autistic thinking  — self absorption; preoccupation with inner thoughts, drives, and idiosyncratic logic; egocentric, subjective thinking lacking objectivity and preferring a narcissistic, inner, private reality to that which is externally validated. Used  …  Medical dictionary Glossary of psychiatry  — In this glossary of psychiatric terms, mostly Greek, secondly French and German and some English terms, as used in psychiatric literature, were defined. We have included many other terms with the passage of time and aim to broaden this article to …  Wikipedia List of thought processes  — This is a list of thinking styles, methods of thinking (thinking skills), and types of thought. See also the List of thinking related topic lists, the List of philosophies and the .* Abductive reasoning * Abstract thinking * Adaptation * Analogy  …  Wikipedia dereism  — Mental activity in fantasy in contrast to reality. [L. de, away, + res, thing] * * * de·re·ism dē rē .iz əm, dā rā ; dē rē iz əm, dā rā n thinking directed away from reality and not following ordinary rules of logic de·re·is·tic .dē (.)rē is tik …  Medical dictionary alienation  — Synonyms and related words: abalienation, aberration, abnormality, abstraction, abulia, agreement to disagree, aloneness, aloofness, amortization, amortizement, anxiety, anxiety equivalent, anxiety state, apathy, apostasy, assignation, assignment …  Moby Thesaurus autism  — Synonyms and related words: acquisitiveness, airy nothing, alienation, anesthesia, autistic thinking, avoidance mechanism, bashfulness, blame shifting, bubble, careerism, catatonia, chill, chilliness, chimera, cold blood, cold heart,  …  Moby Thesaurus compensation  — Synonyms and related words: alienation, amends, atonement, autism, autistic thinking, avoidance mechanism, base pay, blame shifting, blood money, comeuppance, composition, compromise, consideration, correction, damages, decompensation, defense  …  Moby Thesaurus defense mechanism  — Synonyms and related words: alienation, autism, autistic thinking, avoidance, avoidance mechanism, avoidance reaction, avoiding reaction, blame shifting, block, blocking, circumvention, compensation, conversion, decompensation, defence, defense,  …  Moby Thesaurus We are using cookies for the best presentation of our site. Continuing to use this site, you agree with this.   OK 