Preferred Supplier List - Macildowie This website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website  Read More Connecting to LinkedIn... Others trust one recruitment provider sufficiently to work with them either exclusively or retained on the majority of vacancies.  Both ensure that costs and service levels are transparent, and that the recruitment company/s can get to know what “good” looks like regarding the candidates you employ.  Equally as important – it prevents you and your team having to field hundreds of over familiar 'cold calls' a month from recruitment agents. If this describes your business and your own preferred way of operating then you are someone that we want to start to build a relationship with for the future.  We like people who take recruitment seriously enough to have invested time developing relationships with suppliers.  We also know from experience that your partner recruitment companies will not be able to fill 100% of your vacancies 100% of the time, so we would like to offer a comparison to those service levels you are used to, to help you to benchmark the value for money you currently receive. We know that there is a massive benefit to your business in trying us out, in comparing us to your current recruitment suppliers.  We’re not looking to replace your existing relationships (immediately!).  The question we do want to pose is - do your current suppliers offer the same value proposition that we offer at no additional cost to our standard terms of business?  After reading through our key differentiating service proposition below, if the answer to our question is “NO, then please either complete our PSL COMPARISON form or find your most relevant Consultant to contact them directly and put us to the test.  Macildowie offers: 14 Jan Here at Macildowie, we know a thing or two about LinkedIn. We’ve been running our award winning workshops for years and we want you to come along to the next... Find out more 11 Feb Here at Macildowie, we know a thing or two about LinkedIn. We’ve been running our award winning workshops for years and we want you to come along to the next... Find out more 10 Mar Here at Macildowie, we know a thing or two about LinkedIn. We’ve been running our award winning workshops for years and we want you to come along to the next... Find out more 17 Dec Are you a Number 1 in Finance who would like to develop more of a professional network? Have you outstripped the expertise of your support network when needi... Find out more 14 Jan Here at Macildowie, we know a thing or two about LinkedIn. We’ve been running our award winning workshops for years and we want you to come along to the next... Find out more 11 Feb Here at Macildowie, we know a thing or two about LinkedIn. We’ve been running our award winning workshops for years and we want you to come along to the next... Find out more 10 Mar Here at Macildowie, we know a thing or two about LinkedIn. We’ve been running our award winning workshops for years and we want you to come along to the next... Find out more 17 Dec Are you a Number 1 in Finance who would like to develop more of a professional network? Have you outstripped the expertise of your support network when needi... Find out more 14 Jan Here at Macildowie, we know a thing or two about LinkedIn. We’ve been running our award winning workshops for years and we want you to come along to the next... Find out more 11 Feb Here at Macildowie, we know a thing or two about LinkedIn. We’ve been running our award winning workshops for years and we want you to come along to the next... Find out more NOTTINGHAM 0115 947 0200 LEICESTER 0116 222 2590 DERBY 01332 362 444 NORTHAMPTON 01604 809 71 3 COVENTRY 02476 668 238 MILTON KEYNES 01908 669 274 All content copyrighted Macildowie  All rights reserved Designed by  built by  Volcanic 