Privacy Policy Last Modified Date:  5-23-2018 Non-personal Information If you are just browsing the website, we collect basic, anonymous information like most websites such as browser type, language, referring site, pages visited, time on page, etc... All of this information is anonymous until you choose to provide personal information about yourself. Personal Information Personal information refers to any information that you voluntarily submit to us and in turn identifies you personally. We collect this information from you when you fill out a form, subscribe to our newsletter, and place an order through our promotional store. This includes, but is not limited to, information like name, email, phone number, company name, and company address. Personal information can also include information that is publicly available on the Internet through third-party applications like Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, and Google. Payment Information When you do place an order through our promotional store you will be required to enter a credit card and billing information. Payment information is processed using third-party, PCI-compliant service providers. We Never Sell Personal Information We value your privacy first and foremost. Therefore, we do not sell, trade, or otherwise transfer to outside parties your personally identifiable information. This does not include trusted third parties who assist us in operating our website, conducting our business, or servicing you, so long as those parties agree to keep this information confidential. We may also release your information when we believe release is appropriate to comply with the law, enforce our site policies, or protect ours or others rights, property, or safety. However, non-personally identifiable visitor information may be provided to other parties for marketing, advertising, or other uses. Protecting of Personal Information We implement a variety of security measures to maintain the safety of your personal information when you place an order or enter, submit, or access your personal information. Use of Personal Information Use of Credit Card Information All credit card transactions we collect and process are handled using a third-party, PCI-compliant service provider. After a transaction, your private information (credit cards, social security numbers, financials, etc.) will not be stored on our servers. All supplied sensitive/credit information is transmitted via Secure Socket Layer (SSL) technology and then encrypted into our payment gateway provider ' s database only to be accessible by those authorized with special access rights to such systems, and are required to keep the information confidential. Retention of Personal Information We retain personal information that you provide us as long as we consider it useful, or until it exhausts our data retention policy of 365 days. If we deem the information as no longer valuable due to events like inactivity, we will securely delete all the information in order to comply with our legal obligations. If you wish to have this information deleted at an earlier date, please see the information on our  opt-out page . After termination, we will, unless legally prohibited, delete all customer information   including your personal information   from our servers. What are Cookies? Cookies are small data files transferred onto computers or devices by sites for record-keeping purposes and to enhance functionality on a website. General Use of Cookies We use cookies and similar technologies to process information including standard Internet log information and details of the visitor s behavioral patterns upon visiting our site. This is done to provide you with a better experience and to facilitate the use of certain functions. Advertising We partner with third-party ad networks to manage advertising we run on other sites. Our ad network uses cookies and beacon technology to collect non-personal information about your activities. By doing this, we can provide you targeted advertising based on your interests and tendencies. Managing of Cookies Cookies are stored on your individual device and never stored on our servers. Therefore, each visitor has full control over which cookies are being stored on their device. You have the ability to accept or decline cookies. Most web browsers are automatically set to accept cookies. If you wish to decline some or all cookies, please visit our  opt-out page .You can also find a detailed list of all cookies used on our website by visiting our  cookie information page . Please note that if you decline cookies, you may not be able to fully experience the interactive features our website offers. Occasionally, at our discretion, we may include or offer third-party products or services on our website. These third party sites have separate and independent privacy policies. We therefore have no responsibility or liability for the content and activities of these linked sites. Nonetheless, we seek to protect the integrity of our site and welcome any feedback. We may revise our privacy policy from time to time as needed. You can always check when the last revision was made by referencing the date at the top of this page. If you have any questions about this privacy policy, the handling of your personal information, or any other questions, please contact us by email at  privacy@munciepower.com  or by phone at 1-800-367-7867. You may also contact us at the following address: 201 E Jackson St. Muncie, IN 47305 Muncie Power Products’ website uses cookies to personalize your experience and communications with the company. For more info click on the view privacy policy link below. View Privacy Policy Accept  &  Close 