Amanda Saunders - Sr Manager, Industry Go To Market - NVIDIA | LinkedIn A bright, energetic, self driven and goal oriented individual. My passion is working with amazing technologies and helping to create unique, fun and interesting stories. Shared by  Amanda Saunders Liked by  Amanda Saunders Shared by  Amanda Saunders 4 years 7 months Sep 2017   –  Present 2 years 4 months San Francisco Bay Area Jun 2015   –   Sep 2017 2 years 4 months Santa Clara, CA Nov 2014   –   Jun 2015 8 months San Mateo, California 4 years 3 months Oct 2013   –   Oct 2014 1 year 1 month Santa Clara, California Aug 2010   –   Sep 2013 3 years 2 months Feb 2009   –   Aug 2010 1 year 7 months Jun 2008   –   Nov 2008 6 months 2005   –   2008 A preview of what LinkedIn members have to say about Amanda: Amanda is an incredibly reliable, diligent, and highly skilled professional, as well as a great colleague. I worked with Amanda during my time at NVIDIA while we were building the software and services renewal program from the ground up.   Amanda completely built all of the marketing materials from scratch, that also included the positioning and messaging which resonated to a broad set of industries and customer segments.  She developed the foundational value prop on why our customers should purchase the software, and also the importance of renewing their support and maintenance.I would be absolutely thrilled to work with Amanda again in the future. Amanda is an incredibly reliable, diligent, and highly skilled professional, as well as a great colleague. I worked with Amanda during my time at NVIDIA while we were building the software and services renewal program from the ground up.   Amanda completely built all of the marketing materials from scratch, that also included the positioning and messaging which resonated to a broad set of industries and customer segments.  She developed the foundational value prop on why our customers should... Amanda is an incredibly reliable, diligent, and highly skilled professional, as well as a great colleague. I worked with Amanda during my time at NVIDIA while we were building the software and services renewal program from the ground up.   Amanda completely built all of the marketing materials from scratch, that also included the positioning and messaging which resonated to a broad set of industries and customer segments.  She developed the foundational value prop on why our customers should purchase the software, and also the importance of renewing their support and maintenance.I would be absolutely thrilled to work with Amanda again in the future. It’s rare that you come across standout talent like Amanda. I had the pleasure of working with Amanda for one year at NVIDIA, collaborating on endless GRID marketing projects. I was always impressed by her ability to capture any audience and get people on board with ideas. Her presentation skills and writing skills make her a crucial part of a team. She helped on-board me and improve upon my cross-functional skills across the company and with our partners. It was also fun being on the NVIDIA softball team together! As a team member or a leader, any company would be lucky to have Amanda on it. It’s rare that you come across standout talent like Amanda. I had the pleasure of working with Amanda for one year at NVIDIA, collaborating on endless GRID marketing projects. I was always impressed by her ability to capture any audience and get people on board with ideas. Her presentation skills and writing skills make her a crucial part of a team. She helped on-board me and improve upon my cross-functional skills across the company and with our partners. It was also fun being on the NVIDIA... It’s rare that you come across standout talent like Amanda. I had the pleasure of working with Amanda for one year at NVIDIA, collaborating on endless GRID marketing projects. I was always impressed by her ability to capture any audience and get people on board with ideas. Her presentation skills and writing skills make her a crucial part of a team. She helped on-board me and improve upon my cross-functional skills across the company and with our partners. It was also fun being on the NVIDIA softball team together! As a team member or a leader, any company would be lucky to have Amanda on it. 9 people have recommended Amanda Join now to view Join to view Amanda’s full profile San Francisco Bay Area London, United Kingdom London, United Kingdom Taunton, United Kingdom 233 others named Amanda Saunders are on LinkedIn 