Coachella 2018: Photos of the bands and their fans on Friday, Weekend 1 GET BREAKING NEWS IN YOUR BROWSER. CLICK HERE TO TURN ON NOTIFICATIONS. X Trending: Check out photos of the bands performing at the 2018 Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club in Indio on Friday, April 13. Tyler, the Creator performs on the Coachella Stage during Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club, in Indio, Calif. on Saturday, April 14, 2018. (Photo by Watchara Phomicinda, The Press-Enterprise/SCNG) Jamiroquai performs in the Mojave tent during the first day of the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club in Indio on April 13, 2018. (Photo by Matt Masin, Contributing Photographer) Jamiroquai performs in the Mojave tent during the first day of the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club in Indio on April 13, 2018. (Photo by Matt Masin, Contributing Photographer) Jamiroquai performs with Snoop Dogg in the Mojave tent during the first day of the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club in Indio on April 13, 2018. (Photo by Matt Masin, Contributing Photographer) Tyler, The Creator watches from the pit as Jamiroquai performs in the Mojave tent during the first day of the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club in Indio on April 13, 2018. (Photo by Matt Masin, Contributing Photographer) Jean-Michel Jarre performs on the Outdoor Theatre during Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club, in Indio, Calif. on Friday, April 13, 2018. (Photo by Watchara Phomicinda, The Press-Enterprise/SCNG) Jean-Michel Jarre performs on the Outdoor Theatre during Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club, in Indio, Calif. on Friday, April 13, 2018. (Photo by Watchara Phomicinda, The Press-Enterprise/SCNG) Crowd watch as Jean-Michel Jarre performs on the Outdoor Theatre during Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club, in Indio, Calif. on Friday, April 13, 2018. (Photo by Watchara Phomicinda, The Press-Enterprise/SCNG) Jean-Michel Jarre performs on the Outdoor Theatre during Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club, in Indio, Calif. on Friday, April 13, 2018. (Photo by Watchara Phomicinda, The Press-Enterprise/SCNG) A video of Edward Snowden is project during Jean-Michel Jarre performance on the Outdoor Theatre during Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club, in Indio, Calif. on Friday, April 13, 2018. (Photo by Watchara Phomicinda, The Press-Enterprise/SCNG) Jean-Michel Jarre performs on the Outdoor Theatre during Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club, in Indio, Calif. on Friday, April 13, 2018. (Photo by Watchara Phomicinda, The Press-Enterprise/SCNG) St. Vincent performs on the Outdoor Theatre Stage during the first day of the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club in Indio on April 13, 2018. (Photo by Matt Masin, Contributing Photographer) Vince Staples performs during the first day of the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club in Indio on April 13, 2018. (Photo by Matt Masin, Contributing Photographer) Vince Staples performs during the first day of the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club in Indio on April 13, 2018. (Photo by Matt Masin, Contributing Photographer) Vince Staples performs during the first day of the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club in Indio on April 13, 2018. (Photo by Matt Masin, Contributing Photographer) The Marias play on the Sonora Stage during the first day of the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club in Indio on April 13, 2018. (Photo by Matt Masin, Contributing Photographer) The Marias play on the Sonora Stage during the first day of the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club in Indio on April 13, 2018. (Photo by Matt Masin, Contributing Photographer) The Marias play on the Sonora Stage during the first day of the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club in Indio on April 13, 2018. (Photo by Matt Masin, Contributing Photographer) Kali Uchis plays on the Outdoor Theatre Stage during the first day of the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club in Indio on April 13, 2018. (Photo by Matt Masin, Contributing Photographer) Dreams, a new band made up of Luke Steele of Empire of the Sun, left, and Daniel Johns of Silverchair, perform in the Mojave Tent during the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club in Indio on Friday, April 13, 2018. (Photo by Kevin SullivanOrange County Register/SCNG) Kali Uchis plays on the Outdoor Theatre Stage during the first day of the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club in Indio on April 13, 2018. (Photo by Matt Masin, Contributing Photographer) Greta Van Fleet bassist Sam Kiszka, left, and vocalist Josh Kiszka perform in the Mojave tent during the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club in Indio, CA., Friday, April 13, 2018. (Staff photo by Jennifer Cappuccio Maher, The Press-Enterprise/SCNG) Greta Van Fleet guitarist Jake Kiszka plays behind his head while performing in the Mojave tent during the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club in Indio, CA., Friday, April 13, 2018. (Staff photo by Jennifer Cappuccio Maher, The Press-Enterprise/SCNG) Greta Van Fleet vocalist Josh Kiszka performs in the Mojave tent during the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club in Indio, CA., Friday, April 13, 2018. (Staff photo by Jennifer Cappuccio Maher, The Press-Enterprise/SCNG) The Regrettes lead singer Lydia Night performs in the Sonora tent during the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club in Indio, CA., Friday, April 13, 2018. (Staff photo by Jennifer Cappuccio Maher, The Press-Enterprise/SCNG) The Regrettes perform in the Sonora tent during the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club in Indio, CA., Friday, April 13, 2018. (Staff photo by Jennifer Cappuccio Maher, The Press-Enterprise/SCNG) Dreams, a new band made up of Luke Steele, of Empire of the Sun, at left, and Daniel Johns, of Silverchair, perform in the Mojave Tent during the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club in Indio on Friday, April 13, 2018. (Photo by Kevin SullivanOrange County Register/SCNG) The Regrettes lead singer Lydia Night jumps as the band performs in the Sonora tent during the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club in Indio, CA., Friday, April 13, 2018. (Staff photo by Jennifer Cappuccio Maher, The Press-Enterprise/SCNG) The War on Drugs lead singer Adam Granduciel performs at the Outdoor Theatre during the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club in Indio, CA., Friday, April 13, 2018. (Staff photo by Jennifer Cappuccio Maher, The Press-Enterprise/SCNG) The War on Drugs lead singer Adam Granduciel performs at the Outdoor Theatre during the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club in Indio, CA., Friday, April 13, 2018. (Staff photo by Jennifer Cappuccio Maher, The Press-Enterprise/SCNG) St. Vincent performs on the Outdoor Theatre Stage during the first day of the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club in Indio on April 13, 2018. (Photo by Matt Masin, Contributing Photographer) Dreams, a new band made up of Luke Steele, of Empire of the Sun, at left, and Daniel Johns, of Silverchair, perform in the Mojave Tent during the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club in Indio on Friday, April 13, 2018. (Photo by Kevin SullivanOrange County Register/SCNG) Luke Steele, of Empire of the Sun, performs with Daniel Johns, of Silverchair, not shown, in the Mojave Tent during the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club in Indio on Friday, April 13, 2018. (Photo by Kevin SullivanOrange County Register/SCNG) Daniel Johns, of Silverchair, performs with Luke Steele, of Empire of the Sun, not shown, in the Mojave Tent during the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club in Indio on Friday, April 13, 2018. (Photo by Kevin SullivanOrange County Register/SCNG) Fans watch Dreams, a new band made up of Luke Steele, of Empire of the Sun, at left, and Daniel Johns, of Silverchair, perform in the Mojave Tent during the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club in Indio on Friday, April 13, 2018. (Photo by Kevin SullivanOrange County Register/SCNG) Dreams perform in the Mojave Tent during the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club in Indio on Friday, April 13, 2018. (Photo by Kevin SullivanOrange County Register/SCNG) Luke Steele, of Empire of the Sun, performs with Daniel Johns, of Silverchair, not shown, in the Mojave Tent during the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club in Indio on Friday, April 13, 2018. (Photo by Kevin SullivanOrange County Register/SCNG) Dreams, a new band made up of Luke Steele, of Empire of the Sun, at left, and Daniel Johns, of Silverchair, perform in the Mojave Tent during the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club in Indio on Friday, April 13, 2018. (Photo by Kevin SullivanOrange County Register/SCNG) Daniel Johns, of Silverchair, performs with Luke Steele, of Empire of the Sun, not shown, in the Mojave Tent during the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club in Indio on Friday, April 13, 2018. (Photo by Kevin SullivanOrange County Register/SCNG) Fans wait for Dreams, a new band made up of Luke Steele, of Empire of the Sun, at left, and Daniel Johns, of Silverchair, perform in the Mojave Tent during the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club in Indio on Friday, April 13, 2018. (Photo by Kevin SullivanOrange County Register/SCNG) Daniel Johns, of Silverchair, performs with Luke Steele, of Empire of the Sun, not shown, in the Mojave Tent during the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club in Indio on Friday, April 13, 2018. (Photo by Kevin SullivanOrange County Register/SCNG) Luke Steele, of Empire of the Sun, performs with Daniel Johns, of Silverchair, not shown, in the Mojave Tent during the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club in Indio on Friday, April 13, 2018. (Photo by Kevin SullivanOrange County Register/SCNG) Daniel Johns, of Silverchair, performs with Luke Steele, of Empire of the Sun, not shown, in the Mojave Tent during the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club in Indio on Friday, April 13, 2018. (Photo by Kevin SullivanOrange County Register/SCNG) Luke Steele, of Empire of the Sun, performs with Daniel Johns, of Silverchair, not shown, in the Mojave Tent during the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club in Indio on Friday, April 13, 2018. (Photo by Kevin SullivanOrange County Register/SCNG) Daniel Johns, of Silverchair, performs with Luke Steele, of Empire of the Sun, not shown, in the Mojave Tent during the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club in Indio on Friday, April 13, 2018. (Photo by Kevin SullivanOrange County Register/SCNG) Tyler, the Creator performs on the Coachella Stage during Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club, in Indio, Calif. on Saturday, April 14, 2018. (Photo by Watchara Phomicinda, The Press-Enterprise/SCNG) Tyler, the Creator performs on the Coachella Stage during Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club, in Indio, Calif. on Saturday, April 14, 2018. (Photo by Watchara Phomicinda, The Press-Enterprise/SCNG) Jamiroquai performs in the Mojave tent during the first day of the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club in Indio on April 13, 2018. (Photo by Matt Masin, Contributing Photographer) Jamiroquai performs in the Mojave tent during the first day of the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club in Indio on April 13, 2018. (Photo by Matt Masin, Contributing Photographer) While you re at it, take a look at all of our news and photos coming out of  Coachella 2018 . Love festivals?  Sign up for our new Festival Pass newsletter  to get the latest and dispatches from events all over Southern California. We invite you to use our commenting platform to engage in insightful conversations about issues in our community. Although we do not pre-screen comments, we reserve the right at all times to remove any information or materials that are unlawful, threatening, abusive, libelous, defamatory, obscene, vulgar, pornographic, profane, indecent or otherwise objectionable to us, and to disclose any information necessary to satisfy the law, regulation, or government request. We might permanently block any user who abuses these conditions. If you see comments that you find offensive, please use the “Flag as Inappropriate” feature by hovering over the right side of the post, and pulling down on the arrow that appears. Or, contact our editors by emailing moderator@scng.com. Get the latest news delivered daily! 