Detecting and marking faint galaxies in Pixinsight | Astro-photo In this tutorial I will show you how you can mark faint background galaxies in your astrophotos using the Hyperleda and Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS) databases. To be able to do this you need the following programs: Pixinsight Microsoft Word Microsoft Excel You can  download the needed Excel file  for converting the data from the database in this tutorial  here . We will perform this tutorial using an image of M51 to show how it works. The image is shown here: You can just  download this image by opening it  and saving it somewhere for later use. Steps We will perform this tutorial using the M51 image above, but you can follow the same procedure for any image you like. First you will download the faint galaxy data from the Hyperleda website which includes the SDSS data. Go to  the  hyperleda website . Choose under Tools:  Search near position or name Fill the name of an object in your image in  object designation Press the  Find coordinates in HyperLeda  button The coordinates will be filled in automatically. Select a search radius  that covers whole your image (you could use the script  >  Image analysis  >  ImageSolver in Pixinsight to solve the image and find the size of the image). Here I used 60 arcminutes as the image is about 46 36  in size. Choose  List objects in Hyperleda  At the bottom of the page  change  Display as  into  formatted text Save the file  which appears now as a text file on your computer This text-file is the database file that you need to format for Pixinsight to import it into the AnnotateImage script. We will do this using Microsoft Excel. Before we can import the file into Excel we need to strip the shown header from the file. We can do this in Microsoft Word. Open the text file in word and remove all the header data from the file and the last lines that contain the file footer Save the file as a txt file  Now  open   Hyperleda_datafilter.xlsx  which you downloaded  here . Go to the tab  Import file here!  in the Excel file and import the text file you generated into this worksheet using the  import as text-file  function. You don t have to set anything, all will be automatically detected by Excel. Just press finish. If the file is refusing to load into the worksheet select  save to a new worksheet . Select all the imported data manually and copy this to the second tab  Copy data from import file here . If you now go to the third tab  Filtered data  you will see the data formatted ready for export to a pixinsight custom catalog file.  To avoid getting stars in the database,  filter the data using the  diameter column  and select all the fields with  1  (unselect and re-select) . In this way the filter is reset with the new dataset. The diameter column is temporary used as a filter for the galaxies in the database. Select one of the fields which contains data and then select all the data in this worksheet (1x ctrl-a should select all data automatically) and copy the data  to the fourth tab  Export data   Copy filter here!  in field A1. Now  remove all the values from the diameter column  (leave the header!). Now  export the fourth tab to a tab delimited text file using the save as function  in Excel and ignore the warnings (just choose OK). Congratulations you have now generated your custom catalog for Pixinsight. Now we will annotate the image using Pixinsight. Open your image file in pixinsight and use the  ImageSolver script  to plate solve the image. This should give the following results: Next use the  AnnotateImage script  with a  Custom Catalog  and select the text file you just generated. (If the Custom Catalog is not visible use the green + to add a layer with a custom catalog). If all works well you should be able to see the galaxies annotated in a proper way (you can use the preview to check). You can also choose in the output mode for a transparant overlay or a SVG file that you can use in photoshop to use as an overlay for your image. If you select  write objects to a text file  a catalog file will be generated with only the objects in your field of view. Good luck and please show me your results if you like this tutorial! If you like the imagery on this site it could be nice to take a look at my new book: Treasures of the Universe This book shows some unique imagery made by myself, fellow astrophotographers and professional imagers of the nicest places in the universe... For just 35 euros + sending you can get this great full-color, 152 pages, hardcover book!   Buy book (digital or hardcover format) Short preview of the book 