Legal-Info | Techinnovative Systems 1. use the Techinnovative Services for any illegal purpose, or in violation of any laws, including, without limitation, laws governing intellectual property, data protection and privacy, and import or export control; 2. remove, circumvent, disable, damage or otherwise interfere with security-related features of the Techinnovative Services, features that prevent or restrict use or copying of any content accessible through the Techinnovative Services, or features that enforce limitations on use of the Techinnovative Services; 3. intentionally interfere with or damage operation of the Techinnovative Services or any user s enjoyment of them, by any means, including uploading or otherwise disseminating viruses, worms, or other malicious code; 4. post, store, send, transmit, or disseminate any information or material which infringes any patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, or any other proprietary or intellectual property rights; or 5. use any robot, spider, scraper or other automated means to access the Techinnovative Services for any purpose without our express written permission or bypass our robot exclusion headers or other measures we may use to prevent or restrict access to the Techinnovative Services or modify the Techinnovative Services in any manner or form, nor to use modified versions of the Techinnovative Services, including (without limitation) for the purpose of obtaining unauthorized access to the Techinnovative Services. 6. sell or transfer or allow another person to access your account password or Techinnovative Services account It is company policy that our customer databases remain confidential and private. We have not, will not, and won t ever sell names to  spammers  or other parties who would like to use our databases to advertise or solicit their products or services. Your private information is safe with us. We take all reasonable precautions to protect the privacy of your information. When you submit sensitive information via the Techinnovative website, your information is protected online as well as offline. Wherever we collect sensitive information, that information is encrypted and transmitted to us in a secure way. You can verify this by the presence of a closed lock icon at the bottom of your web browser, or seeing the letters  https  at the beginning of the URL address of the web page. Techinnovative services are bought on subscription basis. In the event you choose to subscribe to Techinnovative service, you will be charged through PayPal/BlueSnap/BillDesk. Subject to this Refund Policy condition, user may be eligible to receive a full refund within 30 days from the day of payment, if the cancellation reason is proper and valid. To be clear, you will not be refunded any charges you paid for that subscription period once subscription period expired. To get refund, send refund request at  info@techinnovative.net  with order information. Build An awesome and Challenging Career With Techinnovative Systems. Email id : info@techinnovative.net Note: For all the above job openings, job location will be Ahmedabad 