Huge Huntsman spider found crawling in bag of salad - Telegraph Accessibility links Thursday 19 December 2019 By  Our Foreign Staff 9:26PM GMT 04 Feb 2016  A family, who described themselves as "arachnophobic", got a shock when they found a huge spider crawling inside a bag of salad.   Zoe Perry posted a video clip showing the large Huntsman spider moving around inside a bag of "Italian Style &# x201d; salad.   She wrote: "Shopping as per usual for Italian Style Salad Mix....get it home....Mum goes to open the packet and we are greeted by...."   Woolworths replied to the post asking Ms Perry to contact them, and stating they were "very concerned about this Zoe, and take incidents like this very seriously".   The Facebook clip had been viewed over 2.8 million times on Thursday evening and was shared tens of thousands of times.   The Huntsman spider is  harmless - but disconcertingly large, and quick,  and are often found in homes in Australia.  &# x2022;  How to get rid of a Huntsman, king of spiders  &# x2013; over the phone  Kristie Amsler wrote: "Woolworths is really upping their "fresh food" game, this one's still moving."  This is probably one of my worst nightmares...... https://t.co/r36d1wrZ6y  Others thought the presence of the large arachnid was a good thing.  Well, just another reason for me to NOT eat salads...NOPE NOPE NOPE! Can't even goooooooo Sara Nysather  https://t.co/ZSYDR5sqgh  "Woolworths, seeing this actually makes me more faithful to your products due to the fact it clearly means it's fresh and clean of harsh chemical exposure," wrote Nathan Wilson.   Dave Kinnell, another commenter on Facebook was also pragmatic: "Oh no a garden insect, in a garden salad, what ever will we do. I sure hope there's no fish in my next can of tuna."   Josh McLennan, meanwhile, was concerned for the creature: "Poor spider  &# x2013; I hope you put him in the garden."   Last month, a  woman in Melbourne found a "pregnant" spider in her bag of grapes :   She purchased the fruit from a Woolworths fruit and vegetable store in Australia and later made a complaint on Facebook.   Rachael Buckley &# x200e; explained she looking forward to enjoying some fruit in the sun when she made the alarming discovery.  &# x201c;Not only was this Spider in there, but also was a decent sized Spider egg sac so it looks as though it had been breeding in the bag," she wrote.  via GIPHY  In other spider news, this photo of a  massive Huntsman spider spotted lurking behind door in Australia  is the stuff of nightmares.  Top news galleries Latest Video Back to top  Copyright of Telegraph Media Group Limited 2019 Terms and Conditions Today's News Archive Style Book Weather Forecast MOST VIEWED IN NEWS 