How to Play MetroDemic MetroDemic A team building game where you save the city from a major epidemic. MetroDemic is a game played on a cell phone while exploring the city with a team of friends. You’ll save thousands of people, get some exercise, and see the city in a whole new way in this offbeat game. Metro Demic Subscribe Play MetroDemic Info Shopping Tap to unmute If playback doesn ' t begin shortly, try restarting your device. More videos Your browser does not currently recognize any of the video formats available.  Click here to visit our frequently asked questions about HTML5 video. More videos on YouTube Share Include playlist An error occurred while retrieving sharing information. Please try again later. Watch later Share Copy link An error occurred. Try watching this video on www.youtube.com , or enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser. The first step is to purchase a game in one of our  MetroDemic Cities  You’ll receive a unique activation code that will be needed to play the game. Once you get to the designated starting point for that city, head to  http://play.metrodemic.com  and enter the activation code you received when registering. The game is played on a mobile-friendly website, you do not need to download an app. Our expert team of bumbling scientists will introduce you to the map that you’ll use to find outbreaks and save lives. Outbreaks have different potential survivor values so you’ll need to pick the smartest route to win. To save lives (which is how we keep score), you’ll travel to different “outbreak” locations within a 3-4 block radius using a map delivered to your phone. Based on the proximity and the point values of the outbreaks, your team will need choose a strategic path to save as many souls as possible. At each outbreak location, you’ll be presented with scavenger hunt questions, pub-style trivia, and brain puzzles to earn points. The entire team is allowed to use their cell phones to help answer questions. Your team can pause the game up to two times for sightseeing, bio breaks, eating, or our personal favorite…. loud public arguments! At the end of the game, you’ll be able to compare the number of lives you saved with other brave teams who ran that course. Most importantly, you’ll have ultimate social media bragging rights as you post about the thousands of souls you saved from this horrendous disease. A four person team is the ideal size for playing MetroDemic.  We don’t recommend going any higher than five people per team because people are likely to be less engaged. No, you don’t need a reservation or to book a starting time.  The game is designed so you can play it whenever you are ready. This game is played on your feet while exploring a small area within the city.  You will always be outside. MetroDemic takes you to see parks, interesting architecture, public works of art, and other intriguing sites. Each course is confined to small area downtown which is typically about 3 square blocks. The outbreak sites that you’ll visit are often less than 100 feet apart. You ll earn some good fitbit points, but this activity is not going to involve 90 straight minutes of walking. Running is not required. In fact, we intentionally designed MetroDemic so the fastest team does not automatically win.  The winner is going to be the team that picks the most strategic course and solves the challenges most efficiently. Content-wise, we would qualify for a PG rating.  There are some subtle adult jokes throughout the game that will fly over most kids’ heads. For kids, decide if they are going to be able to walk around for 90-minutes.  You can pause the game twice in case they (or you!) have a meltdown in the middle. Teens with a cell phone will have a great time.  If they don’t have a phone, they’ll probably just stare at their parents with contempt and wonder why you go out of your way to embarrass them at every minute of the day. Then after the game, they’ll ask you to buy them a phone. Again. Any time somebody logs into the game using an activation code that is already in play, the device (phone) that was currently in play will be logged out. We designed it this way so that if a phone gets dropped down a sewer grate or the battery dies, the team can carry on with their game on another team member’s phone. The game is played on a mobile-friendly website, you do not need to download an app. MetroDemic can be played on on any phone or tablet with an internet connection. We do not offer refunds on unused team registrations. That being said, the code will remain active and you are welcome to use it any time in the next 60 days. Copyright  &# x000A9; 2019  KurioCity Games 