PC1817YA Window AC - Panasonic India Twitter Facebook The wishlist has already reached the maximum number of products PC1817YA The extra large outdoor unit multiplies the overall efficiency of the machine and results in faster cooling through better heat exchange provided by its large size heat exchanger. wide length of the heat exchanger efficiently reduces the temperature of the hot refrigerant gas coming from the indoor unit and improves passive cooling of the refrigerant gas with XXL heat exchanger. The compressor has to work for a lesser time to cool the refrigerant gas to attain the required temperature. * Images shown are for representation purpose only  Panasonic has introduced the revolutionary twin blade technology in the air conditioner outdoor units. The innovative twin blade design accelerates the overall cooling process by ensuring faster suction of air through its heat exchanger. *T  apply. Feature available on select models. For details, Please visit:  www.panasonic.com/in/airconditioner An Air Conditioner's performance depends largely on its condenser, which can take a beating from exposure to salty air, wind, dust and other corrosive factors. At Panasonic we have found a way to extend the life of our condensers, using a layer of our original anti-rust coating. This special coating lets you enjoy more years of reliable comfort plus extra economy over the long run. Panasonic ‘EcoTough Casing’ comes with a highly durable composition of  ● Zinc   ● Aluminium   ● Magnesium   ● Silicon This protective layer of coating works effectively in suppressing the development of corrosion particularly on flat and cut-end surfaces. *T  apply. Feature available on select Models. Please visit:  www.panasonic.com/in/airconditioner * Images shown are for representation purpose only  Coating component melts and forms a tight protective film creating ‘Barrier Effect’. This provides good corrosion resistant performance by suppressing spread of corrosion on cut-end surfaces.  The unique material overcomes the weakness of pure aluminium. It offers good corrosion resistance performance as demonstrated by withstanding up to 2400 hours of accelerated salt spray test condition under Test Standard: JIS Z 2371  Special resin parts on connecting pipes absorb impacts and vibrationsthat crack pipes during transport  &  installation.  Galvanic corrosion caused by directly joining aluminium and copper parts is prevented by joining them with stainless steel and resin parts. * Images shown are for representation purpose only  Practical tests have been conducted for more than a year in the coastal areas of India and other countries. Durability has been confirmed under extremely harsh installation conditions. Panasonic Micro Channel Condenser isan ecological and economical choice The outdoor unit has copper tubing which gives complete protection from corrosion and ensures longer product life. Higher corrosion resistance*  | Faster heat exchange (Up to 2X faster*)  | High thermal conductivity The external cover of the outdoor unit is made up of Superdyma metal sheet which is highly rust resistant. This makes the outdoor unit rust free and eleminates the need of painting or any other kind of maintenance. *T  apply. Feature available on select models. For details, Please visit:  www.panasonic.com/in/airconditioner ▶ Highly rust- resistant    ▶ Efficiently protects enclosed components ▶ Corrosion- free sheet ensuring longer product life * Images shown are for representation purpose only  COPPER TUBING TWIN BLADE* Find Your Nearest Dealers Experience our products. Find the dealer store closest to you. Find Your Nearest Dealers  > < %- model_number %> Copyright © 2019 Panasonic India MRP wherever mentioned is inclusive of all taxes 