A case study of the body shop design in an automotive factory using 3D simulation: International Journal of Production Research: Vol 44, No 18-19 There are five major shops in an automotive factory, namely, press shop, body shop, power train shop, paint shop, and trim shop (general assembly shop). When an automotive factory develops a new car model, new production lines should be constructed at the same time, and the body shop especially needs to be entirely rebuilt whenever a new car model is developed. The body shop is a typical example of the flow shop (or transfer line). Many parts are assembled together in the body shop by various welding operations. Therefore, the cycle time of each robot and the buffer size between two sub-lines should be determined in the design phase of the body shop. This paper explains a case study of a body shop design using 3D simulation in a Korean automotive factory. 3D simulation is useful in verifying if the factory design would meet the production quantity target. It also helps in understanding the structure of the factory. QUEST®, IGRIP®, and Factory-CAD® are used for the 3D simulation model. Automotive manufacturing is a complex task with several automated functions. Machined or purchased components are assembled on sub-systems, and the sub-assemblies are assembled during the final assembly system. There are usually five major shops in an automotive factory, such as the press shop (stamping shop), body shop, power train shop, paint shop, and trim shop. The trim shop is usually called the general assembly shop. There are two important storages in the factory, namely, the white body storage (WBS), and the painted body storage (PBS). The WBS is located between the body shop and the paint shop, and the PBS is located between the paint shop and the trim shop.  Figure 1  shows the five shops, two storages, and the production flow of car manufacturing. Figure 1.  Five shops and two storages in the automotive factory. Figure 1.  Five shops and two storages in the automotive factory. When an automotive company develops a new car model, new production lines are to be built. In case a fully new model is developed, the layout of the body shop, power train shop, and trim shop needs to be entirely rebuilt. However, even though a minor changed model (face lift) is developed, the changes in the body shop are relatively more complex than in the other shops. Thus, the optimal design of the body shop is an important aspect of the factory. The body shop is a typical example of the flow shop (or transfer line). Many parts are assembled together in the body shop by various welding operations. Generally, the body shop is divided into 15 ∼ 20 sub-assembly lines as shown in  figure 2 . Each sub-line represents a welding area covering numerous welding operations in different stations. Of course, one or more sub-lines can be outsourced in order to improve the performance of the factory. The decoupled sub-lines are connected with the power-and-free conveyor or with the electric monorail system (EMS). The function of the conveyor (or EMS) is the transportation of the sub-assembly to the next sub-line and also the preparation of buffer space preparing for any unexpected breakdowns of the two consecutive sub-lines. Figure 2.  General structure of a body shop. Figure 2.  General structure of a body shop. Years ago, when designers were in the early stages of manufacturing design, sample sketches of manufacturing process were made based on the common industry's rule of thumb. These designs were often accepted and put into production. As time passed, this rule of thumb fell short of the manufacturer's needs, which were quality, reliability, complexity, and increased diversified customer demand. It was at this point that the manufacturing industry began to look more closely at discrete event simulation as a tool to help design manufacturing systems for the future. Ulgen  et al . ( 1994 Ulgen,  O ,  Gunal,  A ,  Grajo,  E  and  Shore,  J .  1994 . “ The role of simulation in design and operation of body and paint shops in vehicle assembly plants ”. In  Proceedings of the European Simulation Symposium, Society of Computer Simulation International 124 – 128 .    [Google Scholar] ) discussed the use of discrete-event simulation in the design and operation of body and paint shops in North American Vehicle Assembly Plants. They classified the use of simulation in the body shop into two aspects. The first classification is based on the stage of system development, which has four categories, namely, the conceptual design phase, the detailed design phase, the launching phase, and the fully operational phase. The second classification is based on the nature of the problem investigated, which also includes four categories, such as equipment and layout design issues, issues related to variation management, product-mix sequencing issues, and other operational issues. Recently, with the development of computer technology, virtual manufacturing (VM) technology is rapidly applied to manufacturing system design. VM is a key concept that summarizes computerized manufacturing activities dealing with models and simulations instead of objects and their operations in the real world. The application areas of VM in the manufacturing industry are the design of the product, the design of the equipment, the design of the jigs and tools, the layout design of the factory, the material handling system design, the strategy of the production schedule, and so on. Indeed, many research areas deal with VM. Recently, VM is implemented in the ergonomic design of workstations (Ben-Gal and Bukchin  2002 Ben-Gal,  I  and  Bukchin,  J .  2002 .  The ergonomic design of workstations using virtual manufacturing and response surface methodology .  IIE Trans. , 34:  375 – 391 .  [Taylor  &  Francis Online] ,  [Web of Science  ]   ,  [Google Scholar] , Okulicz  2004 Okulicz,  K .  2004 .  Virtual reality-based approach to manufacturing process planning .  Int. J. Prod. Res. , 42:  3493 – 3504 .  [Taylor  &  Francis Online] ,  [Web of Science  ]   ,  [Google Scholar] ). Qin  et al . ( 2004 Qin,  SF ,  Harrison,  R ,  West,  AA  and  Wright,  DK .  2004 .  Development of a novel 3D simulation modeling system for distributed manufacturing .  Comput. Ind. , 54:  69 – 81 .    [Google Scholar] ) described a three-dimensional (3D) simulation modelling system that supports the distributed machine design and control paradigm with respect to simulating and emulating machine behaviour on the Internet. They developed the system using Java. Park ( 2005 Park,  SC .  2005 .  A methodology for creating a virtual model for flexible manufacturing system .  Comput. Ind. , 56:  734 – 746 .  [Crossref] ,  [Web of Science  ]   ,  [Google Scholar] ) introduced an object-oriented methodology to create a virtual manufacturing system model. The proposed model consists of four types of modules, such as the virtual device module, the transfer handler module, the state manager module, and the flow controller module. Figure 3  shows the components necessary for implementing the VM and their relationship with the body shop design. The two important functions of VM are the 3D modelling and the simulation involving the mechanical verification. In particular, this paper focuses on the simulation, which is composed of the work cell simulation and the system simulation. In the 3D work cell simulation, the detailed motion of each robot is optimized, and the collisions among parts, jigs, and robots are checked. The time necessary for robot teaching becomes shorter with offline programming (OLP) technology. In system simulation, the traditional optimization of the factory layout design is conducted, including the determination of cycle time, buffer size, material handling equipment, and so on. The tool supporting 3D Factory CAD® has various 3D models of equipment in its own library, and it enables us to construct a virtual factory without tremendous time and effort. Noh  et al . ( 2001 Noh,  SD ,  Hong,  SW ,  Kim,  DY ,  Sohn,  SY  and  Hahn,  HS .  2001 .  Virtual manufacturing for an automotive company (II)—Construction and operation of a virtual body shop .  IE Interf. , 14:  127 – 133 .    [Google Scholar] ) proposed a series of systematic approaches and effective methods for the construction and operation of a virtual factory with respect to the body shop of the automotive factory. Figure 3.  Digital manufacturing approach in the design of body shop. Figure 3.  Digital manufacturing approach in the design of body shop. The optimization of buffer allocation in production lines with unreliable machines has been studied in past decades, and previous research is summarized well by Gürkan ( 2000 Gürkan,  G .  2000 .  Simulation Optimization of buffer allocations in production lines with unreliable machines .  Ann. Oper. Res. , 93:  177 – 216 .  [Crossref] ,  [Web of Science  ]   ,  [Google Scholar] ). Spieckermann  et al . ( 2000 Spieckermann,  S ,  Gutenschwager,  K ,  Heinzel,  H  and  Voß,  H .  2000 .  Simulation-based optimization in the automotive industry – A case study on body shop design .  Simulation , 75:  276 – 286 .    [Google Scholar] ) presented a mathematical formulation and an automated optimization approach for determining the buffer sizes of the body shop. A genetic algorithm based on simulation was used for this optimization. The queuing model is used for determining the buffer size (Hwang and Cho  2001 Hwang,  HS  and  Cho,  GS .  2001 .  Assembly performance evaluation using factor/AIM for the automobile body assembly line .  J. Korean Inst. Ind. Eng. , 27:  95 – 102 .    [Google Scholar] , Huang  et al .  2002 Huang,  MG ,  Chang,  PL  and  Chou,  YC .  2002 .  Buffer allocation in flow-shop-type production systems with general arrival and service pattern .  Comput. Oper. Res. , 29:  103 – 121 .  [Crossref] ,  [Web of Science  ]   ,  [Google Scholar] ). However, these research studies were concentrated on the optimization approach, and detailed simulation models were not suggested. In this paper, a case study on the 3D simulation of the body shop design in a Korean automotive factory is explained. 3D simulation is a very useful tool for verifying the factory design to meet the production quantity target, and also for understanding the system configurations of the factory. QUEST®, IGRIP®, and Factory CAD® were used for developing the 3D system simulation model. The procedure of the body shop design is explained, and the improvement of the initial layout is introduced. In the conceptual phase of the body shop design, it is not enough to obtain the information used for the design of the factory. The drawings of the new car, the production rate target, and the available space are likewise given to engineers.  Figure 4  shows the typical process flow of the body shop design. Figure 4.  Flow of the design approach for body shop. Figure 4.  Flow of the design approach for body shop. In most automotive industries, the production rate target is usually represented as job per hour (JPH). JPH means the number of cars produced per hour. Assume that the target is set as 50 JPH and that the available working time of one shift (10 h with a 20 min break) is 580 min; then, the Takt time is calculated as (580 × 60)/(50 × 10) = 70 s. The cycle time of each sub-line is determined with this target. In this step, the engineers should know the downtime rate of the sub-line. The estimated downtime rate of the sub-line is used in this step, because the number of stations and the equipment have not yet been determined. The downtime rate is usually determined from a similar production line. If the estimated rate is 10%, the cycle time is set as 70 × 0.9 = 63 s. This value means that all operations in the line should be finished within 63 s (including the transportation time to the next station). This estimation may be the main reason for inaccuracy in the initial design. It means that there is always a difference between the downtime rate of similar line and that of the new line, because new equipment and technology are introduced to the new line. Although the downtime data obtained from similar lines or processes are used for simulation, there is always some mismatch between the results of simulation and that of the real line after starting mass production. Therefore, most engineers want to overestimate the downtime rate because they are aware of insufficient capacity, and this results in an over-investment for equipment and workers. Next, the number of stations installed in the sub-line is determined, and the welding points are distributed to each station.  Figure 5  shows an example of the process time design of the rear under-body line. The cycle time of each station is the sum of transfer time and pure cycle time. In this step, the type of robot and the material handling system in the sub-line is considered. The initial layout of the sub-line is determined following the design processes mentioned above. A work cell simulation is carried out in this stage, and the simulation results serve as the guide for the design modification. Figure 5.  Example of process time chart of rear under-body line. Figure 5.  Example of process time chart of rear under-body line. After preparing the initial designs of all sub-lines, the system simulation of the body shop starts. In this stage, most robots and the type of material handling equipment connecting two sub-lines are already determined. The functions of material handling equipment are transportation and storage space. Power-and-free conveyor or EMS is usually selected for the system.  Figure 6  shows the 3D simulation model using IGRIP®, and the robot picks up the side body to hang it on the EMS. Thus, the total amount of hanger (or EMS) and the optimal allocation policy should be determined with the system simulation. The major interests in the system simulation are whether the body shop achieves its production quantity target (JPH) or not, and the search for the best layout. Figure 6.  Simulation model of a loading robot using IGRIP®. Figure 6.  Simulation model of a loading robot using IGRIP®. The body shop considered in this paper consists of 16 sub-lines. The sub-assembly of the roof is determined as an outsourcing item. There are four to 16 stations, and two to 20 robots are installed in each sub-line, accordingly. However, there is no robot in the BIW (body in white) line and the BIW install line. There are two types of material-handling equipment for connecting the two consecutive sub-lines. The first type is through the auto-loader that is installed between the sub-lines of opening parts and the BIW line. Note that there are six opening parts (with four types of doors, hood and tailgate). The second type is through the EMS, which is installed between other sub-lines. The numbers of EMS in each buffer are one to 13, respectively. The production rate target is 50 JPH, and 580 min is the actual working time during a shift (10 h including 2 h of overtime). Thus, the Takt time of the shop is determined as 70 s. The downtime rates of the sub-lines at the initial design stage are estimated to be 10∼20%. The cycle times of all sub-lines are determined in the range of 48–63 s. These values are used for determining the number of stations and number of robots. The robot, elevator, and various types of conveyor (or shuttle) are the main equipment in the body shop. Thus, the downtime analysis of the robot is important for the design of the body shop. However, it is not easy to estimate the downtime rate of a robot when the robot is a new product. Thus, the estimation is carried out by analysing the existing robots which conduct similar operations. The causes of the breakdown of the system can be divided into two categories, namely, independent and dependent reasons. The failure of the machine, and the changing of cables, for example, are included in the independent category. The second category means that the robot can be stopped for other reasons. Examples of these are the downtime caused by the starvation and the blocking at the second criterion. Thus, this is mainly due to the failure of another machine or the imbalance between the sub-lines.  Table 1  shows the grouping of failures for investigating the distribution of the MTBF (mean time between failures) and MTTR (mean time to repair). When design engineers determine the cycle time of a sub-line for the initial layout, both categories of downtimes are usually included in the estimation of downtime rate. However, the starvation and the blocking need not be investigated, because their values can be obtained from the results of the simulation experiments. The real downtime data of the past year are gathered from the existing body shop, and the distributions of MTBF and MTTR are obtained with the input analyser of ARENA®. Contrary to the use of MTTF (mean time to failure) in Arena®, two options are possible for the input of failure in QUEST®. One is ‘after repair’, and the other is ‘before repair’. ‘After repair’ indicates that the subsequent failure of the current failure is to be scheduled after the repair specified in the current failure is completed; thus, this means the same with MTTF. On the other hand, ‘before repair’ indicates that the subsequent failure of the current failure is to be scheduled based on failure distribution without taking the repair time into consideration; thus, this means the same with MTBF. After obtaining the distribution function of failure from the input analyser of ARENA®, the distribution function is put into QUEST® with the option of ‘before repair’. To obtain the distribution function of MTBF using the ARENA®, the original failure data (failure history) were modified considering the working calendar of the past year (for example, we deleted the holidays and off-times from the calculation of the inter-failure time).  Figure 7  shows an example of the distribution analysis of MTBF. The Input Analyser of Arena® provides three kinds of information on the distribution function:  squared error; result of the chi-square test; result of the Kolmogorov–Smirnov test. Figure 7.  Distribution analysis of MTBF of failure in the main body line. Figure 7.  Distribution analysis of MTBF of failure in the main body line. The chi-square test (C-S test) is the oldest goodness-fit hypothesis test which is thought of as a more formal comparison of a histogram with the fitted density or mass function. It is identified that a real difficulty in using the C-S test in the continuous case is deciding on the number of intervals (Law and Kelton  2000 Law,  AM  and  Kelton,  WD .  2000 .  Simulation Modeling and Analysis ,  3rd ,  Singapore :  McGraw-Hill .    [Google Scholar] ). In the Input Analyser of ARENA®, the number of the intervals for the histogram can be varied from five to 40. We decreased the number of intervals from the largest value, one by one, and concluded that the distribution function provided automatically from the Input Analyser was useful. The Kolmogorov–Smirnov test (K–S test) for goodness of fit, on the other hand, compares an empirical distribution function with the distribution function of the hypothesized distribution. The K–S test does not require us to group the data in any way, so no information is lost; this also eliminates the troublesome problem of interval specification. Another advantage of the K–S test is that it is valid for any sample size  n , whereas the chi-square test is valid only in an asymptotic sense (Law and Kelton  2000 Law,  AM  and  Kelton,  WD .  2000 .  Simulation Modeling and Analysis ,  3rd ,  Singapore :  McGraw-Hill .    [Google Scholar] ). Table 2  shows the results of distribution fitting for the MTBF and MTTR of the main body line using the Input Analyser of ARENA®. It is known that if  n  is very large, these tests will almost always reject the null hypothesis (Law and Kelton  2000 Law,  AM  and  Kelton,  WD .  2000 .  Simulation Modeling and Analysis ,  3rd ,  Singapore :  McGraw-Hill .    [Google Scholar] ). All distributions provided in ARENA®'s Input Analyser could not be accepted except for the MTBF with a log-normal distribution (the  p -value of the K–S test for the log-normal distribution was greater than 0.15), because the number of downtime data points gathered in the main body line was 1117. Thus, we selected the type of distribution with the minimum squared error if there were no critical differences between the pattern of histogram and the shape of distribution. In the same way, the distribution (as is the case in  figure 7 ) of each line was determined. The downtime data of all lines were obtained from the department of facilities maintenance. Additionally, other downtime data of the main body line were also obtained from the production line. We compared the two data of the main body line and found that there were differences between the two data. The downtime rate of the second data was 2.54 times higher than the rate of the first data. We analysed the reason and found that some failures were repaired by the worker of the line, not by the repair man from the maintenance department. Thus, such failures were omitted from the first data. Unfortunately, there were no downtime data which were gathered by the production lines (not by the maintenance department) except for the main body line. To investigate the effect of the difference of downtime rate, a brief simulation model of the body shop that had produced existing (old) cars was developed, and the production quantity was obtained during the past year. The result of the simulation was compared with the real production quantity for the year. The comparison indicated that the real production quantity was 5% less than the simulation result. We concluded that this was due to the accuracy of the historical data of downtimes. As a result, we aimed to decrease the mean of MTBF. The increase in repair time did not need to be considered, because this was the problem of downtime frequency. Although this approach could cause a new distortion in a statistical aspect, it was an easy and fast way to solve the problem considering the limited project period. The distribution functions of MTBF were modified as shown in  table 3 , and a new simulation run was conducted. Then, the production quantities of the simulation converged to the real data. Therefore, the new downtime distribution functions in  table 3  were used for the input data of the new body shop.  Table 3  presents the distributions of MTBF and MTTR of the equipment failure for the major sub-lines. The 3D Simulation model has been developed with QUEST®, IGRIP®, and Factory-CAD®. In particular, IGRIP® was used for the work cell simulation model ( figure 2 ). The kinematics for a robot was developed, and the cycle time in each station was estimated at this stage. The IGRIP® model can be transformed easily to the QUEST® model with a few steps, because both tools are developed by the same company, Dassault-Delmia. At first, an IGRIP® model should be saved with a ‘questcell’ file. Next, the ‘questcell’ file, ‘device’ file, and ‘part’ file are copied to the relative folders of QUEST®. When a ‘machine’ is generated in QUEST®, the ‘Questcell File’ is selected for the ‘kin Data’ in the display menu. After selecting, key in the same name of the ‘questcell’ file that has been saved in IGRIP®, to the name of ‘kin data’ in QUEST®. Then, the ‘sequence chart’ of IGRIP®, in which the motions of robot are defined, is inherited to the ‘kinematics’ in QUEST®. If there are too many IGRIP® models in QUEST®, then the simulation speed decreases, because the file size of the QUEST model becomes large. When two or more products are welded by a robot, and the moving path of the robot is different, more complex steps are necessary to show the animation. Safety fences, mezzanines, columns, and other accessories in the factory were modelled with Factory-CAD®. The accessory models were transformed with VRML format and integrated in the system simulation model.  Figure 8  shows the process of integrating the 3D model. Figure 8.  Example of the integration of the tools. (a) Accessory modelling using Factory-CAD®. (b) Robot modelling using IGRIP®. (c) Integrated model using QUEST®. Figure 8.  Example of the integration of the tools. (a) Accessory modelling using Factory-CAD®. (b) Robot modelling using IGRIP®. (c) Integrated model using QUEST®. The body shop is composed of many sub-lines, and each sub-line has the characteristics of a transfer line, as follows:  All parts in a sub-line are transferred at the same time to the next station by a shuttle. If one of the robots in a sub-line fails, the whole sub-line stops until the robot is repaired. There are one or more robots in a station, and their process times are different from each other. Thus, after all robots in a station finish their operations, that part of the station may already be transferred. Figure 9.  Flow chart of the control logic. Figure 9.  Flow chart of the control logic. The first experiment was carried out to investigate the performance of the initial layout of the body shop. The simulation period was 6 months, and the mean value of five replications was obtained. The warm-up period was set to 7 days. Although the target throughput (production quantity) for 6 months was 97 500 cars, the average value obtained from the simulation was only 90 000. Thus, the production performance is 92.2%. The purpose of the next experiments was to find out which factor was most influential for system performance. Various sensitivity analyses indicated that the buffers connecting the six sub-lines of the opening parts to the BIW line were very sensitive to the performance measure. Thus, the buffer size was increased to 2, 6, and 10, respectively.  Table 4  shows the results of an additional simulation. Based on this, it was found that the buffer size should be at least 10. However, it was impossible to equip 10 buffers because of space constraints. Therefore, the buffer size was fixed at six for all opening part sub-lines. Another interest is the possibility of reducing the number of EMS because the cost of EMS is about US$30 000 per unit. Consequently, a new sensitivity analysis was carried out to identify the less effective buffer among the eight inter-sub-lines. The buffer size of six opening parts sub-lines was fixed at six, considering the result of the previous experiment. The gradient search method was also applied to this experiment. The weakness of the 3D simulation is that it takes a long time to run. Thus, a simplified simulation model to be used for evaluating the effect of EMS was developed. One EMS was removed from each conveyor, and the conveyor that had the least effect on performance measure was selected. Similarly, the number of EMS was decreased gradually, and alternative 3 was selected as the final design.  Table 5  shows the result of the 10 replications for the four selective alternatives among numerous iterations. The value in the cell of  table 3  is the number of EMS. For the confidentiality of the factory, we denote the number of EMS in the sub-line of the initial layout as  n i , and the total number as  N . Ten EMS were reduced, and the saving of investment cost was estimated at about US$300 000. On the contrary, the production quantity was decreased to about 0.3% from the original design.  Table 6  shows the  p -value of the  t -test for the difference of mean between alternatives. It is clear that the throughputs of A1, A2, A3, and A4 are less than the throughput of the initial alternative. The throughput of A3 is better than the throughputs of A1, A2, and A4, and there is no difference in throughput among A1, A2, and A4. The allocation data of EMS in alternative 3 were put into the full simulation model again. The throughput of the initial model (96 580) is different from the throughput in  table 2  (95 795) because the data in  table 3  were obtained with simplified simulation model, and the number of replications is different. Thus, alternative 3 in  table 3  was applied to the full model. The average throughput (production quantity) of the full model was 95 584 during the 6-month period, and the decreasing rate from the original throughput (95 795 cars) was 0.3% ( table 4 ). The decreasing rate in the full model was the same as the decreasing rate in the simplified model. When an automotive company develops a new car model, a company has to build new production lines. The body shop in its task is the centre of the new design process. Constructing a new body shop involves a substantial amount of investment, because it requires a large number of robots and material-handling equipment. Hence, a simulation has been widely used from the conceptual design phases. In this paper, a case study of a Korean automotive factory was introduced. The general structure of a body shop was explained, and the workflow of the body shop was summarized. 3D simulation models were developed with QUEST®, IGRIP®, and Factory-CAD® for enhancing the understanding of the body shop. IGRIP® is used for developing the 3D simulation model of a work cell (for mechanical simulation), and QUEST® and Factory-CAD® are used for developing whole-system simulation models. The simulation experiments indicated that the initial layout could not achieve the production quantity target. Thus, the increase in buffer size of the opening part sub-lines was suggested. Another improvement made was the reduction in the number of EMS without decreasing the production quantity. As such, 10 EMS were removed, leading to cost savings of US$300 000. The body shop considered in this paper is now in operation, and the new cars are being manufactured. We tried additional simulation runs using real downtime data obtained from the past 3 months. As a result, it was verified that the body shop could achieve its production target of 50 JPH. This is due to the fact that the practical downtime rate is lower than the estimated value, because the quality of the new robots is improved. The authors appreciate the anonymous referees for their valuable comments. The authors are grateful to the Machine Tool Research Center of Changwon National University for its generous support to this research. This research is partially funded by Changwon National University in 2004. Registered in England  &  Wales No. 3099067 5 Howick Place | London | SW1P 1WG We use cookies to improve your website experience. To learn about our use of cookies and how you can manage your cookie settings, please see our  Cookie Policy.  By closing this message, you are consenting to our use of cookies. 