K-Pop Reviews — SURAN - “WINE” ft. Changmo [Prod. SUGA] Review Absolutely love SURAN s voice and SUGA s producing, so I have been ecstatic ever since I heard this track was going to be released. Now, the fateful day has finally arrived. Let s see how I feel about SURAN s latest track!  (WINE  ft. Changmo ) The beat starts off amazing, with the high synth(?) sounds in the beginning. SURAN sounds so good as expected. The CHORUS. It is amazing. That loud but not harsh beat is so SUGA s style. You can tell this song is his baby. I am pretty unfamiliar with Changmo s work, but I really liked the beginning of his verse, specifically from 1:35 to around 1:48. The simple, funky instrumentals at Changmo s rap part works SO well with his vocal tone. Totally diggin  it! Ever since I listened to SO FAR AWAY by AGUST D ft. SURAN, I ve been obsessed with SURAN s voice! It s so clean and refreshing: really nice to listen to when you re chillin . Anyway, I am in love with this song all around. Great vocals+Great rap+Great producing=It s been on repeat all day! Rating:  iKON - LOVE SCENARIO Red Velvet - Bad Boy j-hope - Daydream MAMAMOO - Starry Night Heize - jenga (ft. Gaeko) Got7 - One and Only You (ft. Hyolyn) BIGBANG - Flower Road NCT U - Baby Don t Stop PENTAGON - Shine WINNER - EVERYDAY Eric Nam - Honestly I am seriously blown away by BTS  latest full album. Every single track showcases amazing vocals/rap and thought-provoking lyrics. Here are some of my thoughts after having  LY: Tear  on repeat literally all day. Intro: Singularity TAEHYUNG. The sexuality oozes from this song and sets the perfect tone for the rest of the album. The whole sound is so deep and rich, and I expected nothing less from the King. Also, have you SEEN the choreo for this one? That arm move is absolutely crazy. FAKE LOVE LOVE YOU SO BAD, LOVE YOU SO BAD, MOLD A PRETTY LIE FOR YOU  Literally my favorite line both melodically and lyrically. Also, Jimin singing  woo, I dunno, I dunno, I dunno why  is so enchanting. I love. The syncopation in this song is really ear-catching, too. And loving the triplet action from rap line! I COULD GO ON AND ON ABOUT THIS ONE. IT S SO GOOD. UGH THEIR MINDS, THE MUSICAL GENIUSES. The Truth Untold (ft. Steve Aoki) Wow, was not expecting this ballad from a Steve Aoki collab, but what the hell??? It sounds so good?? When Taehyung sings I am afraid, I am run-down, I m so afraid  his tone is so impactful. Love the minimal acoustics in that part, and then having the heavy instrumentals come in as Jin sings his impactful lines  wow. That is really all I can say. I m speechless. 134340 This song is totally different from Bangtan s usually sound in that it has a very mellow ambience. The song was good, but not stand-out in my eyes, until we got near the end. Ugh that breakdown at Hoseok s rap. GO OFF! The muted instrumentals set the perfect backdrop for the King spitting absolute FIRE. Saved me. Paradise THE IRREGULAR BEAT. IS EVERYTHING. Jimin s verse in the beginning though  after Jungkook s soft voice, Jimin s sensuality came out of NOWHERE and literally ATTACKED me. Actually, his tone throughout this whole song hit me so hard. Also, Yoongi s rap is literally gold? And how it transitions so smoothly to Hoseok s verse is flawless? What a bop. Love Maze Jungkook s part in the beginning is SO GOOD melodically. His voice completely caught my attention right away. Then, Namjoon s legendary Let them be them let us be us  came through! Wow. His diction sounds SO clear in this album and it makes me so excited. Magic Shop FIrstly, Jin sounds SO good. His voice is so airy and fragile(?) and beautiful and fits the vibes of this song so WELL. It especially contrasts well with Namjoon s hard hitting rap right before his verse. Hoseok singing Like a rose flower, like a cherry tree, like a morning glory, like a beautiful moment  WAS A BEAUTIFUL MOMENT. I love listening to him sing honestly and the beat breakdown at that point is especially memorable. Also, Yoongi s inflection when he rapped but then, looking back, in fact I do not think I wanted to be the best  is so amazing. I need more of that voice from him! By the way, the producing for this track is GOLD. In love with this sound. Especially the chorus. Airplane pt.2 What are these vibes I m getting from this track? Expected nothing less from international superstars! I could totally get down to this dirty beat. Really like when Jin sings  we still  before every line when Namjoon raps near the beginning of the song. It s a little detail, but it adds so much texture to that verse. Also, loving that little Hope World cameo from Hoseok. FAV. Anpanman KILL ME TAEHYUNG WITH YOUR WAITING FOR YOU ANPANMAN.  It sounds SO GOOD. HIS VOICE IS EVERYTHING. On another note, my aesthetic is when ot7 sings spin and spin my Anpan, keep ballin , ballin  still Bangtan.  Oh yeah, they re still the Bangtan we ve always known and loved. So What What a summer party anthem. It s a bop all around but my favorite part HAS to be Namjoon s verse, when he raps I don t wanna die right now, I don t wanna, I don t wanna fight right now.  His VOICE. It sounds so clear and amazing that it totally caught my attention right away. Outro: Tear Ummm  THIS GOES SO HARD I DID NOT EXPECT BUT I AM BLESSED. Namjoon s solo  You re my tear  part is SO GOOD. Then, Hoseok s verse that comes right after is so HARD HITTING. His angst comes THRU. Also that doubling in Yoongi s verse when he wraps This is real you, and this is real me. I ve now seen the end, and even my resentment doesn t remain  and there s this autotuned voice in the background  it s frickin EVERYTHING. SO MANY LAYERS AND SO MANY DIFFERENT TEXTURES I M IN LOVE. So this album is the bop of the century. I would say try to change my mind, but I already know no one will be able to. Rating:  Shine I absolutely love that part between E Dawn and Hui when they sing  I am a loser who loves you  and  Yeah I am a fool fool,  etc. The two vocal textures are so different and I love the contrast. IT S SO CATCHY. THIS WHOLE SONG IS SO CATCHY. It s seriously so under-appreciated.  Shine  has every potential to go viral in Korea and I m honestly surprised that it hasn t yet. Come on Korean GP! Open your ears~ So excited to see where they go from here. I hear they re already hard at work for their next comeback, so I ll be on the lookout for that! Rating:  I have been holding off on listening to the boys  solo endeavors, so that I can listen to them all at once and get the full BTOB experience. I bet it s going to be amazing blend of genres, so I can t wait to get started!  **warning: super long and in-depth** Rating:  At the End (Changsub) What a lovely, amazing ballad track. I really like the  rock  feel that cropped up at 1:11. The added instrumentals were definitely unexpected, but it was super natural in that it broke up the sound nicely. And of course, Changsub sounds stunning. I do wish that when he composed the song, he made his vocals louder and the instrumentals more subdued. I feel like the electric guitar and drums swallowed his amazing voice (especially throughout the last half of the song) and it s such a shame. Those high notes deserve to shine! Fancy Shoes  (Ilhoon) I really like Ilhoon s rapping style. When I just listen leisurely, it s sounds rather calm and relaxing, but if I pay attention, he s actually rapping so quickly. That s pretty cool. Gotta say, I m not the biggest fan of the chorus  It s not bad, it just sounds like something I ve heard before. However, as you can probably guess, I love his rap verses especially that first verse. His diction and composed tone drew me right in. THAT GIRL (PENIEL) It s my boy! The synth-y instrumentals sound so good, and that bass line though! It s the perfect accompaniment to PENIEL s amazing, distinct tone. I love the That girl oo la la la  part, even if it is pretty repetitive. It s just so catchy. I only wish the song was longer! It s not even three minutes long  I feel like he could have done a bit more with the verses, especially in the build up to the choruses. I don t know  can you blame a girl for wanting to listen to PENIEL s voice a little longer? SWIMMING  (Hyunsik) Goddamn. Hyunsik s vocals get me every time. It s so soothing, but raw and emotional  And those high notes at the climax with the electric guitar  Wow. However, I do feel like the ending was a little lack-luster in my opinion  I feel like something was missing? It s like there s no closure to this beautiful song. Nevertheless, I don t think it really takes too much away from the overall track. It s just so beautiful. I know I used the word  beautiful  like 10 times already, but there really is no other word to describe  SWIMMING.  It s just art at its finest. Beautiful. Purple Rain (Minhyuk ft. CHEEZE) I absolutely love songs with a male and female vocal, so this track caught my interest right away! I really appreciate the simple string instrumentals because it accentuates the vocals so well. They both sound so creamy  like butter  and when Minhyuk s smooth singing voice comes in, it knocks me away. Every time. Even though I m expecting it. And I can t not talk about the climax where he raps with such RAW EMOTION. However, afterwards, I do feel like the transition from Minhyuk to CHEEZE (from powerful to soft) is a bit jarring  I feel like if the producer had put a longer pause before going into the melody, it would have flowed a little more. Nevertheless, this is the PERFECT late-night song, or reading accompaniment song, or rainy-mood song, or studying song, or  it s just the perfect song in general?  (Tell Me by YOOK SUNG JAE) How beautifully heartbreaking  I feel like I can hear every granule, every lilt, every emotion in SUNG JAE s voice and I am so emotionally overwhelmed. Also, can we talk about the masterpiece that is the instrumentals? I love orchestral sounds and they definitely delivered it in this Disney soundtrack-esque song. I can t believe it s over four minutes long  I feel like the song ends way too quickly every time I listen to it!  (One Day by Seo Eunkwang) INSTRUMENTALS. I LOVE THE STRINGS. Also, Eunkwang s voice is so so so sweet. He portrays an avalanche of emotions through every note and every word. What a roller coaster. Yeah, I knew this project would end emotionally, but I wasn t expecting THIS. A perfect night time listen or at the end of a nice romantic movie. I really appreciate being able to listen to the boys shine on their own and learn the individual members  styles. They re so great. Nevertheless, I m super excited for music from the whole group soon! Until then, I ll have these tracks on repeat. Rating:  Yes, 59  because I am indecisive  also I only included each artist once in this list (unless they are featured in another artist s song)! 