2018 Maruti Suzuki Ciaz: Variants Explained - CarWale Nikhil Puthran Post much wait,  Maruti Suzuki  has introduced the latest iteration of its premium sedan in India, the  Ciaz . Introduced in 2014 in the country, this is the first comprehensive upgrade since then. Along with fresh feature and design upgrades, the 2018 Ciaz gets a new 1.5-litre petrol engine with Smart Hybrid technology which is offered as a replacement to the older 1.4-litre engine. The diesel version continues to be powered by the older 1.3-litre engine.  The new  Maruti Suzuki Ciaz  is available in four variants – Sigma, Delta, Zeta and Alpha. Here below is a list of features that are offered in the updated model -   Sigma The base variant of the Ciaz is offered with standard equipment such as body coloured ORVMs with turn indicators, glass antennae chrome accents on the front grille and split rear combination lamps. Offered as an entry-level variant, it gets the regular steel wheel with a wheel cap. The trim is offered with halogen projector headlamps, body coloured door handles and black front fog lamp ornament.  As for the interior, the standard feature list includes chrome garnish (steering wheel, inside door handles, AC louvers knob and parking brake lever), multi-information display (colour TFT in petrol), keyless entry, cruise control, electrically adjustable ORVMs, rear AC vents, pollen filter, front centre armrest with utility box and rear centre armrest with cup holders. The standard list further includes accessories socket on the front and rear, tilt steering, Bluetooth audio system with four speakers and two tweeters, USB connectivity, steering mounted audio controls and steering mounted calling controls.  As for safety, the standard feature list includes dual front airbags, ABS with EBD, rear defogger, reverse parking sensor, anti-theft security system, seatbelt reminder (driver and passenger) and speed alert system. The base variant is available in petrol and diesel engine options, priced at Rs 8.19 lakhs and 9.19 lakhs, respectively (ex-showroom).          Delta Moving one level up, the Delta variant gets all the features from the base variant and additionally offers alloy wheels and silver finished fog lamp ornament and rear reflector ornament. As for the interior, it gets a chrome finish on the floor console, driver height adjustable seat and automatic AC.  As for safety, the delta variant gets front fog lamps and an electronic stability program with hill-hold in the automatic petrol variant. The Delta and higher variants are available with an optional CVT in petrol. The petrol manual is priced at Rs 8.80 lakhs, while the automatic variant is available for 9.80 lakhs. The diesel version is priced at 9.80 lakhs (ex-showroom).     Zeta The second to top Zeta variant of the Ciaz is offered with an additional set of features such as LED projector headlamps with integrated DRLs, LED rear combination lamps and chrome door handles. As for the interior, it gets rear seat adjustable headrest, push start/stop button and electrically foldable ORVMs. The safety features include LED front fog lamps, auto day/night IRVM with camera display and reverse parking camera. The petrol manual is priced at Rs 9.57 lakhs, while the automatic variant is available for Rs 10.57 lakhs. The diesel version too is priced at Rs 10.57 lakhs (ex-showroom). Alpha The top spec Alpha variant of Ciaz is the most that one can ask for. In addition to all the features from the lower variant, it additionally gets trunk lid chrome garnish and door beltline garnish. The front fog lamp and the rear reflector ornament are offered in a chrome finish. The top spec variant sits on 195/55 R16 wheels.  As for the interior, the variant gets leather seat upholstery and leather-wrapped steering wheel. It also gets a 17.8cms touchscreen SmartPlay infotainment system with an inbuilt navigation system, voice command system and Mirror Link support for smartphone connectivity. The petrol manual is priced at Rs 9.97 lakhs, while the automatic variant is available for Rs 10.97 lakhs. The diesel version is priced at Rs 10.97 lakhs (ex-showroom). 248 Images Loading... Buying a new car? Leave a missed call (Toll free) Download Mobile App ask the experts Download Mobile App 