New Glass Mount Vinyl Mask / Cover:The Aesthetically Appealing Way to Effectively Conceal Glass Mounted Hardware | VidaBox News Blog At Vidabox we are committed to making our products better, offering a wide range of solutions based on all of our customers feedback. Thanks to our customers recommendations we are proud to offer our  New Glass Mount Vinyl Mask / Cover The New Glass Mount Vinyl Mask / Cover is designed to aesthetically hide the mounting bracket, adhesives strip, suction cups, back of the enclosure, wires and any other associated mounting components.  Effectively, this makes the mounted tablet kiosks look elegant and polished   regardless of which side of the glass we re viewing it from. Here is how the  New Glass Mount Vinyl Mask / Cover  works and how to install: 1) Install the Glass mounted kiosk. Those instructions are in the packaging of your order. Once the tablet has been properly mounted, we are ready for the Glass Mount Vinyl Mask / Cover 2) Properly Locate the Glass installation surface. Locate the glass surface which the   Glass Mount Vinyl Mask / Cover will be applied to. This will be directly behind the glass kiosk, on the opposite side of the glass which the tablet was mounted on. 3) Use the Mask / Cover as a template (This Step should be done with quickly once the alcohol wipe is opened). Hold the Glass Mount Vinyl Mask / Cover up to the glass where we are mounting it, with the backing paper touching the glass. Open and use the alcohol wipe to mark off where the corners / edge of the backing paper end on the glass surface. Remove the vinyl mask / cover and use the alcohol wipe to clean inside the noticeably wet areas which were marked off. 4) Apply the Glass Mount Vinyl Mask / Cover. Once the area is dry and the alcohol has evaporated, it is time to apply the vinyl mask / cover. With the Vinyl side facing the glass, slowly and firmly press the Vinyl Mask / Cover on to the glass. Next peel and separate the backing paper from the back of the vinyl cover / mask. Finally, be sure to smooth out any air bubbles which may appear for a clean and polished finish. Unique Product features A) Removable  &  Reusable  No matter the reason, when or if we need to move or remove the mask / cover, it can be done. Simply peel the vinyl off the glass and store it away for next time. Or we can reinstall it on the next Glass Tablet mounting / conference room set up. B) Washable and Cleanable   We can use soap and water or just water to rinse the any lint or particles which may stick to the vinyl. If we drop the vinyl mask / cover before or on install and notice that it is now dirty, we can simply wash it before we attempt to install again. C) Size Specific  The Glass Mount Vinyl Mask / Cover s cut to match the size of tablet enclosure, mount or kiosk we are using this with. The vinyl will not be over or undersized, contributing to the best looking set up possible. D) Considerable Concealment   Even the darker / darkest components are shielded from view. No matter how dark the object we are trying to hide,  nothing more than a simple shadow is noticed. Make sure to add the  Glass Mount Vinyl Mask / Cover  to your next Conference Room or Glass Mounted Kiosk. Name  * Email  * Website 