Coachella Festival 2018: Map and venue changes GET BREAKING NEWS IN YOUR BROWSER. CLICK HERE TO TURN ON NOTIFICATIONS. X Trending: Even though the  Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival  is going into its 19th year when it kicks off on Friday, April 13, festival producer Goldenvoice still know how to make a big change to adapt to the ever-growing popularity of the festival. When Coachella dropped its 2018 map of the venue today, there were some big changes for the festival faithful. (Psst. Want Southern California music festival news sent directly to your inbox?  Sign up for the new Festival Pass newsletter. ) 2018 festival maps are here! Get info on the venue, parking, directions, and camping:  https://t.co/tB85pTEUpC pic.twitter.com/xZ9RtNW5g4  Coachella (@coachella)  April 10, 2018 1. The Sahara Tent is giant and has moved by the entrance. The EDM-lovers  haven has long been in the southeast corner of the grounds. For many years it was next to the Rose Garden, but when the  festival grounds expanded in 2017 , it became very cramped to get in and out of the popular tent. Now it s by the Ferris wheel and the main entrance. Related:   Coachella 2018 set times announced, here’s when Beyoncé, The Weeknd, Eminem are playing Here s what the 2017 map looked like: 2. Mojave and Gobi have moved up in the world. The Mojave Tent has moved to the old Sahara Tent site next to the VIP Rose Garden and Gobi has moved where the old Mojave used to be. Both look like they might be a little larger, but it s hard to say on the map. 3. The Sonora stage got new digs. In  2017, Sonora was the hot new stage , but super cool since it had air conditioning. It s now over where the former Gobi Tent used to be. 4. Food is so big at Coachella it gets an area as large as a stage. The Indio Central Market – a giant food hall of 15-plus restaurants from Los Angeles to New York modeled after Grand Central Market in L.A. – is now in a tent that is as large as one of the stages from the festival.  We wrote all about the food, but it s going to be even bigger this year . We’ll be out at the festival again this year,  sharing all of the Coachella vibes , so find us and say hello. And while you’re getting ready for the festival, here are some of our favorite links from Coachella 2017. We invite you to use our commenting platform to engage in insightful conversations about issues in our community. Although we do not pre-screen comments, we reserve the right at all times to remove any information or materials that are unlawful, threatening, abusive, libelous, defamatory, obscene, vulgar, pornographic, profane, indecent or otherwise objectionable to us, and to disclose any information necessary to satisfy the law, regulation, or government request. We might permanently block any user who abuses these conditions. If you see comments that you find offensive, please use the “Flag as Inappropriate” feature by hovering over the right side of the post, and pulling down on the arrow that appears. Or, contact our editors by emailing moderator@scng.com. Get the latest news delivered daily! 