Bad Things Happen When You Leave Soda In A Car When It s Freezing Outside   CBS Dallas / Fort Worth Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Reddit AddThis Follow CBSDFW.COM: Facebook | Twitter (CBSNEWS)  The temperature in Lincoln County, Montana is hovering around the low twenties and teens this week. And in temperatures that frigid, leaving groceries in the car may be the last thing on a person s mind. If those groceries contain soda cans, however, leaving them in your car can lead to a very messy situation. That s way the Lincoln County Sheriff s Office took to their Facebook page with a cautionary tale (or rather, cationary image) about what happens to soda cans when they freeze. A friendly reminder for you all ..don t leave your carbonated drinks in your vehicle when it s this cold outside, especially over night!!!!  they wrote along with the Facebook post. (Lincoln County Sheriff s Office   Montana/Facebook) The phenomenon of frozen soda cans exploding is nothing new. In fact, YouTube is full of it. And it doesn t necessarily occur for the reason you d thing. *READ MORE AT CBSNEWS.COM* Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Reddit AddThis These cookies are essential for the proper functioning of our properties. In addition, we use the Google and Tealium Tag Managers. Essential cookies cannot be switched off in our systems. You can set your browser or device to block or alert you about these cookies, but some parts of the site will not work.  These cookies allow us to collect information about how visitors use our properties. Some examples include counting visits and traffic sources, so we can measure and improve the performance of our site. If you do not allow these cookies we will not know when users have visited our properties and will not be able to monitor performance. These cookies enable the website to provide enhanced functionality and personalization. They may be set by us or by third party providers whose services we have added to our pages.    If you do not allow these cookies then some or all of these services may not function properly. These cookies may be set by us or through our property by our advertising partners. They may be used by those companies to build a profile of your interests and show you relevant adverts on other properties. If you do not allow these cookies, you will still see ads, but you will experience less relevant advertising.   These cookies are set by a range of social media services that we have added to the site to enable you to share our content with your friends and networks. They are capable of tracking your browser across other sites, building up a profile of your interests to show you relevant content and adverts on properties. If you do not allow these cookies you may not be able to use or see these sharing tools. Back Button Back Search Icon Filter Icon Clear Fliters All Consent Allowed 3 Purposes Arrow Consent Purposes Location Based Ads Consent Allowed Legitimate Interest Purposes Personalize Features Location Based Ads 