How should you think about happiness? - Quora a uhLas d o FKjl b O y UWT TmY B KtfZ e yMjtt t SWWX t GFC e zfep r QeSWx H gcPhV e p l uLtMg p iRd Happiness is doing things which we love. It can be found everywhere in any situation and of course in everything. It depends on our attitude. Attitude is a powerful thing. And a positive attitude can be life-changing. To maintain a positive attitude, we need positive thinking, right? But first, a story you must have all read. If you haven’t, it’s a treat in store for you. If you have, well, it is a treat in store for you, too! A Native American boy was talking with his grandfather. “What do you think about the world situation?” he asked. The grandfather replied, “I feel like wolves are fighti... Happiness is doing things which we love. It can be found everywhere in any situation and of course in everything. It depends on our attitude. Attitude is a powerful thing. And a positive attitude can be life-changing. To maintain a positive attitude, we need positive thinking, right? But first, a story you must have all read. If you haven’t, it’s a treat in store for you. If you have, well, it is a treat in store for you, too! A Native American boy was talking with his grandfather. “What do you think about the world situation?” he asked. The grandfather replied, “I feel like wolves are fighting in my heart. One is full of anger and hatred; the other is full of love, forgiveness, and peace.” “Which one will win?” asked the boy. To which the grandfather replied, “The one I feed.” 2,883 Views 3,241,352 Views 3,345 Views 215,918 Views 1,658 Views Happiness is the most important state for human soul.  We can ' t be always happy but should should try to be it consciously and learn methods to be it.  Ways to reach happiness are researched quite good by M. CSIKSZENTMIHALYI and his results he has called Flow. A traditional form of getting happy is to get experiences in religious praxis (speaking with God as a personal friend).  Happiness makes our mind and soul relaxed and is the best state of our feeling. Every Psychologist, Psychiater or Priest will agree. s Lhz p W o MvSk n zB s tQTKE o qvmk r H e D d e qJSY b q y LEiE zQ W xPy o KBzD r BKHz l qXcBd d GP l SM i PnZL f Lvsn e yzjHF s R t whbEj y bxa l dj e zLlwL In a few words: think about it as the way, and no as the end point. In my opinion, it all starts with knowing yourself: what you like, what you dislike, what you should be like (if you were who you want to become, such as an inspirational character or person). Then, you need to learn that you cannot control everything: bad things happen, and they tend to happen often. At this point, if you were a stoic (or interested in this philosophy), I would say: “You shouldn’t worry, specially because it isn’t in your control. What happens to you is not under your control, just the way you deal with it ... In a few words: think about it as the way, and no as the end point. In my opinion, it all starts with knowing yourself: what you like, what you dislike, what you should be like (if you were who you want to become, such as an inspirational character or person). Then, you need to learn that you cannot control everything: bad things happen, and they tend to happen often. At this point, if you were a stoic (or interested in this philosophy), I would say: “You shouldn’t worry, specially because it isn’t in your control. What happens to you is not under your control, just the way you deal with it is”. I firmly believe we all have a choice to be happy, and to do that we need to want to be happy :) There are two ways to define a term. One way is to go by one’s personal feelings. For example, Dictionary of Modern Chinese  defines Happiness as “experiences and life that soothe one’s mind”. Another way is to transcend one’s body and be objective. My definition for Happiness is “the state in which one’s needs have been satisfied” or “the state in which one’s goals have been  achieved.” Aristotle said that the goal of human existence is the pursuit of happiness. Substituting my definition for Happiness into this statement and you get “the goal of human existence is the pursuit of the state... There are two ways to define a term. One way is to go by one’s personal feelings. For example, Dictionary of Modern Chinese  defines Happiness as “experiences and life that soothe one’s mind”. Another way is to transcend one’s body and be objective. My definition for Happiness is “the state in which one’s needs have been satisfied” or “the state in which one’s goals have been  achieved.” Aristotle said that the goal of human existence is the pursuit of happiness. Substituting my definition for Happiness into this statement and you get “the goal of human existence is the pursuit of the state in which goals have been achieved.” Rubbish. Just as if nothing has been said. s FOfmq p Nm o T n nlu s a o i r tqwO e Cbi d QLp nrm b EvxLq y ofNY N W Rx o M r MsG l L d YhZ kQok L EzZDN i vGZDp f sYnQH e a s OHfc t GbM y u l QLP e XzAU 8,945 Views 3,707 Views 1,252 Views 641 Views 2,993 Views Two Feelings There is a difference between the feeling you get when you earn a bonus at work and the feeling you get when you give your coat to a poor person. When you get a bonus, it is a bit different. It is a confidence booster, an adrenaline pumper, and it makes you feel excited. When you help a person by giving him your coat because he feels cold, you feel joyful, happy and accomplished. Spinning world The world cannot function with hatred. Go to war with each other and we will have nothing left. The more you fight and hate, the more the world deteriorates. However, the more you love and res... Two Feelings There is a difference between the feeling you get when you earn a bonus at work and the feeling you get when you give your coat to a poor person. When you get a bonus, it is a bit different. It is a confidence booster, an adrenaline pumper, and it makes you feel excited. When you help a person by giving him your coat because he feels cold, you feel joyful, happy and accomplished. Spinning world The world cannot function with hatred. Go to war with each other and we will have nothing left. The more you fight and hate, the more the world deteriorates. However, the more you love and respect, the better the world will be. If you help each other, the world will function better. For example, the app ‘Uber’. You use it to get a ride to a specific location. It is a helpful tool and it helps us get to one place to another. But cancel the ride, fight with the captain, and you have caused damage, even if you do not see it. Riders can get low ratings, Uber can get bad feedback. The wish for peace Imagine a world where you step out of your apartment. It is cold and raining too. From one side, a person comes to give you their coat, another runs in to walk you under their umbrella. People you smile at, smile back. People you do not know ask you to come in for a cup of tea. Somewhere in the corner of your eye, you see two couples holding hands, the woman is black, the man is white. People compliment you for no reason. People say sorry for no reason too. Nobody tells a lie, and every one is pure from their heart. The harsh truth Unfortunately, not everyone is like that. The world is not full of happiness. There are some crazy, corrupt, grumpy people, and depression exists among us. “You create happiness for yourself” - My mum It sounds cringey. I know but it is so true. Go out today and just do something special for someone. It does not have to be big. It could be simple such as making tea for your dad. Give your brother or sister a call and just say that you love them. Hold your friend ' s hand and smile at them. Let people know that they are special. Small things Today, I gave my coat to a poor man. Yesterday, I hugged my depressed friend for 5 minutes straight. The day before I made tea for my companies cook. Why? Because it is how the world functions. Words and actions Every single word can either make or break a person. Every single action can either make or destroy a life. So speak kindly and do things that bring peace. Because the world is being pushed into a heap of shit. The best way I think is to align your life so that it produces happiness. Anything else is a hack. Say, if you have a stressful job, meditation, positive thinking and so forth would not help, they might give you pockets of happiness but not a happy life (I took a stressful job as an example, it could well be you thrive in stress, just an example) Another way to put it is. If you want happiness to be the core of your life, then work to accommodate it rather than leaving it as an afterthought. rather than a way of thinking about happiness, there needs to be a clear definition of hapiness. The definition I heard is that true happiness is personal integrity. Meaning, to do what you think is right and to be who you are. This seems to be the only freedom an individual has.  This means that happiness is not an emotion, but a perspective. Therefore, you can realize that it ' s okay to feel less than rosy most of the time, NOONE is peachy 24/7. I recommend Wisecrack ' s youtube video  " Is Joy the Villain " Its a temporary state of mind which is followed by sadness. Happy go lucky. People who are the happiest prosper and stay lucky than others. But happiness is vague ,personal ,subjective and depends on the individual experiencing it. Seek the middle path and not the two extremes i.e. happiness and sadness. 3,227,918 Views 3,241,352 Views 3,787 Views 215,918 Views 2,840 Views 8,945 Views 130,941 Views 1,252 Views 4,047 Views 2,993 Views 3,068 Views 1,569 Views 2,230 Views 4,589 Views 3,832 Views 