World ' s Fastest Growing Renewable Energy Source - Sollatek Home  /  News  &  Events  /  World s Fastest Growing Renewable Energy Source As featured in the  Wind Energy Network Magazine . With the increased interest in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, wind energy is now the world’s fastest growing renewable energy source. Wind turbines are traditionally erected on land but the past ten years has seen substantial growth in the popularity of offshore windfarms; delivering higher wind speeds across the ocean and therefore producing an increased contribution of electricity. The UK has been the world leader in offshore wind since October 2008, boasting 1,465 wind turbines. A vast majority of these turbines (175) are located in the London Array – the largest offshore wind farm in the world – with intentions to reduce annual CO2 emissions by approximately 900,000 tons, equal to the emissions of 3,000,000 passenger cars. Power Generation Using Wind Turbines Wind turbines harvest wind energy by converting the kinetic energy in the wind to electrical energy. An alternator in the turbine converts the rotational energy into electrical energy which is passed via a sub-sea cable to an off-shore platform along with cables from other turbines. Here the power passes through a transformer to raise the voltage for transmission via a larger sub-sea cable to the land where it enters the shore station. At the shore station the power is conditioned and fed into the national grid network for distributor across the country. The whole shore station site needs power to run the computers, pumps, lights, SCADA systems, air handling, security systems etc. For this, some of the power is transformed down from 33,000 volts to 400V to power the substation via auxiliary transformers. However, clean regulated power is required for the equipment and so an automatic voltage regulator is used to stabilise the voltage and to provide reliable operation of the substations control equipment and ancillary appliances. This is the application for which  Sollatek  has been commissioned to supply a number of these AVRs to sites like; Greater Gabbard, Thanet, London Array and Gwynt e More offshore wind farms in the UK. Typically the substation has two auxiliary 33,000 volts to 400 volts step down transformers connected to two  three phase  Sollatek  AVRs. The AVRs regulate the 400 volt three phase supply to the site’s Low Voltage Alternating Current (LVAC) distribution board from which point all the site equipment is powered. Need for Voltage Regulators  Variations in voltage can damage mains connected appliances due to the fluctuations from dangerously highly to frighteningly low inputs. Damage can be caused to equipment resulting in depleted life span, degraded performance, digital errors and failure of hard drives. Voltage regulators are used to keep voltages within the prescribed range that can be tolerated by the electrical equipment, controlling that power and thus minimizing variations in voltage in order to protect equipment using the electricity. Our  Voltright range  is the best solution to stabilise and regulate mains supply where the voltage is erratic or unreliable and can protect all domestic, commercial and industrial appliances. Our new Thyristor controlled Automatic Voltage Regulator is a solid state stabiliser which uses microprocessor technology. The AVR can rapidly detect voltage variations and correct the output. This ensures that no damage can be done while costing less than other stabiliser technologies that use mechanical systems. Furthermore, the compact design of our AVRs offer a smaller footprint and the solid state technology gives a longer operational lifetime and little to no need for maintenance. View our full range of stabilisers and regulators  here . As featured in the  Wind Energy Network Magazine . © Sollatek 2017. All Rights Reserved. 