963 Canino Ct, Palm Harbor, FL 34683 | Zillow Homes possibly coming to the market soon but aren ' t yet found on an MLS. Enter a valid number Enter a valid number Enter a valid number Enter a valid number Zillow helps you find the  newest Palm Harbor real estate listings . By analyzing information on thousands of  single family homes for sale in Palm Harbor , Florida   and across the United States, we calculate home values (Zestimates) and the  Zillow Home Value Price Index  for Palm Harbor  proper, its neighborhoods and surrounding areas. If you ' re looking to  rent in  Palm Harbor FL , check out our extensive list of  luxury apartments   and  townhomes . We make it easy to find your dream home by filtering home types, price and size. Filtering with keyword search is also possible, like " waterfront " or   tray ceiling  homes in Palm Harbor. Disclaimer:  School attendance zone boundaries are supplied by Pitney Bowes and are subject to change. Check with the applicable school district prior to making a decision based on these boundaries. About the ratings:  GreatSchools ratings are based on a comparison of test results for all schools in the state. It is designed to be a starting point to help parents make baseline comparisons, not the only factor in selecting the right school for your family.  Learn more Zillow Wordmark $345,955 No data available at this time. Find assessor info on the  county website GreatSchools ratings based on test scores and additional metrics when available. About the ratings:  Historically, GreatSchools ratings have been based solely on a comparison of standardized test results for all schools in a given state. As of September 2017, the GreatSchools ratings also incorporate additional information, when available, such as college readiness, academic progress, advanced courses, equity, discipline and attendance data. GreatSchools ratings are designed to be a starting point to help parents compare schools, and should not be the only factor used in selecting the right school for your family.  Learn more Disclaimer:  School attendance zone boundaries are provided by a third party and subject to change. Check with the applicable school district prior to making a decision based on these boundaries. In addition, school data is obtained from a third party vendor and not guaranteed to be accurate, up to date or complete. There are more interested buyers than homes for sale. 34683 home values  have risen  6.2 %  over the past 12 months. Zillow predicts the home values in 34683 will rise  6.5%  in the next year. This home is valued  15.2%  higher than the median home in 34683 Please enter your name. Please enter a valid US or Canadian phone number. Please enter a valid email address. Please fill in a valid message. By pressing Contact Agent, you agree that Zillow Group and  real estate professionals  may call/text you about your inquiry, which may involve use of automated means and prerecorded/artificial voices. You don ' t need to consent as a condition of buying any property, goods or services. Message/data rates may apply. You also agree to our  Terms of Use . Zillow does not endorse any real estate professionals. The median Zestimate ®  valuation for a given geographic area on a given day is the  Zillow Home Value Index.  Learn more Nearby cities Nearby zip codes Other Palm Harbor Topics These properties are currently listed for sale. They are owned by a bank or a lender who took ownership through foreclosure proceedings. These are also known as bank-owned or real estate owned (REO). Coming Soon listings are homes that will soon be on the market. The listing agent for these homes has added a Coming Soon note to alert buyers in advance. Learn more about  coming soon listings Sellers of these homes have accepted a buyer ' s offer; however, the home has not closed. These properties are owned by a bank or a lender who took ownership through foreclosure proceedings. They may soon be listed for sale. These properties are not found on a multiple listing service (MLS). The lender initiated foreclosure proceedings on these properties because the owner(s) were in default on their loan obligations. Pre-foreclosures also include properties for which a foreclosure auction is scheduled. These properties are not found on a multiple listing service (MLS). Homes for which owner(s) have set a “dream price” – a price they’d be willing to sell it for – to test the waters and gauge interest. These properties are only found on Zillow. HOA fees are monthly or annual charges that cover the costs of maintaining and improving shared spaces. HOA fees are common within condos and some single-family home neighborhoods. Co-ops also have monthly fees (Common Charges and Maintenance Fees), which may also include real estate taxes and a portion of the building ' s underlying mortgage. 