Market Today Fatafat ET Now: Sensex, Nifty turn flat ahead of GDP data; top 18 stocks in action | Business News New Delhi:  Indian stock markets turned flat in the afternoon deals on Friday ahead of Q2 GDP release later in the evening with BSE Sensex and NSE Nifty hovering in negative territory. The S & P BSE Sensex, up until 1:30 pm, shuttled between an intraday high of 36,304.43 and an intraday low of 36,121.17 after opening 134.02 points higher at 36,304.43 on Friday. Yes Bank, Wipro, M & M, Maruti Suzuki, Kotak Mahindra Bank, Infosys and TCS shares emerged as the top gainers today. Market Today Fatafat ET Now: Top 18 stocks in action today RIL share price:  Shares of Mukesh Ambani-led Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) surged 1 per cent in the early trades on Friday. Brokerage firm Nirmal Bang has said that stock is well placed above all important averages, and gave an upside of Rs 1,210/1,240. Tata Motors share price:  Shares of Tata Motors dropped more than 2 per cent after after reports came in that Tata Motors-owned Jaguar Land Rover planning to reduce the workforce at its plant in Wolverhampton by about 500 in a temporary move. UBS has maintained neutral stance and has slashed the target price to Rs 200 from 280. Vodafone Idea share price:  Shares of India s largest telecom company by market share Vodafone Idea fell 4 per cent after rating agency Crisil downgraded its NCDs worth Rs 6000 crore to  A+  from  AA- . Yes Bank share price:  Shares of India s fourth-largest private sector lender Yes Bank gained over 5 per cent snapping 5-day losing streak. TCS share price:  Shares of Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) soared 1 per cent after US jury ruled in favour of country s largest IT company in case involving charges of discrimination. "We have always maintained, the claims made in this case were baseless and we are gratified that the jury agreed...So the decisions we make about the hiring and retention of employees are based purely on their capabilities and fit in serving our customers' business needs," a Tata Consultancy Services spokesperson was quoted in a PTI report. Please watch Market Fatafat video to see all 18 stocks in action today 