11 Things We Are Almost Certain You Didn ' t Know About OAP, Tosyn Bucknor | Zikoko! You might know that Tosyn Bucknor is an OAP. You might even know that she works at Top Radio 90.9. You might know her full name is Oluwatosin Abisona Bucknor, and that her nickname is the  Area Boss . But we’re certain that we can still surprise you. We bet you, you didn’t know that: Tosyn has written scripts for shows like  Amstel Malta Box-office  and  The Apprentice Africa . But she did become a singer. Her stage name is  Contradiction  and she has worked with artistes such as Skales, Rooftop MCs and Eva; and producers like Coldflames and Cobhams. She studied Law at the University of Lagos and Lagos Law School. even though  her radio career almost ended prematurely because she was always giggling on air. She blogs at  TosynBucknor.com  and you can check here vlogs on her  YouTube Channel . And she is good at being all three. Haha! Everyone has a thing. but that has never slowed her down. Instead, she uses it to inspire! She started the  These Genes Project  to help people with the disorder. Look at the ring though! and every edition of it has been a success. There are about 8! You can listen  here . https://instagram.com/p/6Mnr7LTQgY/ Look at how adorable they look together. I can see a slight resemblance. Can t you? She can go girly.. She can go tomboy. She does her own hair. https://instagram.com/p/6hCSn5TQic/ Seriously, see! Last one, I promise. Not many people can pull that off. But she can. Because she looks good in everything I seriously enjoyed writing this post because Tosyn is one of the most inspiring people in Nigeria. I hope you had as much fun reading, and don t forget to share! Davina Oriakhi, an undeniably gifted rising star, always impresses with her releases. Her penchant for genre-hopping makes it impossible to guess what kind of song she’ll come out with next, and her latest single, “Tears”, is another pleasant surprise.  Stunningly produced by TiwaDara,  Tears  serves as another strong indication of Davina s skills as a writer [ ] Oga Police, leave us the hell alone  Signed, Everybody. Davido —  Risky  ft. Popcaan Earlier in the year, Davido got trolled when yet another hilarious clip of him attempting to freestyle went viral. Well, the afropop star is getting the last laugh, as he’s now turned that flub into a Popcaan-assisted banger, complete with a Meji Alabi-directed video. The SperoachBeatz-produced “Risky” marks the third [ ] Bring a friend. Are you a J.T Tom West or a Gentle Jack? You meet someone, go on a couple dates and then realise they re not that interesting (or whatever the case may be). So how do you break the news? Well, you don t. You simply end all forms of communication with them (out of thin air) and expect them to take the hint. A wimpy move? Absolutely, [ ] Rule 1: Self-diagnosis is the way to go. 1. When you arrive at the concert on time. Oh? So the time on the poster was just a suggestion? 2. The light and sound crew after doing the bare minimum: Good luck hearing or seeing anything. 3. You, when the filler artists are performing: Nobody came for you. Please, do and be going. 4. [ ] Trying to find a job in Nigeria that brings you joy can feel like you re looking for a microscopic needle in a very messy haystack. So, we ve created a quiz that will try its very best to guess when exactly you ll luck out and finally land that dream job. Take it and see: The subject of this story is a 24-year old lady who s open to exploring any opportunity that won t bother her home training – she likes nice offices too. Tell me about the very first time you felt like you  earned  your own money. Does raising funds for a children’s church program count?  When I was [ ] 1. When you arrive at the concert on time. Oh? So the time on the poster was just a suggestion? 2. The light and sound crew after doing the bare minimum: Good luck hearing or seeing anything. 3. You, when the filler artists are performing: Nobody came for you. Please, do and be going. 4. [ ] Social media is a crazy street where everyone gets to showcase their talent and trigger their imaginations in the best (or worse) way possible while garnering followers. Sometimes this leads to new and useful innovations, other times it gets one asking WTF? Some of these WTF moments involve slangs and phrases no one understands, we [ ] Nigerian parents have a really weird parenting process. Sometimes, they are so chill that you actually get along with them, but at other times, they do things that make you wonder if they are keeping your true parentage a secret from you. If you grew up in a Nigerian home and have wondered if the [ ] Looking like your parents isn t a big deal for you, especially if you really don t see it. So while everyone else scrambles above themselves to compare every habit and utterance of yours to your parents  you just want them to get over it. On the other hand, it can be fun and you get a [ ] In every Nigerian office, there are a bunch of varying characters, and one of the moments that their differences are truly heightened is when it s time for lunch. From the ones that only eat snacks to the ones that are street food connoisseur, here are the types of co-workers you see during lunch break. 1. [ ] Nigerian parents are a rare breed with unique ways of doing almost everything. But their approach to doing things sometimes is nothing short of infuriating. For example, they represent everyone you should avoid watching movies with. If you do, you need every ounce of self-control to keep yourself in check and keep your shit together. [ ] Stories you love and more Original Zikoko videos Discover more of Zikoko here 