Best Sports Bikes in India - 2019 Top 10 Sports Bikes Prices - DriveSpark Here is a list of the best sports bikes in india. Check out these top-ranked sports bike's prices, specifications, features, and more. The KTM RC 390 is a track focused bike from the brand. The RC 390 offers clip-on handlebars, and rear-set foot pegs, making for an aggressive riding position. The bike features trellis frame with USD forks at front, and monoshocks at the rear, for better handling. The KTM RC 390 is powered by a liquid-cooled, single-cylinder 373cc engine producing 42.9bhp and 35Nm of torque. The engine comes mated to a six-speed gearbox with a slipper and assist clutch. Other equipment on the RC 390 includes dual-channel ABS and ride-by-wire throttle. The TVS Apache RR310 features aggressive styling with full LED headlamps. The motorcycle features focused riding position suitable for track use. The bike features a vertical console with on-board lap timer, top speed recorder, launch time recorder and race diagnostics for in-depth analysis. Other equipment include, USD forks at the front, monoshocks at the rear, trellis frame and clip-on handlebars. The TVS Apache RR310 is powered by a liquid-cooled, single-cylinder, 312cc engine producing 33.5bhp and 27.3Nm of torque. The engine comes mated to a six-speed gearbox with a slipper and assist clutch.  The Kawasaki Ninja 400 borrows its design cues from its elder siblings in the brand s line-up. The fully-faired motorcycle features a part-digital instrument cluster that offer a host of information to the rider. The Kawasaki Ninja 400 features trellis frame but misses out on USD forks at the front. The Kawasaki Ninja 400 is powered by a liquid-cooled, parallel-twin-cylinder, 399cc engine producing 48.2bhp and 38Nm of torque. The engine comes mated to a six-speed gearbox. The motorcycle also features Nissin s dual-channel ABS as well. The Kawasaki Ninja ZX-6R is a full-fledged track bike from the brand and comes with a host of features. The motorcycle includes a tuned ABS unit, three-mode traction control system, quick shifter, adjustable clutch and brake levers, fully adjustable front and rear suspension unit. The perimeter frame on the bike offers maximum confidence to the rider as well. The Kawasaki Ninja ZX-6R is powered by a liquid-cooled, parallel-twin-cylinder, 636cc engine. It produces a maximum power of 134.1bhp with ram-air at 13,500rpm and a peak torque of 70.8Nm at 11,000rpm. The engine comes mated to a six-speed gearbox with slipper-assist clutch.  The Honda CBR650R looks similar to its elder sibling. The motorcycle features full-LED lighting, an LCD instrument display, a dual-channel ABS, fully adjustable front and rear suspension. The chassis is made of diamond type frame offering the bike with sharp handling characteristics. The Honda CBR650R is powered by a liquid-cooled, inline-four-cylinder, 648cc engine. It produces maximum power of 87.1bhp at 11,500 rpm and a peak torque of 60.1Nm at 8,000rpm. The engine comes mated to a six-speed gearbox with slipper-assist clutch.  The Benelli 302R features dual-headlamp setup and looks aggressive from the front. The bike features clip-ons with rear set foot pegs making for an aggressive riding stance. The steel trellis frame adds to the accurate handling characteristics of the motorcycle. It also offers a part digital instrument cluster offering a host of information to the rider. The Benelli 302R is powered by a liquid-cooled, parallel-twin-cylinder, 300cc engine producing 37.5bhp and 27.4Nm of torque. The engine comes mated to a six-speed gearbox. The motorcycle also features a dual-channel ABS as well. The Ducati Supersport is a litre-class motorcycle, which offers the best of both worlds for track and daily use to the rider. The Supersport looks absolutely stunning with sweet Italian design. The motorcycle comes equipped with a host of features including a fully-digital LCD instrument console. The Ducati Supersport is powered by a liquid-cooled, L-twin-cylinder, 937cc engine. It produces a maximum power of 108.6bhp at 9,000rpm and a peak torque of 93Nm at 6,500rpm. The engine comes mated to a six-speed gearbox with slipper-assist clutch and quick shifter. Other electronic rider aids on the motorcycle includes, a dual-channel ABS and Ducati Traction Control system with three different riding modes. The MV Agusta F3 800 is the brand s fully-faired offerings to the Indian market. The motorcycle features Italian design with tear-drop shaped headlight and stands apart. The motorcycle is light and features trellis frame to offer sharp handling characteristics. The MV Agusta F3 800 is powered by a three-cylinder, liquid-cooled, 798cc engine. It produces maximum power of 144.8bhp at 13,000rpm and a peak torque of 88Nm at 10,600rpm. The engine comes mated to a six-speed gearbox with slipper-assist clutch and quick shifter as well. The F3 800 also features a dual-channel ABS with RLM as standard. 