What is the full form of NASA and ISRO? - Quora a B d TQxs klyYn b cFN y TJgM iVzy D nhlO u tbm c Yj k ttNs D iAtCt u I c Z k Zq G QdHYh o KxrcF NASA  stands for  National Aeronautics and Space Administration  and it is an american space and science agency. It is started in 1958. NASA ' s motto is “ For the benefit of all ”. It had many successful mission. ISRO  stands for  Indian Space and Research Orgnisation  and it is an Indian space and science agency. It is headquartered in the city of Bangalore. ISRO is established in 15 August 1969. And motto of ISRO is “ Space Technology in the service of Humankind”. Both the organization ISRO  &  NASA works extensively in the areas of space of its study, research, explore  &  preservation. The organization... NASA  stands for  National Aeronautics and Space Administration  and it is an american space and science agency. It is started in 1958. NASA ' s motto is “ For the benefit of all ”. It had many successful mission. ISRO  stands for  Indian Space and Research Orgnisation  and it is an Indian space and science agency. It is headquartered in the city of Bangalore. ISRO is established in 15 August 1969. And motto of ISRO is “ Space Technology in the service of Humankind”. Both the organization ISRO  &  NASA works extensively in the areas of space of its study, research, explore  &  preservation. The organization work apart from our planet Earth  &  study about the others planets,stars and satellites etc. 377,486 Views 62,270 Views 14,012 Views 10,217 Views 15,912 Views NASA stands for National Aeronautics and Space Administration. ISRO stands for the Indian Space Research Organization . NASA : NASA was started in 1958 as a part of the United States government. NASA is in charge of U.S. science and technology that has to do with airplanes or space. NASA does a lot of different things. NASA makes satellites. The satellites help scientists learn more about Earth. NASA sends probes out into space. NASA scientists study things in the solar system, and even farther away. A new program will send humans to explore asteroids, Mars and beyond. People at NASA work on ways... NASA stands for National Aeronautics and Space Administration. ISRO stands for the Indian Space Research Organization . NASA : NASA was started in 1958 as a part of the United States government. NASA is in charge of U.S. science and technology that has to do with airplanes or space. NASA does a lot of different things. NASA makes satellites. The satellites help scientists learn more about Earth. NASA sends probes out into space. NASA scientists study things in the solar system, and even farther away. A new program will send humans to explore asteroids, Mars and beyond. People at NASA work on ways to make air travel better for everyone on Earth, too. People at NASA also share the things they learn with others. This can help make life on Earth better. ISRO : The Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO) is the pioneer space exploration agency of the Government of India, headquartered at Bengaluru. ISRO was formed in 1969 with a vision to develop and harness space technology in national development, while pursuing planetary exploration and space science research. ISRO replaced its predecessor, INCOSPAR (Indian National Committee for Space Research), established in 1962 by India’s first Prime Minister Pt. Jawaharlal Nehru and scientist Vikram Sarabhai, considered amongst the founding fathers of Indian space program. s lB p jqBxR o BQc n cPaex s CVG o FSkl r qKzC e tcyh d z j b lYzuX y W g S m c vYNtf r D i gj b JeQ o kF l RKs qpUU P CTum u swSId b C l Q i IHa s OJlU h bDIf i FPsf n vab g ZK Full form of NASA and ISRO are as follows- NASA- National Aeronautics and Space Administration. It is the space agency of the USA which is responsible for aerospace research, aeronautics as well as space programs. ISRO-The Indian Space Research Organization ( ISRO ) is the pioneer space exploration agency of the Government of India , headquartered at Bengaluru NASA stands for National Aeronautics and Space Administration. And it is part of United States Government that deals with space exploration and aeronautics. It is started in 1958. NASA’s motto is “For the benefit of all”. It had many successful mission including the ISS and Apollo 11 which put the first man on the moon. ISRO is the short form of Indian Space Research Organisation. It is the space agency of the Government of India. It is headquartered in the city of Bangalore. ISRO is established in 15 August 1969. And motto of ISRO is “Space Technology in the Service of Humankind. 62,270 Views 20,583 Views 6,941 Views 6,059 Views 10,306 Views ISRO INDIAN SPACE RESEARCH ORGANISATION NASA NATIONAL AERONOTICS and SPACE ADMINISTRATION s k p iZs o MyzB n D s GfAWM o QQea r iXA e efI d Ksp F b X y WTb M X hRF u hcXj z YtEOn z co l X e UPQlS The full form of NASA is National Aeronautics and Space Administration. It is a government organisation in America that works in the field of space research and development. NASA became the first space agency in the world to send a human on moon and get them back alive on earth in 1969. Many space exploration programs have been running since and NASA is financed by the Government of US. The abbreviation ISRO stands for Indian Space Research Organisation. ISRO is also a space agency but it works for Indian Space missions. The Mars Orbiter Mission was the recent achievement of ISRO in which th... The full form of NASA is National Aeronautics and Space Administration. It is a government organisation in America that works in the field of space research and development. NASA became the first space agency in the world to send a human on moon and get them back alive on earth in 1969. Many space exploration programs have been running since and NASA is financed by the Government of US. The abbreviation ISRO stands for Indian Space Research Organisation. ISRO is also a space agency but it works for Indian Space missions. The Mars Orbiter Mission was the recent achievement of ISRO in which the organisation became the most efficient Space agency by sending the Mars Orbiter probe from the orbit of Earth into the orbit of the Mars. It was a very successful mission. Later, in the year, ISRO made history by launching 104 satellites altogether in space. It contained a sum of Indian and Foreign Satellites. ISRO is a very efficient and kind of advanced space research and exploration agency. It is financed by the Government of India. NASA stands  for ‘National Aeronautics and Space Administration’.  NASA  is in charge of U.S. science and technology that has to do with airplanes or space. ISRO  stands for  ' Indian Space Research Organisation’ situated in Bangalore, India. NASA  National Aeronautics and Space Administration. ISRO  Indian Space Research Organisation. Hello, NASA stands for National Aeronautics and Space Association and it is an american space and science agency. Whereas ISRO stands for Indian Space and Research Orgnisation and it is an Indian space and science agency Thanks and Best Of Luck i think such questions can be searched on google. whatever NASA - National Aeronautics and Space Administration ISRO - indian space research organization The full form of ISRO  &  NASA is Indian Space and Research Organisation  &  National Aeronautics and Space Administration respectively. Both the organisations ISRO  &  NASA works extensively in the areas of space of its study, research, explore  &  preservations. The organizations work apart from our planet earth  &  study about the others planets, stars, satellites, etc. Full form of NASA is - National Aeronautics and space administration. And full form of ISRO is - Indian Space Research Organization. Full form of NASA and ISRO are as follows- NASA- National Aeronautics and Space Administration. It is the space agency of the USA which is responsible for aerospace research, aeronautics as well as space programs. ISRO-The Indian Space Research Organization ( ISRO ) is the pioneer space exploration agency of the Government of India , headquartered at Bengaluru NASA stands  for ‘National Aeronautics and Space Administration’.  NASA  is in charge of U.S. science and technology that has to do with airplanes or space. ISRO  stands for  ' Indian Space Research Organisation’ situated in Bangalore, India. The  Full Form of ISRO in English  is : Indian Space Research Organisation. 1) Overview of ISRO(Indian Space Research Organisation )  : and much more…………… See here!! Full Form of ISRO in English [ Everything about ISRO ] I wonder you know about Quora but not aware of major search engines i.e.Google , Yahoo . Just go to  Google  and type NASA full form , i am sure it is capable enough to answer :) NASA-National Aeronautics and Space Administration ISRO- Indian Space research organisation from toponwebs 377,486 Views 10,306 Views 14,012 Views 21,959 Views 15,912 Views 3,250 Views 20,583 Views 7,070 Views 6,059 Views 622 Views 890 Views 1,288 Views 13,250 Views 10,217 Views 7,779 Views 