30 Best Superhero Halloween Costumes - Cool 2019 Superhero Costume Ideas If your kid can't stop talking about Teen Titans Go! To the Movies , this costume of the Tamaran princess is a surefire way to make trick-or-treating even more fun. This six-pack-equipped costume looks even more ripped than Ryan Reynolds . (Not that we're complaining \u2014 we'd watch him as Wade any day.) Even if your little one isn't quite old enough to see the latest  Avengers  flick, you can still encourage him to feel super. If the  old -old school Lynda Carter Wonder Woman is more your speed, this retro version of the costume is right up your alley. We wouldn't blame you if you opted for more sensible footwear than going barefoot while wearing this costume. You would get so much more world-saving done in sneakers, no? If you want to take this Guardians of the Galaxy costume to the next level, pick up some green face paint for the full effect. Make sure to pick up a red wig for this costume \u2014 otherwise people may think you're an aircraft marshaller. Considering how heroic dogs are, it only makes sense to dress yours up as a superhero. This Superman dog costume looks especially regal on this eager pup, don't you think? Your little guy will probably want to be taken very seriously in this muscular costume, but we don't blame you if the sight of him in long hair and a beard makes you laugh when he's not looking. We can't blame your toddler if his favorite superhero is Super Grover. After all, he's probably watching more Sesame Street than Avengers movies. We're calling it now: Future generations will look back on S tranger Things ' Eleven as a superhero. A CW superhero favorite, Arrow only needs a black eyeliner-drawn mask around the eyes to upgrade this hooded look. Behind every Superman is a Supergirl .  And this fitted costume (heeled boots optional but hey, why not?) will make you feel like the badass that you are. Put a fun spin on this Superman costume by wearing it under a suit and gradually revealing it throughout the Halloween party. We love that this costume conveys the most recent iteration of the character but still has the retro feel of the Julie Newmar original. Luckily, this costume comes with a magnificent blonde wig, so he doesn't have to worry about growing his own Chris Hemsworth-y hair. Is that you, T'Challa? The King of Wakanda is looking a little shorter than before ... Fingers crossed that Killmonger takes the day off on October 31. Your toddler will be the most powerful (not to mention, adorable) crime-fighting trick-or-treater out there. It's a one-piece bodysuit that zips up in the back \u2014 trust us, you'll look and  feel great because it fits like a glove. The hip armor and helmet are detachable, which is helpful for when you're making your way around busy Halloween parties. Okay, how adorable is this Bumblebee costume for toddlers? The mask is soft sculpted from foam-backed fabric, right for your little one's comfort. RELATED: 15 Unique Toddler Halloween Costumes That Are Too Stinkin' Cute This set comes complete with a muscle chest jumpsuit, shell, and mask so your little one will be ready to fight crime at any moment. Have a friend dress up as Rocket and you'll two will have the cutest best friend Halloween pics. It's no secret that the female versions of the superhero  costumes are way sexier  than the men's! Complete with ripped muscles, your kid will be the fastest trick-or-treater in the neighborhood. If The Incredibles 2 inspired her to start her own disappearing act, this bright red super suit makes it easier on Mom to keep an eye out while trick-or-treating. Don't tell us the Ghostbusters aren't superheroes! They may not have superpowers, but just like Batman, they go around the city rescuing people from terrifying creatures. We couldn't get enough of her ingenious innovations in Black Panther , and now, you can copy T'Challa's super sis on Halloween. Not all green superhero costumes require face paint. We're especially fond of this Hulk mask because it bears such a strong resemblance to Mark Ruffalo. RELATED: 26 Best Halloween Masks That Will Entertain All Your Friends Gal Gadot is now synonymous with  Wonder Woma n . Chalk up another win for lady-led superhero flicks. When you dress up as the famous Incredibles 2 fashion designer, the wig and glasses are included! She wouldn't look the same without 'em. RELATED: 30 Badass Halloween Costumes for Your Most Empowering Year Yet Artboard 1 We may earn money from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. Why trust us? Because we're all superheroes in disguise. Halloween is the perfect time to pay tribute to our favorite superheroes. Maybe we won't ever attain the cool superpowers they have, but hey, when you have a powerful suit on (even if it is just a  Halloween costumes ), you feel like you can achieve anything . Since superhero costumes are family-friendly, these costumes are perfect for everyone from  young children  to  married couples   to your  whole crew . And don't even worry about getting in tip-top shape before  Halloween  because superheroes come in all shapes and sizes. (Even better, some of these costumes come with built-in muscles.)   For more  Halloween ideas , be sure to check Good Housekeeping's  Halloween guide on recipes ,  party decorations ,  movie recommendations  and more. When you dress up as the famous Incredibles 2 fashion designer, the wig and glasses are included! She wouldn't look the same without 'em. RELATED: 30 Badass Halloween Costumes for Your Most Empowering Year Yet Gal Gadot is now synonymous with  Wonder Woma n . Chalk up another win for lady-led superhero flicks. Not all green superhero costumes require face paint. We're especially fond of this Hulk mask because it bears such a strong resemblance to Mark Ruffalo. RELATED: 26 Best Halloween Masks That Will Entertain All Your Friends We couldn't get enough of her ingenious innovations in Black Panther , and now, you can copy T'Challa's super sis on Halloween. Don't tell us the Ghostbusters aren't superheroes! They may not have superpowers, but just like Batman, they go around the city rescuing people from terrifying creatures. If The Incredibles 2 inspired her to start her own disappearing act, this bright red super suit makes it easier on Mom to keep an eye out while trick-or-treating. Complete with ripped muscles, your kid will be the fastest trick-or-treater in the neighborhood. It's no secret that the female versions of the superhero  costumes are way sexier  than the men's! Have a friend dress up as Rocket and you'll two will have the cutest best friend Halloween pics. This set comes complete with a muscle chest jumpsuit, shell, and mask so your little one will be ready to fight crime at any moment. Okay, how adorable is this Bumblebee costume for toddlers? The mask is soft sculpted from foam-backed fabric, right for your little one's comfort. RELATED: 15 Unique Toddler Halloween Costumes That Are Too Stinkin' Cute The hip armor and helmet are detachable, which is helpful for when you're making your way around busy Halloween parties. It's a one-piece bodysuit that zips up in the back   trust us, you'll look and  feel great because it fits like a glove. Your toddler will be the most powerful (not to mention, adorable) crime-fighting trick-or-treater out there. Is that you, T'Challa? The King of Wakanda is looking a little shorter than before ... Fingers crossed that Killmonger takes the day off on October 31. Luckily, this costume comes with a magnificent blonde wig, so he doesn't have to worry about growing his own Chris Hemsworth-y hair. We love that this costume conveys the most recent iteration of the character but still has the retro feel of the Julie Newmar original. Put a fun spin on this Superman costume by wearing it under a suit and gradually revealing it throughout the Halloween party. Behind every Superman is a Supergirl .  And this fitted costume (heeled boots optional but hey, why not?) will make you feel like the badass that you are. A CW superhero favorite, Arrow only needs a black eyeliner-drawn mask around the eyes to upgrade this hooded look. We're calling it now: Future generations will look back on S tranger Things ' Eleven as a superhero. We can't blame your toddler if his favorite superhero is Super Grover. After all, he's probably watching more Sesame Street than Avengers movies. Your little guy will probably want to be taken very seriously in this muscular costume, but we don't blame you if the sight of him in long hair and a beard makes you laugh when he's not looking. Considering how heroic dogs are, it only makes sense to dress yours up as a superhero. This Superman dog costume looks especially regal on this eager pup, don't you think? Make sure to pick up a red wig for this costume   otherwise people may think you're an aircraft marshaller. If you want to take this Guardians of the Galaxy costume to the next level, pick up some green face paint for the full effect. If the  old -old school Lynda Carter Wonder Woman is more your speed, this retro version of the costume is right up your alley. We wouldn't blame you if you opted for more sensible footwear than going barefoot while wearing this costume. You would get so much more world-saving done in sneakers, no? Even if your little one isn't quite old enough to see the latest  Avengers  flick, you can still encourage him to feel super. This six-pack-equipped costume looks even more ripped than Ryan Reynolds . (Not that we're complaining  we'd watch him as Wade any day.) 