A new technique for laparoscopic splenectomy with massively enlarged spleens. Hebra A(1), Walker JD, Tagge EP, Johnson JT, Hardee E, Othersen HB Jr. >< Author information:  >(1)Department of Surgery, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston 29425-2270, USA.< p> >< Splenectomy is indicated in several hematological disorders and it can beparticularly challenging in children with sickle cell disease, splenomegaly, and recurrent sequestration. Over the last 6 months, we have developed a newtechnique for laparoscopic splenectomy (LS) for hypersplenism and splenomegaly infive children with sickle cell disease. The average age of our patients was 6years (range, 2-11), and the average weight was 18.7 kg (range, 13.2-30.1). Onpreoperative ultrasound, spleen size index ranged from 0.42 to 0.76. For the LS, four trochars were placed. One patient, who also underwent a laparoscopiccholecystectomy, had six trochars placed, two of which were used for bothcholecystectomy and splenectomy. After laparoscopic mobilization of the spleenand hilar vascular stapling, a Steiner electromechanical morcellator was insertedthrough the 12-mm port to extract cores of splenic tissue until completesplenectomy was achieved. No patient required conversion to an open procedure or creation of a larger incision to remove the massively enlarged spleen. Operative time averaged 190 minutes; the combined LS and cholecystectomy took 245 minutes. Postoperative length of stay was  < 2 days for all patients. There were nocomplications, and no patient required postoperative transfusion. Based on these early findings, we conclude that intracorporeal coring of splenic tissue allowsfor safe and complete laparoscopic removal of very large spleens in smallchildren. It provides expedient recovery and minimal postoperative pain andscarring. This new technique should enable surgeons to perform LS even inpatients with massive splenomegaly, eliminating the need for large and cumbersomeintracorporeal bags or the creation of additional incisions to remove the spleen. >< 