Top Ten Greatest Men - TheTopTens Well he was ranked as number 1 in Michael H. Hart's book  " The 100 " , he did many great things in his life, he always thought of others, he loved and died poor, he didn't seek revenge. The sad thing is that people always try to ruin his greatness by saying lies about him and they try to destroy his view, but they always fail because people who read about his life will know why did he deserve to be the number 1 upon all humans. Read about his battles and the aftermath so you can know and understand that he didn't fight for glory or money and that he didn't force anyone to convert to Islam, and know how he treated his enemies and the people around him. No matter what Muslims do we will never be able to thank him or be even 10% like him, trust me he is almost perfect so never believe what ignorants say about him because there r hundreds of books that wrote about his true life so try reading them because his life was hard yet happy. May god guide you to ... more Yeah actually read the hadith and you'll know all these positive statements are lies themselves and most of what they label as lies come from the only sources we have for Muhammad's life. Islam is a joke. Peace be upon him May he takes us to the heaven with him. I love and respect him more than any human being in the whole wide world. He is the greatest human being ever to live.. Because he is the prophet for not only muslims but for all man kind and he is the man mostly followed by the most number of peoples in the world. I do not like to make any statements which makes hurt to any religion but one thing being the truth that is; for the mankind there is any speech/direction like the Hadith and Speech of Last Pilgrimage made by any other prophet or religious leader ever, so other than the Quran the said Speech and Hadith is sufficient to prove that undoubtedly Muhammad is the number 1 greatest man of the world. Yes he is the best man in the world like him no one can become and no one come like hi. There's so much that could be said about this amazing man, none of which I can properly and eloquently describe. The prophet Muhammad's life was the hardest life that anyone will ever endure, a life which no one but him could bear to live. As a child, he lost both his parents and witnessed the terrible ways the people around him lived their lives. He saw his enemy wrip the body of his uncle and chew his internal organs. He, most beloved to God, could've wished ill on his enemies who constantly pursued him. He, who was the last messenger of God could've changed the message he was trusted with to exalt himself and make his life easier, guranteed his safety. What did he do? Anyone who is honest with themselves would know that not only is Muhammad the best of our kind but the last prophet of God.Please, for the sake of the tears he shed, the comforts he gave up for you, honor him and stop telling lies. This selfless man deserves our respect. Those who lie about him will rot in hell ... more He is without comparison. Regardless of your personal beliefs, Jesus Christ has objectively influenced humanity in thought, devotion, and deed in terms of quality and quantity more than any mortal being history has and will ever know. One aspect of His greatness may be seen in the greatness of His influence His influence. Moreover, His extensive influence was not owing to things He wrote, built, invented, conquered, discovered, developed, or dreamed--His influence was most particularly the result of who He is and what He did on behalf of guilty and morally corrupt people. He is the only Substitute the world will ever know! He is the greatest whoever came to the earth and gave his life for the salvation of mankind, reconciling them to God and giving them purpose for life and promised heaven to everyone who believes in him as the way, the truth and the life. I love Jesus very much. However, Jesus is out of this poll, because according to your belief Jesus is god, right? And you cannot compare a man kind with god, it will be unfair, of course you know that. Because Jesus is only the way the truth and the life, when you visit the grave of any person that they considered as a God they will found a dead body. But when we visit the grave of Jesus, we found nothing, because Jesus raise again Years are reckoned before and after him because of Christianity has been eminently intertwined within the culture and development of the so-called Western civilization which indeed has come to be the very central axis of power for at least the last 500 years and even though the current status quo is set to change in the upcoming decades it is still the hub of might in the world and will probably remain important because not only Muslim countries are growing faster but also some primarily Christian countries in its many varieties are believed to be powers in this century(Brazil, Mexico and the Philippines for instance) and it's a growing importance religion in Africa too within countries like The Congo and Mozambique so for these and many other reasons Christianity and thus Jesus Christ has decisively shaped the modern-day world. Great scientist He was a great man! -  devc6380 Science! He is a good sinceist He was truly a greatest person ever. He have rejected all the concepts which cannot be proven scientifically, practically in real life. He never accepts anything simply because it has been delivered/preached by a elders or popular figure. He rejected the existence of god or any supernatural power which will change the human life. He suggested that only we can bring changes in our life by following 'middle path' and attain nirvana. The entire world will live peacefully by following him. Before Buddha, did man ever know that he could live as great a life as proposed by Him. His self-control is one of the things that admire in the whole of Humanity. Buddha's principles, if strictly followed, will definitely change where the world's headed to! And, by the way, I'm a Hindu! Buddha was the greatest man of the world who knew the reality of universe and nature of live that was he could teacher people understand about their live and the way to release their life from sorrow. Peace is possible to everyone and places of the world.  I'm not a native English speaker, so please understand possible mistake on my sentences. thanks. Buddha teaches human beings to how to live right way the better way-that doesn't only mean faith for Buddha, it means the right and better way of life what humans can suffer from it. Buddhism teaches not only faith, Buddhism teaches what is right way to live. Buddhism acknowledge the pain of life, joy of life, life is meaningful, and got the answer of all humankind's wonder:what's the right and best way to live? The answer is Noble Eightfold Path, and vipasana and samatha, and if I know better about Buddhism, I would confidentially tell you what Buddhism teach, but let me tell you this. My knowledge about Buddhism is not enough to teach other people 'what is Buddhism means and teach? ' but my life is far better and going to the light because I study Buddhism this much. but I suggest do not assume what Buddhism is and that like in a bad way, do not lie to yourself about Buddhism. if you ... more Confucius should be literally ranked with Lao Tzi Mohammad is very very...best...good...nabi. Wow. Why this great thinker is so down in the list. Maybe he is not popular enough or maybe people are ignorant or maybe this site doesn't work in China Muhammad (pbuh) is the greatest leader and reformer of the world. He is my model in many ways I think St Paul is greater than the Prophet Muhammed of Islam... I was islam lover untill reading the koran and hadith... what I learned is muhammed died as a self praiser, murderer, rapist, curser and forcefull converter... St paul was a murderer untill knowing christ... after that his life changed and repented about his past always... considered himself below all apostles and he was a decent man... B R ambedkar This great power not only did the things for which he is known. Apart from all those things, he changed the entire worst and sinful life in India by giving rights to the dalits to live, which was impossible for any other to do. He has done a job that is unmatched in the world till now. He sacrificed his entire life studying best than any other scholar at the cost of his entire family life. His literature about India is greatest for not only Indians but for any human being. His written works are treasure. He Got his M.A., M. Sc, Ph. D, L.L. D, D. Sc., D. Litt, BAR AT LAW. He was a boddhisatva. He gave at true definition of great thought lord BUDDHA which has become hidden. He is unbeatable by any other. He is number ONE. Dr.B.R. Ambedkar transformed the most heterogeneous and unequal society of the world into an equal and progressive society. He liberalized not only the lower strata of society but also the Upper strata and that to specially the womans. The revolution done by Dr. Ambedkar is the only revolution in the world which took without a single bloodshed. He single handedly fought the social evils against all odds and hurdles specially created by the then populist Congress Party. India is very grateful to have a leader like DR. Ambedkar who made the country what it is now. He is rightly called "The Father of Modern India". The man who brought out 75% peoples from the darkness of unequality, untouchability. These peoples were not allowed to get education, wealth, worship, water, well dressed, willing food, wishfull lifepartner, even not allowed to seen in publicaly, they are treated as less human more than animal, they are forced to live in misery, and forced labour from last 10, 000 years. Ambedkar became god for them they write constitution of india and gave special rights in the constitution for these peoples so that they get every right which is necessary for every human being. AAmbedkar ji gave them the right of Equality. Dr. B.R. ambedkar was one the best leader who created indian constitution was a theoretical physicist. His many contributions to physics include the special and general theories of relativity, the founding of relativistic cosmology, the first post-Newtonian expansion -  Riyazul Great man by all standards Gross rapist. Good science My vote prophet mohmmad s a w Mohammed s.a.w is my ideal person. Muhamnad p.b.u.h is the greatest in the world no hesitation. Because he is sent by Alloh all around the world My vote MUHAMMEDH SALLALLAHU ALAIHIWASALLAM Muhammad A/B is the Great Predon in the world Muhammad is not the best in world Lord Krishna is the best in world Great create Krishna in Serial Xena: warrior princess. In 4 Season, episode: The way, is create India god name Krishna. Krishna have wash complete blue body and face, long hair and golden jewels. Xena lost fight to Rama, and Krishna is reincarnation of Xena and create in black body half Xena and half Krishna and started attack of Rama. He is supporter of good people and give punishment to the bad people, he born time to time for save good things and distroy to evil. He is everything. Our good, bad, luck, misfortune, fortune. He gives us failures to make us stronger and stronger so that we learn lessons from our failures Can You compare the god and its powers of different religious, don't play with any religion by doing such mischief, else it can be a big problem for you all. Why r you r playing with emotions of peoples. God is same but names r differ and you fool people r comparing god with normal people. How you compAre lord krishna with modi although modi ji pray for lord krishna daily He is like a god to us. And put him in 54th place there is no place for any god in this list beacause god created us and now we compare them who is the best god or great people. There is just one thing I have to mention is that god is everything. Please stop by giving their names in this type of list. He is the oldest Guru Among all Epic man He did NOT discover america. He was a man who discover america the greatest presonality of the world He is a humble and honest man He one of great cricketer Wow coolest person of the world -  devc6380 Sachin best man in the world he place is wrong his able to first number Hitler was a man who intensely loved his country, and it pained him greatly to see it suffering so much during the Great Depression. The Germans were badly oppressed under the unfair terms they were forced to agree to after WWI, forced into being the scapegoats for a war that wasn't really their fault. He sought to liberate his country from the crushing poverty that was imposed upon them, and through pride and culture elevate them back to their rightful status as the greatest nation on Earth. He was a man who understood the importance of both strong discipline and the arts as the backbone of a powerful, righteous empire. He rightfully understood that the xenophobic, greedy Jews wanted only to cripple his people through their despicable mastery of usury and line their pockets at the expense of the nation, and he took decisive action against them to stop it. They are a very opportunistic and predatory people, and like vultures picking at a dying man, the Jews preyed upon the poor ... more Adolf Hitler, the most famous man to rip his country away from the Jewish bankers of the world, and developed a new currency, free of usury and inflation. He is the reason Germany rose to power during the 1920's, but his economic plans are what caused the war. The Jewish bankers sent their attack dog, Britain, first. The only reason Germany lost the war was due to the Soviet's Northern attack drawing men away from the West. With his death, and the demonization of National Socialism, the world has been crumbling, from economic collapse to civil wars. Hitler was a man who intensely loved his country, and it pained him greatly to see it suffering so much during the Great Depression. The Germans were badly oppressed under the unfair terms they were forced to agree to after WWI, forced into being the scapegoats for a war that wasn't really their fault. He sought to liberate his country from the crushing poverty that was imposed upon them, and through pride and culture elevate them back to their rightful status as the greatest nation on Earth. He was a man who understood the importance of both strong discipline and the arts as the backbone of a powerful, righteous empire. If Hitler had won the war, the USA and Germany would be the two superpowers today, undisputed. We'd have technological advancements the likes we can't dream of, instead of focusing 60 years of R  on nuclear weaponry and warfare, we'd focus on society, healthcare, the environment. Taxes would be reasonable and tarrifs would be a real thing, stimulating domestic economies by forcing production to stay home. Islamic extremism as we know it today would not exist. The Israeli nation would be situated in old Khazar lands, to prevent permanent conflict between the Jews and Muslims. Our world would be at peace, enforced by the joint power of US-German oversight. The UN as we know it, a corrupt, Russian dominated institution, would not exist. The league of nations would be restored and given a proper place in the world as an objective arbiter of truth. Drug usage would be decriminalized, and the focus would be on rehabilitation and education to prevent addiction, as ... more You can't just make stuff up. You have no proof of this your just saying random crap. -  matt1 Was A Great President Of United State -  Riyazul One of the Greatest Leader of all time.. He was a man who was willing to die for his country even though he had it all as president and he was willing to fix his enemy (the cofederacy) after he destroyed them Slaves are banned because of this great man. No knowing what Americans could be without Abraham Lincoln. All slavery could vanish if not for John. Hail him. The definition of success and a great personality. Inspiration To Many That Is All Greatest actor of all time This man was a very honest Got into freedom struggle during teenage. Got hanged during twenties. He's the symbol of youth idealists. He is the greatest nobody knows about Bhagat Singh he is a true freedom fighter a big salute to bhagat singh everybody should become like him He was not only a freedom fighter but a visionary. In today's time we need people like him who have vision and pure intention. Real Hero and freedom fighter of india To be or not to be, that's the question! was an English poet and playwright, widely regarded as the greatest writer in the English... -  Riyazul Shakespeare and The Bible are the most quoted sources in the western hemisphere. There is a reason for that. -  mgenet Good writter Yes, The great man He is a Men with Golden Heart Greatest Actor In the World He is multitalented actor He is the greatest boxer and a good Muslim If you knew anything about boxing, you would know that he isn't the greatest boxer of all time. About the Muslim part, I don't think you should be the one to make that conclusion. My favorite I murdered a rock... Injured a stone... Hospitalized a brick... I'm so mean I make medicines sick My Favorite Man In The World He is a gentleman Its all I can say False numbering. How he can be a great man? Greek god He is so great and nice person he is also a great actor he is pure of heart I love him Best inspiration for younger Gandhi taught the world what peace was and has even inspired other leaders. He lead a country to freedom without killing anyone. It's a shame he was killed. A lady goes to Gandhi and requests him to tell her child not eat jaggery (candy). Gandhi tells to see him after a month. Surprised, she goe goes away. After a month she meets him. Then tells the child not to eat candy. The lady asks Gandhi why did he need a month's time to tell this simple thing to her child. Gandhi said, " I have to stop eating jaggery and then only I can tell your child not to eat. " This Gandhi, he practised what he preached. Therefore, with all his limitations, he is one of the greatest men in the world A man who was completely innocent offered himself as a sacrifice for the good of others, including his enemies and became the ransom of the world. It was a perfect act. He was no great warrior, scientist, king, prophet or philosopher. A man who changed world by his sheer will. He knew world is full of suffering and grudge, hatred and selfishness will only divide the world. He was hated by few people in his own country and was killed by one of his countrymen. But by next century when people will be more interconnected economically, culturally and intellectually then people will realize he was pioneer who won hearts of his people and enemies. Salute to Greatest Man ever. The Moral of my life I proud of abu bakr Greatest man after the prophets The greatest man after the prophet nabi The best man after prophet Mohammed saw The best I don't understand this, can you explain? Haha what.. the rock is cooking My lord and savior -  Kuro Vivekananda was man who saw God in the World, and he became God, without revealing self to the world. He explained that Humanism is the greatest practices, and religion means realization of self and God. While people of the world is superstitious till he showed all the God was human. Like us. If we can follow our own intentions with pure heart and love for welfare of humanity. Only then we are human. God is not just concept written in books. God is real and one need to really see him (God). Not just blindly follow the books. While following books only people will get brain worms of hate, jealous, ego.. Like I am better, he is better etc. All the best Greatest man on the earth is child. Which always remain pure. Till death. Find that one guy in the world is real god. He is such a great man Its most greatest humans leader Great person Yes he is the best but not the good He was a painter, sculptor, architect, scientist, musician, mathematician, engineer, inventor, anatomist, geologist, astronomer, cartographer, botanist, historian and writer. His paintings are the most famous existing. He is the Father of paleontology. He conceptualized flying machines, an armored vehicle, concentrated solar power, an adding machine, and the double hull, also outlining a rudimentary theory of plate tectonics. E made substantial discoveries in anatomy, civil engineering, optics, and hydrodynamics. If this isn't enough to put him in place no. 1 I don't know what is demanded of a person! He invented the fork His best invention haha There is no doubt that the Vinci is the greatest man ever. Talking about facts, not bull and fairy tales. Obviously my vote is meant as joke. Like the joke he is Finally! A page praising Trump! Without unbearable comments. -  AydenMowry He poopy and stinky bad boy no cookie for you you fat man bad boy get spanked His skin is like no other Greatest King all over the world The best king of ashia The greatest king in out of th country  &  very brave man No king like him. Brave, Courageous, Born Winner are some of his synonyms. He is the best wrestler He is beutiful How is he lower than Hitler Never give up A philosopher of mental education, a sharp what was going through the colder seasons at the time, and I overcome everything without looking back and there are even more wonderful details of this great man Socrates, a true genius and was always aware of what others will tell their warmer version of what they could live. -  80sGreatestOffice Socrates (469-399 B.C. ) was a classical Greek philosopher who is credited with laying the fundamentals of modern Western philosophy. He is known for creating Socratic irony and the Socratic method (elenchus). He is best recognized for inventing the teaching practice of pedagogy, wherein a teacher questions a student in a manner that draws out the correct response. He has had a profound influence on Western philosophy, along with his students Plato and Aristole. Though much of Socrates' contribution is to the field of ethics, his input to the field of epistemology and logic is also noteworthy. A man for all to look up too and a leader of society. I only wish I may serve him and society to my finest and wish to take as much as possible from his teachings. Great men like this must be heard and understood by our youth so that we may live in a society that all strive for the advancement of mankind. He was almost a prophet. a man father of philosophy and all that is good in mankind. he died willingly submitting to law. and took hemlock. no one can match socrates. love him. cheers socrates. long live you he so good Who the hello is dis man A true man who worked for the unity of people The beloved of Allah and Prophet Mohammed! One hope and a man with whom entire humanity can unite He is best known after prophet Muhammad it is proven by books and history, by his words of wisdom he excelled in knowledge wisdom compassion ethics and everything best leader politician scientist speaker soldier commander most modest and he excelled in every aspect of life he was an amazing father brother son husband and every aspect of social life he excelled in similarly in professional life be it any occupation amazing caliph he was amazing teacher look at his knowledge he was amazing poet he could write and speak so well, look at his calligraphy, I mean just look at him my words aren't enough to define him, I am running out of vocabulary, no every language perhaps runs out of vocabulary and all I am saying can be verified He is not even real. He is mythology. Really great lord or world Greatest man in Hinduism Lord rama is really great or not can u say me He is great enemy of Muslims and Islam. If he will remain Indian prime minister India will break very soon He is the worst Prime Minister of India, and also a worst leader that a world can see. He can't be on a list like this. Because I believe this list is for greatest men in the world. Please remove this Idiot. Very bad prime minister in the world he is enemy of islam and poor peaples The Greatest Man ever in political History Get that off the list! -  AydenMowry Great man, transformed a peasant society into an industrial society (although it did cost a few lives) He was the leader of some of the biggest genocides in human history. People who voted for this guy should be straight up ashamed for themselves. -  matt1 Fought Hitler to a standstill. Pretty much won World War II for the Allies. He is a great dhammic ruler who ever ruled righteous and who did not discriminate people because of their faith. Great king and ruler of our India He made every person in his empire a Intellectual Greatest of the kings as said by honorable H.G.Wells. Always followed the path of Dharma. Went cruel after the murdering of his mother but the richness of his heart made him follow Buddhism after the Kalinga War. I want him to be in the top tens at least. He was way more greater than Gandhi or Bhagat Singh. Jagat Guru Rampal ji Maharaj whole Universe Greatest People Jagat Guru Rampal Ji Maharaj is a great men according to all holy books and prophecies of Nostradamus -  NEELESHG He is true sant all over world. He has a complete knowledge This is totally injustice because our guru should be reached at number four or above this time. He is the greatest bodybuilder of all time Kuro - Republican is for the upperclass not the poor. Republican GET TO THE CHOPPA! I couldn't understand how the crazy trump and Modi is upper list. Great politician ever. I CONCORE HE IS OFF because, DID A GREAT JOB BY GIVING SOUTH AFRICANS AND THE WORLD ENTIRELY A CHALLENGE AND CHANGE OF MENTALITY ABOUT RACIAL DESCRIMINATION. He should be in the top 10. GREAT HUMAN Very good person One of the greatest prophets You have already put Moses here, thn why again you need to put him as Prophet Musa(AS) even though they are same person, but called with different name in Islam and Christianity. -  AyanLearns Mashallaha... he is the top 2 great human in the world not ambedkar he is the second great person in the world Kabir saheb is supreme God -  AnupSiwach Kabir is god He was one of the greatest of the greats who gave lessons to humanity to live the best of life. I am kabiralam He is the best True man, true God I agree that he is a true man, but true god, really. Are you raving mad? -  AyanLearns He carried the great Greek history with him in Asia Destroyed a great empire. Paved the way for Roman expansion. More of a destroyer than a builder. He is a great person her rank was 2or3 He was a sword of Allah taala and he was very brave man Greatest man after prophet mohammed He was very honest Great man Capitalist pigs are no match for him not even his book Great man Not much of a Communist. But all other economists sit in his shadow. Very honest man in world Indian greatest man He was the person who had the ultimate power and potential to not only liberate Indians from their rulers but also lead all towards forming a clean government and establish a clean democracy. Thus by now we could already have been a superpower. Great leader. I love You No 3 Best saint I love garib nawa Great person The Great ideal of modern India... He is the great person. Who has always fought against the society that tries to compare the human by his caste and religion. He always supported the poor and the people's who were always ignored. He  &  his wife Savitribai Phule started girls' education when others were against it. That's why Mahatma Jyotirao Phule should be in top ten. The Great Teacher In India He is not a god he was fake and people are worshiping him worship god the people who are worshiping him they are mad the people who are commenting good for him I think that they do not know that he is in jail he had done very bad thing god is great and god is life do not say a fake a god IF Asaram will come to me I will kill him he is not a god He is greatest saint in world. He is soul of our country. Heart beat of 5 crores peoples of India 