FRANKIES BAR, Vera - Updated 2019 Restaurant Reviews, Photos  &  Phone Number - TripAdvisor Happy to report that Frankies bar is back to doing what they did so well for many years, delivering delicious food and drinks at a great price. And fantastic entertainment many nights too. Visited Frankie ' s it used to be very good.On this occasion the waiter possibly the owner was throwing darts into a dart board he could have not have looked any less interested if he tried. His possibly partner was slightly more interested but not by... More Just had the worst fish  &  chips ever. Not cod  &  chips cooked like bones- too hard to eat  &  peas were cold. Would not recommend this bar/restaurant Went for Sunday dinner with friends. Had choice of Beef or Chicken but we had already pre-booked. The plate was piled high with meat potatoes and all the trimmings. I had beef which was really nice others had chicken but said it was a little... More The first time I stopped by for dinner, the cooks hadn ' t shown up so I had a drink and went elsewhere for dinner.  Thought I would give it another try and encountered a very rude server.  We sat down at a table and was told... More Still one of the best places in Vera Playa for great fish n chips on a Friday, drinks are also very reasonable with large measures. Friday is also music night, A popular bar in the evenings with a good selection on menu, fairly priced food, tables available inside and out, I popped in for a late lunchtime snack and the food was good, the service reasonable.My visit would have been better had I not... More We visited on a recommendation from a local and enjoyed it so much went 4 times in our 14 day stay.Friendly service, great value and good quality food. Nothing fancy but always a good night with consistently good food.Fish and chips night on... More Food was average, prices were reasonable, standard bar menu, thought it was going to be a lot better than it actually was. Went to frankies bar and had a meal.i was a little bit disappointed,the food was ok but I had heard so much about it I expected it to be better. I would not return This site uses cookies to improve your experience, to enhance site security and to show you personalised advertising.  Click here  to learn more or  control your settings . By clicking on or navigating the site, you agree to our use of cookies. 