Oriane Bodson - Junior expert - Enabel/Plan International | LinkedIn Shared by  Oriane Bodson Liked by  Oriane Bodson Liked by  Oriane Bodson Oct 2019   –  Present 3 months Cotonou Oct 2015   –  Present 4 years 3 months Innovative and efficient health financing systems: towards UHC in developing countries (Senegal - Benin) Innovative and efficient health financing systems: towards UHC in developing countries (Senegal - Benin) Jan 2015   –   Mar 2015 3 months Geneva Department for Health Systems Governance and Financing (HGF) in the Health Systems and Innovation (HIS) – themes: Universal Health Coverage Partnership Department for Health Systems Governance and Financing (HGF) in the Health Systems and Innovation (HIS) – themes: Universal Health Coverage Partnership Aug 2014   –   Oct 2014 3 months Brussels Area, Belgium Regional Representation for Western Europe, Office of the UN High Commissioner in Brussels Regional Representation for Western Europe, Office of the UN High Commissioner in Brussels Aug 2013   –   Sep 2013 2 months New York Belgian representative to the Summer University of the UNAOC - EF. Themes: Social media, cooperation, peace keeping, social entrepreneurship, identity, advocacy, leadership and global citizenship. Belgian representative to the Summer University of the UNAOC - EF. Themes: Social media, cooperation, peace keeping, social entrepreneurship, identity, advocacy, leadership and global citizenship. Jul 2013   –   Aug 2013 2 months Brussels Area, Belgium Feb 2013   –   Mar 2013 2 months Buenos Aires As a trainee, I was involved in the daily work tasks of the Embassy. My tasks consisted of consular work, monitoring and summarizing the daily Argentinian and Uruguayan presses to highlight economic and politics issues, assisting in research and reporting, dealing with queries from the public face to face, by mail or by telephone, updating travel advice and information and supporting and assisting colleagues with their policy work. As a trainee, I was involved in the daily work tasks of the Embassy. My tasks consisted of consular work, monitoring and summarizing the daily Argentinian and Uruguayan presses to highlight economic and politics issues, assisting in research and reporting, dealing with queries from the public face to face, by mail or by telephone, updating travel advice and information and supporting and assisting colleagues with their policy work. Oct 2012   –   Oct 2012 1 month Ouagadougou Title: Initiatives of medicine promotion and integration in Burkina Faso's public health system, a socio-anthropological perspective. Title: Initiatives of medicine promotion and integration in Burkina Faso's public health system, a socio-anthropological perspective. 2012   –   2014 Activities and Societies: International student exchange program at the University of Montreal, school of public health, department of social and preventive medicine, community health program. Final thesis: Pre evaluative analysis of the fidelity of the implementation of the World Bank's results-based financing policy in Burkina Faso. Final thesis: Pre evaluative analysis of the fidelity of the implementation of the World Bank's results-based financing policy in Burkina Faso. 2009   –   2012 Final thesis: Initiatives of medicine promotion and integration in Burkina Faso's public health system. Case study: the rural town of Baskouré. Final thesis: Initiatives of medicine promotion and integration in Burkina Faso's public health system. Case study: the rural town of Baskouré. 2007   –   2009 Activities and Societies: Erasmus at the University of La Laguna (Spain), Faculty of Sociology. Dec 2011   –   Jan 2013 1 year 2 months Poverty Alleviation Jul 2009 Children Participation in an immersion program stay in Lubumbashi (RD Congo) in collaboration the NGO Universud-Liege: internship at a literacy and family reintegration of needy children center. Participation in an immersion program stay in Lubumbashi (RD Congo) in collaboration the NGO Universud-Liege: internship at a literacy and family reintegration of needy children center. The poster, realised by Oriane Bodson, Sie Ahmed Barro, Anne-Marie Turcotte-Tremblay, Nestor Zante and Valéry Ridde, summarizes the methodology used in assessing Implementation Fidelity Of A Results-based Financing Intervention In Burkina Faso and the results obtained. The poster, realised by Oriane Bodson, Sie Ahmed Barro, Anne-Marie Turcotte-Tremblay, Nestor Zante and Valéry Ridde, summarizes the methodology used in assessing Implementation Fidelity Of A Results-based Financing Intervention In Burkina Faso and the results obtained. The Young European Council (YEC) 2014 gathered together in Brussels 70 students and young professionals from more than 15 countries from October 20-23 to assess together three key issues that Europe is facing: education to employment, digital revolution and sustainable development. They met with experts and decision makers from the European Commission, think-tanks and other institutions to exchange views and propose concrete recommendations to all European institutions about how to improve the EU guidelines to meet and exceed the Europe 2020 benchmarks. This activity is key to bring insights from the youth to the attention of our policymakers.  The Young European Council (YEC) 2014 gathered together in Brussels 70 students and young professionals from more than 15 countries from October 20-23 to assess together three key issues that Europe is facing: education to employment, digital revolution and sustainable development. They met with experts and decision makers from the European Commission, think-tanks and other institutions to exchange views and propose concrete recommendations to all European institutions about how to improve the... The Young European Council (YEC) 2014 gathered together in Brussels 70 students and young professionals from more than 15 countries from October 20-23 to assess together three key issues that Europe is facing: education to employment, digital revolution and sustainable development. They met with experts and decision makers from the European Commission, think-tanks and other institutions to exchange views and propose concrete recommendations to all European institutions about how to improve the EU guidelines to meet and exceed the Europe 2020 benchmarks. This activity is key to bring insights from the youth to the attention of our policymakers.  Feasibility study on raising female farmers' consciousness on a fairer trade in Lubumbashi (DR Congo). Feasibility study on raising female farmers' consciousness on a fairer trade in Lubumbashi (DR Congo). More than 140,000 youth from 192 countries registered to join the Summer School and 100 participants were selected based on their motivation to improve intercultural understanding and cooperation across borders. I was selected as one of them.  Links:  www.unaocefsummerschool.org http://www.neupre.be/oriane-bodson-une-neupreenne-en-stage-a-lonu/ (Article in French) http://www.lavenir.net/article/detail.aspx?articleid=DMF20130713_00335453 (Article in French) More than 140,000 youth from 192 countries registered to join the Summer School and 100 participants were selected based on their motivation to improve intercultural understanding and cooperation across borders. I was selected as one of them.  Links:  www.unaocefsummerschool.org http://www.neupre.be/oriane-bodson-une-neupreenne-en-stage-a-lonu/ (Article in French) http://www.lavenir.net/article/detail.aspx?articleid=DMF20130713_00335453 (Article in French) Join to view Oriane’s full profile 