I love this  ' 50s housewife-themed bridal shower! | Offbeat Bride Our NEW publication:  ARIELIST Susan, of  Susan Sabo Photography , explained,  " [My daughter ' s] friend had the most awesome bridal shower last week, it was  ' 50s housewife-themed, decorated to the nines by her friends. "  The moment her daughter told her about it, she volunteered to shoot it. And thank gawd she did because it looked amazing. The centerpieces kill me! Simple flowers next to a framed pinup photo really set up the whole sexy, girly, good-times mood. It looks like they asked everyone to bring a recipe to share with the bride, which is a perfect idea for this shower theme. The favors were wooden mixing spoons. I wouldn ' t mind pretending I ' d know what to do with that spoon if it got me one of those yummy cupcakes! Speaking of food, I love how they broke out all their mid-century-style home goods; like those old Coco Cola cups, the tiered serving tray, and the vintage Baking Soda boxes. Also, you GOTTA serve deviled eggs and make sure to have toothpicks in ALL your appetizers. But we all know you ' re gonna throw this shower for the fashion! Look at all those amazing colors and styles with the combination of  ' 50s housewife dresses   and adorable aprons  Tribesmaid Writeroffiction and her groom had a killer coed wedding shower with trivia games instead of traditional shower games, a blind beer-tasting competition, and they...  Read more  and awesome ink! Now THAT is a shower that I would actually enjoy attending. Ladies: steal this idea (and then invite me, and feed me cupcakes)! If you ARE thinking about throwing a  ' 50s housewife shower,  head over my guest post on MyWedding.com  for more inspiration and party ideas. When Megan's not writing, traveling, and sleeping, she's eating like the fate of the world depends on it. (You're welcome, world!) You can snoop into her personal life over on her website  The Dash and Dine ! Yes, yes, yes, and more yes please! This just melted my heart. I am such a retro/vintage/rockabilly nut so this just falls in line with it all. That ' s a pretty cute idea! Also, digging the  " prenuptial events "  post would love to see more of that! Using this for my baby shower! LOVE! This is sooo amazing! What ' s even better is you can purchase those old coke glasses, and wooden spoons at the dollar tree. I ' m exploding with ideas. I gotta steal this idea  I had a 50s Housewife themed bridal shower too!! awesome!  I wish i would have had that shower! We ' re having a rockabilly wedding on our 5 year anniversary and i would love to do something like this for my unbachellorette party! Words cannot describe how amazing this party looks I am so stealing this idea! It looks like it was such a fun party! I ' d like to know where some of those dresses are from, though   super cute! Yay! I just had a retro kitchen shower last weekend too! We used green, red, and yellow  I MUST KNOW where that gorgeous aqua/red giant floral print dress is from.  MUST. Can you help?  I got it from Modcloth, it ' s more poofy from the petticoat: Bloom Bayou Dress Awesome, thanks! I want this shower!!!!!!  This was what i was planning on doing for my kitchen tea but we ended up eloping  &  i didn ' t have one. I might use some of these ideas for a future baby shower! does anyone know where I could find those adorable white ceramic (?) photo frames? I ' d love to use them for my reception centerpieces! Lindsey Kay   they are plastic  Tolsby frames  from Ikea:) Bargain as well. Can you please e-mail me or post and let me know where you bought the red paper placemats?  Thank you!  You did a wonderful job! I made the placemats out of red construction paper and used wavy scissors to cut around each side. All of the wooden spoons and Picture frames were from Ikea and i used the etsy website to purchase the invitations, matching recipe cards and games from  " Madebyaprincess " . I printed the pin-up pictures and drink tags from online using card stock and a color printer. LOVE this!!! Planning a retro themed bridal shower and love the pin-up pictures   can you tell me where you found them online? Thanks!!! Hi! i actually got them at Ikea..they were $1.99 i think. You could check to see if they have them online if you do not have one near you. this is such a brilliant idea!!!! i love it!!!!  I am SO stealing this idea! Either bridal shower OR bachelor/bachelorette party. Can you imagine Mad Men style cocktail party for that? Yes. Times a million. Now if only I could convince the boy  Lol. Looks so awesome! I had a 1950s style hen party in London. We wore awesome party dresses and went to a vintage styled bar to decorate cupcakes! Ahhh!! I wish I had thought to do this for the bridal shower I threw for my friend back in February. It actually wasn ' t too far off from this though, it was retro Hawaiian psychobilly themed, complete with pineapple ham kabobs, leopard print cupcake liners (oh yes, there were cupcakes) and lots of vintage Hawaiian and Nekromantix music  I usually hate showers. This idea, however, is brilliant. Aside from this whole day being awesome uh, Susan was my wedding photographer in Vegas. SHE IS AMAZING!!!!! No for real, if you live in the West Coast (or want to fly your photog out) and you ' re an offbeat bride (like I was) she is the perfect photographer! And her kiddo is super rad as well  Hey! I got most of my ideas from the knot website using the following link:  http://weddings.theknot.com/ODB/themes/realweddings/view.aspx?STOPREDIRECTING=TRUE & type=1 & id=58214 & ODBTHEMENAME=Real-Weddings & MsdVisit=1 LOVE, LOVE, LOVE everything about this!!! Those are my wedding colors..its really cool to see it in action. Amazing pictures, ladies! WHere did you get these frames used for the center piece? Those are  Ikea Tolsby frames In love!!!! Oh yes!!!!! *someday* Was wondering what foods you did to fit the 1950s theme! Thank you! Katie That pin up image in the frame is my super talented boyfriends painting! The image is actually about 6ft tall. More pinup happiness at his site:  http://artcog.com/ Ok, Sorry I got excited- on closer inspection I saw this was his source image. Mark always takes originals and then tweeks them to comment on modern society.. can you spot the difference? lol. Your email address will not be published.  Required fields are marked  * Comment Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.  Sign me up for your offbeat awesomeness newsletter! Part of what makes the Offbeat Empire different is our commitment to civil, constructive commenting. Make sure you're familiar with our  no-drama comment policy . Please just use your real name in your comment, not your business name or blog title. Our comments are not the place to pimp your website. If you want to promote your stuff on Offbeat Bride, join us as an  advertiser  instead. Follow us Instagram Pinterest Facebook Hey, I'm  Ariel , the Seattle-based author of a book called  Offbeat Bride: Create a Wedding That's Authentically YOU . This website is the ongoing celebration of folks daring to walk off the beaten aisle. (If you want my non-wedding related stuff,  sign up for my newsletter ). Follow us on social media. Follow us Instagram Pinterest Facebook Join our newsletter Our newsletter is the best way to keep up with new posts on Offbeat Bride — we ll email you a few times a week with links to our latest advice, wedding inspiration, photos, vendor discounts, and more!  SUBSCRIBE Follow us Instagram Pinterest Facebook Copyright   2003 - 2019  Offbeat Empire .All rights reserved. Unauthorized reproduction in part or in whole is prohibited. Terms of Service  |  Privacy Policy  |  Monetized by SkimLinks 