Solid Wood Dining Furniture Toronto | Woodcraft A table is nothing without the support of comfortable, stylish, and handcrafted dining chairs. For over 40 years, Woodcraft has strived to build the highest quality furniture to make your dining experience more enjoyable. With a variety of styles and upholstery options, our chairs are as versatile as you. With over 40 years in manufacturing handmade, high quality, solid wood furniture in Toronto, there isn't a more trustworthy source than Woodcraft. Our dining chairs serve as a complement to your home décor with a focus on comfort and durability. Utilizing solid wood construction and the highest quality fabric and leather upholstery, we guarantee a product that will withstand many years of entertaining. In order to guarantee the best possible option for your new chairs, let's go through the decision making process together: 1- Choose your collection We have no shortage of options for style and aesthetic. It can be helpful to see our chairs in person so take a visit to the nearest showroom if possible. 2- Choose your quantity Are you looking for chairs to suit a table of a particular size? Will they be used in multiple rooms? Ever have guests drop by for dinner? We have our own metric of how many chairs can fit comfortably around any particular table so feel free to ask the experts! 3- Choose your upholstery Foam density will always stay at the highest quality to ensure your comfort but there is plenty of wiggle room when it comes to the upholstery. Are you looking for leather, fabric, microfiber, etc.? Each material has its own character, aesthetic, and level of care. Feel free to contact us or drop by a Woodcraft location for assistance while you make your decision. Between the customization of your chairs, to the minimal maintenance that will keep your product in excellent condition for years to come, our staff has a breadth of knowledge they would love to share with you. Seeing is believing when it comes to a high quality product - and Woodcraft has been synonymous with high quality for over 40 years - come find out why! Woodcraft - Maple Tables, and much more. Email us for a quick response... ✘ ✘ Unable to send, please try again. 