What are the chances that I ' m completely insane even though I see myself as a completely sane and rational individual? - Quora a J d UfHUa e b ewg y CbY ZSX D F u LY c WEjj k vRO D rJ u Uv c AjSEh k n G M o u I know this feeling. It ' s terrifying. The truth is, you can never truly know if you ' re crazy or not. One person could say to you, “but you can assess whether you are indeed insane by asking others or doing a test”. Another could argue that “others would tell you if you were losing it”. But the tricky part is, you can ' t trust your senses. What if they are trying to tell you and you just can ' t realise it because you have already lost the plot? Can you even trust that others exist? What if this is all a dream? Or a simulation? Or you ' re in an asylum and Quora and the world as you know it is made... I know this feeling. It ' s terrifying. The truth is, you can never truly know if you ' re crazy or not. One person could say to you, “but you can assess whether you are indeed insane by asking others or doing a test”. Another could argue that “others would tell you if you were losing it”. But the tricky part is, you can ' t trust your senses. What if they are trying to tell you and you just can ' t realise it because you have already lost the plot? Can you even trust that others exist? What if this is all a dream? Or a simulation? Or you ' re in an asylum and Quora and the world as you know it is made up by your mind to convince you otherwise? You can do an assessment on your mental health only if you assume that you are in a state to do the mental assessment in the first place. Gosh that ' s a mindfuck: The fact that your ability to assess your own worldview is contingent on your ability to assess your own worldview. If a) you ' re insane, and b) you see yourself and everyone around you as normal, it would be very hard to determine that you are indeed insane. Never mind these rules of thumb, like that “only sane people ask themselves if they are sane”. You ' ve heard or read that somewhere. What if your ears or eyes are deceiving you. Another way to think of it is this thought experiment: Imagine you are born blind and deaf. You ' d imagine that everyone(since it would be very hard to know otherwise) else is blind and deaf. It would even be hard to imagine that someone else outside yourself exists. How would you ascertain that Australia is a country? Or that there was a financial crisis in 2008? Rules of thumb and the arguments postulated above only function if you assume that it is possible, with all the hurdles, to reach out to someone who is insane and whose mind prevents them from learning about their insanity from. Another example is Westworld. You should watch Westworld. I ' m not sure what episode it is where we learn that Bernard is a robot (he didn ' t know the whole time). There was a door he was programmed not to see. What if your insanity is that door? Freeze all motor functions mate. 3,295 Views 4,615 Views 9,547 Views 1,807 Views 1,424 Views There are certain things we can ' t know about reality, because we can only assess things through the human mind and the human mind is finite. We can know cause and effect, but even can ' t even know that. What kind of an effect does a pebble thrown into an ocean have? Scientists will do their measurements but do we really know? No. Do we know what the real effects of a spoken word has? Of making a split decision to not speak, to change our direction, to hesitate, to speed up? All actions no matter how large or minute have consequences, yet we do not know the effect of hardly anything. We are l... There are certain things we can ' t know about reality, because we can only assess things through the human mind and the human mind is finite. We can know cause and effect, but even can ' t even know that. What kind of an effect does a pebble thrown into an ocean have? Scientists will do their measurements but do we really know? No. Do we know what the real effects of a spoken word has? Of making a split decision to not speak, to change our direction, to hesitate, to speed up? All actions no matter how large or minute have consequences, yet we do not know the effect of hardly anything. We are limited by the human brain. Thats why we create laws and social systems and ask people to conform within those standards. Some people have a much harder time fitting into these man made boxes - it feels like living in a dog house to them. Others fit nicely into them. The ones that fit nicely are the ones deemed sane. These include all sorts of measures: political social, health, appearances, etc. Etc. There are exceptions- because there always are: the ones in the dog house get glimpses beyond the dog house and admire those who dare to live in freedom. With every generation we try to build onto the doghouse and expand it to allow for more and more freedom. But as long as there are safety issues freedom will always be a controlled variable. But anonymous is right, we are judged by what others say we are. Now you get people like Donald Trump where there is no uniform opinion. Some say he ' s crazy, some say he ' s not. But he has power, so crazy really doesn ' t matter. Power always trumps craziness. (Not that I think he is.) This picture is the only reality we can know within the finite human mind. Even the instruments scientists have created to see beyond the finite himan limitations still were created by finite humans and results need to be interpreted by humans. So can we really draw true conclusions about reality or ourselves? No. But with the help of the Holy Spirit we can. There is an infinite invisible realm though. The Bible speaks of it. It contains God, Angels, demons who are fighting a war and aiding humanity. Tare Jesus said he left earth to go and prepare a mansion in heaven - perfect place for all humans to live who accept him. He came to try to tell us exactly what true reality is like. He says the world has been completely affected by sin and we have been blinded to reality due to sin. So not only are we as humans distorted but all of reality has been distorted. If we accept what Jesus says though, we can be guided by the Holy Spirit who will guide us into all truth. He can ' t lie so we can trust reality as he presents it to us. This is sanity. Everything else, is limited and distorted. Of course even Jesus himself was judged by those who were insane. Jesus was judged as insane by the Pharisees who said he was trying to destroy their religion. Even Socrates was considered insane in the sense that he was sentenced to death for trying to corrupt youth. The psychological community has a Bible called the DSM thar measures how well your emotions, thoughts and behavior fit into the normal social community. If you fall outside their manmafe standards you get the label crazy. In every day life among ordinary people if you like to be alone rather than with people you get labeled crazy. If you have thought patterns different than most your get labeled crazy. You are allowed to be different IF you are wealthy and/or have status. But typicallly ordinary people have no choice but to fit in or be labeled crazy. p ufk r cv o KPw m jGB o FDkfA t Bnpa e QXGy d EvORd Xl b D y P arfjY Z tHk i fpAYv p lUX J ByE o RdCNK b Ak . Lr c Gh o vkD m g I’ve been told that this answer needs improvement. I’m sure it does, but I don’t know how to fix it. My point was that when you begin to question your own sanity, you can make yourself crazy. I tried to relate, from my own experience, how you can find yourself in situations that are so surreal and/or nightmarish — where everything you’re dealing with seems so insane —that you begin to wonder if  you’re  the problem. And once, you begin to doubt your own sanity, even a little, it’s hard to ever be 100% sure about it ever again. My brother and I were dealing with 1) a delusional bi-polar mother w... I’ve been told that this answer needs improvement. I’m sure it does, but I don’t know how to fix it. My point was that when you begin to question your own sanity, you can make yourself crazy. I tried to relate, from my own experience, how you can find yourself in situations that are so surreal and/or nightmarish — where everything you’re dealing with seems so insane —that you begin to wonder if  you’re  the problem. And once, you begin to doubt your own sanity, even a little, it’s hard to ever be 100% sure about it ever again. My brother and I were dealing with 1) a delusional bi-polar mother who was smart enough to sound reasonably normal to people who met her casually and could tell stories that were exceedingly convincing and 2) the legal and medical processes involved with getting her care. I can’t even  begin  to explain what a nightmare it was and how totally stressed my whole family was. I’m sure many people who have a mentally ill relative can understand this. Anyway, the following is my original answer, edited a bit to hopefully make it less awkward. ——-Original Answer—— It can drive you crazy starting to think like that! My mother had untreated bi-polar disorder and in her last years was becoming increasingly erratic and delusional. For years, the whole family was totally stressed out because we couldn’t figure out why she was treating us so badly. Any attempt to talk to her was futile because she truly felt that there was nothing wrong with her. And that’s sort of the problem. If you’re insane, you might have a suspicion that you’re insane or you might be absolutely convinced that you’re not. At least if you’re wondering about it, you can go to a psychiatrist and find out for sure (maybe). And if you aren’t, no amount of talking to you is going to help. After many desperate attempts to get help for her (which is almost impossible without their cooperation unless they’re running down the street naked with a machete), the members of my family couldn’t help but start wondering if  they  were going nuts. We didn’t think so, but then neither did she. Moreover, what if her condition was hereditary? Were  we  starting to lose it? And her stories were so convincing on the face of it, it was easy to start doubting our own experience. I finally did go to a psychiatrist and I seemed to be okay, although I don’t think I’ll ever be entirely certain. So, like I said, it can make you crazy because you have evidence right in front of your eyes that you can never trust your own judgment 100% and very surreal and nightmarish things are happening around you (or maybe only look that way). Oooh, maybe I should’t have answered this question. :) I hadn’t thought about this for several years and now I’m remembering. I’d better go pat my dog and try to ground myself in reality again, whatever that means. The world can be a great reality check. When I was young, keeping an old car running was a test of my logical skills. Growing my own vegetables was a good test of my competence. If your boss doesn’t think you’re crazy, probably you’re not. If you’re getting good marks in school, probably you’re not. If your significant other isn’t demanding that you submit to psychotropic chemicals, probably you’re not. If your dog isn’t afraid of you, then you may not be crazy—but you may be crazy and just nice to your dog. Of course if you insulate yourself from the world—if, for instance, you’re the CEO o... The world can be a great reality check. When I was young, keeping an old car running was a test of my logical skills. Growing my own vegetables was a good test of my competence. If your boss doesn’t think you’re crazy, probably you’re not. If you’re getting good marks in school, probably you’re not. If your significant other isn’t demanding that you submit to psychotropic chemicals, probably you’re not. If your dog isn’t afraid of you, then you may not be crazy—but you may be crazy and just nice to your dog. Of course if you insulate yourself from the world—if, for instance, you’re the CEO of your very own real estate empire at the age of 30 and hot chicks are throwing themselves at you and your employees are afraid to correct you when you say something stupid—then the world is not giving you a reality check and it’s possible that you can be completely bonkers and not know it. s uhcZ p MO o rv n NSh s CgFR o w r FNC e k d eZiGC l b J y lIg eP R phG a PrJWK g eAw i EnP n gosrq g L tYbN B Eke u PED l FG l d , Zz JIk L TIqub L R C kK 1,129 Views 5,776 Views 3,447 Views 1,245 Views 10,726 Views Well, that is the first obstacle specialists face when attempting to treat people with mental illness, even the insane don’t realize how far of main stream they are. As for reality and its relativity to the individual, well, that’s how it is, people live what they imagine and imagine what they live. Humanity generally is in a semi conscious state, close to a dream state, a bizarre statement that will offend most, but that is how it is. Only by transcending the ego will one’s identification and fascination with one’s inner and outer fields be dissolved and reality realized. Your chances of being insane? I would say about… 100% Your sanity is a cultural construct. You only have a comparative idea of what normal looks like. Only by comparing your own behavior to that of others can you make a determination of what is considered normal or not. Do you know why human babies are born so underdeveloped when baby animals like horses are self sufficient almost from the minute they are born? Key elements of human development can no longer take place in utero. Language is a good example of this kind of post birth development. I take care of my kids during the day and I get to... Your chances of being insane? I would say about… 100% Your sanity is a cultural construct. You only have a comparative idea of what normal looks like. Only by comparing your own behavior to that of others can you make a determination of what is considered normal or not. Do you know why human babies are born so underdeveloped when baby animals like horses are self sufficient almost from the minute they are born? Key elements of human development can no longer take place in utero. Language is a good example of this kind of post birth development. I take care of my kids during the day and I get to witness their interactions with the world. They accept everything they see as normal. The fact that we hurtle down the road in a metal and glass gas powered vehicle at 75 miles per hour along a strip of flattened rock is so normal as to be boring to them. The fact that I can whip out my cell phone and call their mother any time is unremarkable. Why is this? Culture. Culture is our operating system . As social being that have to adapt to the current social arrangements in our society we have to normalize what is around us and accept them as the basis of our cultural existence. We currently live as no other humans have ever lived on the face of this Earth. Yet, kids born into this bizarro world of our technological creation accept everything they see as normal and mundane. You reference The Matrix so I will as well. It is a wonderful allegory. Try watching the movie and replacing the words “the matrix” with “culture” and you will have better understanding of what the movie is trying to convey. We are all born into a cultural system that dictates our interpretations of reality. The “agents” of the system are the political and religious leaders that define our world in a way that suits them. Our purpose within this system is primarily economic in nature. We are batteries in the sense that our productive labor is needed to produce wealth. The culture is very much aligned with convincing us that being productive workers is the reason for our existence. How much you buy into this ideology determines how “sane” you are relative to the cultural norms. The current ideology suggests that we are autonomous value maximizing agents with no adherence to a larger purpose than to seek out and pursue our own self interests. Its very useful. The rest of the movie goes through Neo’s journey into awakening and becoming a freethinker., the difficulty of detaching ones self from cultural programming and how even that act of doing so has been incorporated into the cultural system. So the conclusion is either that you are completely enmeshed in the cultural programming such that none of what you say originates from your own self or you are self aware and people think you are crazy when you speak of such things. Everyone (mostly) is rational within their own cultural framework. ME To! Maybe I ' m insane. Actually no I ' m not (that ' s what I tell myself). A coworker who  I spend forty hours a week with says I have psychopathic characteristics. Psyocpathic characteristics are a lot like the character from Dexter . I later looked up characteristics of a psychopath and watched  Dexter and… I think he’s on to something. Chances are you might be. Most people see themselves as sain and rational, I mean who doesn ' t  ?  If  I told you, you where a socio path though would that change the way you start to think or act? I mean, why do you really care if you might be crazy. Im scare... ME To! Maybe I ' m insane. Actually no I ' m not (that ' s what I tell myself). A coworker who  I spend forty hours a week with says I have psychopathic characteristics. Psyocpathic characteristics are a lot like the character from Dexter . I later looked up characteristics of a psychopath and watched  Dexter and… I think he’s on to something. Chances are you might be. Most people see themselves as sain and rational, I mean who doesn ' t  ?  If  I told you, you where a socio path though would that change the way you start to think or act? I mean, why do you really care if you might be crazy. Im scared to tell you because its like the power of autosuggestion. If I told  you you where a socio path you will quickly google socio path and than pick up their characteristics and maybe behavior. Its really inevitable. People like to be  categorized in groups it makes them feel like they belong to something. If someone told you, you where crazy you would act and think like a crazy man . What if being insane was really a good thing? Do you think successful people think rationally ? I mean look at Thomas Edison,  he failed a good 1000k times before he discovered the light bulb .Does that sound like something a rational person would do? So be thankful you might be one of the crazy ones . lol I thought about this quite a few times in regards to myself I think we all have our own perceptions of ourselves and those around us, while those perceptions can be similar there never really exactly the same So whose perception really counts? God, Your own first and foremost then the people you love and care about The mind is so powerful and what yu believe about yourself is the most important thing To answer your question no i don’t think the chances are high that you’re insane, and you’re not really aware of it. It’s a funny description though, some man who thinks he’s having a normal con... lol I thought about this quite a few times in regards to myself I think we all have our own perceptions of ourselves and those around us, while those perceptions can be similar there never really exactly the same So whose perception really counts? God, Your own first and foremost then the people you love and care about The mind is so powerful and what yu believe about yourself is the most important thing To answer your question no i don’t think the chances are high that you’re insane, and you’re not really aware of it. It’s a funny description though, some man who thinks he’s having a normal conversation with everyone but is actually off the charts bonkers. Yes, you can be insane and view yourself as completely sane and rational, I know this is true because everyone in my family agreed that my older brother was quite troubled and often acted irrationally. But when questioned he would say he was absolutely sane and all the things that his family said were nonsense. He manged to never have a job, mooched off every member of the family, and then got quite angry at each member of the family. My father forced him to go to therapy for a while if he wanted to receive money from my Dad. When I talked with his therapist, the therapist agreed that my brot... Yes, you can be insane and view yourself as completely sane and rational, I know this is true because everyone in my family agreed that my older brother was quite troubled and often acted irrationally. But when questioned he would say he was absolutely sane and all the things that his family said were nonsense. He manged to never have a job, mooched off every member of the family, and then got quite angry at each member of the family. My father forced him to go to therapy for a while if he wanted to receive money from my Dad. When I talked with his therapist, the therapist agreed that my brother was seriously dysfunctional. Well, remember that every one of us is unique. So, if we try to define what would be SANE  &  what could be INSANE then it would be an unending debate. However, we do have societal norms that govern what could be SANE  &  what’s INSANE. Another human tendency is thinking that we’re always right which seldom is the case. So, always see for your self the way you respond to situation/s  &  how others do when in the same situation. Also, bear in mind the rules that govern the Sane  &  Insane i.e. Culture, Value Systems etc. E.G- Making the weird  &  nagging sound while eating is pretty common in countries... Well, remember that every one of us is unique. So, if we try to define what would be SANE  &  what could be INSANE then it would be an unending debate. However, we do have societal norms that govern what could be SANE  &  what’s INSANE. Another human tendency is thinking that we’re always right which seldom is the case. So, always see for your self the way you respond to situation/s  &  how others do when in the same situation. Also, bear in mind the rules that govern the Sane  &  Insane i.e. Culture, Value Systems etc. E.G- Making the weird  &  nagging sound while eating is pretty common in countries like India which is all but normal or sane but imagine you doing it while sitting with an Englishman. Hope this helps. There is no word in psychology like madness and insanity. We only talk about abnormality. There ar no characteristic or signs or symptoms,whose presence indicate thw abnormality within the person. The difference between a normal and an abnormal person is only of degrees. Everyone of us do some activities which may be concidered as irrelwvent by others but this don ' t mean that we are abnormal. All of us are both normal and abnormal and when the degree of abnormality increases or when the abnormality become dorminant over normality then the person nees treatment. This question reminds me of another one posed to me by my sons, which is,  How would we know if we were actually in a game simulation instead of real life? After pondering this for awhile, I came to the conclusion that we wouldn ' t be able to tell one from the other. A rather creepy conclusion. I loved the scene in  Matrix  in which Cypher met with Agent Smith while eating steak. He came to the same conclusion. After all, reality as we know it isn ' t completely accurate either—it ' s only our unique version of it. If you defer to the perceptions of others, chances are poor that you ' re insane. For instance, if people tell you that you ' re acting strangely and that Hee Haw is not being broadcast through your fillings, do you tell them they’re idiots, or do you thank them, tell them you’ll consider it, and hightail it to the hospital? The person who thinks they are crazy, is not crazy. The person who thinks they are not crazy, is actually crazy. Yes, that’s the odd logic of life. So… did you take the blue pill or the red pill? To answer this question you’d have to reveal more details about you. Who are you and where is this question coming from ? Are you saying you’re normal and you’re wondering what the chance that everyone is really crazy ? I think being sane and rational is not incompatible with being “completely” insane. Yes, it’s antinomic, but in practice, it’s really simple: you can be stuffed to the core with mental disorders that affect your life (some of them are not much compatible with sanity and reason) like depression, or have paraphilias for example. At the same time you might someone quite stable, or articulate with good common sense. Being seen as crazy can take so many forms (these forms can even change with time) that I’m quite sure the overwhelming majority of us is some kind of lunatic. Yeah, but people who are actually insane don’t question if they are sane or not, so the mere fact you can ask the question proves you are not. The Madman :: The Wise King 3,295 Views 3,866 Views 9,547 Views 15,100 Views 1,424 Views 23,027 Views 5,776 Views 2,432 Views 1,245 Views 2,276 Views 16,080 Views 1,807 Views 16,230 Views 1,391 Views 3,396 Views 