2019 Best Neighborhoods to Raise a Family in Kansas City Area - Niche Explore the best neighborhoods to raise a family based on public schools, crime rates, cost of living, and family-friendly amenities. Ranking based on data from the U.S. Census, FBI, BLS, CDC, and other data sources. &# xA0; Read more on how this ranking was calculated. Current Resident : &# xA0; Lots of families and fun. Everybody loves the parties. This neighborhood is probably the best places to live. Read  1 Review Niche User : &# xA0; The atmosphere of this area is great, and the people who live here are kind and helpful people who love the community in which they live. Read  3 Reviews Current Resident : &# xA0; Nall Hills is a fairly quiet neighborhood with a strong sense of safety and sensibility among the residents. The community is not super tightly knit, however most people have at least spoken to their nearby neighbors before. There is an app that many homeowners in the neighborhood use to keep everyone aware of events such as big item pickup days as well as any potential crime that may take place. The neighborhood is home to many children who attend the nearby schools and enjoy time at the many small parks located throughout the area. Overall it is a welcoming and relaxed neighborhood comprised of many middle class families and retirees. Read  5 Reviews Niche User : &# xA0; I absolutely love Overland Park. It was a great place to grow up. I love Kansas City, it ' s my home. It ' d be very hard to leave such a great culture and atmosphere. Read  2 Reviews Parent : &# xA0; We love living here. the neighborhood is wonderful! Read  18 Reviews Niche User : &# xA0; Crime in the Overland Park is rare when it occurs. I feel safe anytime of the day no matter the area of Overland Park. I can venture off for a late night walk and feel like I ' m safe. If anything would happen the police are very responsive and there would be an officer there at the scene in just minutes. Not only are the police responsive but so are the people living around me. They may not meet every week like neighborhood watch teams but they look out for each other and suspicious activity, reporting on it right away if necessary. Overall, the crime is extremely low and safety couldn ' t be better, accounting for a perfect place to reside. Read  13 Reviews Niche User : &# xA0; Kansas City is one of the most amazing cities in Kansas. There is always something to do, somewhere to go, and someone to meet. Read  9 Reviews Niche User : &# xA0; It always feels very safe and the police are very visible. Read  2 Reviews Niche User : &# xA0; Crime is relatively low in this area. Its very quiet and safe. Read  8 Reviews Niche User : &# xA0; The placement of my neighborhood is the best for someone like me. I have friends who live south and friends who live more east. I ' m smack dead right in the middle of everyone. If I have friends coming from the south who are driving to our friends house to the east I will just hitch a ride. Downtown is only about 10 minutes away from me and I live very close to the highway. I never have to take the highway home from school so that ' s an advantage for me as well. Also the food around me is all high quality so I never have to travel far for some well-cooked food. Read  1 Review Niche User : &# xA0; There is almost no crime ever in my neighborhood, though there is crime in town. I live on a main, busy street, so it ' s generally pretty safe. Read  13 Reviews Niche User : &# xA0; This a fantatstic community and theres proof of that in the growth of homes and businesses that are being built in the arear. The only downside is the amount of traffic can be overwhelming if your not used to city life. This used to be a very quite community but since it has a great school system the growth has exploded here so getting around to do errands can be time consuming. Other than that a wonderful community for growing families. Read  7 Reviews Explore the best neighborhoods to raise a family based on public schools, crime rates, cost of living, and family-friendly amenities. Ranking based on data from the U.S. Census, FBI, BLS, CDC, and other data sources. &# xA0; Read more on how this ranking was calculated. 