Triologisms - www.writingredux.com Pithy, evocative imagery in three-legged microcosms of meaning.  Having coined the term  triologism  I believe this to be the only collection of these tum-tee-tum phrases in the universe.  Updated Tuesdays … triologism day!   A surprising rendition of blackness, until you think of pitch-black.  And here is Zeus again having to balance the requests... Flay can be followed by his cough. Being someone who often has a dry cough, I liked this perfect description... One sentence and tens of thousands of years of habitation and decoration. 'This is an old stretch of land whose... Clearly, sitting on the fence, hedging your bets, watching which way the wind blows, is a sin which leads to... What a wonderful concept, part of a lavish description of a man's character by Mark Twain.  Worth mentioning that these... Swelter, the chef, is vast and rolling excess to Flay's ascetic skinniness, and here presents himself in a stupor.  The... I had no idea how awful but interesting this bird is, even its name lacks euphony.  I'm in no hurry... A haven of calm and enveloping warmth in places blasted by wind and cold.  A place where a monk arriving... Elsewhere Leigh Fermor talks of 'black-coiffed crones'.  Here they are 'fate-spinning', giving a terrifying and timeless aspect to them, reinforced... Having enjoyed a sunny afternoon, I am now looking out to a leaden-coloured sky, but it doesn't feel like a... George Eliot writes sensitively and movingly of the early manifestation of Methodism.  She wrote  Adam Bede  around 1850 but set... One goddess you should never cross, quick to rouse to wrath and terrible in her exactions. Divinely, drop-dead gorgeous, of course. Something touching about the 'half-blown', that moment in a rose's beauty when it is heavy with the weight of its... A perfect description of the late 18th century bonnet, likening it to a now defunct item.  Yet as a girl... Xiong  means ‘male’, ‘grand’, or 'having great power or influence', and is used in the word for ‘hero’.   Here, combined... Mr. Rochester falls in love with Jane: her excellent mind and independent spirit, as well as her petite proportions, here... Love writingredux.com?  Enjoy our sister sites: www.foolsareeverywhere.com     I     www.nuannaarpoq.com © Beatrice Otto 2019 - design  &  content unless otherwise stated - all rights reserved 