New Season - Huntsville Metro Treatment Center, Huntsville, Alabama (35805) Reviews | Rehab.com New Season vision is to address opioid drug use and to straighten the community wellness, health, and vitality with the most innovative treatments available for individuals and families based on the latest research, science, and proven models found.  This center has provided me with the tools I needed to stop using drugs, since then I have felt better even though the process has not been easy. I was for 90 days in the program, that time has allowed me to re learn good habits to lead a healthy life and control my emotions without resorting to narcotics. Once you start the program you will wonder why you procrastinated so much to start it.  flag Great staff. I don ' t know where I would be without this place.  flag Still here, 1.5 yrs. after 15+ yrs. of opiate and heroin addiction. Best thing I’ve ever done for myself.  flag The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) is a branch of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Established in 1992 by congress, SAMHSA's mission is to reduce the impact of substance abuse and mental illness on American's communities. SAMHSA Listed: Yes The Commission on Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF) is a non-profit organization that specifically accredits rehab organizations. Founded in 1966, CARF's, mission is to help service providers like rehab facilities maintain high standards of care. CARF Accreditation: Yes  Adult Programs Young Adult Programs Programs for Women Programs for Men Bilingual Therapists Postpartum Programs Self-pay Options Private Insurance Medicaid Daily Fee: $15.00 Methadone maintenance or ORT (Opiate Replacement Therapy) is the use of methadone as a substitute for someone who is addicted to opioids (heroin, OxyContin, codeine, Dilaudid, Percocet and others), helping with the recovery process reducing the cravings for the opioids or used as part of the admittance process to a substance abuse treatment facility that requires complete abstinence. Buprenorphine (brand name Subutex, among others) is an opioid medication used to treat opioid addiction. Buprenorphine can prevent or significantly reduce withdrawal symptoms, making it easier to get and stay off opioids. Sometimes used alongside naloxone, dosage depends on the severity of each case. Many people stay on buprenorphine long-term, although some gradually reduce the dosage to come off it. Medication-Assisted Treatment (MAT) is the use of medications along with counseling and therapy to treat substance abuse. MAT is mainly used to treat opioid addictions (i.e. heroin and/or prescription drugs like OxyContin or Vicodin). Medications like buprenorphine are used in MAT to help normalize brain chemistry, block the effects of alcohol and/or opioids, relieve cravings, and stabilize body functions, making sobriety easier to maintain. All medications used are approved by the FDA, and every MAT program is tailored to the patient’s specific needs. Outpatient Programs (OP) are for those seeking mental rehab or drug rehab, but who also stay at home every night. The main difference between outpatient treatment (OP) and intensive outpatient treatment (IOP) lies in the amount of hours the patient spends at the facility. Most of the time an outpatient program is designed for someone who has completed an inpatient stay and is looking to continue their growth in recovery. Outpatient is not meant to be the starting point, it is commonly referred to as aftercare. Drug and alcohol addiction often takes a heavy toll on one's body. Over time, a physical dependence can develop, meaning the body physiologically needs the substance to function. Detox is the process of removing drugs and/or alcohol from the body, a process that can be lethal if mismanaged. Medical detox is done by licensed medical professionals who monitor vital signs and keep you safe, healthy, and as comfortable as possible as you go through detox and withdrawal. The goal of treatment for alcoholism is abstinence. Those with poor social support, poor motivation, or psychiatric disorders tend to relapse within a few years of treatment. For these people, success is measured by longer periods of abstinence, reduced use of alcohol, better health, and improved social functioning. Recovery and Maintenance are usually based on 12 step programs and AA meetings. Opioid rehabs specialize in supporting those recovering from opioid addiction. They treat those suffering from addiction to illegal opioids like heroin, as well as prescription drugs like oxycodone. These centers typically combine both physical as well as mental and emotional support to help stop addiction. Physical support often includes medical detox and subsequent medical support (including medication), and mental support includes in-depth therapy to address the underlying causes of addiction. Substance rehabs focus on helping individuals recover from substance abuse, including alcohol and drug addiction (both illegal and prescription drugs). They often include the opportunity to engage in both individual as well as group therapy. Group therapy is any therapeutic work that happens in a group (not one-on-one). There are a number of different group therapy modalities, including support groups, experiential therapy, psycho-education, and more. Group therapy involves treatment as well as processing interaction between group members. In individual therapy, a patient meets one-on-one with a trained psychologist or counselor. Therapy is a pivotal part of effective substance abuse treatment, as it often covers root causes of addiction, including challenges faced by the patient in their social, family, and work/school life. Research clearly demonstrates that recovery is far more successful and sustainable when loved ones like family members participate in rehab and substance abuse treatment. Genetic factors may be at play when it comes to drug and alcohol addiction, as well as mental health issues. Family dynamics often play a critical role in addiction triggers, and if properly educated, family members can be a strong source of support when it comes to rehabilitation. Calls to numbers dedicated to a specific treatment center profiles will be routed to that treatment center. Other calls will be primarily routed to our paid sponsors at: A complete list of our partners can be obtained by calling:  (410) 630-4885 If you wish to connect with a specific rehab center, you can browse  rehabs by state , or visit:  SAMHSA.gov . Florida residents may also want to visit:  MyFLFamilies.com (Florida Department of Children and Families) . Interested in marketing? Discover:  RehabValues.com. 