Ranked! The 10 best World Cup pundit combinations on BBC and ITV | FourFourTwo Si Hawkins 5. Irritating Lawro Who?  Mark Lawrenson, Kelly Cates, and Guy Mowbray (all BBC) Why get them together? Still roaming BBC gantries like a wailing northern ghost, Lawrenson’s wit isn’t universally welcomed. On 5 Live in May, he made headlines by muttering “equal pay” when someone mentioned Cates’s big handbag. Not helpful. More bizarre was his on-air awkwardness at World Cup 2010, with commentator Guy Mowbray,  who’d evidently reached the end of his tether . “You alright?” said Lawro. “I’m fine!” grumbled Guy. “Thanks for asking.” What’ll happen? Lawro gets the silent treatment, the hint, and finally retires? 4. The lovable lumps Who?  Didier Drogba, Pablo Zabaleta (both BBC) and Clive Tyldesley (ITV) Why get them together? Two notable new Beeb signings, one of whom may well have nightmares about the other. “He was really, really strong,” a pained-looking Zabaleta told one TV interviewer. “Next to me, with his arms [does elbow gesture], like a rock.” Ouch. Tyldesley and Drogba would be an interesting pairing too, given Clive’s curious comments at the 2012 FA Cup Final, following the striker’s appearance on a famous chat show. “Didier Drogba, he’s just a big loveable lump really,” said Tyldes. “Graham Norton seemed to get inside him last night.” What’ll happen? Clive decides to leave the quips to Lawro. 3. The Glasgow connection Who?  Martin O’Neill, Henrik Larsson and Ally McCoist (all ITV) Why get them together? This reunion will bring a tear to every Celtic fan’s eye, and cause some beer-battered screens for unsuspecting Bluenoses. Martin O’Neill is entertainingly cantankerous at tournaments, famously dissing  fellow pundits Patrick Viera, Fabio Cannavaro  and, erm, Robbie Williams, over the years. But hooking up with his old striker Henrik would be like The Beatles getting back together. Best throw Ally in there for balance. What’ll happen? Coisty slaps all 10 of his Scottish Championship medals on the table. Take that. 2. Sparking Slaven Who?  Slaven Bilic, Jacqui Oatley (both ITV) and Vicki Sparks (BBC) Why get them together? Bilic admitted in 2016 that he didn’t mind his West Ham players diving, which makes sense: browse YouTube and you’ll find new ITV colleague Oatley’s views on him getting Laurent Blanc sent off in the 1998 semi. Meanwhile, Sparks will become the Beeb’s first female World Cup commentator this summer, a year after Bilic’s replacement, David Moyes, said she might "get a slap" while at Sunderland. Turns out he’d also allegedly ranted swearily at Oatley, back in 2012. What’ll happen? They bond while singing a boisterous chant about David Moyes’s career. 1. Man United vs the ref Who?  Roy Keane, Ryan Giggs, Gary Neville and Mark Clattenburg (all ITV) Why get them together? Clattenburg would probably be officiating at this tournament if he hadn’t scarpered to Saudi Arabia mid-season, leaving Britain with no referees in Russia: he’ll be doing ref-on-ref punditry action instead. But ITV also have a glut of Fergie-era Manchester United legends, including the borrowed-from-Sky Gary Neville. And you know what always happened when referees wound them up. What’ll happen? Clatts disputes one of Giggys’s points so Keano and Neville get all up in his grill like it’s 1999. World Cup Wonderland: stories, interviews and more New features you’d love on FourFourTwo.com 