You found a planner.. Now what? - iheart2plan For me, finding a planner has always come easy.  Initially, the hardest part was finding all of those essential inserts and accessories that go inside.  Of course you could always go with a planner from someone like Erin Condren, Happy Planner and Emily Ley which basically come ready for use.  But what about traveler s notebooks and ring bound systems?  In this post you will find a few examples of what has worked for me in the past and what I am currently using.  I hope you will find these resources helpful! Let s start with my  Foxy Fix Notebooks , which are what I am currently using. For this type of planner, inserts are the key to happiness.  I have tried a few different varities, but  Annie Plans Printables  are my go to inserts.  I like that I can place my order and print them at home within minutes.  As you know, we planners girls have little to no patience when it comes to getting our planner goodies!  I find printing Annie s inserts to be simple and user friendly, and she carries a complete inventory with any and all inserts you could need! For those of you that prefer to order your inserts and have them shipped already printed, I would recommend  Sew Much Crafting .  Danielle offers a variety of inserts that are bound and printed on amazing butter-like paper! A major plus is Sew Much Crafting s lightening fast shipping! Dashboard Pocket Inserts are another must have for traveler s notebooks.  They allow you to insert and swap out decorative paper with ease.  These amazing vinyl  dashboards  are sold and shipped from  Foxy Fix .  I use several of their Dashboard Pocket Inserts in my notebooks and also love their new Secretarial Pocket Inserts!  While I enjoy the ease of adding my embellishments to a pre-made dashboard, you could certainly make your own inserts using a laminator and a little bit of creativity. Vellum and acetate paper are also must haves for my traveler s notebooks and ring bound planners.  Neither are truly essential for planning purposes, but lets face it, who doesn t love the sleek look and crispy feel and sound they have while flipping through a notebook?  While purely decorative, they can add another layer of depth to your planner.  If you love these as much as I do, then the Dashboard Box from  @plannerpress  is a must! The Dashboard Box is a monthly subscription that comes with several pre-punched, pre-cut and pre-folded dashboards ready to use in your planner! Here are a few more of my favorite shops for accessories to dress up your notebook! Ok.  Let s talk rings for just a moment.  A lot of what I shared above can transition over to my Gillio as well!  I am currently using a mix of Sew Much Crafting, Annie Plans Printables  &  Filofax inserts.  I usually get creative and make my own dividers.  Right now I have a Foxy ring binder on order along with new inserts, new dividers and dashboards. I have so much more to share with you about my rings but I m saving that for another post! In the meantime, feel free to watch one of my older setups below. https://youtu.be/l7YgVrjywNw Do you own a ring planner?  I would love to hear what you are using and what your favorite inserts are! XOXO I love your new blog! Love your setups! I’m currently in rings but I setup my pocket tn again last night because…well I watched one of your videos   The struggle is real! I love how rings lay flat and you can move everything around. I love how my TNs feels in my hands and how I can stuff it! Ughhh!!! I can never decide   It’s a fun issue to have! Stephanie are you my twin?? I go through the same thing with my Gillio and my pocket TN! Everything you just said LOL     Comments are closed.   