Face Treatments - Dermalogic Laser Center - Hammonton, NJ As time passes our skin shows the natural, inevitable signs of aging   wrinkles, sagging, sun damage. But you can counteract those effects with several non-surgical cosmetic procedures available at our practice, including BOTOX® and injectable fillers such as Juvederm, Voluma, and Restylane® to smooth lines and wrinkles and raise sunken areas. As we age, our faces begin to deflate as our bodies produce less and less collagen and elastin, the magic stuff that gives our skin its supple, youthful look. This leads to the formation of fine lines, wrinkles and an overall loss of volume in the mid-face, which can in turn create all sorts of problems, from deep nasolabial folds between the nose and mouth, to hollowed-looking eyes, or sagging jowls. Dermal fillers are an ideal way to address the creases, volume loss and hollowing in the skin that occur naturally with age. Dermal fillers can also be used to enhance the volume and shape of the lips, and restore a more youthful appearance to the neck, chest, and hands. BOTOX® Cosmetic is safe and effective therapy that eliminates facial wrinkles and frown lines, and softens harsh expressions. Restylane® helps restore volume and fullness to the skin to correct moderate to severe facial wrinkles and folds such as laugh lines, marionette lines, lipstick lines, and corners of the mouth. Restylane® is a clear gel formulation of hyaluronic acid, a naturally occurring substance in your skin that helps provide fullness and elasticity revealing a younger looking you. Offered by Dr. Amy Krachman at Dermalogic Laser Center Restylane Silk offers subtle, smooth, soft lips. If you think it s not possible to get a natural result when enhancing lips, think again. Dr. Krachman now has Restylane Silk to bring a higher level of artistry to lip definition and line control for the subtle and smooth result you desire. Offered by Dr. Amy Krachman at Dermalogic Laser Center Perlane™ is the other member of the Restylane collection of products. What makes Perlane different is the average size of the particles and the depth of injection. On average, the gel particles in Perlane are larger than those in Restylane.  Perlane is a good choice for wrinkles that benefit from a deeper injection into the skin. During your consultation, your healthcare professional will decide which product is right for you. Juvederm® Ultra and Juvederm® Ultra Plus are also hyaluronic acid fillers, and also replace lost volume and restore youthful contours to the skin by smoothing facial wrinkles and folds. They are very ‘smooth’ fillers that provide a very natural result. Juvederm® comes in two formulations—Juvederm® Ultra and Juvederm® Ultra Plus; the main difference is that Ultra Plus has a stiffer consistency. Offered by Dr. Amy Krachman at Dermalogic Laser Center As you age, it s not just about lines and wrinkles. Your cheeks also lose volume and skin may sag. That s why a more youthful profile starts with the apple of your cheeks. Juvederm Voluma is the first and only FDA-approved injectable gel for the check area. Creating contour and subtle lift instantly. Voluma helps to restore a more youthful, natural profile for up to 2 years. Offered by Dr. Amy Krachman at Dermalogic Laser Center Xeomin® is a form of botulinum toxin type A that can be injected into the muscles just beneath the skin to reduce facial lines and wrinkles. Particularly effective in treating deep frown lines between the eyebrows, Xeomin has received FDA approval. Offered by Dr. Amy Krachman at Dermalogic Laser Center Now men and women are making unwanted facial and body hair a thing of the past, thanks to CoolGlide® laser systems. No more painful waxing, electrolysis or razors! CoolGlide laser systems deliver 21st century technology for treatment of this distressing problem. Cleared for permanent hair reduction, CoolGlide lasers can treat men and women of all skin tones safely and effectively. Even patients with a suntan. Offered by Dr. Amy Krachman at Dermalogic Laser Center Now men and women alike are making unsightly facial and leg veins a thing of the past, thanks to CoolGlide® Laser Systems. No more painful injections! With the most advanced technology, a unique design, and a longer wavelength, CoolGlide laser systems can safely and effectively treat both tiny superficial face veins and deeper blue leg veins on men and women of all skin tones. Offered by Dr. Amy Krachman at Dermalogic Laser Center Laser Genesis Skin Therapy is an innovative, technologically advanced way to promote vibrant and healthy looking skin in men and women. Now you can have a youthful appearance by treating those conditions that are typically associated with premature signs of aging and sun damage, such as excessive redness, large pores, uneven texture, and fine line wrinkles. Offered by Dr. Amy Krachman at Dermalogic Laser Center Exclusively from Cutera — All patients present with different needs. Imperfections at the surface, deeper in the epidermis or at the deep dermis are common. Unfortunately, as we grow older, our imperfections turn into multi-layered problems   solar lentigines, poikiloderma, vascularity, rosacea and wrinkles, to name a few. Offered by Dr. Amy Krachman at Dermalogic Laser Center The new Titan gives you an all natural option to actively turn back the clock on aging skin. Using light energy to stimulate new collagen growth deep beneath your skin’s surface, Titan can tighten skin on your face, arms, abdomen, and legs. It’s an ideal solution to enhance your youthful and healthy appearance without surgery, recovery time, or injections. Offered by Dr. Amy Krachman at Dermalogic Laser Center Fotofacial is an innovative way to quickly, safely and comfortably remove sun and age spots from your face, chest, arms, and hands, without gel or anesthetic cream. The signs of sun damage will flake off after one or two treatments, leaving clear, younger looking skin. Acne affects many teenagers but is not limited to this age group as many adults also suffer from this condition. There are multiple solutions to treat acne depending on the severity of the condition. Our acne treatments work by reducing oil production and speeding up the growth of new skin cells, removing dead skin cells and fighting bacterial infection. Scar Therapy is medically proven to help reduce the appearance, size, height, thickness, and color of scars for all skin types. Scar therapy works well on both new and old scars regardless of the age of the scar, and can be used on all types of post-surgery scars, hypertrophic and keloid scars. This treatment flattens, softens, and smoothes all scar types. We offer Dermapen, Laser Genesis and/or Filler to treat scars, dependent upon patient’s needs. Pearl Fractional is a new, volumizing, fractional laser perfected for treating photo-damaged skin in just one treatment. Pearl Fractional offers the best combination of patient experience and recovery time. Patients see improvements in brown spots, sun damage, tone and texture and have noticeably smoother, brighter complexion. Offered by Dr. Amy Krachman at Dermalogic Laser Center Designed by  Elegant Themes  | Powered by  WordPress 