Cookbook Review: The Primal Low-Carb Kitchen by Kyndra Holley - Delicious Obsessions速 | Real Food, Gluten-Free, Paleo Recipes, Natural Living Info For those following a low-carb style of eating, you may sometimes miss those comfort foods of days past. Most of those foods are typically high-carb foods and they just don t fit into a low-carb eating plan. If that s you, Kyndra Holley s new book,  The Primal Low Carb Kitchen , will be a great addition to your repertoire! (Thanks for sending me a copy Kyndra!)  The book is filled with delicious recipes, all of which are low carb and will keep you on track with your eating style. Kyndra does follow a primal style of eating, which is essentially paleo but with dairy. For those who can t tolerate dairy (like me), most of the recipes can easily be made without dairy or using coconut milk, coconut oil, etc. as a substitute. My dad is currently on a low-carb / ketogenic diet as he fights cancer, so I am excited to share this book with him so he can have some new stuff to eat. I have done the ketogenic diet before (it s way more restrictive than low-carb) and I know just how hard it is. I know he s going to love some of these recipes! The information on this website is intended for informational and educational purposes only and has not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Any information or products discussed on the website are not intended to diagnose, cure, treat, or prevent any disease or illness. | By accessing or using this website, you agree to abide by the  Terms and Conditions ,  Privacy Policy , Full  Disclaimer ,  Affiliate Disclosure , and  Comment Policy . | This website contains affiliate links. Delicious Obsessions速 LLC is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites. | The content on this site is copyright of Jessica Espinoza and Delicious Obsessions速 LLC and no part of any article or image found on this site is allowed without express, written permission from the author(s). Delicious Obsessions速 is a registered trademark of Jessica Espinoza and Delicious Obsessions LLC. 