Jennie-O Turkey Store Sales, LLC Recalls Raw Ground Turkey Products due to Possible Salmonella Reading Contamination     USDA Food Safety and Inspection Service Topics Programs  &  Services Newsroom Forms Facebook Twitter Email App Pinterest AddThis Congressional and Public Affairs Mitch Adams (202) 720-9113 Press@fsis.usda.gov Editor’s Note:  FSIS and our public health partners, including the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and state public health officials, are investigating a  Salmonella  Reading outbreak . Please note that FSIS is continuing to investigate illnesses associated with this widespread outbreak, and additional product from other companies may also be recalled.  Salmonella  is prevalent and can be present in raw poultry and meat – no raw poultry or meat is sterile. In addition to discarding the product associated with this recall, consumers can protect themselves now and in the future by ALWAYS cooking their turkey, and other poultry products thoroughly, to a safe internal temperature of 165 degrees, as measured using a food thermometer. The cooking process kills the Salmonella. No one should be eating partially cooked or raw turkey. Additionally, it is essential that people wash their hands after handling raw poultry, meat, and pet food to avoid cross contamination. WASHINGTON, Nov. 15, 2018  – Jennie-O Turkey Store Sales, LLC, a Barron, Wis. establishment, is recalling approximately 147,276 pounds of raw ground turkey products that may be associated with an illness outbreak of  Salmonella  Reading, the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS) announced today. The raw ground turkey products items were produced on September 11, 2018. The following products are subject to recall:  [ View Labels  (PDF only)] The products subject to recall bear establishment number “P-190” inside the USDA mark of inspection. These items were shipped to retail locations nationwide. FSIS, and its public health partners, including the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and the Arizona Department of Health Services, have been conducting traceback activities for a sample of Jennie-O brand ground turkey in an intact, unopened package from a case-patient’s home. The patient tested positive for  Salmonella  Reading and the sample from the ground turkey matches the outbreak strain.  FSIS, the CDC, and state public health and agriculture partners, have been working together on an illness cluster involving 164 case-patients in 35 states. Patients have reported eating different types and brands of turkey products purchased from many different stores, handling raw turkey pet food and/or raw turkey, or working with live turkeys or living with someone who handled live turkeys. FSIS continues to work with the CDC and state health departments on this investigation and will provide updated information as it becomes available. Based on the continuing investigation, additional product from other companies may also be recalled. Consumption of food contaminated with  Salmonella  can cause salmonellosis, one of the most common bacterial foodborne illnesses. The most common symptoms of salmonellosis are diarrhea, abdominal cramps, and fever within 12 to 72 hours after eating the contaminated product. The illness usually lasts 4 to 7 days. Most people recover without treatment. In some persons, however, the diarrhea may be so severe that the patient needs to be hospitalized. Older adults, infants, and persons with weakened immune systems are more likely to develop a severe illness. Individuals concerned about an illness should contact their health care provider. FSIS is concerned that some product may be frozen and in consumers’ freezers. Consumers who have purchased these products are urged not to consume them. These products should be thrown away or returned to the place of purchase. FSIS routinely conducts recall effectiveness checks to verify recalling firms notify their customers of the recall and that steps are taken to make certain that the product is no longer available to consumers. When available, the retail distribution lists will be posted on the FSIS website at www.fsis.usda.gov/recalls . FSIS advises all consumers to safely prepare their raw meat products, including fresh and frozen, and only consume raw poultry product that has been cooked to a temperature of 165°F. Safe steps in food handling, cooking, and storage are essential in preventing foodborne illness. You can't see, smell, or taste harmful bacteria that may cause illness. In every step of food preparation, follow the four guidelines to keep food safe: Consumers with questions regarding the recall can contact Jennie-O Consumer Engagement Team at 1-800-621-3505, 8 a.m. – 4 p.m. Central Time Monday – Friday and 9 a.m. – 5 p.m. Central Time Saturday and Sunday. Media with questions can contact  media@hormel.com  or 507-434-6352. Consumers with food safety questions can "Ask Karen," the FSIS virtual representative available 24 hours a day at  AskKaren.gov  or via smartphone at  m.askkaren.gov . The toll-free USDA Meat and Poultry Hotline 1-888-MPHotline (1-888-674-6854) is available in English and Spanish and can be reached from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. (Eastern Time) Monday through Friday. Recorded food safety messages are available 24 hours a day. The online Electronic Consumer Complaint Monitoring System can be accessed 24 hours a day at:  http://www.fsis.usda.gov/reportproblem . Want the latest food safety news and information from FSIS? Subscribe to get email updates when new content is added to our website. You have successfully subscribed and will begin receiving updates. Continue 