Michael Calavano - Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons - Greater New York City Area | LinkedIn 2014   –   2016 2 years 2013   –   2014 1 year London, United Kingdom Sep 2012   –   May 2013 9 months 2018   –   2022 2017   –   2018 2009   –   2013 2011   –   2012 The General Course (One year exchange program) The General Course (One year exchange program) Jan 2017   –   May 2017 5 months Education Cafemin is a shelter for refugees seeking asylum in Mexico or the US. My role consisted primarily in designing and teaching English classes. In this role, I left behind a curriculum and English learning resources to ensure my services outlasted my stay. Cafemin is a shelter for refugees seeking asylum in Mexico or the US. My role consisted primarily in designing and teaching English classes. In this role, I left behind a curriculum and English learning resources to ensure my services outlasted my stay. Jul 2012   –   Aug 2012 2 months Education English teacher/ volunteer at a social services camp in Leon, Mexico. English teacher/ volunteer at a social services camp in Leon, Mexico. Ranked among top 7% of admitted students Ranked among top 7% of admitted students Ranked among top four percent of sophomores at Boston College. Ranked among top four percent of sophomores at Boston College. A preview of what LinkedIn members have to say about Michael: Michael is an intelligent, capable team member who worked with me delivering a Dodd Frank/EMIR regulatory programme. Michael took on a number of tasks including business analysis, workstream management  &  co-ordination with offshore project delivery teams.  He was a well liked team member  &  I was impressed with his ability to quickly adapt to new situations and business demands.  He is a fast learner and whilst not initially familiar with regulatory change management he quickly came up to speed. Both his work within the project team and dealing with other business units was faultless, the work was often fast paced and Michael always maintained a friendly professional manner.  While juggling a number of deliverables efficiently Michael takes the initiative to expand the responsibility of his role if needed, while still delivering on his core duties.Michael performs at a level well beyond his experience and would be an asset to any team requiring someone who can wear many hats and critically analyse a problem.  He is a pleasure to work with and I would not hesitate to have him work with me in the future. Michael is an intelligent, capable team member who worked with me delivering a Dodd Frank/EMIR regulatory programme. Michael took on a number of tasks including business analysis, workstream management  &  co-ordination with offshore project delivery teams.  He was a well liked team member  &  I was impressed with his ability to quickly adapt to new situations and business demands.  He is a fast learner and whilst not initially familiar with regulatory change management he quickly came up... Michael is an intelligent, capable team member who worked with me delivering a Dodd Frank/EMIR regulatory programme. Michael took on a number of tasks including business analysis, workstream management  &  co-ordination with offshore project delivery teams.  He was a well liked team member  &  I was impressed with his ability to quickly adapt to new situations and business demands.  He is a fast learner and whilst not initially familiar with regulatory change management he quickly came up to speed. Both his work within the project team and dealing with other business units was faultless, the work was often fast paced and Michael always maintained a friendly professional manner.  While juggling a number of deliverables efficiently Michael takes the initiative to expand the responsibility of his role if needed, while still delivering on his core duties.Michael performs at a level well beyond his experience and would be an asset to any team requiring someone who can wear many hats and critically analyse a problem.  He is a pleasure to work with and I would not hesitate to have him work with me in the future. 1 person has recommended Michael Join now to view Join to view Michael’s full profile Greater Boston Area 1 other named Michael Calavano is on LinkedIn 