Kaun Apna Kaun Paraya Songs Download: Kaun Apna Kaun Paraya MP3 Songs Online Free on Gaana.com Autoplaying Similar Tracks Automatically playing similar songs. To disable, switch Autoplay to ‘OFF’ under  Settings Get Notified about the latest hits and trends, so that you are always on top of the latest in music when it comes to your friends. Click on the Moon icon to continue Add to queue drop here This will remove all the songs from your queue. Are you sure you want to continue? Drag and Drop a song to build your Queue. Saudi Arabia Music Released by Saregama  > Dec 1963  | 7 Tracks< p>  By  Ravi  PLAY ALL  Kaun Apna Kaun Paraya - Mohammed Rafi Kaun Apna Kaun Paraya - Mohammed Rafi Kaun Apna Kaun Paraya - Mohammed Rafi Kaun Apna Kaun Paraya - Asha Bhosle,Mohammed Rafi Kaun Apna Kaun Paraya - Mohammed Rafi Kaun Apna Kaun Paraya - Asha Bhosle Kaun Apna Kaun Paraya - Asha Bhosle,Shamshad Begum added to MyPlaylist Network Connectivity Issues Please enter your new password Didn ' t receive any email? Check your spam folder or  get verification link again. Enter the verification code sent to your mentioned email address We just sent you a password reset link at  Login to your email account and reset your password If you face any problem then try logging out of gaana.com and then login again Amazing Gaana+ content for  awesome users like you plus Sorry, we couldn ' t find you in the  list of our awesome users Want to become one?  To advertise on Gaana.com, write to us at Coupon Applied Successfully Your 15 days GaanaPlus trial is activated FAILURE message container... We have updated our  Terms of Service & Privacy Policy . You must agree to it to keep listening your favorite music on Gaana. Delete your account from Gaana, erase your listening history, delete your favorite tracks, albums, artists and playlists, remove your Gaana Plus subscription, remove your Gaana recommendations and remove your search history Invite using Copy Link Login to make your Collection, Create  Playlists, and Favourite Songs 