Cheap Riven Black Paving Slabs | LSD UK Our website uses cookies to make your experience better. By continuing you are agreeing to our use of cookies, as detailed in our   Privacy Policy . Cookie Policy Our website uses cookies. By using our website, you consent to our use of cookies in accordance with our Cookies Policy.  Click here to learn about cookie settings. Accept JavaScript seem to be disabled in your browser. You must have JavaScript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website. The last day we are open will be on the 20th of December. We will open again on January the 2nd. Orders placed during this time will be processed on the 2nd of January. Thanks for your patience and we hope you have a lovely time over the holiday period. You have no items to compare. 0845 077 3838 01142 310 911 Open: Mon - Fri: 9am - 5pm You have no items in your shopping cart.  SEASONAL DEALS - BUY ONLINE NOW Nearly all full pack prices include delivery  to most of the UK within 3-5 working days. Extras available: Custom made, bespoke natural stone products Suppliers guides and design software We split packs of paving to save you money and to cut down on wastage. Remember to buy 10% more though for cuts and breakages!  Look out for the below icons to show if we split packs. We accept the following secure payment options. Collected using 128 bit SSL technology. 4.8/5  5 reviews  These cheap black paving slabs are a good quality affordable solution to providing a good looking black patio. Availability:  In stock These cheap black paving slabs are a good quality affordable solution to providing a good looking black patio. Their natural stone finish is very attractive and will blend well with any desired aesthetic. Their standard square shape makes them very easy to lay, and are extremely popular with gardeners all over the UK. These Riven black paving slabs are available for fast UK delivery, so purchase now while stocks last! These slabs are so popular that our supplier struggles to keep up with demand, so bear in mind the potential for a 1 - 2 week wait for the slabs to become available.  Get in touch  with us if you have any questions about these paving slabs. Reviews from our customers. Our standard method of delivery for  heavy items  is using the pallet delivery network. The delivery will arrive on a lorry with an electric tailift and a hand pump truck. Access must be made for a lorry (up to 32ft) otherwise additional delivery charges may be payable. You must advise us of any restrictions that will impede the delivery vehicles from delivering the Products. The Products will be delivered to the kerbside outside. Our couriers are not insured to take goods onto your premises without permission. If you require the driver to come onto your property (at their discretion and deemed safe) with the wagon, the Products, or both, this is entirely at your own risk and if the driver or wagon damages anything (including but not limited to, manhole covers, tarmac driveways, block paved drives, flagged driveways / graveled or stoned driveways, grassed areas, walls, pillars, gate posts, gates, trees, hedges, telephone wires, lights) the cost of repair will be your responsibility. Ensure that the delivery area is flat and solid enough to take the weight of a pallet truck carrying up to 1000kg in weight. Please note Gravel and Grass are not classed as solid and flat. If the delivery area is not flat the driver will require help in getting the pallets off the vehicle. If help cannot be given there will be a redelivery charge to deliver at a time when help can be given. If you live on a hill you will need to call us before you order to find out if our delivery company can deliver to your address. This is for health and safety reasons, usually the easiest method of getting around this is for the order to be delivered to the nearest flat ground. It will be your responsibility to move the goods to your property. Deliveries via hiab or moffet can be arranged but at an additional cost, click for  further details . Smaller items  will be delivered via a parcel courier.  All delivery methods will require someone to accept the delivery, check it over and sign that they have been received in good condition. Please note any damages on the delivery sheet / electronic device, do not use the product and contact us straight away. Next day, AM/PM or even Saturday deliveries can be arranged at an extra cost. Please add your items to the shopping cart for an instant quote. Pallet Deliveries  After your order has been dispatched you will be contacted on the phone (within 2 days), by your local pallet delivery company in your area, once they receive the goods from our local depot, to book-in a day that is convenient for you. (this will not occur on Timed, Next Day  &  Saturday deliveries) Parcel Deliveries After your order has been dispatched you will receive your goods within 2-3 days. No telephone book-in will occur. Remember when handling your goods: To ensure you prepare adequately for pallet deliveries please watch the video below for a comprehensive guide and also read the full delivery guide https://lsd.co.uk/delivery-details Get all the latest information on Events, >Sales and Offers. Sign up for newsletter today.< p> Enter your e-mail Address '+caption+' 