15 Best Small Towns in Texas - Cute Places to Visit in Texas Country Living editors select each product featured. If you buy from a link, we may earn a commission. More about us. Looking for the best small towns to visit in the Lone Star State? We've got you covered.  Welcome to Texas: one of the best states for road tripping, where the highways stretch for miles and the summer heat is sweltering. While Texas is home to some of the biggest cities in the U.S., there are some hidden gems along the backroads that you won't want to miss. So put on your boots, and get ready to say "Howdy, y'all" to these small Texas towns!  When  visiting Gruene , a town established by German farmers in the 1840s, the #1 thing on your to-do list should be seeing a show at the famous  Gruene Hall , which is  Texas' oldest operating dance hall , built in 1878.  If you're driving along Route 66, be sure to make a pit-stop in Amarillo, where you'll find  The Big Texan Steak House , home of the 72-ounce steak.  And if you're in the mood for something quirky, check out the roadside art attraction  Cadillac Ranch , featuring 10 graffiti-covered Cadillacs.  About 23 miles west of Austin, you'll find the town of Dripping Springs, where you can take a refreshing dip in the  Hamilton Pool Preserve , a picturesque  swimming hole  that was created thousands of years ago after an eroded underground river collapsed. If you're looking for the perfect spot for a  girls' getaway , Fredericksburg is a great home base for visiting some of the best wineries Texas has to offer. The Texas Hill Country region is home to more than 45 vineyards, including favorites like  Barons Creek Vineyards  and 16 others that are all a part of the local winery association,  Fredericksburg Wine Road 290 .  Every Texan knows where the best kolaches are: at the  Czech Stop  in West, Texas, only 20 minutes outside of Waco. If you're unfamiliar with kolaches, they're a type of pastry that holds a dollop of fruit or melted cheese and sausage inside a.k.a. the greatest things on earth, according to hungry Texans. The Czech Stop is a must if you're making your way between Dallas and Austin on I-35. It might seem unlikely that a Prada-themed art exhibit would exist in the middle of nowhere, a.k.a.  Marfa, Texas , a city with less than 2,000 people, but that's exactly what has made this little town so famous. The 2005 Prada Marfa exhibit is a one-room, stucco replica of a real Prada store designed by artist duo Michael Elmgreen and Ingar Dragset. It's become a cultural landmark for the tiny town,with all kinds of visitors, including celebs like Beyonc , passing through just to see it.  Ask any Texan, and they'll tell you the Dr Pepper you can get in Dublin, where the drink originated, is the best kind they've ever had. For more than 120 years,  Dublin Bottling Works  has been bottling sodas, and it's the company's Texas-made Imperial pure cane sugar that makes their Dr Pepper so special and sweet. While the company no longer bottles Dr Pepper, you can still taste the soda at  Old Doc's Soda Shop .  As the only established town on Mustang Island,  Port Aransas  offers plenty of family-oriented activities, including visiting several local beaches, fishing on the Horace Caldwell Pier, and visiting the  Lydia Ann lighthouse .  Only 13 miles from Fredericksburg,  Luckenbach  is another must-see Hill Country town. You can still visit its oldest building today it's a combination of a general store, post office, and a saloon, which opened in 1886, a few decades after the town was established as a trading post in 1849.  It might be home to a little more than 2,000 people, but Shiner is also home to the famous Texas brewery,  Shiner Beer , which starting brewing in 1909. You can take a tour of the Spoetzl Brewery where they still produce every single drop of Shiner Bock.  Visit the border town of  Laredo,  one of the oldest border crossing points that sits on the north bank of the Rio Grande River. In the heart of the downtown historic district, don't miss visiting the Cathedral of San Augustin, which dates back to 1872.  Whether you're just passing through the quaint lake town of Marble Falls or you're making a weekend visit of it, you have to stop by  Blue Bonnet Cafe , especially for its pie happy hour. When you've had your fill of delicious pie, make sure you get plenty of R and R at Lake Marble Falls or even Lake Lyndon B. Johnson. If you've never been floatin', grab your inner tube because New Braunfels is a good place to start. Relax while floating down the Guadalupe River, or you can visit the  Schlitterbahn Waterpark  if nature's not your thing.  Saying you've visited  Brownsville , located at the southernmost tip of Texas, is an accomplishment in and of itself, since the state is so large! While you're there, don't forget to visit the beautiful historic downtown on Elizabeth Street. If you've always wanted to visit a  real-life ghost town , you've come to the right place. Terlingua, often referred to as  Ghost Town Texas , is a former mining community, part of the Study Butte-Terlingua group of communities in Big Bend Country, near  Big Bend National Park . There's plenty of abandoned buildings to explore, left behind by miners after they fled when the mercury market crashed in the mid-1800s.  