Candidate gene biodosimetry markers of exposure to external ionizing radiation in human blood: A systematic review. Lacombe J(1), Sima C(2), Amundson SA(3), Zenhausern F(1)(4)(5). >< Author information:  >(1)Center for Applied NanoBioscience and Medicine, University of Arizona, Phoenix, Arizona, United States of America.<br >(2)Center for Bioinformatics and Genomic Systems Engineering, Texas A & M Engineering Experiment Station, College Station, TX, United States of America. >(3)Center for Radiological Research, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, NY, United States of America.<br >(4)Honor Health Research Institute, Scottsdale, Arizona, United States of America. >(5)Translational Genomics Research Institute, Phoenix, Arizona, United States of America.< p> >< PURPOSE: To compile a list of genes that have been reported to be affected byexternal ionizing radiation (IR) and to assess their performance as candidatebiomarkers for individual human radiation dosimetry.METHODS: Eligible studies were identified through extensive searches of theonline databases from 1978 to 2017. Original English-language publications ofmicroarray studies assessing radiation-induced changes in gene expression levels in human blood after external IR were included. Genes identified in at least halfof the selected studies were retained for bio-statistical analysis in order toevaluate their diagnostic ability.RESULTS: 24 studies met the criteria and were included in this study.Radiation-induced expression of 10,170 unique genes was identified and the 31genes that have been identified in at least 50% of studies (12/24 studies) wereselected for diagnostic power analysis. Twenty-seven genes showed a significantSpearman's correlation with radiation dose. Individually, TNFSF4, FDXR, MYC,ZMAT3 and GADD45A provided the best discrimination of radiation dose  <  2 Gy anddose ≥ 2 Gy according to according to their maximized Youden's index (0.67, 0.55,0.55, 0.55 and 0.53 respectively). Moreover, 12 combinations of three genesdisplay an area under the Receiver Operating Curve (ROC) curve (AUC) = 1reinforcing the concept of biomarker combinations instead of looking for an idealand unique biomarker.CONCLUSION: Gene expression is a promising approach for radiation dosimetryassessment. A list of robust candidate biomarkers has been identified fromanalysis of the studies published to date, confirming for example the potentialof well-known genes such as FDXR and TNFSF4 or highlighting other promising gene such as ZMAT3. However, heterogeneity in protocols and analysis methods willrequire additional studies to confirm these results. PMCID: PMC5991767 