What should a full-stack developer know? - Quora a jGiLE d DoLe gNcOC b CKgIR y KRdq tBWf U S p CO w zXc o GNXw r Q k md For being a Full-Stack Developer knowledge shouldn’t be limited, There is neither a course or nor a degree for being a Full-Stack Developer. “It’s your passion who made you a Full-Stack Developer”, As i am working as full stack developer Client doesn’t need you to do some project in a specific way, He only wants his project to be completed by any hook and crook. It’s on you what will you use, How will you use? Sometimes during a project, You will need to learn new technologies, Those technologies you didn’t even listen their name. Full Stack Developer knowledge is like ocean, It’s not matter h... For being a Full-Stack Developer knowledge shouldn’t be limited, There is neither a course or nor a degree for being a Full-Stack Developer. “It’s your passion who made you a Full-Stack Developer”, As i am working as full stack developer Client doesn’t need you to do some project in a specific way, He only wants his project to be completed by any hook and crook. It’s on you what will you use, How will you use? Sometimes during a project, You will need to learn new technologies, Those technologies you didn’t even listen their name. Full Stack Developer knowledge is like ocean, It’s not matter how much you have learned or how much you have? If it needs to learn or adapt, Then you should. I am working as a “LAMP Full Stack Developer” I started my career, By working on only Html and Css for web designing. After some time i came to know that, It’s much better for a web page to be interactive so i learned javascript, ajax and jquery. Then i heard about Dynamic web Development then i learned PHP, MYSQL, Apache. After that, I have no of clients and then i need to shift from Shared Hosting to VPS, So then i learned about VPS, Linux, Shell, Apache. After learning about Linux and shell, Then i interacted with some foreign clients, Who needed their website to be fast then after i learned about Redis, Oracle, Perl. And the process of learning still going on…… As currently, There are some technologies in my ocean PHP, Perl, Python, Django, Yii, Oracle, Mysql, Postgres, redis, Html, Css, jquery, Javascript, AJAX, Linux, Apache, VPS, Shared Hosting, Cpanel etc. So for being a Full Stack Developer, “It’s your passion and enthusiasm for being a Full Stack“ Happy leaning….. 540,185 Views 136,684 Views 117,981 Views 26,446 Views 3,523 Views If you’re determined to pursue a career as a full stack developer, these are the things you need to learn. A full stack developer is someone who is adept at working on both front-end and back-end portions of an application. Front End The front end of a website is the part a user sees and directly interacts with. It’s built with HTML, CSS, and JavaScript Back End While the front end is everything the user i... If you’re determined to pursue a career as a full stack developer, these are the things you need to learn. A full stack developer is someone who is adept at working on both front-end and back-end portions of an application. Front End The front end of a website is the part a user sees and directly interacts with. It’s built with HTML, CSS, and JavaScript Back End While the front end is everything the user interacts with directly, the back end is much more behind-the-scenes and can have some advantages over front end technologies for specific projects. Back end programming languages include PHP, Ruby, Python,Java, and more. DataBase When building web applications, we would always store data somewhere and access it later. That is where a database comes in handy. Mongo DB is NoSQL database you would primarily be using while working with Full-Stack JavaScript. GIT & Postman Git is a version control system that allows you are a developer working individually or on a team to keep track of all the changes being made to a codebase. It’s important to know a few important things related to Git so that you understand how to properly get the latest code that you’ve missed, update parts of the code, make fixes, and change other people’s code without breaking things. Developers use Postman to build modern software for the API-first world. Online Tutorials: Conclusion: The best only way to become a Full Stack Web Developer is by doing the practical experiments. First, learn the concept, then implement that one.you do not want to be the master in all technologies, but you need the capability to work on these technologies. p mdDm r ERAn o yZv m mG o q t vehex e g d Ef YAE b OMa y zh Pu D rSHq u yV c Wx k xiM D P u JmDhf c mb k fll G mXRNO o c Below are the skills every full-stack developer should know. HTML allows you to add content to your website while CSS allows you to style your content. Some other topics related to HTML/CSS are: JavaScript is the most popular language in web development which contains tons of features. Once you feel that you have got a command in all these you can move towards the more complex part i.e., backend development whi... Below are the skills every full-stack developer should know. HTML allows you to add content to your website while CSS allows you to style your content. Some other topics related to HTML/CSS are: JavaScript is the most popular language in web development which contains tons of features. Once you feel that you have got a command in all these you can move towards the more complex part i.e., backend development which deals with the database, user authentication, and application logic. If you ask someone about which language to use for backend there will be tons of responses and you’ll end up with nothing but confusion. According to me, whichever language you choose, just stick with it and learn as much as you can learn about it whether it be  Python, Ruby, Node.js, Java or PHP. While learning to build web applications, at some point you’ll need to store data somewhere and access it later. For this, you need to have a good grasp of the topics: HTTP is a stateless application protocol on the Internet — it allows clients to communicate with servers. This is one of the important tools for web development. I hope this was helpful! You need to know enough to reasonably set up a web application from infrastructure through front-end. That doesn ' t mean you ' re an expert in them — pro-tip, you ' re not going to be, you ' re choosing to go broad, not deep. You need to know enough to be able to find the details you  don ' t  know off-hand using search engines and be able to interpret and use the result. For example, say you needed an MTA do you know enough to search for how to setup, say, Postfix and Dovecot and then be able to know generally what ' s going on? If you were going to use a CSS framework like Bootstrap or any number of M... You need to know enough to reasonably set up a web application from infrastructure through front-end. That doesn ' t mean you ' re an expert in them — pro-tip, you ' re not going to be, you ' re choosing to go broad, not deep. You need to know enough to be able to find the details you  don ' t  know off-hand using search engines and be able to interpret and use the result. For example, say you needed an MTA do you know enough to search for how to setup, say, Postfix and Dovecot and then be able to know generally what ' s going on? If you were going to use a CSS framework like Bootstrap or any number of Material Design can you customize it so it doesn ' t look quite like out of the box? So, to break it down, you need to know enough web technologies to build an app by yourself. So HTML, (S)CSS and JavaScript for the front-end. Then JavaScript, PHP, Ruby, Python, C#, Java … basically any language for the back-end. Some data storage, so SQL or even Mongo. Then enough systems administration to host it, though that could probably even be Heroku, Joyent, AWS ElasticBeanstalk or GCE AppEngine. s CQL p iFol o gSQe n c s w o Op r p e i d v E b OYOan y b q H ABraU a u c TYfI k tR o R OVz e qUE a Xy c qXXog t GE o P r Qi 74,779 Views 20,561 Views 638,026 Views 8,433 Views 6,252 Views As a full stack developer you basically have to divide your work into 2 aspects: If you can learn any one of the backend framework/language and the Frontend I have mentioned you c... As a full stack developer you basically have to divide your work into 2 aspects: If you can learn any one of the backend framework/language and the Frontend I have mentioned you can say “yes I know Fullstack development” . But can you still call yourself a good full stack developer? The answer is no, as you have just touched the surface. Start picking up either front end or backend post learning both and look into advanced topics like code optimisation, compression , performance etc. How to become a full stack developer?  As one of the hottest topics for developers, the discussions have never stopped. On LinkedIn and Facebook, lots of people put their job title as a full stack developer. Besides, it seems that the “Full Stack” topic has already become a new job trend. An article on Medium has discussed the full stack designer getting both praise and blame. Some people think that the full stack is just a title, what he/she should focus on is the real personal ability and technology. Essentially, I think the discussion about the full stack is also a kind of argument relatin... How to become a full stack developer?  As one of the hottest topics for developers, the discussions have never stopped. On LinkedIn and Facebook, lots of people put their job title as a full stack developer. Besides, it seems that the “Full Stack” topic has already become a new job trend. An article on Medium has discussed the full stack designer getting both praise and blame. Some people think that the full stack is just a title, what he/she should focus on is the real personal ability and technology. Essentially, I think the discussion about the full stack is also a kind of argument relating to the all-rounder and expert in the IT industry, and debate on the depth and breadth of development skills. You can’t have your cake and eat it too. While the full stack developers and full stack designers seem like they are challenging this possibility. Because their horizontal skills tree gives them the ability to both have and eat the cake. There is another saying is that jack of all trades, but master of none. So it’s necessary to think about how to become a real full stack developer but not an empty title. 1. What is a full stack developer? Simply put, full stack developer is a kind of people who master a variety of skills and use these skills to complete a product independently.  A top voted answer on Quora explained that what is a full stack developer: A full stack developer is an engineer who can handle all the work of databases, servers, systems engineering, and clients. Depending on the project, what customers need may be a mobile stack, a Web stack, or a native application stack. In fact, “full stack” refers to the collection of a series of technologies needed to complete a project. “Stack” refers to a collection of sub-modules. These software sub-modules or components combined together to achieve the established function while without the need for other modules. 2. Why has the full stack developer been controversially discussed? As it mentioned above, the discussion about full stack developer is actually the debate on the depth and breadth of skills. Especially at the OSCON conference, a Facebook engineer said they only hired a “full stack developer.” This topic came as a result of a heated discussion about the strengths and weaknesses of being a full stack developer. Advantages:  The full stack developers involved in a horizontal technical requirement, so that he/she can make a prototype design for a product very rapidly with his wide range of techniques. With the full stackability, they have a broader angle of views and a more active mindset. Moreover, they will be more sensitive to techniques and products. So, this kind of people can always have his/her opinions towards the product or design. From another aspect, he/she can provide help to everyone in the team and greatly reduce the time and technical costs of team communication, technology docking. So many of them become entrepreneurs or as technical partners in start-up companies. Disadvantages:  It is precisely because of the horizontal technology development, some the full stack developers cannot be expert in one skill. Most of them who claim to be “full stacks developer” are only know a little about the multiple skills. As for how to make the architecture more suitable for the modular development, that’s a question. 3. Even so, there are still people asking, how to become a full stack developer? A qualified full stack developer should have functional knowledge and capabilities for all aspects involved in building the application. 1) Programming languages You need to be proficient in multiple programming languages, such as JAVA, PHP, C #, Python, Ruby, Perl, etc. As most of your core business processes need to be written in these languages.Maybe not all need. But you also have to master the language grammar, and to be very familiar with how to structure, design, implementation, and testing of the project based on one language or more languages. For example, if you choose JAVA, then you need to master the object-oriented design and development, design patterns, J2EE-based components of the development and so on. 2) Use development frameworks and third-party libraries The popular development languages are generally accompanied by a good development framework, such as JAVA Spring, MyBatis, Hibernate, Python Django, PHP thinkphp, yin, nodeJs express and so on. 3) Front-end technology Front-end technologies are becoming more and more important in today’s project and product development. In addition to product features, the user experience is also one of the criteria to test the success of a product. All that depends on the implementation of the front-end technology, soyou need to master some basic front-end technologies such as HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and further study the front-end frameworks or third-party libraries such as JQuery, LESS, SASS, AngularJS, or REACT. 4) Database and cache Any product or project needs a database to store data. As a full stack developer, you also need to have at least one or two databases and know how to interact with the database. Currently, the popular database is MySQL, MongoDB, Redis, Oracle, SQLServer and so on. As a document-type database, MongoDB, is being used more widely in Internet products. As for larger projects, Ialso recommend using MySQL or commercial Oracle as the back-end database. While memory databases, such as Redis, can be used for caching to improve system performance. 5) Basic design ability Most of the articles or discussions about the full stack developer are rarely related to the design requirements. But I think the design skill is very important, the principle and skill of basic prototype design, UI design, UX design are also needed to understand. 6) Self-requirements are also an essential factor to become a full stack developer: Wrap Up According to Gladwell’s 10,000 hours of law, it will spend 10 years to master the front-end, back-end, client-oriented knowledge content to be a full stack developer. Therefore, the full stack developer is by no means to accomplished overnight. What you need to do is laying the technical foundation, strengthen the core skills, and keep learning for more challenges. To become a Full Stack Developer you need to learn below listed Front End Technologies like: To become a Full Stack Developer you need to learn below listed Back End Technologies like: To become a Full Stack Developer you need to learn below listed Database  &  Server Technologies like: To become a Full Stack Developer you need to learn below listed Project Management Tools like: To become a Full Stack Developer you need to learn below listed Front End Technologies like: To become a Full Stack Developer you need to learn below listed Back End Technologies like: To become a Full Stack Developer you need to learn below listed Database  &  Server Technologies like: To become a Full Stack Developer you need to learn below listed Project Management Tools like: This Full-Stack Burger is very best explanation of technologies and services for Full-Stack Developement. Good luck! These are the major skills you need to become a full-stack developer— These are the major skills you need to become a full-stack developer— As you might imagine, learning all the above skills can take a long time. Usually, it takes 2–3 years for an average developer to become a full-stack developer. In fact, the skills /technologies I have mentioned above are just a handful of technologies, there are a lot more to learn. However, as a fresher in full-stack development, you are not required to know all of these. You can simply begin by learning a server-side language and a related framework, primarily back-end technologies, and learn other technologies and skills as you progress in your career. Now, as you might have noticed that I have mentioned several server-side languages in back-end. So which one should you go for? Begin by learning Javascript. Why? You will have two major advantages— The above graph is from Stack Overflow Developer’s Report 2018. As you can see, Javascript is the most popular language. The reason for popularity of Javascript is the growing use of Node.js. The primary reason for companies using Node.js is that it offers unmatched scalability, meaning websites and web apps built with Node.js can handle large traffic easily. Hence, companies and start-ups are using Node.js to avoid any future scalability issues. In fact, companies which were earlier using technologies like PHP are now moving to Node.js. 2.  You will become a full-stack developer sooner  — Earlier in order to become full-stack developer, one had to know a server-side language for back-end and Javascript for front-end. Not anymore, since Javascript can now be used for back-end, one doesn’t have to learn an additional programming language and can work with Javascript for both front-end and back-end with Node.js. Overall, if you go with Javascript, you will become a full-stack developer sooner compared to other technologies, and find job opportunities pretty sooner, as it has more demand compared to any other technology. Now, as you are looking to become a full-stack developer, I want to tell you that full-stack development or web development for that matter is a highly application oriented. So learning the above technologies/skills is not enough. You need to work on real development projects. It is best if you learn by working on projects. In fact, while hiring full-stack developers projects are the first thing companies look at. So focus on doing projects. The more projects you do the better. Overall, if you want to become a full-stack developer, I would suggest you tp follow this appraoch — Since you are looking to become a . So I would recommend you to use  edWisor.  Here you can  learn complete full-stack development using Node.js and other Javascript-based frameworks while working on challenging development projects.  You can easily use the projects you do here as your portfolio. Plus, you will find good job opportunities in full-stack development as a lot of companies hire full-stack developers from here based on the projects people do here. So give it a try. I hope this helps. I don ' t want to just repeat what  Rudi Cilibrasi  mentioned. He already gave you a good list. What I will say is that time management is going to play a major role in your learning of each language. Dedicate some serious time to studying and applying what you learn daily. If at all possible you should spend a minimum of 2 hours a day practicing. Even more if you can.  They say it takes 10,000 hours to master something. So time blocking is very important. Turn off the TV, close your door and jump in front of the computer. You should spend a significant amount of time understand each language.  Her... I don ' t want to just repeat what  Rudi Cilibrasi  mentioned. He already gave you a good list. What I will say is that time management is going to play a major role in your learning of each language. Dedicate some serious time to studying and applying what you learn daily. If at all possible you should spend a minimum of 2 hours a day practicing. Even more if you can.  They say it takes 10,000 hours to master something. So time blocking is very important. Turn off the TV, close your door and jump in front of the computer. You should spend a significant amount of time understand each language.  Here are some links that you might find useful: This should get you started. Good luck on your journey. Well, it’s in the name lol You need to know a “stack”. Two common ones are: MERN - MongoDB-or-MySQL ExpressJS ReactJS NodeJS MEAN - MondoDB-or-MySQL ExpressJS AngularJS NodeJS And so on. I’d recommend looking at sites/apps you’d like to emulate and figuring out what their particular stack is and go from there. In a nutshell, the stack will have a database, a backend, a frontend, and a means of interacting between the three. Being a Full stack developer u should have knowledge of all the stack in the web development which includes UI like HTML CSS etc., One Java script framework like Angular ,React one server side Technology like Node Js, Java , C# etc. and one Database like Mongo SQL. One can learn them either by online courses or any Instructer Led online or class room based course One such Institute for instucrtor led course which really Impress me is Newstein ( Leading Full Stack Web Development Training Center ) . Major factors which separate this institute from other institutes are : Being a Full stack developer u should have knowledge of all the stack in the web development which includes UI like HTML CSS etc., One Java script framework like Angular ,React one server side Technology like Node Js, Java , C# etc. and one Database like Mongo SQL. One can learn them either by online courses or any Instructer Led online or class room based course One such Institute for instucrtor led course which really Impress me is Newstein ( Leading Full Stack Web Development Training Center ) . Major factors which separate this institute from other institutes are : To be a fullstack web developer you need to know : Html5 Css3 Javascript Php Atleast one framework of php (laravel , codignator) or or javascript framework like React js , Angular js, Node js etc. Mysql database These are mandatory to learn to be a full stack web developer Hi Dilip, Full stack refers to both front-end and back-end as combined. If you are searching for  FULL STACK DEVELOPMENT.  Then you would have literally heard about  LAMP, MEAN  Stack. As a full stack developer it’s your responsibility to develop a product from scratch to hosting. A full stack developer should know: You can watch the video for more details. a full stack developer knows how to develop web apps using the LAMP stack. Cheers Atul Khandelwal Full stack development is all the rage in today’s tech-fuelled industry, for reasons that run the gamut from high demand to competitive salaries. However, it’s a challenging field to enter and navigate and only the best of the best makes it to the top. Before delving into what a full-stack developer needs to know, here’s the lowdown on who they are and why they’re important: Who is a Full Stack Developer? A full-stack developer works on the front end and back end of applications and websites. On the front end, they take care of the design and functionality while on the back end, they code and... Full stack development is all the rage in today’s tech-fuelled industry, for reasons that run the gamut from high demand to competitive salaries. However, it’s a challenging field to enter and navigate and only the best of the best makes it to the top. Before delving into what a full-stack developer needs to know, here’s the lowdown on who they are and why they’re important: Who is a Full Stack Developer? A full-stack developer works on the front end and back end of applications and websites. On the front end, they take care of the design and functionality while on the back end, they code and prepare the proverbial ‘engine’ that powers the app or website. There’s also a. third layer to this equation that is considered highly useful– the data base layer, which involves maintaining repositories of data that is displayed and used on the website or app. A full-stack developer is more of a Jack of all trades that an expert at each level– the benefit of a good full stack developer is that they can understand client-facing and server-oriented sides of a platform, know where to make tweaks and understand the overall functionality. Why Do You Need a Full Stack Developer? A full-stack developer keeps the entire system running efficiently. This is because they know the function of each end and can therefore make changes where required if. There are hiccups in the process. Companies generally prefer full-stack developers over singular front end or back end developers because that developer is all of these rolled into one. This means the expenses are less, but the quality of work and timelines are adhered to. In the long run, this reduces the costs and repercussions of internal communication between developers because chances are, the full-stack developer knows the ins and outs of the product and can very well introduce changes themselves. What Should a Full Stack Developer Know? Now that the skeleton of the profile is in place, here’s the lowdown on the hard skills a full-stack developer needs to know to be able to market themselves as just that: Front-end technologies: A good full-stack developer is well-versed in the basics of technology such as HTML, JavaScript and CSS3, which form the core of front-end development. Third-party libraries also aid in the development of UX/UI, so knowledge of libraries such as LESS, Angular and React JS is highly favoured. Basics of design: To be able to build a functional, user-friendly interface, every full-stack developer needs intermediate or higher knowledge of web and product design. Principles of prototype designs and UI/UX design go a long way, especially in companies that are very much product-oriented or SaaS-based. Development languages: To successfully build the back-end engine of the application or website, a full-stack developer needs to know at least one of the main server-side programming language, including Ruby, Java and Python. Without knowledge of these, it is highly impossible to get into the thick of back-end development. Database building: Every website or app has a database it heavily relies on to store and retrieve data. As a full-stack developer, you need to understand the use and benefits of at least two databases, as well as understand how to use and implement it. Databases vary depending on the use, so picking up skills in the one you plan to use the most, or the one the job of your dreams demands, is a good way to approach this. Some of the more popular databases are Oracle, Redis and MongoDB. No job is complete with just a repository of hard skills– soft skills are equally important even in full-stack development: Problem solving: This is a crucial aspect of full-stack development as a website or an app could run an error any time– the true test of your hard skills is being able to think clearly and put knowledge to practical use before too much damage is caused. Business dynamics: A full-stack developer must understand the product within its financial and business use, too. It’s not enough to build it and call it a day– full-stack development also ties in with how the product will be marketed by the firm and used by the client. Web architecture is no easy feat, which is why full-stack developers and  full stack developer courses  are so in demand today. It’s a lucrative field, to say the least, and with enough knowledge and soft skills, the transition is challenging and growth-oriented. For reference:  What Should a Full-Stack Developer Know? | Imarticus Both Front end and Back end Here is a brief introduction to what a full stack developer should know: Front End; Back End; Dev Ops, database management, SEO and so on. Keep in mind you don ' t have to master everything on the list. May I recommend  freecodecamp  as a starting point, because they guide you properly through the process. The journey is tedious, but totally worth it at the end. Good luck A Full-Stack Developer doesn’t automatically controller of all technologies. Although, the executive is anticipated to work on the client as well as server and understand what is going on when blossoming an execution. He or she should have actual curiosity in all software technologies. Competence goals are recommended to enhance a  Full Stack Developer . Full Stack developer should see at least server-side  programming languages  like  Java, Python, Ruby ,  .Net , etc. Proficiency of various DBMS technology is another vital requirement of Full-Stack Developer. You have to learn this syllabus to become  .Net full stack developer You have to learn this syllabus to become  .Net full stack developer Web APIS All these you can learn through  WinPath IT Services  in Hyderabad To be considered a full-stack developer, one has to be able to develop the whole app from scratch to release, so let’s take a look at how an app operates. When you visit an app like Kickstarter for example, you’re presented with the front-end which includes HTML, CSS, and vanilla Javascript. Understanding these only makes you a front-end developer that can potentially focus on user interface design and experience. If you think about it, a Kickstarter app is definitely not made purely with HTML, CSS and vanilla Javascript. There’s more to it. Without a back-end, what you’ll get is a static we... To be considered a full-stack developer, one has to be able to develop the whole app from scratch to release, so let’s take a look at how an app operates. When you visit an app like Kickstarter for example, you’re presented with the front-end which includes HTML, CSS, and vanilla Javascript. Understanding these only makes you a front-end developer that can potentially focus on user interface design and experience. If you think about it, a Kickstarter app is definitely not made purely with HTML, CSS and vanilla Javascript. There’s more to it. Without a back-end, what you’ll get is a static website, which really isn’t an app. The back-end in general, comprises of a web framework, and in the case of Kickstarter, Ruby on Rails, which runs using the Ruby programming language. You’ll have to get used to the Ruby and Rails ecosystem and libraries, understanding how to do testing etc. Of course, in every app, there is a database that stores data, and so, you’ll have to learn MySQL, PostgreSQL, or MongoDB, depending on the app’s design. Once you have mastered all of that, there’s the infrastructure you’ll have to comprehend. You don’t have to be an expert in every command or operation, but you’ll need to understand the fundamentals and be able to deploy an app to a production environment, i.e. Ubuntu with Nginx/Apache and Phusion Passenger or Puma or Unicorn. If you want a step-by-step guide to making an app from start to end, deploying it to production, I’m making a  course  that teaches how to build a meal kit delivery web app that can be used for any subscription-based businesses. The below article is enough to solve your problem how to became a professional web developer 136,684 Views 6,773 Views 26,446 Views 70,746 Views 1,740 Views 8,179 Views 20,561 Views 17,445 Views 8,433 Views 60,781 Views 1,573 Views 1,972 Views 1,107 Views 6,252 Views 5,340 Views 