Let ' s Do This! - Tidbits-Marci.com This post may contain affiliate links, which means that I make a small commission off items you purchase at no additional cost to you. Tidbits-Marci.com Inspiration for Tasty Living When autocomplete results are available use up and down arrows to review and enter to go to the desired page. Touch device users, explore by touch or with swipe gestures. When autocomplete results are available use up and down arrows to review and enter to go to the desired page. Touch device users, explore by touch or with swipe gestures.  You are here: Home  /  Uncategorized  /  Let s Do This! July 10, 2017 Last modified on December 13th, 2018 Once upon a time, Cami (original creator of the blog TIDBITS and also my very talented sister) approached me about creating an  Electric Pressure Cooker Cookbook  together, and now a year and a half later, I'm jumping head first into running a food blog!  I am 100% a girl that craves predictability and control over every possible situation so this is completely exciting, terrifying, and exhilarating all at the same time.  I no longer know who I am, how I got here, or where my new adventure is going to take me, but I've gotta admit, I'm kinda liking it! So here is your personal welcome to join me in my new journey!  I've got a tattered, food stained notebook full of recipes that I'm just dying to get into your homes.  My brain is going non-stop imagining and planning all the things I want to be incorporated on this here blog, but here's a taste of what to expect- 1    FOOD!   Obviously, right?  More specifically I want to feel your homes with my families favorite recipes, my crazy ideas (remember the pressure cooker  vanilla extract   I've got more where that came from!), lots of pressure cooking recipes featuring my favorite electric pressure cookers    Instant Pot  and  Fagor Lux Multicooker , lots of whole grains, lots of naturally sweetened desserts, and of course the occasional  over the top dessert  so my kids never forget I'm their favorite mommy chef. 2    My life is all about family.  I find great happiness in being with my family and refer to these bits of pure joy as the  The Good Life .  I'm so passionate about this, I've dedicated an entire section of my blog to it, and I can't wait to start filling it up! 3 -In the short 13 years I knew my father on earth, I learned to crave knowledge and learning from his intense example.  My desire to learn a subject to the max can on one hand be a curse, the other hand a blessing, but regardless of what it is, it is always an opportunity to share with others what I've learned.  I'll be referring to this in a little section I'm calling  Healthy Living .  It's ever evolving of course, but I am anxious to get these life lessons into your hands! So here we go!  There are so many empty spaces on my new blog that I'm just dying to fill up.  I've got so much to learn and feel like I need to do it all by tomorrow!  I start everyday with a mile long checklist and go to bed each night with a dose of reality as I realize I'm a wife, a mama, a daughter, and a Nurse Practitioner and can only do so much.  So have patience with me!  I owe so much to my sister Cami for bringing me along on this adventure.  It makes it all the better to be doing it with her and I can't wait to see what my future holds.  What more can I say?  Let's do this! For a more in-depth explanation of the How, What, When, Where, and Why of the new face of TIDBITS, click  here  to read all about it from Cami. If you're new to my face and my history, you can read a bit more about me  here . Nancy says July 16, 2017 This sounds a wonderful venture for you. Looking forward to reading what you have to off. Congratulations and best wishes from the other side of the world. Marci says July 17, 2017 Thank you so much Nancy! Kim says July 13, 2017 Hi Marci! I am so glad that you will now be a part of the blog and bring all the delicious-ness to it! I really feel that this is a blessing and that it will be a great addition to Tidbits. You are going to add so much to the site as well as bring a fresh perspective on other things too. I love that you will have a part of your side of the blog devoted to family and healthy living. I love that and I love that feeling when you get to  know  the person behind the blog and see pics of their gorgeous family! Yours is just too precious!  I am so happy you and your sweet sister decided on this path and I am very much looking forward to it all! Much blessings on the journey ahead and I kow you will do just fine I imagine it can be scary and all those feelings that go with it, but the fact that you kinda like it, is a step in the right direction! You have lots of support and many who want to learn from someone like you so it s all good! Here is to you, Cami and the wonderful things yall will bring and do! Marci says July 13, 2017 I m sitting here writing a post for tomorrow with a horrible head cold, and your comment made me feel 90% better :). Thank you thank you for such kind words. All of this is so new and confusing to me, but Cami is helping me baby step my way through it, and everyday I learn a little more. Thanks again Kim, you lifted my spirits so much???? Kim says July 25, 2017 You are so welcome! You will be great! Head colds are awful I hear ya on that! Cami is wonderful helping you along your way and she will be a awesome source for you I am sure! I am already eager to try out some new recipes and just trying to figure out which one to do first! Take Care Sweetie! 🙂 Mary Kaiser says July 11, 2017 Welcome, looking forward to your blog! Marci says July 12, 2017 Thanks Mary! Mandy says July 11, 2017 I m so excited for you! Marci says July 11, 2017 Thanks Mandy! Cori says July 11, 2017 I only recently got an Instant Pot and your recipes are some of the first I have tried. They ve all been delicious! I m super happy and excited for you (and for me)! Best wishes on your new venture. Marci says July 11, 2017 Cori, That makes my whole day to hear you say that. I ve got more of my favorites coming soon! Your email address will not be published.  Required fields are marked  * Name  * Email  * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. I have read and accepted the  Privacy Policy  * Comment Don't subscribe All Replies to my comments  Notify me of followup comments via e-mail. You can also  subscribe  without commenting. This site uses Akismet to reduce spam.  Learn how your comment data is processed . We are sisters, working independently under the same Brand, while sharing our individual passions. Follow Cami for all things HOME, and join Marci for all things FOOD. Enjoy! When autocomplete results are available use up and down arrows to review and enter to go to the desired page. Touch device users, explore by touch or with swipe gestures.  Welcome! I’m Marci, wife to my motorcycle dream man and mother of 3. I have a passion for creating and cooking delicious masterpieces in my kitchen and am ecstatic to share my discoveries on TIDBITS! I like my food tasty, wholesome, memorable, and always, ALWAYS followed by dark, salty chocolate. How to save time and money with the Instant Pot Content found on TIDBITS is public information, however, my original text, recipes, photographs, etc are my own and copyrighted.    Unauthorized use of my work without written permission is strictly prohibited.    When such permission is given, featured content must be directly linked back to my site.    Sharing and pinning through social media is always welcome.    Thank you! Copyright  &# x000A9; 2019 ·  Tidbits  on  Genesis Framework  ·  WordPress  ·  Log in 