Interview Question of the Week #006 - Is Shrinking Database Good or Bad? - SQL Authority with Pinal Dave Here is the most debated Interview Question    Is Shrinking Database Good or Bad? I will try to answer this in a single statement    Shrinking Database is  bad  practice for performance as it increases fragmentation. It should be used in  rare  cases of running out of space on drive. I believe above statement is not enough to explain the various details associated with it. Here are few reference blog posts, I strongly suggest to read with regards to this subject. Reference:  Pinal Dave ( https://blog.sqlauthority.com ) Question: How to Shrink TempDB Without SQL Server Restart? March 4, 2018 In  " SQL Interview Questions and Answers " In the email yesterday from the client who earlier hired me for performance tuning had a small question about how to shrink tempdb database. August 15, 2019 In  " SQL Tips and Tricks " This blog post is written in response to T-SQL Tuesday hosted by Steve Jones. Steve raised a very interesting question; every DBA and Database Developer has already faced this situation. When I read the topic, I felt that I can write several different examples here. Today, I will cover this… December 14, 2010 In  " SQL " Pinal Dave,  For Large Databases, I would understand that Shrink is not a best practice while It is time consuming as well . But for small databases, following the below sequence wouldn t be a bad idea  1. Shrink Database  2. Rebuild Index  3. Update Stats Why do you want to shrink? rebuild would again consume log space. Thank you for responding .You re articles/scripts are always helpful . :) Coming back to the idea of Shrinking files .. I would prefer to shrink very rarely, while I m running out of disk space.  or  When a large Purge occurs on the database, I would prefer to  Shrink, Rebuild Indexes and Update Stats. I totally understand it doesn t help to clear space if we are planning to rebuild, but my point here is   Shrink wouldn t be a bad idea if we follow the above three steps I understand the time factor, but however It would be okay as long as there is no harm to the database . To conclude, I would say   Shrink isn t a bad practice, but just waste of time . KrishV   Not everyone is as smart as you. Since you know what shrink does, you are free to make your decision based on situation. :) Pinal Dave  is a SQL Server Performance Tuning Expert and an independent consultant. He has authored 12 SQL Server database books, 30 Pluralsight courses and has written over 5000 articles on the database technology on his blog at a https://blog.sqlauthority.com. Along with 16+ years of hands on experience he holds a Masters of Science degree and a number of database certifications. For any  SQL Server Performance Tuning Issue  send an email at  pinal@sqlauthority.com  . Pinal is also a  CrossFit Level 1 Trainer (CF-L1)  and  CrossFit Level 2 Trainer (CF-L2) . Nupur Dave  is a social media enthusiast and an independent consultant.  © 2006   2019 All rights reserved. SQLAuthority.com 