Elle Ford - Tashkeel Elle is a Fine Artist with a First Class honours degree from The University of Southampton, UK. Her work has been selected to be exhibited at The Royal West of England Academy, and has been showcased and sold in the UK and The Netherlands to private and corporate clients. Before relocating to Dubai in 2014, she was a resident at Chapel Arts Studios, Andover, UK. Elle works across disciplines, encompassing a range of media including paint, photography, video, sculpture and installation. Her work is about identifying, capturing, revealing and making transparent the elements of experience, influence and interconnections in the creative journey. Elle's inspiration is drawn from lifecycles and how all things are linked and interconnected. The elements of tension are created through entropy and exaggerated through use of fragile forms. A measure of disorder exists in her work in the form of deterioration and decomposition. Materials have undergone some degree of transformation or dramatic change in appearance. A current theme in her work is Carbonisation. Carbonisation results in a transformation of an object to “become” a carbonized facsimile of the original “being” and yet simultaneously challenges the spectator with properties that transcend the captured images outside previous physical experience. This perspective makes you explore life and death and its vulnerability. Personal History Elle was born in Holland, and has a background in interior design and has spent over 20 years living in extremes of climate and culture from the deserts of the Middle-East to the arctic of Far Eastern Russia. This has provided her with many ideas and inspirations to further develop her creative identity.  Commissions:  The Ark Conference Centre, Basingstoke, UK FZ Organic Foods, Wolvega, The Netherlands Exhibitions:  2015 Summer Exhibition, Galerie van Harinxma, The Netherlands Spring Exhibition, Galerie van Harinxma, The Netherlands 2014 Open Studios,  Chapel Arts Studios Andover Winter Exhibition, Galerie van Harinxma, The Netherlands  The Carroll Art Exhibition, Link Gallery, University of Winchester Spring Exhibition, Galerie van Harinxma, The Netherlands 161st RWA Autumn Exhibition,  RWA The Royal West of England Academy 2013 Re:alms, 10 Days Exhibition, St. Cross Hospital, Winchester Surface, The Ark Conference Centre, Basingstoke Autumn Exhibition, Galerie van Harinxma, The Netherlands Open Studios,  Chapel Arts Studios Andover Drawn Exhibition,  RWA The Royal West of England Academy Commissioned for  Galerie van Harinxma , Spring Exhibition, The Netherlands 2012 160th Autumn Exhibition,  RWA The Royal West of England Academy Remains, Solo Exhibition,  Chapel Arts Studios Andover Galerie van Harinxma, Autumn Exhibition, The Netherlands 2011 Seize, Bargehouse, OXO Tower Wharf, London International Women's Day Exhibition, Southampton University, Hampshire  Make/Shift, Winchester School of Art, Hampshire Tension, Solo Exhibition, Winchester School of Art, Hampshire Education: 2014 Red Hot Press Screen printing Course Red Hot Press Printmaking Course (Etching, Drypoint, Collagraph  &  Carborundum Printing 2013 Art Awards Adviser (Discovery and Explore) RWA Artist Network member 2008-2011 First Class BA (Hons) Fine Art - (Interdisciplinary), Winchester School of Art, University of Southampton 2000-2003 Leidse Onderwijsinstellingen, The Netherlands, Interior Architecture Made in Tashkeel 2018 features more than 35 works by at least 25 artists from 16 countries, reflecting the diversity of the Tashkeel's users, members and participants.Spanning a wide range... Made in Tashkeel 2017, an annual group exhibition by Tashkeel members, workshop participants and exhibiting artists. Tashkeel is pleased to be hosting Connectivity, an exhibition with works selected from an open call that question how technology affects our lives and our relationships, our working practice, and our ... We are open today 9:00AM - 10:00PM Open:  Saturday - Thursday Closed:  Friday Sign up to be the first to get notified about upcoming exhibitions workshops, news and events. 