The 10 best hotels near Binwang Night Market in Yiwu, China Loading Pick your preferred language. We speak English and 42 other languages. View vacation packages to Hotel in Yiwu(0.3 miles from Binwang Night Market) Yindu Hotel is a stylish hotel featuring an indoor pool and 3 dining options. It offers free parking and rooms with free WiFi.  Hotel in Yiwu City Center, Yiwu(0.9 miles from Binwang Night Market) Yiwu Shangcheng Hotel is centrally located in Yiwu, only a 10-minute drive from Yiwu International Trade Center and Yiwu International Expo Center.  Hotel in Yiwu(0.2 miles from Binwang Night Market) The Yiwu International Mansion is located at the conjunction of Binwang Road and Chou Zhou North Road, close to YiWu Wholesale Market.  Hotel in Yiwu City Center, Yiwu(1.1 miles from Binwang Night Market) Featuring free WiFi throughout the property, The Pury Hotel is located in Yiwu, 984 feet from Yiwu Down Town.  Hotel in Yiwu(0.9 miles from Binwang Night Market) Offering free Wi-Fi in all areas, Kasion Hotel Yiwu is only a 4-minute drive from Yiwu International Expo Center.  Hotel in Yiwu(1.3 miles from Binwang Night Market) Shangri-La Hotel, Yiwu is set in Yiwu World Trade Center, a 4-minute drive from Yiwu China Small Commodities Market. This property offers luxurious guestrooms and fine dining outlets.  Hotel in Yiwu Popular with guests booking hotels in Yiwu Hotel in Yiwu Popular with guests booking hotels in Yiwu Hotel in Yiwu Popular with guests booking hotels in Yiwu Hotel in Yiwu Popular with guests booking hotels in Yiwu Hotel in Yiwu Popular with guests booking hotels in Yiwu Hotel in Yiwu Popular with guests booking hotels in Yiwu Hotel in Yiwu Popular with guests booking hotels in Yiwu Hotel in Yiwu Popular with guests booking hotels in Yiwu Hotel in Yiwu City Center, Yiwu Yiwu Shangcheng Hotel is centrally located in Yiwu, only a 10-minute drive from Yiwu International Trade Center and Yiwu International Expo Center.  I am not young. I visited during my life many hotels and I want to say that for this price the room,... Hotel in Yiwu Offering free Wi-Fi in all areas, Kasion Hotel Yiwu is only a 4-minute drive from Yiwu International Expo Center.  All staff including concierge staff and front desk are helpful and friendly. Hotel in Yiwu Byland Star Hotel is 2625 feet from the Binwang Bus Terminal and 0.6 mi from the Meihu Exhibition Center. It offers a massage service, a breakfast cafe and rooms with free wired internet.  Specilly staff service, thankyou for ur excellent service. Hotel in Yiwu Byland World Hotel is located in Yiwu Small Commodities Market, just steps from Meihu Convention and Exhibition Center.  Good service. I choose this hotel for each business trip during 3 years. Hotel in Yiwu Legend Hotel is a 10-minute walk from the international trading center, and a 10-minute drive from Yiwu Railway Station. It offers a restaurant, free parking and rooms with free wired internet.  Good Staff. Very nice  &  clean bedding Hotel in Yiwu Centrally located in the Central Business District, Yiwu Kasion Purey Hotel offers modern air-conditioned rooms with free wired internet. It is 2.5 mi from Shangcheng Bus Station.  1-it ' s clean 2-lovely stuff Hotel in Yiwu Located in Yiwu, 1.1 miles from Yiwu International Expo Center, Aoti Hotel has air-conditioned rooms and a shared lounge.  Good location, staff friendly and helpfull, great breakfast... Hotel in Yiwu Yiwu Zhong Lian Kai Xin Hotel is set in Yiwu, a 6-minute drive from Yiwu International Expo Center. Guests can enjoy the on-site restaurant. Both free WiFi and free parking are available here.  Error: Please enter a valid email address. Error: Oops! An error has occurred. Thanks! We've sent you an email so you can confirm your subscription Refer a property List your property Booking.com is part of Booking Holdings Inc., the world leader in online travel and related services. We have more than 70 million property reviews, all from  real, verified guests . 1 The only way to leave a review is to first make a booking. That's how we know our reviews come from real guests who have stayed at the property. 2 When guests stay at the property, they check out how quiet the room is, how friendly the staff is, and more. 3 After their trip, guests tell us about their stay. We check for naughty words and verify the authenticity of all guest reviews before adding them to our site. If you booked through us and want to leave a review, please sign in first. Check-in date Check-out date 