Racing games: The 40 best games on Android right now | Stuff Namco’s racer sits at the midpoint between  Asphalt 8’s  demented arcade larks and  Real Racing’s  overly earnest simulation leanings. Like its coin-op ancestors, though,  Ridge Racer  is still all about barreling along at insane speeds, and having fun — you just have to work at success a bit more than in  Asphalt . Here, driving like a total idiot will likely mean you’ll lose a race. Instead, you should only drive like a part-time maniac, slipstreaming the opposition, drifting through bends, and boosting past rivals. It looks great, sounds suitably meaty, controls really well, and even the IAP’s subdued enough that the game won’t constantly be doing wheelspins on your bank account. Download Ridge Racer Slipstream A love letter to classic 1990s arcade racers,  Horizon Chase  channels  Lotus Turbo Esprit Challenge  and Top Gear, fusing them with a decidedly modern take on old-school visuals. The result is an intoxicating and vibrant blast through 73 tracks located in 32 cities around the globe. Realism’s broadly ignored in favour of speed as you battle from the back of the grid (every time, just like in the old days), bumping rivals aside to try for the chequered flag. The difficulty curve’s smooth; the soundtrack’s head-noddingly cheesy; and the game is  fast . You’re basically dead inside if you don’t plonk down the 200 bucks for the full-game unlock once you’ve bested the initial handful of free tracks. Download Horizon Chase There are two ways to approach racing games: you can try to recreate ‘reality’, pretend you’re crafting a ‘simulation’ and make all of the tracks very grey; or you can just go crazy.  Asphalt  takes the latter route, having you zoom at breakneck speeds around ludicrous hyper-real city courses, which occasionally catapult your car into the air in a manner that is totally not acceptable under your insurance plan. The fast, drift-happy racing is lots of fun, and although the game’s rather keen to relentlessly provide opportunities to convert real cash to in-game virtual cash, there’s not really any need to do so. Download Asphalt 8: Airborne Imagine that little bird in  Tiny Wings  was a massive show-off on a BMX and that’s more or less  Pumped BMX 3 . You belt along increasingly insane tracks that would give any health and safety professional pause for thought, ‘pumping’ up slopes and then soaring into the air. At that point, it’s all about the stunts and the not-crashing. The former requires cunning flicks on a virtual joypad and taps of a Spin button; the latter’s all down to timing and not being a ham-fisted buffoon when your little biker’s ten metres in the air, upside-down, and about to discover how cruel gravity can be. Download Pumped BMX 3 Although not nearly as ramshackle as the (excellent)  first entry in the series ,  Reckless Racing 3  is a superb slice of overhead racing. For reasons best known to the competitors, you blaze around dodgy looking airports, abandoned nuclear plants with neon waste worryingly spilled everywhere, and serene mountaintop villages. Visually, the game’s a treat, and although the physics is lightweight, the handling’s fine once you’ve clocked it. Mostly, though,  Reckless  succeeds due to its smart track design and in not taking anything that seriously. (And if there was ever a question about its sense of humour, the game includes a ‘gymkhana’ mode, where you coax your car around complex courses like it was a metal horse.) Download Reckless Racing 3 