Judicial service honoured | Stuff.co.nz ©  2019  Stuff Limited After Bill Uwin's first year as a district court judge in Whanganui, a reporter asked him about his first impressions of the job. " I said I couldn't get over the fact that all these people who have come into the court haven't taken any notice of what I have said. " It was 1981 and the reporter thought it the funniest thing he had heard in a while. But for the retired judge who nows lives in Nelson it was the beginning of a learning curve that he has spent more than 50 years riding – from lawyer to judge to member of the New Zealand parole board and, most recently, as chairman of the Liquor Licensing Authority. He has been made a companion of the Queen's Service Order for services to the judiciary. It could have been a very different journey for the man from Timaru, who had expected to take over his father's timber business after graduating from university. He was duly informed it was not his father's to give. " I never realised he didn't own it. I just thought, `God, wish you had told me earlier. I would have concentrated'. " He instead joined a local law firm, where he got his first taste of the courtroom. " I was absolutely terrified. Every time you go into court it is a bit of a nerve-wracking experience. "  Then, in 1981, he was appointed to, as he calls it,  " the front window of justice "  – the district court. " Being a judge is a powerful job. You can have a huge impact on people's lives so you have to be careful ... and realistic. " During this time he was also involved with the New Zealand Parole Board. For 17 years he was responsible for hearing from the perpetrators and victims of crimes and deciding if offenders should be paroled. " You hear harrowing stories and there are incredible tensions that you have to balance. " He retired from the bench after 16 years. Then he had an epiphany, moved to Nelson, and was appointed chairman of the Liquor Licensing Authority in 2001. He described it as a  " wonderful "  job where you are only dealing with one aspect of the law. There are no criminals and  " only a little bit of lying " . The award, he said, was recognition for a privileged and lucky life.  " It is an absorbing vocation and I think you get carried away with your clients, so I need to acknowledge the sacrifices my wife and my children have made. " He admits he did not have too many hobbies other than the law and went through a grieving process when last year, at 74, he became unemployed. " Then I realised doing nothing was actually quite fun. " But  " nothing "  in his verdict is different than most – last weekend he flew across the world to spend two weeks walking from one side of England to the other. The Nelson Mail Hi I received a package from Toyco on Monday which I never ordered. The address written on it is mine but the name is different. I contacted Toyco through email and they ask for the photo of the ticket which I have sent but no response. I tried to call them but no response again. By any chance anyone knows Jocke in Mount Wellington? Its close to christmas and it could be someone ' s christmas present so I am trying to find the person here while still waiting to hear back from toyco. Hi neighbours, An online ad for a Mt Roskill rental property requesting tenants avoid stir fry cooking has been changed after it was found to be discriminatory. TradeMe says the line stating the landlords would  " prefer non-stir fry cooking method tenants "  is illegal and a breach of the Human Rights Act. However, the landlord says he thought it was OK because it was just a preference. Have you experienced discrimination while looking for a home? Hi neighbours,A goat that provided  " therapy "  for a pet cow that was too depressed to eat has gone missing, believed stolen.Have you had any experience with therapy animals? Old style microbading eyebrow been changed to new style without laser washing，without painful，without waiting. 是时候改变你脸上的旧风格了🤗 ©  2019  Stuff Limited 