Korean Actresses Over 40 Who Never Cease to Amaze; Part 4 - MyDramaList Let's check out some more great names! Beautiful Han Go Eun! Charismatic Han Go Eun! Talented Han Go Eun! I absolutely love her! I can’t help it, notafter  Bodyguard  and  A Man Called God , that is.  Since my early years, my favouritefemale characters in cartoons were the beautiful and strong heroines. I lovedbeautiful women but I couldn’t fathom those fragile ones waiting for men’sprotection - I reckon I was born a feminist. Even when I was 5 and I watchedthe anime Lady Lady, I liked Lynn much more than the delicate and annoyingSarah. I didn’t know why before but then I did. Lynn was strong, fearless andbold.  Wait! Ya Park Chohwa, are you writing yourmemoir now? Won’t you focus on the task at hand, for God’s sake?! So Han Go Eun too played such rolesin the two drama I watched by her. Despite her falling desperately in love withmen and all the drama that accompanied this, she shone as the devoted andstrong woman. I admired her in both with all might and shipped her with theguys she wanted, achingly. This actress is well known as afunny mother in most of the dramas she acts in. The thing about her is that nomatter how she repeats the role, she’s cute and funny all the same. I likedthat role by her in  Marriage, Not Dating ,  7th Grade Civil Servant ,  My Princess  and  Goong . There was nothing different to her roles, a nagging wife and a funnymother. She acted a rather different role in  Queen Seon Duk  and I thoughtseriousness didn’t suit her. My favourite of her roles is in the infamous  Boys Over Flowers . Despite it being another one of her mothers’ roles, I liked herthe best there. She was so hilarious. Here we have one talented actresswho’s not always lucky with her roles. I would like to dismiss her  Heart to Heart  and  Maids  roles from this article because they were not up to herabilities but when I think about it, I stop. The dramas always need such motherfigures. Not every drama emphasises them or gives them much time. In bothdramas the characters started deeply and faded in the background later. I wantedto know more about them. But they ended, just like that. The reason I was disappointed isthat I watched this lady’s performance in  Sunny  - the mind-blowing film. She wasmarvellous and made me cry thoughout. I loved her role and acting in  Surplus Princess  as well. She was hilarious. I don’t really remember her in  Poseidon  - I think she was  Lee Shi Young 's mother, but I do remember having a down on her in  Sad Love Story . I justcouldn’t.  I’m going to wait to see a betterrole, please! It’s been a long time since thisbeautiful actress started acting. She mostly acts in family dramas so I haven’tbeen lucky enough to watch much of her but I do have many of her works on mylist. I saw her first in  Golden Bride  –myfirst 50-sth-episode family drama. Now she was an annoying character: rich,spoiled, arrogant and bossy. She acted the same role in  What Happens to My Family?  but luckily she was funny in the latter, rather hilarious. I hated her guts inthe first and loved her to bits in the second.  In  All About Eve  she acted asuperficial character as well and made me hate her by siding with the bad girl( Kim So Yeon ). I’m watching her now in  Jewel in the Palace  and she’s presenting a great antagonist. Making me admire her more andmore.  She’s also a trot singer and atalented one. Her adoptive daughters are also gifted. I don’t like this actress. Honestly,I hate her. But that doesn’t mean she’s not a beautiful and brilliant actresswho gets totally immersed in her roles. It would have been hard for me tolike her when my first role by her was in  Goong . She was completely hateful andI felt sorry for  Kim Jeong Hoon  throughout (I’m also his fan so…). But whatmade it impossible for me to like her was her second role and that was in  Endless Love . If you’re one of those martyrs who endured and actually finishedthe drama, you’d understand what I mean. Shim Hye Jin gave a very real andpowerful performance of the power-possessed Min Hye Rin. She coupled up withevil personified  Jeong Wung In  and did everything a human being should not do.I still have no idea how I actually could make it till the end. Ah, when Iremember the disgust I felt at her actions! That’s why I couldn’t like, fathomor sympathise with her anywhere else, neither in  The Spring Day of My Life ,  Kill Me, Heal Me  nor  South of the Border . She helped me settle my feelings withher bad role in  Secret Love Affair . Bad suits her well. Yoon Yeo Jeong was supposed to be included in the next part but here we have her specially for bluegrl95: ''Yoon Yeo Jeong definitely deserves to be on this list. She is an amazing actress. No matter what her role is, she always plays it extremely well. And she is versatile too.'' I agree!  I LOVE THIS LADY! Absolutely.  King2Hearts  did so many incurable things to me and introducing this lady was oneof them. How superb! How divine was her acting there as the queen mother! Istill remember the scenes when she got kidnapped with  Ha Ji Won ! And I stillget those goose bumps. People, she was 62! And Kdrama fans know very well thatactresses her age only get evil and nagging mother-in-law roles. Well, she didthat in  King2Hearts  but in such an extraordinary way it’s unforgettable. Am Ifangirling too hard?? I'm watching her now in  Pearl Necklace  and as annoying as her role is, I'm just loving her. She's so cute. Honorary Mention: I have to mention this lady, though Ihave only watched her once. But that once made an impression on me. I guess youfigured. Yes, that was  Punch . Her character as the wolf in sheep’s clothing wasintriguing. Throughout the drama I couldn’t figure her out and I couldn’t blamewhoever followed her. She made me hate her at many moments but admire her atmost. She played the role perfectly. That role would keep her name in my mindfor a long time to come. Though I've started  Bluebird House , I'm still in the first episode so I cannot say much about her. My drama eonni  bmore  is smitten by her though so I think I'll like what I'll see. bdani: ''Loving this series. It's great to see so many amazing women over 40.'' - I'm so glad you are. Will work harder! This is one actress whose role I don’t remember after I finished the drama but I remember liking her there. Makes anysense??! I still remember her in  Kill Me,Heal Me  – since I haven’t finished it yet. Talk of the cutest mother onplanet Earth. There she comes. Loved her to bits there. Please share your thoughts and your picks. The article is yours, you know. ^^ 