Chris Swift - IT Consultant - chrisswift.ca | LinkedIn Technical consultant with extensive experience providing technical support and solutions for a range of companies.  Consistently achieves quality results while forming custom solutions, managing data, optimizing office networks and storage, mitigating risk, designing, developing, and maintaining websites.  Recognized for strong organizational skills, innovation, self-direction, and a passion for making significant organizational contributions using technology.  •IT Project Management - Collaborates with both internal and outside stakeholders ensuring goals are met and on-time. •Business Analysis – Communicates with stakeholders, and researches options to provide an ideal, cost effective solution. •Technical Training – Facilitates education sessions on efficient use of technology/applications that promotes user adoption. CORE COMPETENCIES: Project Management  |  Technical Planning  |  Client Needs Analysis  |  Customer-focused  |  Attentive to details  |  Self-directed  |  Team Collaboration  |  Strategic Process Development  |  Customized Technical Training  |  Customer Service  |  Business Analysis  Liked by  Chris Swift Jul 2006   –  Present 13 years 6 months Halifax, Canada Area Provide IT consulting service and support (all referral-based); analyze business processes to recommend, plan, and execute short and long-term technical goals for businesses in legal, travel, dining, tourism, and event services industries including: oMaximize resources  &  staff productivity: Setup and maintain office network, shared drives, mobile devices  and computers oMarketing: Website design/development/maintenance, customized email marketing templates oData management  &  security: Configure VPN’s, RAID, automated backup systems, data recovery options oProject planning: Analyze business processes to recommend, plan, and execute short and long term technical goals •Commercial Audio/Visual Work: Installation, setup, maintenance and operation of various A/V and lighting systems for restaurants, clubs, and corporate events Provide IT consulting service and support (all referral-based); analyze business processes to recommend, plan, and execute short and long-term technical goals for businesses in legal, travel, dining, tourism, and event services industries including: oMaximize resources  &  staff productivity: Setup and maintain office network, shared drives, mobile devices  and computers oMarketing: Website design/development/maintenance, customized email marketing templates oData management  & ... Provide IT consulting service and support (all referral-based); analyze business processes to recommend, plan, and execute short and long-term technical goals for businesses in legal, travel, dining, tourism, and event services industries including: oMaximize resources  &  staff productivity: Setup and maintain office network, shared drives, mobile devices  and computers oMarketing: Website design/development/maintenance, customized email marketing templates oData management  &  security: Configure VPN’s, RAID, automated backup systems, data recovery options oProject planning: Analyze business processes to recommend, plan, and execute short and long term technical goals •Commercial Audio/Visual Work: Installation, setup, maintenance and operation of various A/V and lighting systems for restaurants, clubs, and corporate events 1995   –  Present 24 years Nova Scotia, Canada Paid DJ/VJ for various corporate, city, and private events.  As well as schools, weddings, and held past residences at several bars.  Also taught a monthly youth outreach DJ clinic with reachability association. Paid DJ/VJ for various corporate, city, and private events.  As well as schools, weddings, and held past residences at several bars.  Also taught a monthly youth outreach DJ clinic with reachability association. 2009   –   2009 less than a year Halifax, Canada Area Served in an interim role, managing the interactive team as well as all online jobs, which included 35 active jobs at any given time.  Oversaw entire project lifecycle including budgets, estimates, PO’s, timelines, and invoices. •Collaborated with account representatives for pitching, planning, scoping, and executing all online projects. •Worked with outside suppliers and other in-house talent to ensure timelines and budgets were met;  this helped to establish more meaningful relationships with clients. •Offered technical expertise on interface design, structure, and technical development to best suit the needs of clients.  •Rectified multiple customer-related issues and retained/gained new business by demonstrating customer excellence; these fixes also freed-up developer maintenance time. Served in an interim role, managing the interactive team as well as all online jobs, which included 35 active jobs at any given time.  Oversaw entire project lifecycle including budgets, estimates, PO’s, timelines, and invoices. •Collaborated with account representatives for pitching, planning, scoping, and executing all online projects. •Worked with outside suppliers and other in-house talent to ensure timelines and budgets were met;  this helped to establish more meaningful... Served in an interim role, managing the interactive team as well as all online jobs, which included 35 active jobs at any given time.  Oversaw entire project lifecycle including budgets, estimates, PO’s, timelines, and invoices. •Collaborated with account representatives for pitching, planning, scoping, and executing all online projects. •Worked with outside suppliers and other in-house talent to ensure timelines and budgets were met;  this helped to establish more meaningful relationships with clients. •Offered technical expertise on interface design, structure, and technical development to best suit the needs of clients.  •Rectified multiple customer-related issues and retained/gained new business by demonstrating customer excellence; these fixes also freed-up developer maintenance time. 2008   –   2008 less than a year Halifax, Canada Area Provided IT support to 500+ users as part of the helpdesk team.  Key projects included implementing system upgrades and conducting hardware/software testing before going into production.  Also, contributed to a CRM project implementation as well as environmental IT projects. Provided IT support to 500+ users as part of the helpdesk team.  Key projects included implementing system upgrades and conducting hardware/software testing before going into production.  Also, contributed to a CRM project implementation as well as environmental IT projects. Oct 2005   –   Jul 2007 1 year 10 months Halifax, Canada Area Progressed to CRM developer role, with responsibilities including issue resolution and troubleshooting for all software, hardware, and network issues for 100+ employees across five company divisions, in seven offices across the province. •Maintained proper operation of all domain, web, Exchange, and SQL servers.  Including backup jobs, and proprietary client/server software (for Travel and Insurance) support and maintenance •Tasked with overseeing development projects for a new group company website’s intranet, www.myreward.ca, www.healthyrewards.ca, www.downeastdmc.com, and www.goregister.ca. oServed as primary contact for collaborating with outside suppliers completing design and development work; oCoordinated and defined requirements, workflows, and documentation for internal stakeholders; oReviewed, tested, and documented all necessary changes required to meet needs. •Exceeded client expectations and improved booking process and control; this was achieved by initiating and developing customized corporate travel websites.  •Met with client directors to understand workflow requirements and develop a system to provide client reporting, which drastically lowered travel costs through careful monitoring of expenses.   oManaged seamless system integration with affiliated international travel office in UK. Progressed to CRM developer role, with responsibilities including issue resolution and troubleshooting for all software, hardware, and network issues for 100+ employees across five company divisions, in seven offices across the province. •Maintained proper operation of all domain, web, Exchange, and SQL servers.  Including backup jobs, and proprietary client/server software (for Travel and Insurance) support and maintenance •Tasked with overseeing development projects for a new group... Progressed to CRM developer role, with responsibilities including issue resolution and troubleshooting for all software, hardware, and network issues for 100+ employees across five company divisions, in seven offices across the province. •Maintained proper operation of all domain, web, Exchange, and SQL servers.  Including backup jobs, and proprietary client/server software (for Travel and Insurance) support and maintenance •Tasked with overseeing development projects for a new group company website’s intranet, www.myreward.ca, www.healthyrewards.ca, www.downeastdmc.com, and www.goregister.ca. oServed as primary contact for collaborating with outside suppliers completing design and development work; oCoordinated and defined requirements, workflows, and documentation for internal stakeholders; oReviewed, tested, and documented all necessary changes required to meet needs. •Exceeded client expectations and improved booking process and control; this was achieved by initiating and developing customized corporate travel websites.  •Met with client directors to understand workflow requirements and develop a system to provide client reporting, which drastically lowered travel costs through careful monitoring of expenses.   oManaged seamless system integration with affiliated international travel office in UK. Mar 2004   –   Oct 2005 1 year 8 months Began with Fraser and Hoyt in a coordinator role; brought on board to manage CRM initiatives, including implementing software workflow changes for front line staff and providing customized marketing initiatives for targeted customer segments. •Analyzed ROI for website, direct and targeted marketing campaigns; provided sound advice for best marketing initiatives.  •Developed, coordinated, and executed client profiling and electronic direct marketing programs, which offered F  a deeper understanding of each clients’ needs.  •Established CRM standards guidelines and provided associate training to 100+ employees to ensure data integrity. Began with Fraser and Hoyt in a coordinator role; brought on board to manage CRM initiatives, including implementing software workflow changes for front line staff and providing customized marketing initiatives for targeted customer segments. •Analyzed ROI for website, direct and targeted marketing campaigns; provided sound advice for best marketing initiatives.  •Developed, coordinated, and executed client profiling and electronic direct marketing programs, which offered F  a deeper... Began with Fraser and Hoyt in a coordinator role; brought on board to manage CRM initiatives, including implementing software workflow changes for front line staff and providing customized marketing initiatives for targeted customer segments. •Analyzed ROI for website, direct and targeted marketing campaigns; provided sound advice for best marketing initiatives.  •Developed, coordinated, and executed client profiling and electronic direct marketing programs, which offered F  a deeper understanding of each clients’ needs.  •Established CRM standards guidelines and provided associate training to 100+ employees to ensure data integrity. Jun 1996   –   Mar 2004 7 years 10 months •Provided Professional A/V services to customers including sales, installs, configurations, and repairs •Implemented new websites, email services, network security •Designed systems and maintained equipment for company and company clients •Provided Professional A/V services to customers including sales, installs, configurations, and repairs •Implemented new websites, email services, network security •Designed systems and maintained equipment for company and company clients 1998   –   2002 Activities and Societies: Varisty Swimming, Commerce Society, Orientation  (Frosh) Committee, Rowing Club Degree related - Manitoba International Marketing Competition Team Member, QBET Conference, UBG Degree related - Manitoba International Marketing Competition Team Member, QBET Conference, UBG Apr 2014   –  Present 5 years 9 months Health Build custom furniture for children with special needs as requested by occupational therapists.  Items such as custom/adjustable chairs, toilet steps, walking carts, adjustable tables, physio aids, etc.  These are used at home, at hospital or school. Build custom furniture for children with special needs as requested by occupational therapists.  Items such as custom/adjustable chairs, toilet steps, walking carts, adjustable tables, physio aids, etc.  These are used at home, at hospital or school. 1998   –  Present 21 years Health Regular blood donor,  > 75 donations to date Regular blood donor,  > 75 donations to date Join to view Chris’ full profile Greater Chicago Area Raleigh-Durham, North Carolina Area US Military Posts in Europe Raleigh-Durham, North Carolina Area Sacramento, California Area 233 others named Chris Swift are on LinkedIn 