KATE  &  JACK :: REAL WEDDINGS @ OSTERIA, CASUARINA Here at Tweed Coast Weddings, we obviously see a lot of weddings, so we really love it when we see weddings that have just stepped things up a notch, aimed for 11 instead of 10 and have that little bit of unique pizzazz. This wedding certainly takes the words  moody  and  elegance  to the next level, with a classic and simple bridal silhouette, black roses in her bouquet and smoke haze in the fields, believe us when we tell you, this one is an absolute stunner. Read on as lovely Bride, Kate, tells us all about her romantic celebration! ON THE DAY // Our day was everything we could have hoped for and more. It was a beautiful winters day. Having only 70 of our closest family and friends, we had an intimate, yet fun-filled party vibe. We held both the ceremony and reception at  Osteria , who couldn t have put on a better party for us and our guests. Jack and I were so overwhelmed with the love from everyone there which made our day truly special. ON THE STYLE // I guess like all soon to be married couples, we sought inspiration through countless Instagram pages,  Pinterest , various websites and  blogs . It was when I saw a picture on Pinterest of a bouquet that incorporated black roses that we knew we would have to include these in our style, and almost based our theme around those! We wanted to create a modern, romantic and moody vibe, which with the help of our amazing  vendors , made our vision come to life. CEREMONY SONG // Sons of Zion   Drift Away. We were listening to a random Spotify playlist in the lead up to the wedding and heard this song. We both instantly fell in love with it as it was super chilled, suiting us perfectly   and not a  typical  aisle song. We had  Sarah Archer do an acoustic rendition, which she absolutely nailed!! FIRST DANCE SONG // We opted not to do a traditional first dance and instead invited everyone to the dance floor with us. Had the floor filler Bruno Mars   Uptown Funk which got the party started with a bang straight after dinner. Was so much fun! DIY PROJECTS // My mum actually did most of our DIY projects for us which we were so grateful for, being so busy in the lead-up. My favourite thing she did (although not entirely DIY) was to create an anklet with charms that signified my something old, new, borrowed and blue. It s so stunning and I haven t taken it off since the wedding! FAVOURITE MOMENT // There are so many  For me though, I loved getting back to our venue after photos. Everyone was seated inside and awaiting our introduction back to the party. We had a sneaky drink out the front together before heading into our reception as husband and wife. Was a nice little break to just relax and have a moment together, but so exciting to know all of our favourite people were inside ready to celebrate. TOP TIP // To try and not get consumed by the tiny little things. It s so easy to get carried away and stressed about details that in the big scheme of things, don t matter. The day is about celebrating the love that you and your partner share, and nobody really cares about or remembers the napkins you use or what your wedding invite looked like. Choose to focus your attention on things that matter to you and don t stress about the rest!        Click here to check out more  real weddings at Casuarina s Osteria Photographer  Figtree Wedding Photography  Venue    Osteria  Stylist + Florist     Coco  &  Confetti  Celebrant    Shane Vincent  Bride s Dress    Pronovias  Bridesmaid Dress   Shona Joy  Suits  Hugo Boss  Hair    Foxs Lane Styling  Entertainment    Sarah Archer  Cake + Donuts    Peace of Cake Your email address will not be published.  Required fields are marked  * Comment Name  * Email  * Website 9AM - 5PM Monday to Friday hello@tcweddings.com.au 