TheWashCycle: Sidewalks I ' m many months behind on this, but last year the MWCOG approved several Transportation Alternatives projects in DC and MD, most of which will be of interest to cyclists. Under the federal Transportation Alternatives Set Aside (TA Set Aside) Program, the TPB is responsible for selecting projects using sub-allocated funding for Suburban Maryland, Northern Virginia, and the District of Columbia. The TA Set Aside, which is part of the Surface Transportation Block Grant Program, was previously known as the Transportation Alternatives Program (TAP) and that name is commonly still used. The project to get the most funding was the  Golden Mile Multi-Modal Access Project  in Frederick, MD. The project will provide 100% design for a shared use path of 1.25 miles along US 40 that improves safety for pedestrians and bicycles. Next up is the  Palisades (Glen Echo) Trolley Trail Preliminary Design  project which got $600,000.  This funded a feasibility study that is  currently underway  and is expected to wrap up in August. The purpose of this feasibility study is to identify critical issues and challenges in developing a multi-use trail for pedestrians and bicyclists of all ages and abilities on the former Glen Echo Trolley line corridor, an area commonly referred to as the Palisades Trolley Trail. The project will determine if a trail along the corridor would provide a transportation utility for pedestrians and bicyclists. The feasibility study will include a comprehensive survey of the study area to determine topography, utilities, site conditions, and historic resources. In addition, an in-depth inspection of the Foundry Branch Trestle Bridge will be completed, and options developed to rehabilitate the Bridge for use by bicycles and pedestrians as part of the Palisades Trolley Trail. The  hearing on the application to raze the trestle  was postponed due to the government shutdown, but has now been rescheduled for March 22nd. Getting $248,000 is the  Forest Glen sidewalk project . A sidewalk along the north side of Forest Glen Road from Woodland Drive to Sligo Creek Parkway will be designed to the level of 35%. The half-mile project will provide a link to a planned tunnel under Georgia Avenue connecting to the Forest Glen Metro Station Skipping over a Union Station restoration project, the next is  phase 2 of Prince George ' s County Bikeshare program  which got $222,000. With this project, Prince George ' s County will further expand Capital Bikeshare within the MD 193 corridor. Back to DC, the  Rock Creek Park Military Road Feasibility Study  got $200,000. A feasibility study funded through this grant will evaluate conceptual alignments for the construction of a multi-use trail, which was identified as a priority in the 2016 NPS paved Trails Study and recommend in moveDC. The project will study a length of 1.3 miles between 16th Street and Oregon Avenue. Another project in DC (they ' re all in NW, I ' m afraid) is the  Capital Crescent and C & O Canal - Georgetown Trail Improvements  which got $150,000. Building upon recent improvements, this project will create a new trailhead at the Georgetown connection point of the Capital Crescent Trail and the C & O Canal towpath, two of the most heavily traveled bicycle and pedestrian trail routes in the region. TAP grant funding will be used to fund a suite of improvements including landscaping, planting, lighting, a trailhead meeting area, and an improved staircase. Finally, there ' s the  Scott/Veirs Drive Shared Use Path  in Rockville which got $60,000. A feasibility study will be developed for a 1.2- mile shared use path along Scott Drive and Veirs Drive, between Wootton Parkway and Glen Mill Road February 13, 2019 in  Capital Bikeshare ,  Palisades Trolley Trail ,  Sidewalks ,  Trails | Permalink | Comments (3) The Washington Post editorial board weighed in on the issue of scooters with an article this week on  how to  " make e-scooters truly safe "  and there are some questionable ideas in it, although I do agree with their opening premise that we should be welcoming them while also asking how to do so safely. Then we start to depart. First they go to the science.  They cite  a recent study  that showed that during a recent period, more people came to the hospital with scooter injuries (249) than with bicycle (195) or pedestrian (181) injuries. [21 of those scooter injuries are to pedestrians]. I have no doubt that walking is safer than biking or scootering. But it ' s difficult to say if riding a scooter is more dangerous than riding a bicycle without knowing the relative exposure of each, or quantifying the severity of the injury. Still, my gut would say that if bikes are safer, it ' s because a bicycle is more stable and has larger wheels and such - but I have never ridden one and scooters are very new so I would not be surprised to find out my gut is wrong. But since we ' re asking it, my gut would say that riding a scooter is probably safer than riding a motorcycle - if not in the frequency of injuries, then in the severity of them. So if the point is that scooters are less safe than other similar options, that is probably true, but it is hardly the least safe thing on the road or unreasonable safe. Someone counteracting these numbers, a  2nd study  they cite notes that scooters reduced car trips and in so doing might have made roads safer. Then s--- goes off the rails. Failure to use a helmet The culprit behind many visits was predictable: failure to use a helmet. It ' s true that many riders did not wear a helmet, even when it was required by law. And it ' s true that many injured riders had head injuries. What they fail to establish is that a higher helmet use rate would have reduced head injuries. In fact the data they cite seems to imply that it would not. They state that only 5% of patients with head injuries were documented as wearing helmets (which seems bad) but only 6% (actually 5.7%) of all scooter riders were observed wearing helmets. When the population of helmet wearers closely matches the population of head-injured riders, that seems to indicate that the helmet ain ' t doing much. Furthermore only 4.4% of injured riders were wearing a helmet, which to me indicates that either helmets help you avoid breaking your arm, or people who wear helmets are safer riders than those who don ' t. Not to pile on, but it ' s probably worth noting that they called them  " documented "  helmet wearers, and from experience I can say that the documented number is usually lower than the actual number. To be accurate they should include only those that are specifically documented as wearing a helmet or not, but they usually pile the  " unknowns "  into the no helmet group which throws the numbers off. The rate of head injuries for scooter riders (40%) is about twice what it is for cyclists ( 20% ), but that doesn ' t necessarily mean that they ' re more prone to head injuries per mile, only that when they get hurt it ' s more likely a head injury. We can ' t really say that a lack of helmets is the main culprit behind the high injury rate, which is OK because we know what is. The cause of the injuries is that scooter-riders fall. The number one cause of injuries were falls (80%) and then running into things (11%). Maybe we should try to figure out why scooter-riders fall and prevent those, through safer street or scooter design, rather than focusing on making falls more survivable. More promising is the proposal that companies attach headgear to their products. I mean, OK. I wear a helmet when I bike and I figure this can ' t hurt. But my main problem is not that helmet wearing isn ' t a good idea; just that this is hardly the thing that needs to go at the top of the list. It ' s like saying we need to fight skin cancer and the place to start is getting women to wear long pants in the summer. Sidewalk riding puts everyone at risk Then there is sidewalk riding, which puts pedestrians, as well as scooter riders, who often do not heed city restrictions, at risk. This is stated without any supporting evidence. It is just true I guess. In the LA study 11 pedestrians were hit by scooter riders. Were they hit on the sidewalk, in crosswalks, on trails or in their living rooms? We don ' t know. But we do know that about 25% of all riders are on the sidewalk, which means that the risk to pedestrians seems very low. I ' m going to bet that in that same time period there were more pedestrians injured by drivers on the sidewalk. There’s a technical fix to this problem: Sensors on curbs could stop scooters in their tracks. For now, sidewalk scootering is legal outside the CBD, so maybe we should decide if that ' s going to remain true before we install sensors everywhere. And, I think the easier way to do this is with geo-fencing built into the scooter. And the  better  way to do it is to build more on-street infrastructure. The Portland studied showed that there were lower rates of sidewalk riding on low-speed streets or those with dedicated space for non-motorized users. Users ranked bike lanes as their preferred road type, and sidewalks last. Scooter riders  don ' t even want to be on your stupid sidewalks . They go there because all the other options suck. The editorial board should have written an opinion piece entitled  " Let ' s make our roads not suck. " To their credit, the Post Editorial Board does eventually make the same point about how bike facilities made biking safer and the same could work for scooters, but it seems like a toss-away line rather than what they should lead with. But the point is a little moot since the premise hasn ' t been proven that sidewalk scootering is high risk. If all injuries to pedestrians by scooter-riders were reduced to zero, that would only be a 4% reduction, and again we don ' t know how many of these are on the sidewalk. It ' s also possible that this would result in a net gain of injuries as more scooter-riders ride in the road. I mean, they ' re choosing the sidewalk because they think the street ' s not safe, and they ' re probably right. If only there were something we could do that would make scooter-riders and pedestrians safer. Oh we could build safer roads, with more space for non-automobile users and we could get drivers to slow down. Maybe we could put sensors in the street that slow cars down to an appropriate speed. February 01, 2019 in  Helmet ,  Safety ,  Scooter ,  Sidewalks | Permalink | Comments (4) For many years, bicyclists in DC enjoyed a period of lawlessness wherein they wore leggings and  crazy mustaches  and generally  DNGAF . But that all came to a crashing end in 1896 with the  first regulations of bicycles on the road . Those regulations, which were made available in churches all over the city, provided that The fine for violations was between $1 and $10. That last one seems like a pretty good law. Wish we still had it. December 11, 2016 in  Bells and "on your left" ,  Legislation ,  Sidewalks | Permalink | Comments (10) In 1971, there was, it seems, a surge in bicycle thefts in Washington, DC with nearly 2,000 bicycles stolen. As a response, the police department began a bait bike program to try to break up the  " ring "  of bike thefts. On August 11,  16-year-old Gregory James Coleman  came across an unlocked, parked 10-speed bike. He got on and started to ride away, until h e was shot in the back by a plains clothes police officer .  Police Chief Jerry V. Wilson found himself in political jeopardy, with 22 black organizations demanding that President Nixon fire him (because at that time the D.C. Chief of Police was a presidential appointment). Nixon didn ' t fire him, but Wilson did  end the bicycle stakeouts . 1971 was the same year the  DC Council passed a law  replacing mandatory bicycle registration with a voluntary program. That is the same law that made sidewalk cycling legal outside the Central Business District. The provision permitting  ' bikes on sidewalks outside of business districts will be of limited value until the city provides curb ramps, which would be highly desirable not only for bicyclists, but for baby carriages, shopping carts and wheelchairs as well. The following year r egistration would be mandatory again, in part due to the shooting. Crime was still a problem. The newly formed WABA wanted the city  " to require office building owners to either provide parking for bikes or allow that they be taken into elevators and offices " something it seemed the Council was ready to d o. When that was published the Building Owners and Managers Association went through the roof. So nothing happened on that until the WABA petitions forced hearings [on bicycle theft problems in the District]. The city had mandatory registration for a number of years, complete with a police bike squad. About  ' 5000 bikes were registered out of 100,000 or so estimated to be in the city. It appears that the city took the path of reinstating mandatory registration and not requiring bike parking. Mandatory registration would remain on the books until 2008, and zoning rules requiring bike parking would come later. Those regulations were updated this year - requiring more parking. The shooting also led to the formation of the  Coalition of Black Community Organizations for Justice . It ' s all too familiar considering we ' re still dealing with some of the same issues today as similar shootings have led to the Black Lives Matter movement. In the 1971 shooting the officer, who was black, claimed that the gun went off by accident due to him using the wrong holster. I don ' t know if he was ever charged or convicted. October 09, 2016 in  Crime ,  Parking ,  Registration ,  Sidewalks ,  Theft | Permalink | Comments (3) Always Be Scofflawing The 2nd annual  Brompton Urban Challenge  is coming to DC this Saturday and it sounds like a lot of fun. Akin to a two-wheeled scavenger hunt, the Brompton Urban Challenge tests the creativity and ingenuity of its participants as they explore their city, interpreting clues, and completing challenges, all from the seat of their bikes. What better way to end the summer than by joining your fellow DC Bromptoneers and exploring the city on two wheels? All types of bikes are welcome to participate, but each team of 2-4 riders must have at least 1 Brompton to qualify. I ' m not able to go, because I ' ll be in Nashville which is not having the BUC that weekend, but even if I were, I wouldn ' t go because at least I still have respect for the law. See, even though a Brompton looks, acts and tastes just like a bicycle, it isn ' t, and so you aren ' t legally allowed to ride it on the roadway. Let me explain. The DC regulations ban bicycling on the sidewalk in parts of the city (basically the Central Business District and any place designated by the Mayor of which I am unaware of any). But, they didn ' t want to keep kids from being able to ride on the sidewalk downtown because, y ' know, they ' re kids. So they did what any reasonable person would do, they created an exception for children under a certain age. Nah, I ' m just kidding. They did something insane and created a whole new thing called a sidewalk bicycle and it would be legal to ride a sidewalk bicycle on downtown sidewalks, because... I mean, look, it ' s got sidewalk right in the name. Duh. Obvs it was meant to be ridden on the sidewalk. But they waned to define this sidewalk bicycle so that it would be something only ridden by kids. So they defined it by wheel diameter. Sidewalk Bicycle – a device which would be included within the definition of “bicycle” as set forth in this section, except for the  fact  that such device either has two (2) or more wheels, all of which are less than twenty inches (20. in.) in diameter, or is not designed to be ridden on a roadway. (Reg. No. 71-26) The Brompton has two wheels and meets the definition of a bicycle, but it ' s wheels are only 16 inches in diameter, thus it is not a bicycle. This means at least two things. I ' m not sure there are any other rules specific to sidewalk bicycles, like the Brompton, but there may be. This is a classic case of the law not predicting, and not keeping up, with technology. I suspect it will be widely ignored, until it isn ' t, and then it will changed. September 09, 2016 in  Folding bike ,  Legal and Courts ,  Legislation ,  Sidewalks | Permalink | Comments (9) The National Park Service ' s National Capitol Region (NCR) recently released a draft version of its  " Paved Trails Study " , which serves as a plan for how NCR sees the paved trail network, both within and outside of the parks, developing in the future and as an update to the 1990 plan. In addition to i dentifying several high priority capital projects , the  NPS Paved Trails Study  also identifies some lower priority capital projects which it groups by park. Comments are open  until May 19th . Here are all the paved trail projects identified for Rock Creek Park Immediate (0-2 years) - these are both high priority projects that were covered in this earlier post . Short term (0-2 Years) MId-Term (5-10 years) Many of the 1990 Trails plan elements are underway or will be very soon, but a few are left out or modified. For example the  " northern section "  of the Rock Creek Park trail (see below) is still in the 2016 plan, but now along Glover/ Ridge Road, Oregon Avenue and potentially Daniel Road. The dropped ideas include Here again, I ' d like to see some thought about Capital Bikeshare in the park. And bike parking. My experience is that when going to any destination in the park, there is basically no bike parking. Maybe that has already changed? One last thing I might add is a trail along Fenwick Branch, the stream that connects from Rock Creek to the north corner of DC. Fenwick used to be a train station on the Met Branch line, it was located a little north of the Silver Spring station where Fenwick Lane would meet the Met Branch (if it extended that far), and Fenwick Branch ran right up to it. Most of the stream in Maryland has been buried, but a small trail connection from where Fenwick Branch leaves DC to the future Capital Crescent Trail could have some real utility and lay down a marker for a linear park/trail in a redeveloped Summit Hills. It appears that NPS was hinting at it in 1990 (see below) May 11, 2016 in  Capital Bikeshare ,  Capital Crescent Trail (CCT) ,  Klingle Valley Trail ,  National Park Service ,  Rock Creek Park Trail ,  Sidewalks ,  Trails | Permalink | Comments (2) For the past year, the National Park Service has been working on a way to make it easier to pass through Banneker Park, from L ' Enfant Plaza to the forthcoming  Wharf development  and Anacostia Riverwalk Trail in Southwest DC. It just released its plan for making that happen. The NPS ' s preference for the Banneker Park design. Right now at Banneker Circle, there are no curb ramps to get from the roadway to the I-395 pedestrian bridge, the path to the intersection of Maine Avenue and 9th Street NE, or the informal path to Maine Avenue. The plan to change that, which NPS has identified as its  " preferred alternative, "  calls for two new paths and a new staircase. It ' s a continued improvement over the concepts  presented last summer . The staircase replaces the existing informal pathway with a direct connection between the park ' s west side and the crossing that leads people across Maine Avenue and to the Wharf development at the Southwest Waterfront. The staircase is set to include transition areas for safe and comfortable access, integrated lighting, and a bicycle trough. A rendering of Banneker Park from the Wharf side of Maine Avenue. An 8-foot wide, ADA-compliant sidewalk will go in place of the existing path, running from the corner of Maine Avenue and 9th Street SW to the park ' s east side. About halfway up the hill, it crosses the eastbound lane of L ' Enfant Plaza, then follows alongside that lane before crossing the westbound lane at the top of the hill. There will also be a new crosswalk on the north side of the park, and all of the new sidewalks will get curb ramps, which aren ' t there now. Rendering of Banneker Park from 9th and Maine In addition, a second 8-foot wide ADA-compliant path will connect the pedestrian crossing to the Wharf to the other path ' s L ' Enfant Plaza crosswalk. The new design also includes new trees, paying homage to the park ' s original design by Dan Kiley. There will be restored landscaping, potential stormwater retention areas, and the 6-foot wide sidewalk along the north side of Maine Ave will get wider. The addition of curb ramps, stairs, crosswalks and ADA-compliant paths should make the whole area easier to traverse for people on bikes, on foot, or in wheelchairs. It should also create an improved connection between the I-395 bicycle/pedestrian bridge, the National Mall and the Anacostia Riverwalk. NPS has considered another design, calling it the  " non-preferred alternative. "  That one would create a parallel staircase and ramp around the east side of the park that ran to the pedestrian crossing to the Wharf. NPS has taken the project, started by the National Capital Planning Commission (NCPC), through the Environmental Assessment process and will be returning to the NCPC for a revised concept review on April 7. Crossposted from  GreaterGreaterWashington March 23, 2016 in  Anacostia Riverwalk Trail (ART) ,  Sidewalks | Permalink | Comments (0) I was looking for something else and stumbled on  the project website for future repairs to the Route 7 (King Street) Bridge over 1-395 . There I was surprised to find this description: The five-span structure carries six lanes of traffic, three in the eastbound direction and three in the westbound direction along with a median sidewalk. That was a head-scratcher for me, because I ' ve been over this bridge many times and do not recall a median sidewalk. So I fired up the google maps, and what do you know... Map Data Map Data Image may be subject to copyright Terms of Use  Rotate the view  This image is no longer available Report a problem No Street View available. BESbswy And there is actually someone - a cyclist no less - using it. But, wow, what a piece of work this thing is. It starts at Menokin Street, where at least it has a curb ramp (though that ' s probably a bad thing in this case, as its deceptive). Map Data Map Data Image may be subject to copyright Terms of Use  Rotate the view  This image is no longer available Report a problem No Street View available. BESbswy From this point it ' s about half a mile to Park Center Drive, but I ' m not sure how anyone would know that. At first you have this, what, 4 foot wide sidewalk in a very narrow, grassy median; but then it just becomes a concrete median - sloped down no less. Map Data Map Data Image may be subject to copyright Terms of Use  Rotate the view  This image is no longer available Report a problem No Street View available. BESbswy If yoy can brave that, you find another long narrow sidewalk in a  " grassy median "  offset to the south to allow the plantings to be in the middle, and then this: Map Data Map Data Image may be subject to copyright Terms of Use  Rotate the view  This image is no longer available Report a problem No Street View available. BESbswy It again transitions to a concrete median, but this time even narrower to allow for a turning lane ahead. And then the piece de resistance: Map Data Map Data Image may be subject to copyright Terms of Use  Rotate the view  This image is no longer available Report a problem No Street View available. BESbswy At it ' s narrowest point, the sidewalk has a street sign right in the middle. And no curb ramp. I hope Grandma didn ' t push her wheelchair to this point on a hot August afternoon. It ' s going to be a brutal trip back. And of course, how someone looking at this is to know that this median is a sidewalk or where it goes is beyond me. Plus, that ' s about as half-assed a crosswalk as one can come up with. That kid riding his bike in the first shot is kind of my hero - he ' s got courage. But...this has potential. It ' s still a bit of a haul to the next closest bike/ped crossing f I-395 at 34th Street/Abindon Street, so if this could be made better, it might have some real utility. The median is 16 feet wide. So widen the sidewalk into a 10-12 foot path and then lower it down to street level, but leave raised curbs with a hint of green space in them to separate the path from car traffic. Find some way to keep it that width near Park Center, even if that means getting rid of the turning lane. Not much can be done about the shade (unless the 12 '  wide auto lanes or 4 '  shoulders can be narrowed to allow for trees), but add in signage letting people know where the sidewalk goes and how far a walk it is. Consider a HAWK light and crosswalk at 30th Street to create an added connection. Yeah, it might slow down some cars, but it would actually make this a bridge cyclists and pedestrians could use. I ' m not sure it ' s the worst sidewalk in Northern Virginia, but it ' s a contender. I wouldn ' t want my kids using it. January 06, 2016 in  Sidepath ,  Sidewalks ,  Signage | Permalink | Comments (30) DC Water is rehabilitating one of their sewer lines in the area of the Capital Crescent Trail DC Water will begin the rehabilitation of the Upper Potomac Interceptor, which is the 48 "  sanitary sewer main that runs along the Capitol Crescent Trail, as well as cleaning and inspection of the 18 "  sanitary sewer starting at Canal Road NW. In order to do this work, the sidewalk on Canal Road NW between Foxhall Road NW and the Key Bridge has been closed for pedestrians. Unfortunately, there isn ' t any good alternative for pedestrians (and cyclists) travelling this route. A  " detour "  told sidewalk users to cross the street, but there ' s no crosswalk or curb ramps there, and the  " sidewalk "  on the other side of Canal doesn ' t pick up for several hundred feet. Even then, it quickly narrows down to about 1 foot wide and isn ' t really a viable option. The only alternative that doesn ' t involve ignoring the signs is to go all the way up to Reservoir Road, about 5 blocks away. The whole sidewalk was blocked at one point And people who ignored the sign (because they couldn ' t see the large boxes) eventually crossed to the median. Seems like a case where closing a lane of the road might have been in order. I wonder if DDOT approved this configuration, as it doesn ' t seem to be in compliance with the rules for  " complete closure of a sidewalk . " When closing a sidewalk adjacent to a roadway with more than two travel lanes and where at least one end of the sidewalk closure is more than 150 feet from the nearest signalized crosswalk, the Traffic Control Plan showing the closure of the sidewalk requires the written approval of the District Department of Transportation Pedestrian Program Coordinator or work zone technician assigned to review the traffic control plan Thanks to Brett for the photos and notifying me of this. August 25, 2015 in  Sidewalks | Permalink | Comments (10) For those who fear their bike is too quiet. The  SpokesterTM bicycle noisemaker  was invented to improve on the decades ­old idea of attaching baseball cards to a bicycle to simulate a  motorcycle sound. The goal was to develop a simple, inexpensive product that was durable and produced an exciting, low pitched engine­like sound. The result is a clever one­piece design which fits all children’s bicycles. It was originally intended as a toy, but the added noise has been identified as having a safety feature. Reportedly warehouses that use bikes have been adding these as audible warning devices. So, they ' ve started a crowdfunding campaign through  Kickstarter  starting this week to raise the capital needed to increase production and make some product modifications. Perfect for anyone who loves sidewalk cycling. August 01, 2015 in  Sidewalks | Permalink | Comments (1) Banner design by  creativecouchdesigns.com City Paper's Best Local Bike Blog 2009 Subscribe in a reader 