How to choose a bottle of wine that suits a variety of Thanksgiving dishes – including turkey - The Globe and Mail The subject who is truly loyal to the Chief Magistrate will neither advise nor submit to arbitrary measures. This article was published more than 2 years ago. Some information in it may no longer be current. Find your bookmarks by selecting your profile name. The turkey, as a Thanksgiving-table icon, is in trouble. We are roasting much less of the whole bird than we used to. According to Turkey Farmers of Canada, which relies on statistics compiled by Ipsos-Reid, consumers purchased 44.8 million kilograms in the form of whole birds last year, down from 55.9 million kilograms in 1981. That's a drop of almost 20 per cent. Considering our population expanded by 41 per cent during the same period, from 24.8 million to more than 35 million, it's been a big blow to that shellacked, food-magazine-cover October staple. Families have been getting smaller, and an increasingly diverse and urbanized population naturally has felt less bound by a custom that calls for a four-hour roast-a-thon and produces two weeks of decaying leftovers. Story continues below advertisement It's not that we hate turkey per se. Add in turkey parts and processed birds and total turkey-meat consumption in Canada fell only marginally over the past 36 years (though it did fall per capita when you factor in the population bulge). I ran into a gentleman recently at the Toronto Garlic Festival, where I buy garlic to plant for spring, who offered an example of the turkey tradition's evolution. Sugith Jagdeep owns The Pie Guyz in Brampton, Ont., which specializes in savoury meat pies that Jagdeep used to sell in his native South Africa. They have standard offerings, like steak and kidney and butter chicken (Brampton has a sizable Indian-immigrant population), and they do custom orders. Last year one customer, who was planning a feast for 25, ordered an 18-by-24-inch mega-pie filled with you know what. "Let's not go the roast-turkey route, everyone does that," he recalled the customer saying. "Let's do a turkey pot pie." However you take your turkey, or even if your centrepiece involves butter chicken or Peking duck, wine-wise I'd suggest the following general tips. That said, I'm starting with a stately Chablis from Burgundy, which is pricier than your average Butterball – because I adore Chablis, and I think it goes with almost everything. Jean-Marc Brocard Vau de Vey Chablis 2014, France SCORE: 92 PRICE: $43.95 Story continues below advertisement From a premier-cru vineyard. This is medium-bodied, energetic chardonnay, not one of those lazy-turkey chardonnays slathered with oak. Attractive, leesy-autolytic depth. Pineapple, bruise apple and saline tang. Available in Ontario at the above price, $32.50 in Quebec. Hidden Bench Fumé Blanc 2015, Ontario SCORE: 92 PRICE: $29.45 Substantial for a sauvignon blanc thanks to time in French oak. Lusciously textured. Imagine flambéed mango in butter with vanilla, spice and a whiff of smoke. Beautifully crafted by an exacting Niagara winery. Available in Ontario. Te Pa Pinot Gris 2015, New Zealand SCORE: 91 PRICE: $17.95 Story continues below advertisement Remarkably Alsatian in style, with fleshy texture and an almost off-dry, syrupy quality. Impressive balance and seductive, musky-gingery spice for lift and structure. Big value. Perfect for roast turkey or roast pork, among other things. Available in Ontario. Kaiken Las Rocas Ultra Malbec 2015, Argentina SCORE: 91 PRICE: $19.95 A heavyweight, yet not lethargic or overly sweet. Smooth, with dense dark fruit, leather, dark chocolate and smoked-meat overtones, with oak spice for lift and integrated tannins for good structure. Available in Ontario. Trerose Santa Caterina Vino Nobile di Montepulciano 2013, Italy SCORE: 90 PRICE: $24.95 Story continues below advertisement Succulent yet firm, with pleasantly grippy tannins. Substantial Tuscan sangiovese. Judiciously oaked. Dried cherry, plum, vanilla, leather and, in the far background, a note of chocolate. Available in Ontario. Nk'Mip Dreamcatcher 2016, British Columbia SCORE: 89 PRICE: $17.49 A smartly made aromatic blend of riesling, sauvignon blanc, ehrenfelser, pinot blanc and chardonnay from an aboriginal owned winery in the south Okanagan. Medium-bodied and dry, yet with a ripe, suggestively sweet, fleshy core suggesting flavours of peach, green apple and lime. Excellent balance and tension. Available in British Columbia at the above price, various prices in Alberta, $17.99 in Manitoba, $22.99 in New Brunswick. Tinhorn Creek Oldfield Reserve 2Bench White 2016, British Columbia SCORE: 89 PRICE: $22.99 Story continues below advertisement A blend of sauvignon blanc, sémillon, viognier, chardonnay and muscat. Medium-full, polished to a sheen. Soft, ripe peachy fruit and dollop of vanilla, lifted as much by a toasty-smoky nuance as by the well-integrated acidity. Available in B.C. and Alberta liquor stores and direct,  www.tinhorn.com . Gorgo San Michelin Custoza 2015, Italy SCORE: 89 PRICE: $15.95 An unusual white blend of garganega, cortese and riesling from Italy's Veneto region, where garganega is best known for making Soave. On the lighter side of medium-bodied, it's unoaked and silky, with a fruity core suggesting apple, green melon and peach and a savoury herbal-floral side. Lovely. Available in Ontario. André Delorme Bourgogne Pinot Noir 2014, France SCORE: 88 PRICE: $22.95 Story continues below advertisement Light-medium bodied. True-blue entry-level red Burgundy at a decent price. Crushed berries and plenty of beetroot earthiness as well as the slightest note, in my opinion, of volatile acidity (detected in two separate bottles), but just enough to give the fruit a pop without searing your nose. A fun and funky Burg. Available in Ontario. Perrin Réserve Côtes du Rhône 2015, France SCORE: 88 PRICE: $16.95 A solid, affordable red from a big name in the Rhône Valley. Classic regional characters in a balanced, mid-weight frame. Soft cherry-strawberry centre along with hints of leather, Provencal herbs and spice. Available in Ontario at the above price, $16.99 in British Columbia, various prices in Alberta, $15.45 in Quebec, $17.29 in Prince Edward Island, $19.20 in Newfoundland. Visit  tgam.ca/newsletters  to sign up for the Globe Style e-newsletter, your weekly digital guide to the players and trends influencing fashion, design and entertaining, plus shopping tips and inspiration for living well. And follow Globe Style on Instagram  @globestyle . Welcome to The Globe and Mail’s comment community. This is a space where subscribers can engage with each other and Globe staff. Non-subscribers can read and sort comments but will not be able to engage with them in any way.  Click here to subscribe . If you would like to write a letter to the editor, please forward it to  letters@globeandmail.com . Readers can also interact with The Globe on  Facebook  and  Twitter  . Welcome to The Globe and Mail’s comment community. This is a space where subscribers can engage with each other and Globe staff. Non-subscribers can read and sort comments but will not be able to engage with them in any way.  Click here to subscribe . If you would like to write a letter to the editor, please forward it to  letters@globeandmail.com . Readers can also interact with The Globe on  Facebook  and  Twitter  . Welcome to The Globe and Mail’s comment community. This is a space where subscribers can engage with each other and Globe staff. We aim to create a safe and valuable space for discussion and debate. That means: Comments that violate our community guidelines will be removed. Read our community guidelines here Discussion loading ... Read  most recent letters to the editor . Continue Reading  Copyright 2019 The Globe and Mail Inc. All rights reserved. 351 King Street East, Suite 1600, Toronto,  ON  Canada, M5A 0N1 Phillip Crawley, Publisher 