" Ask Buddy "  Archive 3 This is archived information from  " Ask Buddy! "  The only things Iedited out were the  " Hi, Buddy! " and  "  so and so says,hello! "  typemessages.  I fixed a few mis-spelled words here and there, (not all ofthem...) but the contentis the same.  If there was any information being passed back and forth, it hasbeen included. Back to  " AskBuddy! " " ASK BUDDY! "  ARCHIVES:  #1 #2  #3 From:  Tom Stolaski Date:  04 Mar 2002 When your are playing in what you call  " Pockets " , are you thinking interms of major or minor scales or is it a mode thing? From: Buddy Date:  05 Mar 2002 Pockets are locations on the fretboard containing notes that relate to a certainchord, but not necessary exclusive to one chord. One C6 pocket of this type usesstrings one through nine on the seventh fret and covers C, C# minor seven flatfive, D7, E minor, E 7 #9, A minor, or A7th chords. Some are easily adaptable toscale notes and some are modal, but I generally think of pockets as points ofreference. From:  Tommy Dodd Date:  05 Mar 2002 Buddy, When I saw you a few years back with the Everlys I think you were using aLexicon MPX1 for reverb and delay. Can you tell me your opinions of that unitcompared to todays multi-effect units out and if you still use the Lexicon forsessions/gigs? Thanks, and we miss you  " out there " !!! Tommy D./Hotlanta,Ga. From: Buddy Date:  06 Mar 2002 The MPX-1 doesn't have the warmth of other units because of its lack of an EQ inthe system. If anything, it adds an annoying edge on the high end. It's a greatpiece of equipment but probably works best in an effects loop. I'm no longerdoing sessions or gigs of any kind except for Johnny Bush this coming Saturdaynight, and that's because it was hard to turn down an ex Cherokee band member.Good hearing from you Tommy. From: Buddy Date:  14 Mar 2002 Tommy: The unit I was referring in my initial reply is a Lexicon reverb/delayprocessor I purchased before the MPX1. I do like the MPX1and am still using it.It has several effects pitch type effects, such as panning, chorus, Flanger,Phaser, Rotary Cabinet, etc., but the memory doesn't allow as many combinationsas some other multi effect units. In spite of that, it's a premier piece ofequipment with the three features most important to me: clean reverbs, delays,and EQ system. My apologies for the error. From:  Stretch Date:  05 Mar 2002 Hi, E. Just wondering how often it would occur for you when playing that youwould find yourself in  " the zone " , you know, that special place where,when it's over you say to yourself,  " I don't know how I did that, but Iknow it was good! "  I'm sure you know what I mean. Cheers, Stretch From: Buddy Date:  07 Mar 2002 It's a once in a great while experience and takes a lot of variables comingtogether at the same time, but when it happens, I can do no wrong. I thinkyou've been there too but if it's any consolation, it doesn't come any easierfor me. From:  Bobby Lee Date:  05 Mar 2002 Hi Buddy. I was wondering if you ever experimented with scale tunings. What doyou think of the idea of having a full diatonic scale across the strings? ThanksErnie for the great site. -b0b- From: Buddy Date:  06 Mar 2002 The closest I ever got was with a G tuning I used on one song in an old JeannieSealy album. From the top the notes were G, F#, E, D, B, A, G, F, D, G. Scales,arpeggios, and two note intervals worked well but it was awkward playing triadson the first, fourth and fifth strings. I liked it for recording because it wentto tape exceptionally well and every note was clean and almost effortless toplay on any part of the neck. From:  Bob Carlson Date:  06 Mar 2002 Hi Buddy: About six months ago I started just using a tempered tuning and now Iwonder why I didn't four years ago. I use the one that came with the Emmonsguitar. Do you use a tempered tuning? Thank you Buddy. Bob. From: Buddy Date:  07 Mar 2002 I tempered my tuning until 1985. Since then I've been using equal temperedtuning, or as equal as the physics of the guitar will allow. From:  bill sutton Date:  06 Mar 2002 I want to learn how to play the C6 i already have your basic C6 course but I don’tunderstand the Nashville number system are there any way you can help me pleaseDESPERATE THANK YOU From: Buddy Date:  07 Mar 2002 Each number represents a chord. If you're in the key of C, the C chord is 1, theD chord is 2, E, is 3, F is 4, G is 5, A is 6, and B is 7. A song like YourCheatin' Heart in C has two bars of C, two of F, two of G, and back to C for twobars. In number form it would read: 1 1 4 4 5 5 1 1. When sharps or flats areinvolved, such as Bb, you write a 7 and add a b behind it and it will read: 7b.A minor chord would be a number followed with a dash and would read 2-. Theadvantage of the number system is that you can use numbers 1 through 7 torepresent any key, so the above numbers would apply to E, A, or any other key.It can get more complicated and would take a lot of space to explain, but theseare the basics. From:  Dennis Detweiler Date:  07 Mar 2002 Buddy...do you remember your approximate settings on the old session 400 amp?I'm especially interested in your mid and shift settings. Thanks Dennis From: Buddy Date:  07 Mar 2002 On my original Session 400, the mid was 10 o'clock and the shift, two o'clock. From:  Larry Behm Date:  07 Mar 2002 Buddy I have a 66 PP with 13k pickups in it, would this be original equipment?Was there a standard, I have seen 13's, 16's, 18.5 etc. From: Buddy Date:  07 Mar 2002 It's probably an original pickup. For some reason, I always thought I had 16s onthe guitar I used for the Touch My Heart album, but I wouldn't be surprised tofind out they were 13s. I sold the guitar to Dickie Overby, so he would be theonly person that would know, but I doubt that he ever measured them. There werestandards, but they changed when a few of the players and the Emmons companystarted fixing things that weren't broke. From:  Bobby R Boggs Date:  07 Mar 2002 Buddy there's and effect you use on many of the swing tunes that you and Raycut. This is a rich, fat, kinda velvety sound. A good example is the tuneS'Wonderful. I'm trying to write a patch that will match what you used. So farI've added chorus and pitch shift set for tonic of course. To the RV and DL. Iknow you used a different processor. I'm using a Roland GP-100.I'm I on thewrong road by trying to use the pitch shift? Thank you Buddy for your time. Alsothanks to Ernie for a great site. --bb From: Buddy Date:  07 Mar 2002 Bobby: There was no special effect on the steel sound other than EQ. I used aDerby guitar on the album, which is a bit darker in the mid range; so that mayaccount for the fatter sound. After listening to it, it sounds like I boostedthe presence to help cut through the mids. From:  Frank Estes Date:  07 Mar 2002 Buddy, How are you preparing for this Saturday night gig? I assume you are givena list of songs in advance and maybe a tape or CD? Thank you. From: Buddy Date:  07 Mar 2002 I did get a tape and play list but I haven't played in six months so it's goingto be a crap shoot. Looks like I picked a hell of a time to test the water. From:  Gary Morrison Date:  07 Mar 2002 Buddy: In the mid 60's, did you ever place finger picks on the rods of yourguitars? From: Buddy Date:  07 Mar 2002 That is an affirmative. From: Dave Birkett Date:  07 Mar 2002 Buddy, how long does it take you to get a new set of finger picks to feel right?Thanks. From: Buddy Date:  08 Mar 2002 I have more of a problem with the pick surface than I have adjusting to the bandaround the finger. I just shaped a new set of old style National finger pickslast night and in a minute or so, they were feeling good. The old style pickshave a contoured dish in them that offers a more uniform surface against thestrings. The new ones are almost flat and have a scraping feel if your fingersare not perpendicular to the strings, or at least they feel that way to me. Myhand sets at an angle, so the contoured dish works best. From:  Larry Miller Date:  07 Mar 2002 What guitar and Amp did you use to record this album? Did the band rehearsebefore putting it to tape? How did the New York musicians take to the sound ofthe steel guitar?  " Bluemmons "  is my favorite! Thanks, Larry From: Buddy Date:  08 Mar 2002 I used a Sho~Bud guitar and a Standel amp with a twelve-inch speaker. We ran thetunes down to get familiar with them before going to tape. The musicians didn'tknow what to think about the pedal steel, as most of them had never seen onebefore. I recall them filing by and looking at it as if it were some sort ofrelic in an antique store. I didn't bring charts to the session, and when we ranout of tunes everybody knew, I made up a blues melody off the top of my head. Werecorded it and I named it Bluemmons. From: Dirk B Date:  11 Mar 2002 Buddy, The liner notes to your steel guitar jazz album suggest that you wereunhappy or uncomfortable with the recording circumstances, but if so, it doesn'tcome across on tape! If your ride on  " Cherokee "  was not recorded underoptimal circumstances, I can't imagine how much better you would have played ifyou were really comfortable! If you wish to do so, could you perhaps talk a bitmore about the session; how did you feel while playing; how was the interactionwith the other players, etc.? From: Buddy Date:  11 Mar 2002 My discomfort was through a series of small events. I had planned to flycommercial but Ray Price was making a trip to New York City and offered to takeme in his small plane. He said to travel light, so I took a Standel amp with a12 "  speaker. When I set up, I couldn't find a warm sound for chords withoutdistorting the amp, so I ended up with ear splitting highs. I made it clear toQuincy Jones up front that I knew nothing about reading music and couldn't dothe album if it required it. So, I called off the list of tunes he had sent meand found the musicians weren't familiar with the changes to some of them, so wehad to come up with tunes we all knew. Also, Quincy had to fly to Paris and theysubbed a producer by the name of Hal Mooney. I felt that had Quincy been there,he could have supplied charts that would have gotten me through the tunes I hadtaken time to learn. Hal Mooney was a producer and was married to Kay Starr atsome time, but that was about the only thing I respected him for. He got hotunder the collar and said,  " Why in the hell don't you have charts for thesetunes. "  My response was,  " These tunes were picked for me. Why in thehell didn't you hire somebody that knew them. "  Because of that and a fewother things, including it being my first exposure to the city and its attitude,I was ready to go home the first hour. I knew when we came to the tune  " AnyTime, "  we had scraped the bottom of the barrel. It was after Any Time, thatI came up with Bluemmons and put us all out of our misery. I got along well withArt Davis and Bobby Scott, and if it wasn't for Bobby's consideration, I mighthave eased over the edge. From: Dirk B Date:  11 Mar 2002 I'm not sure how to ask this, but... were the other musicians respectful andimpressed with you? It's hard to imagine them not taking notice of the boy fromIndiana who could play the Hell out of that contraption, despite thecircumstances. From: Buddy Date:  11 Mar 2002 Jerome Richardson was fairly receptive to what was going on but Charlie Persipwas a bit on the cool side. I guess if I had played drums for Dizzy Gillespie, Iwould have been cool too. :-) Knowing he worked with Dizzy didn't make thingsany easier. From:  Carlton Day Date:  07 Mar 2002 Buddy, my Sho~Bud LDG emits a slight 3rd string buzz on 1st fret. Didn't noticemy PP Emmons doing that. If I bear down on the bar, the chord is a bit sharp. Isthere a  " shallower "  grooved nut roller for use on the 3rd? Thanks forany advice you may offer. From: Buddy Date:  08 Mar 2002 There's a remote possibility a shallower nut roller can be found, but being onthe third string, it's unlikely Sho~Bud would offer it. I don't know abouttoday, but most manufactures used to use the same depth in the nut up to a pointand then increase it for the wound strings. If that still applies, this may be ajob for a machinist. From:  CECIL OUDERKIRK Date:  09 Mar 2002 Buddy; What tuning did you use on the Ernest Tubb tune, I Cried A Tear? I thinkit was 1959. Good luck to night have fun I’m going too be listing wouldn’tmiss it for the world. Sorry about your wrist hope it will get better! Cecil From: Buddy Date:  09 Mar 2002 It was the E9th tuning. From:  Dirk B Date:  11 Mar 2002 I have been trying to learn jazz on pedal steel for a couple of years and havebumped up my practice time to almost 2 hrs/day, but it is clearly a  " longrow to hoe. "  How many hours did you play/practice when you were a teenagerand a young man? I imagine the young Buddy Emmons sitting down at the guitar allday, and into the night, until you nailed the runs you were trying for...breaking only for food  &  water, maybe the occasional beer... What kind of(non-performing) hours did you put in as a young player? From: Buddy Date:  11 Mar 2002 You pretty much covered my early practice days. I don't recall what I did duringthe non-practice times except bicycle over to Mishawaka, a nearby town, andstand outside a couple of bars and listen to the bands. In other words, if Iwasn't playing, I was listening. I later found that the best way to keep frombecoming frustrated was to tape, for better or for worse, my first attempt atsomething I wanted to learn. Then when I felt I was getting nowhere, I'd playthe tape back and be pleasantly surprised at the progress I had made. Fromthere, I taped each progression for comparison. It kept me from throwing thetowel in several times. From:  Ernie Hagar Date:  11 Mar 2002 It’s ironic that taping kept you from  " throwing in the towel. " Taping your playing makes many players want to  " throw in the towel! " From: Buddy Date:  11 Mar 2002 Thanks Ernie. That's the nicest thing I've heard all day. :~) (I just liked this one.) From:  Sam Minnitti Date:  11 Mar 2002 Hello Buddy, You are so kind to provide such thoughtful answers to all thequestions you get asked. Mine is regarding your beautifully LUSH sound that youused on your studio recording of Blue Eyes. Do you recall what your setup wasfor that date? Also, was that in C6 or E9? Most Sincerely, Sam Minnitti NYC From:  Buddy Date:  11 Mar 2002 The steel was a Sierra using a slight detune effect and recorded direct from myrack to the console. From:  Sam Minnitti Date:  11 Mar 2002 Buddy, Thank you so much for your reply. That is very interesting that a detuneeffect was used. Would it be too pushy for me to ask what other effects made upyour rack at the time that would have contributed to the ‘lushness’? I wouldthink reverb, and maybe delay? Respectfully, Sam Minnitti From:  Buddy Date:  11 Mar 2002 I used a combination of delay and the slight low level detune effect. Any reverbwould have been added during the mixdown. From:  Dennis Detweiler Date:  11 Mar 2002 On nearly every amp, especially the old 400s, each tone control seems to have abreaking point... a spot that the control/tone breaks drastically withing aneight inch sweep left or right. From that point do you usually break left orright of that mark? Eg..on the old 400s the mid seems to break around 8 or 9o'clock, shift around noon, bass around 3 o'clock, etc. I have two 400s and bothare identical in this respect. Maybe I'm nuts? Also...You are and always will betop dog. Seems like there's this gap between you and everyone under it. No oneever bridges that space no matter how hard they try. Many try to do it withspeed, like ramping that space, and end up with broken bones. Nice liftoffthough! :) From:  Buddy Date:  12 Mar 2002 It's been a while since I've played through an old session, but on the lateramps, the mid and shift controls at 12 o'clock represent a flat setting. You canmove the shift when the mid is flat and not hear much difference in the sound.It's only when you move the mid control first that you see a more pronouncedchange in the shift because you're shifting frequencies at the cut or boostedmid positions. Where you set the mids will determine to what degree the shiftaffects them, so I always leave the shift flat, set the mids, and then thickenthem up a bit with the shift by turning it to the right. From there, I use theplus or minus side of each control to fine tune for the warmth I'm looking for.For the bass control, I set it just beyond the breaking point but not enough tomake the bottom end too woofy. I used a new setting on the Midnight Jamboree,March 9th, that had the mid at around 9 o'clock and the shift at 3 o'clock, butI was using a MatchBox that thins the high mids out considerably. Without it,the sound would have been too dark or muddy. I'll be listening to the archive ofthe show to see how it went to tape. I liked the part about the liftoff. :) From: John Swain Date:  11 Mar 2002 Buddy, in one of your  " Swing "  tab books your copedant has both Cs onC6 pulling to C# on RKR. This with pedal 5 makes a nice 6th inversion. You don'toften do this so what are the  " cons " . Thanks. JS From: Buddy Date:  12 Mar 2002 I had the single C raise on the top only for a while but have recently added itto the bottom. The one and only con regarding the double raise, which is an oldtheory I had, is that raising the bottom C when using it with pedal five,interfered with the 5th note of the ninth chord. Today I prefer the double raisebecause it extends the C6 chord to eight notes and is still compatible with the5th pedal, the difference being that it's now a ninth with an augmented 5th. From: Carl Johnson Date:  11 Mar 2002 Buddy, how did your wrist hold up Saturday night? From: Buddy Date:  12 Mar 2002 I played it reasonable safe and used a lot of the closer grips, so there wasn'ttoo much discomfort. There were a few clinkers though, which I shall blame onbeing a bit gun shy from not having played in six months. I've developed a lazythumb, so I've got to get to work on that. Of course staring at fifty steelplayers in front of me had little to do with it. Now that I've used all theexcuses I can think of, to be totally honest with you, I did much better than Ithought I would. :) From: Jeff Coffell Date:  11 Mar 2002 I'm considering a new Emmons LeGrande III. I've been playing steel for about 18months, took top gun from Newman. I have a Zum now and love the feel but don'tlike the tone. Would you buy a new Emmons? I had a LeGrande II and sold it. Bigmistake. From: Buddy Date:  12 Mar 2002 I have two Legrande lll models. I prefer the Emmons push pull sound but find theadvantages of the all pull mechanism make up for the slight difference in thesound of the two guitars. Both models cut well; I just bleed a bit more on thepush pull. From: sylo447@msn.com Date:  12 Mar 2002 Buddy, We attended the Midnite Jamboree on March 9 when you appeared with JB. Wewere told by someone in the audience that you were considering giving up playingbased on your performance at the Jamboree. My husband plays steel and we havebeen avid fans of yours for 25 years and we are interested in how you feel aboutyour performance at the Jamboree. We sincerely hope that you are going tocontinue to play. We drove down from Illinois to Nashville for the Jamboree andit was well worth the trip down. We would do it again in a heartbeat. Sincerelyfans from Illinois From: Buddy Date:  12 Mar 2002 I wasn't all that happy with my performance, but it's normal for me to be tenseand hit a few clinkers when I haven't worked in a while. It was that way withsessions and the same for the first day or two of an Everly tour, because whenI'm not working, I stop playing my pedal steel and do most of my practicing on a12-string guitar. I don't remember doing anything bad enough to warrant myheading for the hills, so I'll probably woodshed a bit more and continue toaccept those occasional jobs I feel I'd be most comfortable playing. Iappreciate your sincerity and hope to see you next time. From: John Swain Date:  12 Mar 2002 I was told you field tested some Carter D10s for Bud. Which pus did you like forthe two necks and what pu did you decide on for the S12 you now have. Thx JS From: Buddy Date:  12 Mar 2002 I field tested two or three Carter guitars but they all were equipped with theGeorge L E-66 pickup. The company did send an extra pickup for my S-12 but Ihaven't put it on because I'm happy with the E-66. From: C. Day Date:  12 Mar 2002 Hi again Buddy. I saw a friend of mine today here in Owensboro who said he wasat the jamboree Sat nite, and he said it looked like the first 4 rows were allwearing black derbys. I wish I had been among em. Anyway, he said you playedsuper well. I told him about your hurting right wrist, and he said no onewould've ever known it. I just thought you might like to know. From: Buddy Date:  13 Mar 2002 Thanks to Smiley Roberts, I looked up and saw fifty derby hats looking back atme and like to have lost it. Smiley is a long time friend who has expressed hisfriendship to me in many different ways over the years, but I must say he peggedthe meter Saturday night. Please thank your friend for me for helping makeSaturday night one that I'll never forget. 