Nature’s marvel - Living root bridge - Yusuf Ratlamwala Meghalaya is not just one of the cleanest state of the country but also one of the most beautiful state. Tourism here is not at the peak and hence there are many hidden gems like  Dawki  yet to be discovered. During my travel to the north east I made a point to visit these less known places and also the iconic ones. Which brought me to one of the most famous places here, the  Double Decker Living Root Bridge . This place is truly nature’s wonder and you have to see it to believe the way nature has architect these bridges. However even after being such an iconic place of the world, it witnesses far less tourists, reason for it being the accessibility issue. These bridges are deep in the mountains covered by thick wood. You can reach the bridges by trekking down a complete mountain and climbing half of the adjacent one. It has approximately 2000 steps one way and these are pretty steep at few spots. It is not recommended for seniors and women carrying another life within them, try to avoid it if you aren’t fit to walk for hours, it took us total of 5 hours to visit this place and come back to our vehicles. Avoid carrying anything more than a bottle of water and few sandwiches/biscuits. Although eatables are available near the spot. Wear light clothes as the trek generates enough heat in you even in winter season. A stick would be a helpful aid while climbing up. However you shouldn’t be disheartened if you couldn’t do this trek, Living root bridge can also be seen at another place with relatively small trek that takes 10-15mins to reach. This is located in Riwai village near Mawlynnong. Seniors and pregnant ladies can reach here with little help too.  That’s all you need to know, now let’s start out virtual trek. Starting the trek Trekking down Waterfall   on the way. Adventurous route towards bridge Adventurous route towards bridge As the trek cuts through thick woods you see lot of macro life bustling around you Oakleaf Butterfly Giant Spider The trek starts with you going down one mountain and climbing another one, however as you reach the lowermost point of the valley you see suspension bridges which takes you across to foot of another mountain.  Expert locale walking over suspended bridge like a boss First suspension bridge First suspension bridge One of the most beautiful part of this trek is a surreal looking river in the valley below the second and third suspension bridge. When you are tired and covered almost 60% of the path towards the living root bridge, gasping for breath, thirsty, exhausted… you see the first glance of this lagoon across the woods and it comes to you as a lagoon in heaven. First glance @ the heavenly lagoon Lagoon Lagoon Lagoon Lagoon Aerial view of the fall Mini lagoon Lagoon 2nd and 3rd suspension bridge over the blue waters Closer look at the fall Once you get back to your senses and feel rejuvenated to continue towards your destination it’s just another 30 mins to be there. Just across this lagoon is a small hut serving you tea and food. And you are almost there… Welcome to the bridge Small bridge before the double bridge Living root bridge Living root bridge Living root bridge Living root bridge View from the 2nd level root bridge Another pond with crystal clear water, what more could you wish for? If you have complete day to your disposal you can choose to spend time in these lagoons and have time of your life, unlike us since we had our parents awaiting us back up there 🙂 I couldn’t capture even a part of the heavenly beauty this place possesses. Heavenly pool near the root bridge Heavenly pool near the root bridge Heavenly pool near the root bridge 2 levels of root bridge Panoramic view of root bridge The marvel   Double decker root bridge After relaxing for 30 mins we walked back across the bridge… Crossing suspension bridge Epilogue Double decker living root bridge is an iconic location of Meghalaya. It is undoubtedly one of the wonders of nature. It is situated deep inside woods across mountain and can be accessed only by foot. Trek to the bridge takes around 2-2.5 hours. It’s recommended to travel light and carry just a bottle of water, wear light clothes and carry a stick if possible. However the destination is worth the effort. At the bottom of valley is present a surreal lagoon which rejuvenates you and fills you with life again. Overall the complete trek is amazing and must visit place, although not recommended for seniors and pregnant ladies. Riwai village is another substitute to see living root bridges if you aren’t willing to trek for 4-5 hours. To conclude the double decker living root bridges are undoubtedly nature’s marvel. The pics r amazing didnt knew there was such a beautiful place in india Thanks Mini. India is full of surprises its just time we discover some :). Keep hooked there is more to come. Comments are closed. 