Captain Marvel - Brie Larson ' s role in Avengers Infinity War end credits scene REVEALED | Films | Entertainment | Express.co.uk Don ' t have an account?  Register Register with email Already have an account?  Sign in By registering I understand and agree to the  Terms of use & Privacy policy By registering I understand and agree to the  Terms of use & Privacy policy Please provide your site password to link to your existing account or  click here  to create a new account Please enter your email address to reset your password Sign in with a different account The email should arrive straight away, it may be in your spam. The link will expire after 24 hours.  We value your privacy   We and our partners use technologies, such as cookies, and process personal data, such as IP addresses and cookie identifiers, to personalise ads and content based on your interests, measure the performance of ads and content, and derive insights about the audiences who saw ads and content. Click below to consent to the use of this technology and the processing of your personal data for these purposes. You can change your mind and change your consent choices at any time by returning to this site.   Powered by  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. WARNING: Spoilers ahead for Avengers: Infinity War. Fans had been speculating that Carol Danvers would make an unannounced appearance in the film, perhaps in a post-credits sequence. Even though Larson is only officially slated to arrive in  her own solo movie next spring  before getting in on the action in Avengers 4, many had wondered if  Marvel  would surprise us. Ultimately, Captain Marvel did have a part to play in Infinity War - but Larson herself was not seen. MARVEL GETTY In a post-credits sequence, Samuel L Jackson s Nick Fury was shocked to witness The Snap taking place - as a result of Thanos collecting all of the Infinity Stones, giving him the power to wipe out half of humanity. Fury collected a mysterious communication device and hurriedly sent out some kind of message, which the screen said was  SENDING . When it went through, Captain Marvel s recognisable logo showed up on its screen - indicating that she has been made aware of what is going on. What exactly that means in terms of where she had been in the run-up to that moment, and why she hasn t been involved at all in the MCU thus far, remains to be seen.  [] MARVEL Larson was at the Infinity War premiere and tweeted her excitement afterwards, helping to set up the hype for its release. WE SAW INFINITY WAR AND KNOW EVERYTHING THAT HAPPENS IN IT OMG,  she exclaimed. Filming is ongoing for the project, with Kevin Feige revealing on the red carpet last week that the cast had been allowed to finish early for the day so they could attend the premiere. GETTY  [] Avengers: Infinity War has had huge success so far, amassing the top-grossing opening weekend ever in both the US and worldwide. Ant-Man and the Wasp is the next entry in the saga, due for release in the summer (and set before the events of Infinity War), while Captain Marvel - also set beforehand - arrives in the spring. Avengers: Infinity War is out now. Wednesday, 18th December 2019  See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper,order back issues and use the historic Daily Expressnewspaper archive. 