Mukesh Steel (India) - Manufacturer from Kumbharwada, Mumbai, India | Profile is a Verified member of IndiaMART Following details of the company have been verified IndiaMART InterMESH Ltd. 7th Floor, Advant-Navis Business Park, Plot No-7, Sector-142, Noida, UP Find answers to your queries Join Now Secure  &  hassle-free payments Home > Building  &  Construction > Steel Pipes and Tubes | GST  27ABIPJ9999E1ZY | Verified Supplier Incorporated in the year  1993 , at  Mumbai (Maharashtra, India ), We  Mukesh Steel (India)  are the trusted  Manufacturer, Exporter  and  Supplier  of an exclusive assortment of  Stainless Steel Pipe, Stainless Steel Tube, Stainless Steel Fittings, Stainless Steel Forged Fittings, Stainless Steel Electro polish Fittings, Stainless Steel Bend, Alloy Steels Products,  etc. The offered product range is procured from the reliable vendors of the market, who precisely design and manufacture these products in adherence to international quality standards utilizing quality approved raw material and most advanced manufacturing technology under the guidance of their adroit professionals. These products are highly admired in the market for high durability, sturdy construction, precise dimension and rust resistance. In order to fulfill the diverse requirements of our clients in the most efficient manner, we provide these products in various specifications at economical prices. With the help of our liable procurement agents, we have developed a wide base of authentic and certified vendors, who ensure to deliver high performance products as per the specific needs of clients. We have selected these vendors on the ground of past records of accomplishments, market reputation, product quality, financial condition, ability to meet large and urgent orders, etc. Due to rightful efforts of our hardworking employees, we have been able to deliver products within assured time period at clients end. Our excellent management system ensures smooth business process that has helped us to grow as the leading player in this domain. All our team members work round the clock in order to fulfill the predetermined goals of the organization. Additionally, we have segregated our team into various departments such as procurement agents, quality controllers, sales  &  marketing personnel and delivery staff to carry out our business operation smoothly. Leveraging on our quality standards, we have been able to satisfy clients that are spread all across the nation, we ensure our clients with high quality range of industrial tools as per their specific requirements. The offered products are procured from reliable vendors of the industry. All our offered products are rigorously tested by our quality controllers in adherence to the international quality standards to ensure that clients get high performance products. Apart from this, we have developed a large and spacious well-developed warehousing unit where our products are kept in original shape and size. This unit is equipped with all the requisite machines and equipment that are needed to keep the products safely. Owing to our ethical business policies and transparent business dealings, we have been able to set benchmarks in this domain. Under the stewardship of our proprietor,  Mr. Manoj Jain , we have been able to maintain our leading position in the industry. His in-depth knowledge and rich industry experience have enabled us to reach the heights of success and cater to a large client base across the country. Basic Information Statutory Profile In order to achieve complete client satisfaction as well as to meet the international quality standards, we procure our offered products from the certified vendors of the market. We maintain a steady relationship with our vendors and they also cooperate with us. Furthermore, we make sure that the offered range of products is highly reliable and durable. Our strong vendor base helps us to deliver high quality products to clients within the scheduled time frame and enables us to maintain our success as a leading company in this domain. Our main objective is to establish our presence all across the globe and provide profitable experience for the buyer through our transparent dealing. Empowered with modern technology and backed by excellent team of experienced professionals. We aim to provide customer satisfaction and bring up the culture of teamwork to achieve our target production capacity within the stipulated time frame. We have gained a strong hold in the competitive market due to our capability of offering a range of high quality  Stainless Steel Pipe, Stainless Steel Tube, Stainless Steel Fittings,  etc. By the virtue of our ethical business policies, we are counted among the preferable enterprises in national markets. The factors that always keep us one step ahead of our counterparts in the market are as follows: Timely delivery of consignments Association with the reliable vendors International standard of products Innovative work approach Team of experts having in-depth knowledge  &  experience in relative fields Vast industry experience Single platform for multiple products Our Company Reach Us  Mukesh Steel (India) No. 110/112, Laxmi Building, Shop No. 3, Sant Sena Maharaj Marg, Kumbharwada,  Mumbai-400004, Maharashtra, India Manoj  Jain (Owner) View Mobile Number 