Is Your Phobia Or Fear Getting In The Way Of Your Life? Most phobias start for one of three reasons. This is usually from a parent. We instinctively copy our parents and this is usually a good idea. Unfortunately if you parent has a phobia of clowns then there is a chance that you will too. Linking an unpleasant experience with a thing or item can lead to a phobia developing. This is even possible if the object had nothing to do with the negative experience. Sometimes people have a phobia and absolutely no idea at all as to how it developed. Many people we work with are initially worried that we will expose them to their phobia in real life. If you have a fear of spiders we will NOT bring spiders into the room and make you cope. We do not believe that this is the best way to bring about change. Hypnotherapy could help you get a different perspective on your  phobia . That part of you that knows that your fear is silly or irrational can be made louder and bigger. The part of you that has developed the fear can also be reduced and put aside so you can feel better and happier. It really doesn't matter where you got your phobia from or why. Through hypnotherapy you will be able to focus on how you want to feel in the future. Many people in Sheffield have found that hypnotherapy can help you get over your phobia, as my many reviews prove. I regularly treat people at my Sheffield hypnotherapy practice for  phobias  and have had some amazing results. You may know that it is irrational to be so afraid of spiders/clowns/balloons or whatever your phobia is but that doesn't make it any easier to deal with. In fact, it can sometimes make it worse when you know on one level that a tiny little English spider could never hurt you and yet you are afraid of it. You can rest assured that I will take your phobia very seriously, even if you think it's silly or embarrassing.  Click here to arrange a free and confidential chat on the phone with Richard, your hypnotherapist, about beating your phobia Much more common than you might realise. Most people keep their phobia to themselves and it isn't too big a problem for them. For some people though, phobias take over their life and really get in the way. The good news though is that phobias are often: Hypnotherapy in Sheffield with Focused Hypnosis could be just what you need to end your phobia and start living your life on your terms once again. "I have flown to Holland and back with ZERO anxiety and am looking forward to flying to Portugal in a couple of weeks" Tim's fear of flying phobia review This Ted Talk on phobias is only short but really interesting and well worth a watch When people tell us what their phobia is they often start their confession with the words "You will probably think this is strange but..." or "I'm so weird..." Phobias are not strange or weird. They are often a perfectly normal and understandable reactions. They are often due to uncontrolled thoughts and feelings that are practised and made familiar. A study of 2000 people done by the polling company Yougov found the  thirteen most common fears and phobias . People were asked to rate possible phobias from 'not at all' to 'very afraid'. The results are from people who responded that they were very afraid or a little afraid. Some of the fears and phobias are very common, some are a little surprising. Many people we have treated at the Focused Hypnosis Sheffield hypnotherapy practice had a phobia which had taken over their life to some extent. Through hypnotherapy we helped them to move past it and to enjoy their life once again. Hypnotherapy is a fantastic way of addressing a phobia. If you have a dental phobia you probably have quite a few uncontrolled thoughts. Hypnotherapy can help you to regain control and to see a dentist without feeling like you used to. A public speaking phobia is the most common fear in the UK. Hypnotherapy can be a great way to change how you feel about speaking in public. It is completely natural and can be very effective. Focused Hypnosis,  635b Abbeydale Rd,  Sheffield,  S7 1TB, 0114 383 0123 {  "@context": "https://www.schema.org",  "@type": "ProfessionalService",  "name": "Focused Hypnosis",  "url": "https://sheffield-hypnosis.co.uk",  "logo": "https://www.sheffield-hypnosis.co.uk/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/focused-hypnosis-logo-1080px.jpg",  "image": "https://www.sheffield-hypnosis.co.uk/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/money-back-guarantee-800px.png",  "description": "Focused Hypnosis is a group practice so we have several hypnotherapists available. This means that we can see you faster than other therapists and can see you ata  time to suit you. A range of therapists means that you have the best chance of working with a hypnotherapist skilled at treating the issue you want to change whcih can increase your chance of success. We provide a free recording of all treatment sessions and we offer a satisfaction guarantee. Call for a free chat about what you wnat to change.",  "address": {    "@type": "PostalAddress",    "streetAddress": "635b Abbeydale Rd",    "addressLocality": "Sheffield",    "addressRegion": "South Yorkshire",    "postalCode": "S7 1TB",    "addressCountry": "England"  },  "geo": {    "@type": "GeoCoordinates",    "latitude": "53.356059",    "longitude": "-1.484426"  },  "hasMap": "https://www.google.com/maps/dir/53.3489742,-1.4875301/focused+hypnosis/@53.3529145,-1.4919026,16z/data=!4m9!4m8!1m1!4e1!1m5!1m1!1s0x4879787f9d7785d7:0x3cab1ea444ecb019!2m2!1d-1.4844569!2d53.3559633",  "openingHours": "Mo, Tu, We, Th, Fr, Sa, Su 09:00-19:00",  "contactPoint": {    "@type": "ContactPoint",    "telephone": "+441143830123",    "contactType": "Customer service"  }} 