Kitchen Fitters in High Wycombe - Find a trade with Checkatrade. Cookie Policy We use cookies to personalise content and ads, to provide social media features and to analyse our traffic. We also share information about your use of our site with our social media, advertising and analytics partners. Your Privacy Strictly Necessary Cookies Performance Cookies Functional Cookies Targeting Cookies More Information Privacy Preference Centre Active Always Active Get Inspired! Check the latest industry expertise and read insider tips from our vetted tradespeople. Have you completed a project recently? Let your tradesperson know how they did. We interview and vet all our tradespeople to ensure they meet our high standards. Grow your business! Check out top tips and expert advice for boosting your reputation online. Join us and benefit from the millions of potential customers who use Checkatrade to find reliable tradespeople. Edit your profile, view callback requests and ask for feedback from customers. At Derek Barrett Design I believe the process of creating exceptional furniture begins and ends with a close and careful understanding of my clients desires and functional requirements. Only... Secure contact. More info With over 25 years of experience, specialising in bathrooms  &  plumbing, call me today for further information! Secure contact. More info At Diera Joinery, we pride ourselves on our high attention to detail and always provide a high quality service. Please give us a call today for a free estimate. Secure contact. More info All aspects of plumbing and tiling undertaken, from a dripping tap, to full refurbishments, we also are also suppliers of kitchens and bathrooms at very competitive prices. Secure contact. More info Furniture by Design Ltd are based in Wendover, we provide a free no obligation consultation for the design, supply and installation of fitted furniture for your Kitchen, Bedroom or Secure contact. More info Local family run plumbing  &  heating company since 1948. Experienced Gas Safe  &  Oil engineers. Boiler finance  &  up to 10 year warranty available. Reliable local plumbers. FREE QUOTATIONS. Secure contact. More info Bathrooms, Kitchens, Plumbing, Carpentry, Tiling Secure contact. More info Specialising in kitchen fitting, bathroom and wet room installations, all aspects of tiling: natural stone, ceramic, porcelain, mosaics, interior and exterior. Complete home renovations. Secure contact. More info Hi my name is James and I'm a Carpenter and provide all property maintenance . Please give me a call on 07831 652 222 to see how I can help you today and view my page for more information. Secure contact. More info Kitchen, bathroom and bedroom fitting ,carpentry, painting and decorating, plumbing, plastering and tiling.. from floors to doors, cupboards and more, fully qualified 25 years experience.. Secure contact. More info Tim Builders LTD have been established since 2002 and we have over 35 years '  of experience in the trade.Call for extensions, loft converstions and full house refurbishments! Secure contact. More info Covering London - New Builds, Extensions, Loft Conversions, Shop Fitting, Office Refurbishments, Plumbing, Refurbishment, Kitchens, Bathrooms, Paving, Brickwork. Secure contact. More info As a family run business, Dream Doors Chilterns understands the need to make a house a home. By offering a made to measure kitchen design service, owner Mark will make sure that every... Secure contact. More info We have been designing and installing kitchens and bathrooms for over 15 years. This gives us an extensive wealth of experience, knowledge and expertise in all aspects of home improvements. Secure contact. More info I am a highly motivated, reliable, trustworthy and talented individual with over 5 years of experience within the maintenance industry. I specialise in all sorts of bathroom  & ... Secure contact. More info At MPG Construction we provide extensions, renovations and home improvements in Buckinghamshire – from the initial design to structural works and final decoration and flooring. Secure contact. More info Hi! I am Cristian Marin, the owner of MCM CONSTRUCT LTD, a family run business with an experience of 8 years.Offering a wide range of services with a 2 years guarantee for craftsmanship... Secure contact. More info All aspects of Building, Refurbs  &  Fibre Roof works. Call today for a free quote Secure contact. More info Kitchens, Plumber, Bathrooms, Kitchen Fitters, Disabled Kitchens, General Plumbing, Granite Worktops, Kitchen Appliance Supplier, Kitchen Designers, Kitchen Doors, Radiators and Valves Secure contact. More info Established in 1991 serving Harrow, London and the surrounding areas for over 25 years offering local and friendly carpentry services. Over the years we have expanded our services to meet... Secure contact. More info Trade distance in miles Local Feedback Search Feedback Recent Feedback Type of work We use cookies to help make this website better. Here is how we use them . You can change the cookie settings on your browser. Otherwise, we’ll assume you’re OK to continue.  Checkatrade.com all rights reserved 