The Arizona Justice Project   AZ Justice Project Indigence is frequently associated with injustice and the quality of justice suffers as a result. To prevent denial of access to justice, members from the Arizona Attorneys for Criminal Justice founded the Arizona Justice Project in 1998. Its mission is to represent indigent Arizona inmates whose claims of innocence or manifest injustice have gone unheeded. Every time an accused goes to prison without having received a fair trial, we are one step closer to the loss of our own freedoms. In fact, there is no greater punishment than that imposed on the innocent. The Arizona Justice Project reviews and assists in Cases of Actual Innocence or cases in which a Manifest Injustice has occurred. To date, the Arizona Justice Project has received over 6,000 requests for assistance, and currently has between 40 to 50 cases in post-conviction relief proceedings under the supervision of a review team. Oftentimes, the Arizona Justice Project is a last resort for men and women who have been failed by our justice system. Their voices would go unheard and sadly, many innocent people would remain wrongfully behind bars without the hard work of our Arizona Justice Project staff and volunteers. Our review teams generally consist of an Arizona Justice Project staff person or a volunteer lawyer supervisor paired with law students from the Arizona State University College of Law and the University of Arizona College of Law. In addition, the Arizona Justice Project is fortunate to have the help of some of the best investigators in Arizona who spend countless hours tracking down vital information, witnesses, and evidence in our cases. In an ongoing effort to both correct past injustices and prevent future wrongful convictions, the Arizona Justice Project distributes a newsletter to help educate the public on the misconceptions surrounding wrongful convictions. It also keeps our supporters updated on our various cases under review, CLE events, legislative projects, groundbreaking forensic science and much more. Please subscribe to our newsletter by entering your email address at the bottom of this page. Thank you! Your submission has been received! Oops! Please try again later. 