Bathroom Remodeling Company Lancaster | Bathroom Renovation Lancaster  PO Box 53 Millersville, PA 17551 (717) 371-5136 Serving Lancaster County Since 1999 Financing Something For Everyone Our Reputation Click Here To Learn More Current Local Report Click Here To Download Is your bathroom outdated? Need more space? Or is it just not as functional as you would like? If so, it may be time to remodel.  MBC Building  &  Remodeling, LLC  are experts in everything bathroom remodeling; sinks, floors, countertops, trim, painting… we do it all. Whether you want a new sink in a small half-bath or want to create a spa in your own home, MBC knows exactly what to do. Did you know that remodeling your bathroom can make one of the largest impacts on your home’s resale value?  In fact, a bathroom remodel yields about a 62% return on your investment on average. And this doesn’t account for you and your family’s enjoyment while you live in your home. So, if you think you might want to sell one day, you should not only consider what will work best for your family, but what other homeowners might look for, as well. Mike and his team follow all of the hottest trends in bathroom design. And we bring those ideas to you. We’ll take care of the work so you can concentrate on selecting the perfect accents for your bathroom. We can also strategize on ways to open up more bath space with some of the most innovative contractor techniques in Lancaster County, PA.  At each appointment, we can provide you with product brochures to help you decide exactly what route you want to go with the fixtures, flooring and more. And, as always, we maintain constant  &  clear communication ensuring that we are always on the same page. Click here to see our bathroom portfolio. If we seem like the kind of company you’d like to do business with, please contact us for a FREE Home Improvement Consultation at:  (717) 371-5136  or email us at:  Mike@MBCRemodeling.com © 2018 | Development, design, and responsive layout by Monopolize Your Marketplace. 