Punjab  &  Sind Bank Result 2018-19 DGM/AGM Exam Results www.psbindia.com|Recruitment, Result, Application Form, Admit Card Recruitmentresult.com Provides Latest Government Job Notifications, Sarkari Naukri And Entrance Exam Select Pages 10th Pass Jobs 12th Pass Jobs Graduate Jobs Post Graduate Jobs Diploma Jobs B.Tech Jobs MBA Jobs BBA Jobs BCA Jobs MCA Jobs Medical Jobs B.ED Jobs M.Com Jobs B.Com Jobs B.Sc Jobs B.E Jobs Ph.D Jobs IT Jobs M.sc Jobs M.Tech Jobs ITI Jobs Engineering Jobs Law Jobs Punjab  &  Sind Bank Result  2018 has been uploaded by the Bank on its official web portal for the recruitment examination of DGM/AGM Post. Concerned individuals can now check and download their Punjab  &  Sind BankResultsby looking for roll number in the PDF list. The Punjab  &  Sind Bank had conducted the online written examination on 29-09-2018 to recruit eligible candidates for the vacancies of Deputy General Manager, Assistant General Manager and Chief Manager. And now the Organisation has uploaded the list of the selected individuals for these vacancies. Check Here   Punjab  &  Sind Bank Result Individuals, who had appeared in the recruitment examination, can now check the Punjab and Sind Bank Result by hitting on the direct link that is mentioned below. Or you can also follow some simple steps (explained below) to get the PSB Result from the official website. Gather more detailed information about the Punjab  &  Sind Bank Result 2018 for DGM/AGM by scrolling through the below section of this web page which is well created and presented by the team members of recruitmentresult.com. Status of PSB Results:  DECLARED  PSB Recruitment Exam Results      You Can Also Get: Latest Bank Jobs Procedure to check the PSB Exam Results     Those who are interested to check the Punjab and Sind Bank Exam Result from the official Web portal, they can follow these steps- Get Here  Punjab  &  Sind Bank Result About the Punjab and Sind Bank Results   The Punjab  &  Sind Bank has recently announced the Result of Lateral Recruitment of Deputy General Managers, Assistant General Managers and Chief Manager on the official web portal of the Bank. Individuals who had applied for the recruitment and had appeared for the online examination on 29-09-2018 must check their Punjab and Sind Bank Exam Results and appear for the further recruitment process. Note: Those who wish to get more detailed information about the Punjab  &  Sind Bank Result 2018; they can visit the  Official Website  of the Organization. You can also like our facebook page to get the latest updates about all recruitment activities on your timeline directly. Something That You Should Put An Eye On  Name  (Required)  Mail (will not be published)  (Required)  Select Pages Jobs in AP Jobs in Assam Jobs in Bangalore Jobs in Bihar Jobs in Chennai Jobs in Chhattisgarh Jobs in Delhi Jobs in Gujarat Jobs in HP Jobs in Hyderabad Jobs in Haryana Jobs in Jharkhand Jobs in Kerala Jobs in Karnataka Jobs in Kolkata Jobs in Lucknow Jobs in Maharashtra Jobs in MP Jobs in Orissa Jobs in Pune Jobs in Punjab Jobs in Rajasthan Jobs in Tamilnadu Jobs in Uttarakhand Jobs in Uttar Pradesh Jobs in West Bengal window.dataLayer = window.dataLayer || [];  function gtag(){dataLayer.push(arguments);}  gtag('js', new Date());   gtag('config', 'UA-35273439-1'); Sitemap  |  About Us  |  Privacy Policy  |  Disclaimer  |  Contact Us 