PMBOK Guide Information Tools Techniques Dashboard Profile Orders Knowledge Resources Report PDUs on CCRS Review Application Status Project Management Professional (PMP) ® Portfolio Management Professional (PfMP) ® PMI Agile Certified Practitioner (PMI-ACP) ® PMI Professional in Business Analysis (PMI-PBA) ® Program Management Professional (PgMP) ® Certified Associate in Project Management (CAPM) ® PMI Risk Management Professional (PMI-RMP) ® PMI Scheduling Professional (PMI-SP) ® Report PDUs on CCRS Pulse of the Profession Thought Leadership Series PM Network ® PMI Today ® Project Management Journal ® Talent Triangle PMI Online Courses Projectified Podcast News for Project Managers SeminarsWorld ® Webinars Registered Education Providers (R.E.P.s) PM EDGE Find a Job Post a Job 5 October - 7 October 2019 | Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 3 November - 6 November 2019 | Denver, Colorado PMI Standards Development Get Involved With Standards Current PMI Standards Projects Learn more about  A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK ®  Guide)  – Sixth Edition. Agile Program Management Risk All Products PMBOK ®  Guide Exam Preparation PMI Educational Foundation Article  January 2001  PM Network Berg, Cynthia A. How to cite this article: Log in or join PMI to gain access Log In or Account Registration Advertisement Advertisement  2 December 2019   Project Management Institute President and CEO Leads Keynote on Future Industry Trends at DIPMF  Article Scheduling ,  Energy  &  Utilities  1 December 2019  PM Network  By Fister Gale, Sarah   India's skyrocketing growth is only matched by its surging demand for energy—expected to roughly double over the next two decades. With India on pace to consume more than 10 percent of the global…  Article Innovation ,  Change Management  1 December 2019  PM Network  By Ali, Ambreen   The race is on. As the demand for online purchases and fast delivery increases, retailers are clamoring to build new warehouses, leading to a boom in construction. And, to stay ahead of the pack,…  Article Communications Management ,  Stakeholder Engagement ,  Healthcare  1 December 2019  PM Network  By Parsi, Novid   As hospitals and other facilities raise the bar on health outcomes and experiences, teams are shaping projects from a patient's perspective—and it starts long before anyone seeks treatment. Whether…  Article Change Management ,  Leadership  1 December 2019  PM Network  By Bishel, Ashley   Changing horses midstream is rarely a good idea, conventional wisdom would have it. But in the business world, change is nearly impossible to avoid. Projects often stretch for months-- sometimes…  Advertisement Publishing or acceptance of an advertisement is neither a guarantee nor endorsement of the advertiser's product or service.  View advertising policy . 2019 Project Management Institute, Inc. USA 