Hanzy Name Meaning  &  Hanzy Family History at Ancestry.com.au® 14-Day Free Trial GET STARTED Historically, surnames evolved as a way to sort people into groups - by occupation, place of origin, clan affiliation, patronage, parentage, adoption, and even physical characteristics (like red hair). Many of the modern surnames in the dictionary can be traced back to Britain and Ireland. Simply start with yourself and we &# x27;ll do the searching for you. US shown, AU data unavailable View Census Data for  Hanzy  Census records can tell you a lot of little known facts about your Hanzy ancestors, such as occupation. Occupation can tell you about your ancestor &# x27;s social and economic status. View  Census data for Hanzy Census Record There are 76 census records available for the last name Hanzy. Like a window into their day-to-day life, Hanzy census records can tell you where and how your ancestors worked, their level of education, veteran status, and more. Passenger List There are 12 immigration records available for the last name Hanzy. Passenger lists are your ticket to knowing when your ancestors arrived in Australia, and how they made the journey - from the ship name to ports of arrival and departure. Draft Card There are 22 military records available for the last name Hanzy. For the veterans among your Hanzy ancestors, military collections provide insights into where and when they served, and even physical descriptions. Census Record There are 76 census records available for the last name Hanzy. Like a window into their day-to-day life, Hanzy census records can tell you where and how your ancestors worked, their level of education, veteran status, and more. Passenger List There are 12 immigration records available for the last name Hanzy. Passenger lists are your ticket to knowing when your ancestors arrived in Australia, and how they made the journey - from the ship name to ports of arrival and departure. Draft Card There are 22 military records available for the last name Hanzy. For the veterans among your Hanzy ancestors, military collections provide insights into where and when they served, and even physical descriptions. You &# x27;ve only scratched the surface of  Hanzy  family history. Between 1965 and 2003, in the United States, Hanzy life expectancy was at its lowest point in 1985, and highest in 1973. The average life expectancy for Hanzy in 1965 was 73, and 74 in 2003. View  Social Security Death Index (SSDI) for Hanzy An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your Hanzy ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names. You can find birthdates, death dates, addresses and more. Discover the unique achievements of ancestors in your family tree Browse profiles of historical people with the Hanzy last name 