Pin on Mario drawing luigis having trouble here lol if you guys dont get the grandpa simpson thing its the episode where grandpas kindeys burst and homer has to give him one... super mario bros page 23 laughing gas? lol we &# x27;ve all had those moments where you laugh so hard at the littlest/most stupidest things XD Previous page: [link] Next page: [link] super mario bros page 42 Sorry for the lack of dialouge here. Atleast its out of the way now... and not to sound rude or anything but..I would apperciate it if some of you would... super mario bros page 36 One of the three choices on my poll here: nintendrawer.deviantart.com/jo… Anyways, tis a reference from one of my old OLD pages of MzM nintendraw... Teen: Awkward Walk In i had to make mario give one of those pep talks again lol bullet bills will come later in the comic :3 dont think i forgot about them enjoy Previous pag... super mario bros page 35 I feel for those two, I really do. It &# x27;s freakin &# x27; cold here and we just keep getting more snow I &# x27;ve gone to another level of random with the snowman, hah... Super Mario Bros page 55 DeviantArt is the world &# x27;s largest online social community for artists and art enthusiasts, allowing people to connect through the creation and sharing of art. I was gonna hold this off until I posted MzM ( Meet zah Marios ) but I still have quite a bit of work to do. So whut the hell! I decided to upload this ... super mario bros page 41 DeviantArt is the world &# x27;s largest online social community for artists and art enthusiasts, allowing people to connect through the creation and sharing of art. sorry for the long wait at first i didnt like this pg too much but now i kinda like it the cheep cheeps and the hammer bros pissed me off on this  > . & ... super mario bros page 24 Before everyone goes and complains.... i apologize about the placement -/////- i know its messy, so i DONT need everyone telling me this ( since im sayi... meet zah marios pg 4 first page of the year I actually had some fun with the water panels this time. Also with how the bros are dressed up lol~ Its fun working with just the... super mario bros page 46 third castle now only 5 more to go if anybody has a problem with the swearing ( like shit ass hell or crap ) then dont read this and then comment and sa... super mario bros page 26 Explore the Super Mario Bros Comic collection - the favourite images chosen by GreenEinhornCx on DeviantArt. Este comic fue hecho por Nintendrawer: Traduccion al Español por mi En el comic podemos ver que hace referencia al Plumb-Fu del Super Mario Bros. S... Super Mario Bros. - 049 Frustrated much, Luigi? This was one of the easier pages to put together and I would have had it up a few days earlier, but I was on and off with things... Meet zah Marios page 24 seeing them get hit on the head so much gives me a headache lol return of zah lakitu ( i &# x27;ll probably work him in other pgs too XP ) and those gaps with ... super mario bros page 38 castle 4 now only four more after this one so ya its been a while since MB was posted, cause if you dont remember...i put it on hold to finish i &# x27;d ... super mario bros page 31 second bowser so meh enjoy lol if u dont know the tiger claw thing its from a movie called  " the new guy "  lol luigi turned out a little small on the thir... super mario bros page 21 