Janshri Dairy Magic Cattle Feed, Packaging Type: PP Bags, Rs 900 /bag | ID: 18467700655 is a Verified member of IndiaMART Following details of the company have been verified IndiaMART InterMESH Ltd. 7th Floor, Advant-Navis Business Park, Plot No-7, Sector-142, Noida, UP Find answers to your queries Join Now Secure  &  hassle-free payments  Quantity Janshri Dairy Magic is manufactured and formulated  especially for high yielding cattle or buffalo, keeping in mind their  special nutritional requirements. Feeding Janshri Dairy Magic helps the high yielding animals to maintain their basic composition of Fat  &  SNF in the milk. Feeding Janshri Dairy Magic to animals gradually enhances milk production, without causing stress to the animals. Animals  fed on Janshri Dairy Magic produce milk with more Calcium, Potassium,  Phosphorus, Protein, Vitamins A, D  &  B12 Riboflavin  &  Niacin  which helps children and aged people to a better nutrition. Free from any preservative, added colour or flavour. Established in the year of  2013, Jan Vikas Multi Purpose Co-operative Society Limited  is involved in  manufacturing and wholesaling  a huge compilation of  Cattle Feed and Cattle Feed Pellet .  Manufactured making use of supreme in class material and progressive  machinery; these are in conformism with the norms and guidelines defined  by the market. C-9/207, 2nd Floor, Hathua Market, Chetganj   Varanasi - 221001, Uttar Pradesh, India  Neel Kant Pashu Aahar Brand : Dairy king Packaging Type : PP Bags Cattle Feed Brand : Jamuna Fat : 4% Koda Khalii (Mixer in Khali) Brand : Prabhawati pashua aahar Packaging Type : Loose Amrit Varsha Super Cattle Feed Brand : Amrit Varsha Weight (kg) : 50 kg, also available in 25 kg Coker Cattle Feed Brand : M.v food Cattle Feed Briquette Brand : Annkoot Regarded as a leading business name, we are betrothed in the realm of providing to our customers a comprehensive range of  Cattle Feed Briquette . Calf Starter Cattle Feed Brand : Kisan  Quantity Have a requirement? Get Best Price 