Hall of Monuments - Guild Wars 2 Wiki (GW2W) Hall of Monuments Map of Hall of Monuments Hall of Monuments The  Hall of Monuments  is a ruined shrine found in the  Eye of the North , located within the  Far Shiverpeaks . It was constructed to commemorate the deeds of a long-dead  hero  who  defeated the Great Destroyer , which refers to player characters from the original  Guild Wars . The Hall is the reward system that allows players of the original game to access unique rewards for use in  Guild Wars 2 . Rewards include a full  armor set  for each weight, several pieces of  standalone armor ,  miniatures , and  pets  for  Rangers . All items are free, and in addition, all skins can be applied for free via the  wardrobe  from anywhere in the game. Each new point the player earns unlocks a new reward, up until 30 points. Additionally, every 5 points unlocks a new  title , all the way to the maximum, 50 points. The reward system works by linking a player's Guild Wars account with their Guild Wars 2 account. While playing  Guild Wars: Eye of the North , players can earn points by completing certain tasks, such as obtaining a rare mini-pet, or by completing campaigns. By linking their accounts at  account.guildwars2.com , their points from  Eye of the North  are transferred to their Guild Wars 2 account, which unlocks the appropriate rewards in the Hall of Monuments. Players who have not played Guild Wars for an extended period of time may need to log in and talk to  Kimmes the Historian  in order to complete the account link. Players who have already  linked  their accounts will have a  Hall of Monuments Portal Stone  in their inventory whenever they create a character. Portal Stones can also be purchased for free from  Sarettokk  within  Hooligan's Route  in  Lion's Arch . Sarettokk sells stones even to players who don't have their accounts linked, and to players who haven't played the original Guild Wars. These players can also visit the Hall of Monuments, though will naturally be unable to access any of the rewards. Awarded for every point from 1-30. Awarded every 5 points from 15-30. Awarded every 5 points from 5-50. Access to  Kimmes the Historian  was disabled for nearly five months from  mid-March  to the  end of July  in 2015, after a bug was introduced which awarded players with Hall of Monuments achievements, and their associated titles and points, without having earned them. The fix that was eventually implemented was to have the game dynamically determine at every login whether the account should be credited for the achievements. Ever since this fix, some accounts may occasionally receive the mail below and find that their  achievements , but not rewards, have been revoked. This is caused when server issues interrupt the link between  Guild Wars  and  Guild Wars 2 , and is a harmless,  temporary  issue that can typically be ignored until it resolves itself. [ 1 ]  If the problem persists, speaking with Kimmes and/or following the steps outlined in the notes section below should fix it. Affected accounts receive the following in-game mail: Scholar Aiti LOR-748 Title-Issuing Error Greetings, My records indicate you are one of the recent recipients of the title "God Walking Amongst Mere Mortals." Congratulations! However, I have some unfortunate news. Your title was the result of my golem, LOR-748, believing you earned the honor and issuing this esteemed accolade. Now, there's no way my golem made any sort of miscalculation, which means there is only one explanation: the Eternal Alchemy itself is wrong. To clarify, the illegal modifications I made to LOR-748's title-issuing program had absolutely nothing to do with this title-issuing mistake. In an effort to remedy this error—again, not mine—your title and any other unearned Hall of Monuments rewards must be revoked. This is regrettable, but the Alchemy is a living thing that, if not corrected, corrects itself—and no one wants to leave this up to the uncaring universe. This reversal will also keep the Arcane Council from incarcerating me until, as they put it, "your bones turn to dust." Apologies, Scholar Aiti. Entry hall with all terrestrial pets Scrying pool with Rainbow Jellyfish Revocation notice received in 2017 This site uses first- and third- party cookies to allow the website to function, improve your experience, and for our legitimate business purposes. Click  " I understand "  to dismiss this message or read our  Privacy Policy  which includes information about our use of cookies. 