' Deus Ex: Mankind Divided '  Cheats And Mods For Steam Version : How To : Mobile  &  Apps This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The latest open-world hybrid first person shooting game from Square-Enix "Deus Ex: Mankind Divided" has been recently released. For those having a bit of a difficulty in the game on PC, there are some cheats and mods available worth trying out to test the waters on the game or simply have brainless fun around it. WeMod's  Infinity  created a trainer tool for "Deus Ex: Mankind Divided," which includes a total of 12 cheats. It also has cuztomizable keyboard shortcut as well as a surprising remote support that actually makes use of the players' smartphone or tablet to control the cheats in-game. The cheats and mods are as follows: Unlimited Health One-Hit Kills Unlimited Ammo No Reload Unlimited Grenade Unlimited Gadges Unlimited Stamina Unlimited Energy Freeze Hack Timer Unlimited Praxis Unlimited Credits Unlimited Stamina Unlimited Energy Freeze Hack Timer Unlimited Praxis WeMod 45K subscribers Subscribe WeMod: The World ' s First All-In-One PC Game Modding and Trainer Tool Info Shopping Tap to unmute If playback doesn ' t begin shortly, try restarting your device. More videos Your browser does not currently recognize any of the video formats available.  Click here to visit our frequently asked questions about HTML5 video. More videos on YouTube Share Include playlist An error occurred while retrieving sharing information. Please try again later. Watch later Share Copy link An error occurred. Try watching this video on www.youtube.com , or enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser. According to the site, the trainer mod is being continuously updated so players can expect for more cheats and mods to be included on later builds. The mod requires NET 4.6 to be installed. This will be automatically installed if it is not present. Once installed, simply open the trainer and enable it. Leave the program active and launch the game. Cheats can be activated through specified keyboard shortcuts or via programmed remote control from smartphones or tablets. The trainer tool is free to download and is safe from any form of malware of spyware. Players can take advantage of the cheating tool to make the "Deus Ex: Mankind Divided" experience more enjoyable than a walk in the park. As of the moment, the trainer tool supports "Deus Ex: Mankind Divided" v1.0 up to v1.0 Build 524.7. Updating the game to a higher version than these may cause the trainer not to work properly, have cheats disabled or totally not work at all. Be sure to stay tuned for more updates on "Deus Ex: Mankind Divided," including cheats, tips and tricks. You have already subscribed. Thank you. Copyright ⓒ 2019 MOBILE  &  APPS All rights reserved. Facebook Twitter Email App AddThis Pinterest Facebook Email Copy Link 