Picking up a Secondhand or Used Car? Put Carista in your pocket. It’s a lot of money. You’re usually young, you don’t know the history of the car, the owner or what you should be looking for, apart from air in the tires and a clean dipstick. You meet someone at a badly lit gas station or supermarket car park. He is selling the car for his wife (one lady driver) and drops a set of keys into your hand with a “don’t break my baby” look…and you take off. The questions you thought of asking seem a bit difficult sitting shoulder to shoulder with a sweaty gentleman you’ve only just met, in a completely unfamiliar car that smells of  Old Spice . There is a lot to take in. Not least of all, this part of town is unknown to you, you can’t find the turn signals. he turned the radio on to cover the engine noise and the seat setting won’t work. Being a working mechanic is probably the best. Next to that is having a working mechanic with you, preferably sitting in the back seat with a wrench handy. If neither of these are an option, take Carista, your “intelligent” friend. Our free OBD2 tools will allow you to check faults. You will be able to diagnose issues and ask the owner about them. “All there on your phone.” It might even help with negotiating the price when the owner sees he’s not dealing with an “amateur.” What you really want is a good car, without hidden defects. Your choice is often driven by price. At the top end of the scale are lower mileage, well cared for cars, priced accordingly. At the lower end or when you’re a fresh buyer is when you need a little help. The value of a 20 dollar adapter in your pocket when you’re making a potentially life changing decision, is one which is worth considering. Keeping your money and waiting for a another opportunity is better than handing across the cash and later trying to get it back. I’ve bought a few cars in my time. One particular VW was sold by its owner with two years road tax and insurance, something almost unbelievable where I’m from. I knew why he sold (a few weeks later) when it started to rain. The car flooded completely. It was like a driving around in a warm bath. I had noticed the slight discoloration on the foot well, indicating that this had happened quite often, when the owner was selling. There is a happy ending to this story though, I knew what the issue was and how to resolve it. The car had been stored under a tree… During Autumn leaves had fallen and lodged in the drain holes under the windscreen. Rain dripped into the engine bay, hung around behind the dashboard and sloshed around there till the car took a hard corner. Easily resolved with a straight coat hanger and some hot water. Once dry, the car itself was great, the engine perfect, the brakes excellent. I actually did get a great deal and sold the following year for more than I’d paid originally. The moral of the story: “Forewarned is forearmed” Photos by  Dominik Stötter  on  Unsplash Get access to completely free features and a 1 month trial of our premium tools. To see if your car is supported go to  https://caristaapp.com/vehicles The Carista App is available for  Android  and  iOS The Carista Adapter is available from  Amazon Written by 