City of San Angelo Hickory Water Supply Project | Housley Group The Housley Group s municipal utility construction department was selected by the City of San Angelo to build the well site connecting system for a critically needed $9,500,000 well field expansion project located on the 55,000 acre Ford Ranch in Melvin, Texas.  This well field expansion project added seven (7) additional 3,000 ft. water wells which connected to a sixty-three (63) mile thirty (30) inch transport pipeline running from the Ford Ranch to a newly constructed water treatment plant in San Angelo.  The well site pipeline collection system consisted of over eight (8) miles of 20 , 16 , 12  and 8  PVC pipe which connected the seven new well sites to the 30  transport pipeline.  This project took place on a rugged and isolated West Texas working cattle ranch.  We regularly had to work around several hundred head of cattle as they were herded through our work areas to different rotational grazing pastures.  Large areas of the ranch were designated by Federal and State agencies as Endangered Species Habitat.  Much of this restricted habitat ran for miles along the pipeline easement severely limiting our available work area for heavy equipment.  Meeting the customer s critical timeline for the completion of this well expansion was an absolute requirement that was successfully met. Hickory005 One of several vehicle and equipment staging areas along the pipeline route. Hickory009 The first two miles of 20” pipe staged for trenching. Hickory013 Excavated native trench material being trucked to track mounted screener. Hickory050 Trenching spoils had to be dropped on the well site construction roads then immediately removed and transported to the screener. Hickory055 Trenching the first two mile length of 20” pipe 5’ deep X 36” wide. Hickory046 Excavated trench material being screened for reuse as pipe bedding material. Hickory015 Well site road easement prepared for trenching. Hickory023 Much of the well site pipeline collection system ran adjacent to a federal and state biologist monitored endangered species habitat area. Hickory025 Work adjacent to the habitat area had to be done within a nine (9) foot easement. Hickory027 Typical stretch of a well site construction road prior to trenching and placing of the well site collection pipeline. Hickory021 To minimize downtime most equipment maintenance and repair was done by company mechanics alongside the well site roads . Phone: 325 944 9905   E-mail:  info@hc-inc.com 