Ryan Seacrest s alleged sexual abuse against former stylist detailed in report   The Mercury News GET BREAKING NEWS IN YOUR BROWSER. CLICK HERE TO TURN ON NOTIFICATIONS. X Trending: Ryan Seacrest speaks onstage during the 2017 iHeartRadio Music Festival at T-Mobile Arena on September 23, 2017 in Las Vegas, Nevada.  (Isaac Brekken/Getty Images) Television Host Ryan Seacrest poses backstage at The 2003 Teen Choice Awards held at Universal Amphitheater on August 2, 2003 in Universal City, California. (Frederick M. Brown/Getty Images) Ryan Seacrest and Simon Cowell at the Fox Network ' s TCA Summer Tour Party at The Mondrian Hotel in West Hollywood, Ca. Monday, July 22, 2002. (Kevin Winter/ImageDirect) Radio DJ, Ryan Seacrest and actress Brooke Burns look at a painting by Stanley Casselman Art at the 2003 Tall Pony Radio Music Awards gift lounge, outside the Aladdin Hotel and Casino, October 26, 2003 in Las Vegas, Nevada. (Frazer Harrison/Getty Images) Show host Ryan Seacrest and guest attend the 2003 Billboard Music Awards at the MGM Grand Garden Arena December 10, 2003 in Las Vegas, Nevada. The 14th annual ceremony airs live tonight on FOX 8:00-10:00 PM ET Live/PT. (Carlo Allegri/Getty Images) Singer Carrie Underwood (R) is named the new American Idol by host Ryan Seacrest (C) as American Idol finalist Bo Bice (L) looks on during the American Idol Finale: Results Show held at the Kodak Theatre on May 25, 2005 in Hollywood, California.  (Kevin Winter/Getty Images) Ryan Seacrest prepares for a ride along before the NASCAR Nextel Cup Series Coca-Cola 600 at the Lowe ' s Motor Speedway on May 28, 2006 in Concord, North Carolina.  (Chris Graythen/Getty Images for NASCAR) (L-R) Television personality Ryan Seacrest, actress Kim Kardashian and host Giuliana DePandi attend the  " Head To Hollywood Night "  at the Los Angeles Kings game at the Staples Center on March 15, 2007 in Los Angeles, California.  (Michael Buckner/Getty Images) Singer Katharine McPhee (L) and television personality Ryan Seacrest perform at the 53rd Annual Young Musicians Foundation Gala, celebrating Merv Griffin, at the Beverly Hilton hotel on October 19, 2007 in Los Angeles, California.  (Charley Gallay/Getty Images) Actor Robin Williams and American Idol host Ryan Seacrest onstage during the taping of Idol Gives Back held at the Kodak Theatre on April 6, 2008 in Hollywood, California.  (Kevin Winter/Getty Images) Ryan Seacrest (L) talks to Harvey Levin (R) the Los Angeles Lakers vs Utah Jazz at the Staples Center on April 19, 2009 in Los Angeles, California.  (Noel Vasquez/Getty Images) Ryan Seacrest and Minnie Mouse at the Magic Kingdom on December 3, 2010 in Lake Buena Vista, Florida. (Matt Stroshane/Disney via Getty Images) Ryan Seacrest interviews Kim Karsashian at The 53rd Annual GRAMMY Awards held at Staples Center on February 13, 2011 in Los Angeles, California.  (Larry Busacca/Getty Images) (L-R) Ryan Seacrest, Julianne Hough, Abigail Spencer  and Kristen Bell attend the InStyle and Warner Bros. 68th annual Golden Globe awards post-party at The Beverly Hilton hotel on January 16, 2011 in Beverly Hills, California. (John Shearer/Getty Images) Ryan Seacrest looks down the aisle from his courtside seat as the Oklahoma City Thunder take on the San Antonio Spurs in Game Four of the Western Conference Finals of the 2012 NBA Playoffs at Chesapeake Energy Arena on June 2, 2012 in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. (Brett Deering/Getty Images) Broadcaster Ryan Seacrest at the introduction of the 2013 Ford Fusion Hybrid September 18, 2012 in New York ' s Times Square. (STAN HONDA/AFP/GettyImages) TV personality Ryan Seacrest (L) and actress Julianne Hough arrive at the premiere of Relativity Media ' s  " Safe Haven "  at TCL Chinese Theatre on February 5, 2013 in Hollywood, California.  (Alberto E. Rodriguez/Getty Images for Relativity Media) (L-R) Connie Seacrest, Ryan Seacrest, Michael L. Rose, President of Carolinas HealthCare Foundation, patients Darien Gray and Carmen Diaz, and NASCAR driver  Martin Truex Jr. attend the Seacrest Studios ribbon cutting at Levine ' s Children ' s Hospital on July 29, 2013 in Charlotte, North Carolina.  (Andrew H. Walker/Getty Images for Levine Children ' s Hospital) Host Ryan Seacrest speaks onstage at Fashion Rocks 2014 presented by Three Lions Entertainment at the Barclays Center of Brooklyn on September 9, 2014 in New York City.  (Theo Wargo/Getty Images for Three Lions Entertainment) Ryan Seacrest speaks during the Seacrest Studio Opening at Boston Children ' s Hospital November 14, 2014 in Boston, Massachusetts. (Darren McCollester/Getty Images for Boston Children ' s Hospital) Host Ryan Seacrest (L) and radio personality Ellen K speak onstage during KIIS FM ' s Jingle Ball 2014  powered by LINE at Staples Center on December 5, 2014 in Los Angeles, California.  (Kevin Winter/Getty Images for iHeartMedia) (L-R) Trustee Jane Nathanson, LACMA Trustee Ryan Seacrest, and trustee Ann Colgin attend the LACMA 50th Anniversary Gala sponsored by Christie ' s at LACMA on April 18, 2015 in Los Angeles, California.  (Chris Weeks/Getty Images for LACMA) Host Ryan Seacrest (L) and singer Shakira speak onstage during the  " Target Presents iHeartRadio Album Release Party with Shakira "  at the iHeartRadio Theater on March 24, 2014 in Burbank, California.  (Kevin Winter/Getty Images for iHeartRadio) Presenters Ryan Seacrest (L) and Elvis Duran attend the 2015 iHeartRadio Music Festival at MGM Grand Garden Arena on September 18, 2015 in Las Vegas, Nevada.  (Bryan Steffy/Getty Images for iHeartMedia) (L-R) Season 1 judges Paula Abdul and Randy Jackson and host Ryan Seacrest speak onstage during FOX ' s  " American Idol "  Finale For The Farewell Season at Dolby Theatre on April 7, 2016 in Hollywood, California. (Kevork Djansezian/Getty Images) Ryan Seacrest on stage during University of Georgia commencement at Sanford Stadium on May 13, 2016 in Athens, Georgia.  (Marcus Ingram/Getty Images) (L-R) Actress Megan Batoon, host Ryan Seacrest, and DJ Flula Borg attend the NBC Olympic Social Opening Ceremony at Jonathan Beach Club on July 26, 2016 in Santa Monica, California.  (Rachel Murray/Getty Images) Recording artist Britney Spears (C) reacts after receiving a birthday cake from host Ryan Seacrest (2nd R) and recording artist Tinashe (R) onstage during 102.7 KIIS FM ' s Jingle Ball 2016 at Staples Center on December 2, 2016 in Los Angeles, California.  (Kevork Djansezian/Getty Images) Ryan Seacrest attends New Year ' s Eve 2017 in Times Square on December 31, 2016 in New York City.  (Dimitrios Kambouris/Getty Images) (L-R) Television personalities James Corden and Ryan Seacrest attend The 59th GRAMMY Awards at STAPLES Center on February 12, 2017 in Los Angeles, California.  (Christopher Polk/Getty Images) (L-R) Singer-songwriter Noah Cyrus, host Ryan Seacrest, Tish Cyrus, and singer-songwriter Miley Cyrus attend at the 2017 iHeartRadio Music Awards which broadcast live on Turner ' s TBS, TNT, and truTV at The Forum on March 5, 2017 in Inglewood, California.  (Christopher Polk/Getty Images) TV personality Ryan Seacrest (L) and guests at the MOCA Gala 2017 honoring Jeff Koons at The Geffen Contemporary at MOCA on April 29, 2017 in Los Angeles, California.  (John Sciulli/Getty Images) Ryan Seacrest attends the Sixth Annual Hamptons Paddle  &  Party For Pink To Benefit Breast Cancer Research Foundation on August 5, 2017 in Bridgehampton, New York.  (Steven Henry/Getty Images) Heidi Klum (L) and Ryan Seacrest attend the 2017 iHeartRadio Music Festival at T-Mobile Arena on September 22, 2017 in Las Vegas, Nevada.  (Isaac Brekken/Getty Images) Ryan Seacrest speaks onstage during the 2017 iHeartRadio Music Festival at T-Mobile Arena on September 23, 2017 in Las Vegas, Nevada.  (Isaac Brekken/Getty Images) Television Host Ryan Seacrest poses backstage at The 2003 Teen Choice Awards held at Universal Amphitheater on August 2, 2003 in Universal City, California. (Frederick M. Brown/Getty Images) Television Host Ryan Seacrest poses backstage at The 2003 Teen Choice Awards held at Universal Amphitheater on August 2, 2003 in Universal City, California. (Frederick M. Brown/Getty Images) Even though Ryan Seacrest in mid-November proactively refuted claims of sexual abuse by his former stylist at E! News, the actual details of the alleged sexual abuse were kept under wraps until Monday when  Variety  published an article following a number of interviews with the stylist and her lawyer. Variety also acquired the letter sent to E! News in November asking the cable network to  come up with a plan to address the treatment of all women at the networks and to take responsibility for the wrongful treatment  of Suzie Hardy, Seacrest s stylist at E! from 2006-13. Among Hardy s claims were that Seacrest would grind his erect penis on her while wearing only his underwear, that he grabbed her vagina and once slapped her buttocks so hard it left a welt that was visible for hours. He also allegedly made of a habit of hugging her while wearing only his underwear and inviting her to dress him past normal working hours at his home and other locations outside of the E! News set. An independent investigator concluded there was insufficient evidence to support the allegations. Hardy, a single mother, said she endured years of abuse because she needed to provide for her daughter. She said her employment with the network ended after she detailed Seacrest s behavior to human resource personnel, who sought her out to ask about her relationship with Seacrest. I didn’t know how to deal with it,  Hardy told Variety.  I really didn’t. I was battling finally being in a decent financial position to breathe and be a mom, that I didn’t have to be freaking out all the time, and then dealing with this infantile celebrity person who was testing me on every level and manipulating me and knew that I was in a vulnerable position. Hardy s former co-worker at E! told Variety that Hardy was telling him of Seacrest s alleged inappropriate behavior as he was committing them. Hardy s lawyer Howard King sent E! a letter in early November informing them of Seacrest s alleged abuse and threatening a  more formal action  if his client s demands weren t met. A week later, Seacrest came out publicly about Hardy s accusations, calling them  reckless. NBCUniversal, E! s parent company, then brought in a third party to investigate the claims. Hardy said the independent investigator interviewed her three times, but failed to contact four witnesses that she said could corroborate her story. I felt like by the third interview, it was obvious the investigator was whitewashing it for Seacrest’s side,  she said. An E! spokesman told Variety that the investigation was thorough.  Over the course of a two-month process, our outside counsel interviewed more than two dozen people regarding the allegations, including multiple separate meetings with the claimant,  he said. Any claims that question the legitimacy of this investigation are completely baseless. When Seacrest, the host of  American Idol  and co-host of  Live with Kelly  &  Ryan,  made public the claims against him, reports said  Hardy was looking for a $15-million payoff , but was willing to settle for seven figures after Seacrest refused to pay. Hardy s lawyer said there were no demands for money. Seacrest s representatives did not provide evidence of monetary demands, according to Variety. Get Morning Report and other email newsletters 