Blank Spaces: Outdated Maps and Unsettled Subjects in Jhumpa Lahiri’s Interpreter of Maladies | MELUS | Oxford Academic Keith Wilhite,   Blank Spaces: Outdated Maps and Unsettled Subjects in Jhumpa Lahiri’s  Interpreter of Maladies ,  MELUS , Volume 41, Issue 2, Summer 2016, Pages 76–96,  https://doi.org/10.1093/melus/mlw004 Download citation file:  This essay explores how maps frame the cultural struggle with identity in Jhumpa Lahiri’s  Interpreter of Maladies  . A distinguished body of scholarship already exists on diaspora, hybridity, and postcolonialism in Lahiri’s writing, and this analysis borrows from those studies while shifting attention to the way the stories deploy maps as a field of exchange—both between viewers and the various cartographic representations they encounter --and between the characters who participate in the stories’ impromptu geography lessons.  In this context, “When Mr. Pirzada Came to Dine” and “Sexy” should be read as allegories of cultural belonging in which Lahiri transfers preoccupations with displacement to her unsettled US subjects: Lilia, a second-generation Indian American, and Miranda, a Midwesterner relocated to the Northeast.  Each narrative turns on the exchanges that take place between these characters and the maps they confront, prompting the reader to see how these representations frame questions about the social construction of place and identity. Lahiri’s stories demonstrate how maps privilege the colonizing conception of “blank spaces,” but also how maps—especially outdated maps—posit the fundamentally unsettled identity of global subjects who feel simultaneously out-of-place and at-home. In “Mr. Pirzada” and “Sexy,” outdated maps configure the complex interactions among race, gender, and geography that constitute contemporary global subjectivity.   In his influential study  The Power of Maps  (1992), Denis Wood sets out to explain, quite simply, how maps work. From maps depicting population density to television weather maps, from geological surveys to transportation routes, and from J. R. R. Tolkien’s map of Middle Earth to a map tracking the AIDS epidemic, the explanation is as deceptively simple as Wood’s project: maps promote the interests of the mapmaker. Even the most innocuous map, he contends, works as an instrument of power and persuasion, constructing or selecting its maker’s particular version of the world (1-2, 60). Wood’s argument will have a familiar ring to anyone versed in postmodern theory, as will his conclusion that the other essential, more ominous function of any map is to conceal from the viewer its “inevitable interest” (77). The exchange that takes place between the viewer and the map raises questions about how mapmaking structures a mode of engagement with space. The point of view offered by the map constructs a particular posture toward space and, in turn, shapes the relationships between viewers and the places they inhabit. Wood claims: “Mapmaking cultures” are defined by the imperative “to fill in the blanks within and without maps” (44), and this trait applies to cartographers and non-mapmakers alike. Maps, it would seem, make a compelling argument for colonizing space: the desire to conquer, divide, and fill in those “blanks.”  1  This essay explores how maps shape experiences of cultural belonging and the struggle with identity in Jhumpa Lahiri’s debut short story collection,  Interpreter of Maladies  (1999). A distinguished body of scholarship already exists on diaspora, hybridity, and postcolonialism in Lahiri’s writing, and I borrow from those previous discussions while directing attention to the way the stories deploy maps as a field of exchange—both between viewers and the various cartographic representations they encounter and between the characters who participate in the stories’ impromptu geography lessons. In this context, “When Mr. Pirzada Came to Dine” and “Sexy” should be read as allegories of cultural belonging in which Lahiri transfers preoccupations with displacement to her unsettled US subjects: Lilia, a second-generation Indian American, and Miranda, a Midwesterner relocated to the Northeast. Each narrative turns on the exchanges that take place between these characters and the maps they confront, prompting the reader to see how these representations frame questions about the social construction of place and identity.   By taking on the ideological interests of mapmaking cultures, Lahiri’s stories demonstrate not only how maps privilege the colonizing conception of blank spaces but also how maps—especially outdated maps—posit the fundamentally contested nature of space. These dated or faulty maps appear at key moments in the stories, configuring space as a site of multiplicity and translation for Lahiri’s dislocated global subjects. The outmoded map argues for the dynamic, contradictory, differential nature of social space that the characters must navigate and that cartography can never adequately render.  2  As they contend with both current and obsolete maps, Lilia and Miranda undergo transformations that leave them feeling more at-home in their respective environs, yet the stories also maintain a level of complexity and indeterminacy that belies the notion of comfortable settlement. According to Nicholas Blomley, “maps and maplike visualization may . . . play an important persuasive role in displacement, both by conceptually emptying a space of its native occupants, and by reassuring viewers of the unproblematic and settled occupation of urban space by a settler society” (122-23). In “Mr. Pirzada” and “Sexy,” Lahiri dulls this “reassuring” function. The exchange between the map and the viewer presumes a kind of intrinsic decentering. In these stories, maps serve as a screen for multiple identifications, sustaining a sense that one is simultaneously out-of-place and at-home.   Lahiri’s fiction works through neoliberal conceptions of dispossession and displacement, place as commodity and property, and relations of power and privilege that the individual stories refract through images of home, sexual conquest, and networks of friends, families, and neighbors. Yet the stories also trace a different kind of territory, one more attuned to the fluidity of contemporary global subjectivities. In her deft analysis of “minority cosmopolitanism” in  Interpreter of Maladies  , Susan Koshy writes that the collection “makes apparent divisions and affiliations that can be folded neither into multiculturalism’s existing identity categories nor into Western cosmopolitanism’s identity-bracketing universalism” (598). I argue that the spatial relations symbolized by maps offer further insight into what Koshy calls the “unsettled identities” (598) and precarious “affiliations” (602) that attend the “unhomely” condition of diasporic citizenship (601). Lahiri’s stories exhibit a distinct preoccupation with the constitutive politics of mapping and with writing displaced subjects in place. In “Mr. Pirzada” and “Sexy,” outdated maps configure the complex interactions among race, gender, and geography that constitute identity, power relations, and the meaning of space.  3  This impulse toward emplacement, signified by the maps, connects  Interpreter of Maladies  to a tradition of transnational writing that comprehends a “double movement of standing and unsecuring—of setting-up and up-setting—that applies to both the question of the displaced subject and to the writing of displacement” (Israel 14-15).  4  In these stories, maps serve as another kind of writing, as texts within the text that create fraught scenes of reading for Lilia and Miranda, whose positions as viewers embody this “double movement” and the concurrent encounter with identification and dislocation. In other words, the social and political power of mapmaking (the imperative “to fill in the blanks”) informs how the stories imagine the specific significance of location—including access to and agency within space—both to cultural belonging and to writing unsettled subjects in place.   The links among race, gender, and geography help to clarify the broader implications of this inquiry. In “Mr. Pirzada” and “Sexy,” maps serve as conceptual markers for the disorienting cultural “translation” of identity that characterizes Lahiri’s fiction (Kuortti 207).  5  As a child of Indian immigrants, Lilia’s interactions with maps reflect a dawning awareness of her own bicultural identity alongside the unfolding history of India and Pakistan in contrast to a uniformly racialized, nonwhite South Asian identity.  6  The struggle with place and attachment in “Mr. Pirzada” plays out through competing geography lessons (at home and in the classroom) and contrasting technologies of representation (maps and television screens). Lilia comes to understand these representations as contested sites against which she maps her emergent sense of Indian American identity. In “Sexy,” the thematic link between sexual infidelity and outmoded or “unfaithful” geographic representations yields to a broader consideration of how maps function as instruments of control and exchange across gender and racial lines. Miranda’s relationship to maps signifies the process of her own adjustment to the cosmopolitan city of Boston—a transition enabled by her whiteness and the way it makes her an object of desire for Dev, a South Asian cosmopolite with whom she has an affair. While Miranda’s white privilege alleviates notions of settlement and citizenship, her gendered and (regionally) dislocated identity limits her mobility, and the story evokes the ways urban space inscribes gender inequalities across domestic and public spaces.  7  In the end, while race plays significantly different roles in these stories of cultural belonging, a lingering tradition of gendered spatial divisions unites Lilia and Miranda as female characters whose questions of identity and subjectivity are framed through their encounters with maps.  In “When Mr. Pirzada Came to Dine,” the first map appears during an impromptu, at-home geography lesson. Lilia, who is also the story’s narrator, listens as her father explains why it is improper to refer to their dinner guest as “Indian.” After a brief account of the 1947 Partition, he traces a reverse passage from their university town north of Boston across the Atlantic and back to the Indian subcontinent. “Mr. Pirzada is Bengali, but he is a Muslim,” he clarifies. “Therefore he lives in East Pakistan, not India” (26). As their conversation continues, Lilia’s father points out that India and Pakistan are not even the same color, and this familiar cartographic distinction surfaces at other key moments in the story, specifically in regards to the maps that Lilia studies at school: the “blank maps of the thirteen colonies” (27) and the “map that emerged like a movie screen from the top of the chalkboard” (33). These schoolroom geography lessons remind us how, at an early age, we are trained to read space as blank territories to be filled but also how we use maps, “like a movie screen,” to project a culturally determined representation of space. As Lilia stares at “yellow” Pakistan, with its “two distinct parts,” her father “rap[s] his knuckles on top of [her] head” and bemoans his daughter’s lack of awareness about world history and current events (26). “Mr. Pirzada” takes place in the fall of 1971. Pakistan is in the midst of a civil war, and a military conflict looms between India and Pakistan over the liberation of Bangladesh. Only after Lilia alludes to the harrowing violence and death do we learn that their dinner guest has a wife and seven daughters living in Dacca and, more troubling, that “he had not heard word of them in over six months” (24). Pirzada is in New England on a year-long academic grant, and as autumn wears on, he becomes a regular visitor to the narrator’s family home—or as Pirzada jokes, he returns night after night as yet “[a]nother refugee . . . on Indian territory” (28). This community of refugees north of Boston comes together to collect reports from the other side of the world on the nightly news.  Lahiri sets the imminent war between India and Pakistan—a conflict abetted by the geographic divisions and displacements that marked the end of British colonial rule—against this fellowship between an Indian family and their Pakistani guest. Recalling her parents and Pirzada during the twelve-day war, Lilia says, “Most of all I remember the three of them operating during that time as if they were a single person, sharing a single meal, a single body, a single silence, and a single fear” (41). Their shared anxieties concerning the war highlight the lingering displacements of the colonial era and a postcolonial contiguity between domestic spaces and global geopolitical developments.  8  India may represent a former homeland for Lilia’s parents, but they remain unsettled in their American surroundings, constantly “[i]n search of compatriots” (24), thus making it easy for them to sympathize with Pirzada’s unease, so much so that they seem to experience it as “a single person.” The emphasis on unity in Lilia’s depiction provides a clever contrast to her earlier reading of the map, with Pakistan’s “two distinct parts” separated by “orange” India (26), suggesting that, by the end of the story, she reads the map as an incomplete key to identity.   Indeed, we can read Lilia’s entire narrative as a response to her father’s map of the world and the subtle conflict it sets in motion. Over the course of the story, Lilia contends with discordant conceptions of space: the lived, mostly domestic sites in which she witnesses a borderless hospitality that offsets the still unsettled geographies and histories of the postcolonial era and space as a set of fixed coordinates to study and memorize at school. This latter conception of space links directly to the role that mapmaking fulfills: “[D]ominant maps. . . . offer an enframing of space” and, in this capacity, cartography also “helps make possible the very idea of ‘space’ as an external category” (Blomley 67). To conceive of space in this manner—as disconnected from the politics and social relations that produce and disrupt spaces—creates the conditions for dispossession and displacement.  9  In such a mindset, space and its inhabitants seem abstract, alleviating concerns about occupying territories and dispersing native populations.   The classroom maps that Lilia studies present space in just this way: an absence to occupy, a settled category. As noted above, the map of the thirteen colonies is even described as “blank,” and she is “asked to fill in names, dates, [and] capitals” (Lahiri, “When” 27). The map Lilia’s teacher, Mrs. Kenyon, uses for “charting the route of the  Mayflower  , or showing [students] the location of the Liberty Bell,” similarly presents an unproblematic transition from “discovery” to settlement to independence that overwrites the conflicts and enforced displacements associated with American colonialism (33).  10  Her father’s map, on the other hand, and his geography lesson concerning the 1947 Partition present Lilia with an understanding of national spaces as products of ongoing tumult and transition. Moreover, Pirzada’s presence in the home adds a human dimension that transcends memorized dates and capitals. To underscore this contrast, the story’s respective chartings also move in opposite directions across the map. As Lilia notes, her father’s “finger trailed across the Atlantic, through Europe, the Mediterranean, the Middle East, and finally to the sprawling orange diamond” of India (26). In the classroom, Mrs. Kenyon’s westward charting of the  Mayflower  across the Atlantic in a sense “rewinds” her father’s geography lesson, replacing the unresolved history of British colonialism in India with the sanitized and settled history of American colonialism she is required to learn. The exchange with her father awakens Lilia to the violence inherent to and obscured by geographic representations.   In these contrasting scenes, Lahiri uses maps to pit differing geographies of imperialism against one another: the supposedly preordained and providential history of “new world” American imperialism, represented by the  Mayflower  and the Liberty Bell, and the unsettled and uprooted turmoil represented by “yellow” Pakistan and “orange” India. As Kavita Daiya contends, the story “insists on pluralizing history: It makes visible the elision of an ongoing war by an earlier, older, and American war” (269). Later, as Lilia tracks down library sources for a research project on the American Revolution, she browses idly through “a section . . . labeled ‘Asia’” and discovers a book on Pakistan. She flips through “photos of rivers and rice fields and men in military uniforms” and begins to read “a chapter about Dacca,” when her teacher arrives to discourage her desultory pursuits (Lahiri, “When” 33). After Lilia confirms that the book is not related to her school project, Mrs. Kenyon takes the book and replaces it on the shelf. The lesson is heavy-handed but clear: Lilia should submit to the required Western narrative of settlement and independence and leave behind the still unsettled and entangled postcolonial history she is trying to decipher. The representation of space enframed by the classroom maps renders unnecessary non-Western narratives and geographies, which have already been racialized and segregated under the generic rubric “Asia.”   The story turns on these conflicting notions of space and the sense of unease and disruption that Lilia experiences through Pirzada’s presence in the home. The settler’s cartography of dispossession, endorsed and reproduced in Mrs. Kenyon’s classroom, competes with her father’s geography lesson and the camaraderie she witnesses between her family and their guest. As Daiya contends, “It is within the space of home . . . that Lilia both learns of her divided history, and simultaneously finds a basis for an incipient South Asian identity that will articulate the terms ‘Indian,’ ‘Pakistani,’ and ‘American’ across national boundaries” (268). When Lilia’s father voices his concerns about what, if anything, his daughter studies at school, her mother quickly replies, “We live here now, she was born here,” and Lilia registers the pride in her mother’s voice, “as if [this fact] were a reflection of my character” (Lahiri, “When” 26). Lilia will be spared the violence and deprivation experienced by her parents in India, but this note on “character” underscores the political function of domestic space in immigrant homes.  11  According to Sharmila Rudrappa, the process of Americanization often depends on shaping the home to fit a white, middle-class ideology of proper “household practices” (153), and in this space, “[Children] become public success stories as model citizens precisely because their homes are purportedly bastions of virtue, where good American citizens are raised” (170). In the early 1970s, however, at the time this story takes place, there was an increasing interest in “white ethnicity” in the United States, which some scholars have read as “a reaction against the political challenges to American race hierarchies the Civil Rights movements precipitated” (Rudrappa 160). In other words, Lilia’s sense of cultural belonging emerges from the home into a fraught geopolitical global context: the 1971 war and shifting notions of South Asian identity, white ethnic backlash, and the precarity of nonwhite American citizenship.  This domestic dissonance transforms Lilia, the second-generation Indian American, into the lens through which we read the narrative’s exploration of unsettled subjects. Highlighting Pirzada’s exotic qualities, she recalls being “flattered by the faint theatricality of his attentions, yet unsettled by the superb ease of his gestures, which made [her] feel, for an instant, like a stranger in [her] own home” (Lahiri, “When” 29). Shortly thereafter, “try[ing] to figure out what made him different,” Lilia reports that “an uneasiness possessed [her],” a sensation she associates with the pocket watch Pirzada keeps set to Dacca time. Her ingenuous notion that “life . . . was being lived in Dacca first” (30) in a sense disrupts the primacy of the American worldview and accentuates her unease. Although later she will recollect the singleness and unity of her parents with Pirzada during the war, Lilia herself experiences a sense of alienation, not only out of place as “a stranger in [her] own home” but also displaced from her accustomed sense of time. Certainly part of this unease can be attributed to the limited perspective of a child in an as yet unfamiliar adult world. As Robin E. Field notes, “[Lahiri] uses the perspective of a ten-year-old daughter of Indian immigrants to underscore the psychological as well as the physical distance of the second generation from their parents’ land and culture” (169). Yet it is also true that, as our narrator and guide through the events in the fall of 1971, Lilia’s sense of this disconnect across space and time becomes the strongest marker of an unsettled identity in the story. Years later, noting that she can find the facts of the war between India and Pakistan “in any history book” (Lahiri, “When” 40), Lilia recalls her father’s map: “Every now and then I studied the map above my father’s desk and pictured Mr. Pirzada on the small patch of yellow. . . . Of course, the map was outdated by then” (41). Among other things, the story offers a primer on geographic impermanence and the illusory nature of cartography, alluded to earlier in the story by the comparison of the classroom map to “a movie screen” (33). The now “outdated” map on her father’s wall troubles the settled version of geography being offered in her classroom, but it remains a perfect representation of the fluid, transformative nature of space that mapmaking conceals.  Lilia’s reference to the map “that emerged like a movie screen” also obliquely connects cartography to other visual representations in the story, specifically television and its significance as a framing device for geopolitics. The television, like the map, facilitates the convergence of the domestic and the global, specifically in regards to the Pakistani civil war. “That night,” Lilia says, “like every night, we did not eat at the dining table, because it did not provide an unobstructed view of the television set” (30). By way of the nightly news, global political unrest enters and transforms the quintessential domestic scene: family dinner. Lynn Spigel has persuasively delineated the way television turned the home into a theatrical site of viewing after World War II. As a “window on the world,” television played an important role in disseminating “utopian statements concerning ‘man’s’ ability to conquer and to domesticate space” (102).  12  In suburban homes, televisions were frequently “installed next to globes and colorful maps” (104), a juxtaposition that calls attention to their complementary functions and, perhaps, the assumed displacement of maps by the television. More importantly, however, maps and television screens tend to enshrine a white, patriarchal perspective on the world, traditionally linked to “[t]he feminization of colonized landscapes” from the conqueror’s viewpoint (Blunt and Rose 10).  13  Considering the anxiety with which Lilia’s family and their guest watch the news from Dacca, their status as unsettled spectators challenges television’s domestication of space. There is nothing “utopian” about this conquest of space or its presence in the family’s living room.   Nevertheless, maps and the television screen serve as complementary modes of enframing the world, and in the context of this story, these framing devices impact the way Lilia maps her own subjectivity in relation to South Asian identity and the war between India and Pakistan. Like the map, the television set opens the home to unfamiliar spaces, but it also casts a light back on those gathered in the living room. Lilia recalls:  On the screen I saw the tanks rolling through dusty streets, and fallen buildings, and forests of unfamiliar trees into which East Pakistani refugees had fled, seeking safety over the Indian border. I saw boats with fan-shaped sails floating on wide coffee-colored rivers, a barricaded university, newspaper offices burnt to the ground. . . . As [Mr. Pirzada] watched he had an immovable expression on his face, composed but alert, as if someone were giving him directions to an unknown destination. (Lahiri, “When” 31)  By connecting maps and the television screen as “windows on the world,” however, Lahiri’s story also alerts us to the problems of their promised transparency and neutrality.  14  In the end, they remain technologies of emplacement that highlight the disconnect between the viewer and the representation, social constructions that flatten the differential spaces that shape conceptions of identity and citizenship, nation and home. Yet, perhaps ironically, the story also makes a case for the relevance of the outdated map as a way of locating unsettled subjects and writing the experience of displacement. Surveying her father’s map and imagining “Mr. Pirzada on that small patch of yellow” (41), Lilia exemplifies what Wood calls “the more general, more powerful, more . . .  meaningful  question of how the map will link its readers to the world it embodies” (18). Months later, after Pirzada has returned safely to Dacca and reunited with his family, Lilia’s family receives a letter, and she acknowledges a sense of deep loss over a person she will never see again. Her reference to the obsolete map immediately precedes this account, a segue to the story’s conclusion, suggesting that this geographic representation helps to translate Lilia’s feelings of absence. The outdated map captures the simultaneity of emplacement and dislocation, and in this way, it seems only such a map could properly depict the transformative terrain the story’s unsettled subjects occupy.   For the young Lilia, the outdated map provides a spatial representation for the uneasiness she feels within her own home, an estrangement she attributes to Mr. Pirzada’s presence but that also speaks to a kind of bicultural identity crisis. She must negotiate the situational South Asian kinship that develops between her family and Mr. Pirzada at home with her life at school, where she finds no space to explore the complexity of a female Indian American identity. As a nonwhite US citizen, Lilia’s identity remains a contested category—a point made on Halloween when the neighbors remark “that they had never seen an Indian witch before” (39). It is a subtle aside that nevertheless reinforces Lilia’s racial positioning. Indeed, in “Sexy,” Miranda’s whiteness guarantees her citizenship; she need not negotiate her identity vis-à-vis the dominant racial culture. Nevertheless, Miranda experiences a similar sense of dislocation, and her interactions with maps raise important questions related to gender and mobility in urban space.  15  The story juxtaposes power relations and racial difference with an interest in feminist geography and “the social constitution of gendered beings in particular places” (McDowell 159). As they do in “Mr. Pirzada,” maps reflect this process of “social constitution” and the difficulties and ambivalences of cultural belonging for global subjects.  Set in Boston, “Sexy” tracks the quick flare and slow fade of an affair between the twenty-two-year-old Miranda and Dev, a Bengali immigrant and a married man. Having recently moved to Boston from Michigan, “where she’d grown up and gone to college” (Lahiri, “Sexy” 89), Miranda is an updated version of the provincial Midwestern girl who moves to the big city. She is lonely, sheltered, and still uncertain in her urban environs. Recounting the afternoon just before Miranda noticed Dev at Filene’s, the narrator comments on how “[Miranda] liked walking through the cramped, confined maze” of the cosmetics department because it “was familiar to her in a way the rest of Boston still was not” (85). Her affair with Dev, however, will help acclimate her to the city and the possibility of feeling at-home in Boston. Their relationship begins while Dev’s wife is on a three-week visit to India, and he introduces Miranda to the public life of the city, taking her to restaurants and museums. Only after his wife returns does their affair fall into the clandestine routine of adulterous lovers. Once they are restricted to meeting in Miranda’s apartment, the story settles into the private realm as the site for exploring questions of attachment and estrangement.  Yet “Sexy” does not retreat to a simplistic understanding of public/male versus private/female space; rather, Lahiri examines the interactions among gender, race, and geography that construct Miranda’s unsettled identity across differential, or contested, spaces.  16  More specifically, the story uses the subtle interchange between infidelity and maps to frame these interactions. Sexual betrayal pervades the story, beginning with the opening line: “It was a wife’s worst nightmare” (83). This sentence refers to the cousin of Miranda’s co-worker, Laxmi, whose husband has recently abandoned her for a younger woman, but of course it would apply equally well to Miranda’s relationship with Dev, although at the moment the connection seems lost on her. As Laxmi relates the distressing details of her cousin’s crumbling marriage, Miranda thinks about her lover and their latest phone conversation and where they will meet for their upcoming date.   Although infidelity provides a recurring motif, the story also turns on three geography lessons—moments in which maps provide a field of exchange for broader concerns about sex, gender, power, and place. The first lesson establishes the tenor of the relationship between Dev and Miranda. It occurs about a week after the lovers meet and contains a faint echo of the exchange between Lilia and her father in “Mr. Pirzada.” After an afternoon of lovemaking in Miranda’s apartment, Dev explains where he was born. As the narrator notes, “[Miranda] did not own an atlas, or any other books with maps in them,” so Dev brings his own, reproduced in the pages of  The Economist  . He points out Bengal’s location on the map, tacitly correcting Miranda’s assumption that Bengali was some sort of religion. When Miranda asks why “[o]ne of the cities had a box around it,” Dev “tap[s] her playfully on the head” with the magazine and replies, “Nothing you’ll ever need to worry about” (84), as if she were a small child oblivious to the world. Dev dismisses Miranda as a simpleton, incapable of reading the map or understanding its geopolitical significance on her own, and at this point in the story, she accepts that as true. The juxtaposition here of Dev’s condescending geographic elision and their sexual affair calls attention to the power imbalance that defines their relationship. The undecoded map symbolizes Miranda’s dislocation, but it also marks her current subordination within domestic space and her exclusion from a broader, more public or global context.   Although similar to “Mr. Pirzada” in its attention to maps and a sense of unsettled subjects, “Sexy” also allows Lahiri to explore the more obvious disjuncture between a white American citizen and a South Asian immigrant. Although Miranda is not our narrator, she serves as our lens: we read the story’s cosmopolitan, global spaces alongside and against her provincial perspective. Indeed, the narrator underscores Miranda’s lack of worldliness and her limited exposure to diverse populations. We learn, for example, that before moving to Boston she knew only one Indian family in Michigan, the Dixits. The fathers faulted Mr. Dixit for his lax lawn care, the mothers excluded Mrs. Dixit from social gatherings, everyone concurred their house was a blight on the neighborhood, and the Dixit children were taunted as they waited for the school bus. As a young girl, Miranda enters the Dixit house only once, along with the other neighborhood children, for a birthday party, and she immediately notes “a heavy aroma of incense and onions, and a pile of shoes heaped by the front door” (95). These unaccustomed odors and rituals already suggest that Miranda has crossed a threshold into a foreign world, but when she descends the basement stairs, she confronts a more threatening representation of otherness in the figure of the goddess Kali. The portrait unites images of violence and sexuality:  It was a painting of a naked woman with a red face shaped like a knight’s shield. She had enormous white eyes that tilted toward her temples, and mere dots for pupils. Two circles, with the same dots at their centers, indicated her breasts. In one hand she brandished a dagger. With one foot she crushed a struggling man on the ground. Around her body was a necklace composed of bleeding heads, strung together like a popcorn chain. She stuck her tongue out at Miranda. (96) Reflecting back on this memory, Miranda feels guilty about her recoil in the face of the unfamiliar, and she recognizes the shameful way that she and her Midwestern neighbors ostracized the Dixit family. For the reader, however, the memory marks Miranda’s white privilege and, more generally, the way “whiteness . . . has the power to name, describe, and categorize any deviations from the racial norm” (Rudrappa 12). Moreover, an element of exotic fascination lingers in her attraction to Dev, which she seems unwittingly to reproduce in her sexual fantasies. On first seeing him at Filene’s, she reads him so as to link his dark skin with the observable signs of his wealth and sexual availability: “The man was tanned, with black hair that was visible on his knuckles. He wore a flamingo pink shirt, a navy blue suit, a camel overcoat with gleaming leather buttons. In order to pay he had taken off pigskin gloves. Crisp bills emerged from a burgundy wallet. He didn’t wear a wedding ring” (Lahiri, “Sexy” 86). As the scene unfolds around the cosmetics counter, the otherness—Miranda mistakenly “thought he might be Spanish, or Lebanese” (87)—and financial power he embodies clearly define his allure.  Once they begin their affair, Dev’s race remains a source of curiosity and mystery for Miranda. She wants to know more about where he is from, or at the very least, she wants to be able to picture it in her mind. Although Dev told Miranda she need not concern herself with the details of the map in  The Economist  , after his departure she “studied the borders of Bengal. There was a bay below and mountains above. The map was connected to an article about something called the Gramin Bank. She turned the page hoping for a photograph of the city where Dev was born, but all she found were graphs and grids.” These “graphs and grids” cannot hold her attention, however, and her mind drifts back to her lover and “how only fifteen minutes ago he’d propped her feet on top of his shoulders, and pressed her knees to her chest, and told her that he couldn’t get enough of her” (85). For Miranda, who has limited sexual experience and gives every indication that Dev is her first mature love interest, such an expression of passion may itself seem exotic. Immediately following the flashback to the Dixits in Michigan, however, we also learn that “when she and Dev made love, Miranda closed her eyes and saw deserts and elephants, and marble pavilions floating on lakes beneath a full moon” (96). This vision reprises elements from the photograph of the Taj Mahal that her coworker, Laxmi, keeps in the adjacent cubicle. In effect, Miranda has traded the sense of shame she felt over her reaction to the Dixits for a romantic fantasy with echoes of Orientalism.   Drawing our attention to the ways in which their affair is “dominated by colonial sentiments,” Éva Tettenborn argues that “Miranda perceives Dev only within the realm of a colonial fantasy and frames his identity in terms of racist stereotypes” (11). This fantasy, however, works both ways. The narrator describes Miranda’s “striking” features, drawing our attention to her “silver eyes and skin as pale as paper, and the contrast with her hair, as dark and glossy as an espresso bean” (Lahiri, “Sexy” 87). Admittedly, Miranda’s attraction to Dev registers both her provincialism and her white gaze, but Dev also seems drawn to the stark contrast between Miranda and his wife, who is said to resemble the Indian actress Madhuri Dixit. The (economic) power and sexual conquest in the story belong to the adulterous Dev, not the young and lonely Miranda.  17  Tracking a similar line of thinking, Rajeshwar Mittapalli notes how in the story “the context of hybridity occur[s] in the reverse direction. . . . Miranda’s association with Dev sets forth a cultural transformation in her. She grows to admire everything Indian” (158). Miranda certainly begins to fetishize, if not exactly admire, the material and cultural presence of India she discovers in Boston. Mittapalli adds that Miranda “learns the Bengali script and even to spell the Indian part of her name, Mira” (159), but she continues to regard India and its various incarnations as incomprehensibly foreign: the script of her name “was a scribble to her, but somewhere in the world, she realized with a shock, it meant something” (Lahiri, “Sexy” 97). In short, their sexual affair highlights a set of mutually irreconcilable fantasies of the Other: Miranda’s white, romantic illusions of the dark-skinned foreigner and Dev’s desire for Miranda to remain a  tabula rasa  , “as pale as paper,” on which he can imprint himself.   In this way, their affair also provides an important context for thinking about Miranda’s own out-of-place identity as a Midwesterner living on the East Coast and how Lahiri uses that sense of dislocation to explore “the liminal space” in which “migrants and other (post)colonial subjects go through a process that recasts their fixed sense of identity” (Kuortti and Nyman 8). I am not suggesting that in moving from a college town to Boston the white Miranda somehow becomes a “postcolonial” subject, but the story does map Miranda’s dislocated identity in terms that intersect with questions of exile and displacement. To invoke Avtar Brah’s work on diaspora, Lahiri writes Miranda into a space “where multiple subject positions are juxtaposed, contested, proclaimed or disavowed” (208).  18  While remaining mindful of the bicultural differences that distinguish Lilia from Miranda, what makes “Mr. Pirzada” and “Sexy” intriguing is the way Lahiri transfers preoccupations with identity and home to her unsettled American citizens. Indeed, in “Sexy,” Dev seems far more at ease navigating his infidelities in the city and his family life in the suburbs; he even owns a car to facilitate his easy commute between these two worlds. Dev is one of Lahiri’s confident “cosmopolites, members of a shifting network of global travelers whose national loyalties are flexible” (Friedman 112). Miranda, on the other hand, fumbles about Boston, searching her pockets for subway tokens, more at home in Filene’s department store than in the city, devoid of genuine friends or confidants and, at times, confined to her apartment. In a clever twist, Lahiri contrasts the familiar regional tropes of the small-town girl in the big city with the immigrant subject, Dev, who seems the more settled figure, at-home in the world.   The weekend before his wife returns from India, Dev takes Miranda to “his favorite place in the city, the Mapparium at the Christian Science center.” The narrator describes the lovers standing “inside a room made of glowing stained-glass panels, which was shaped like the inside of a globe, but looked like the outside of one” (Lahiri, “Sexy” 90). The space literalizes the sense of being both inside and outside at the same moment, emplaced and displaced. As visitors to the Mapparium learn, the original intention was to update the stained-glass plates to keep current with evolving geopolitics, but for obvious economic reasons, that project was abandoned and the Christian Science center decided to preserve the globe as a historical rendering of world geography in 1935. Dev begins his second geography lesson where he left off a couple of weeks prior in Miranda’s apartment. He “pointed to India, which was red, and far more detailed than the map in  The Economist  . He explained that many of the countries, like Siam and Italian Somaliland, no longer existed in the same way; the names had changed by now” (90). As in “Mr. Pirzada,” Lahiri uses an outdated rendering to draw the reader’s attention to the provisional nature of such place constructions, especially in a postcolonial era of dynamic social and political change that continues to transform nation states and cultural identities.  Despite the sense, then, that Miranda is “standing in the center of the world” (90), the fact that this map has effectively passed out of existence only underscores the brittle territory she currently occupies. It is here, thanks to the Mapparium’s unique acoustics, where Dev whispers to Miranda from across the transparent bridge that spans the globe, “You’re sexy” (91), and this second conflation of geography and sexual desire begins the slow unraveling of their relationship. With the imminent return of Dev’s wife, this outing marks the last weekend of their public affair. Once their relationship retreats to the domestic sphere, it becomes difficult to deny its illicit nature, a reality that Miranda at first appears to embrace. In a telling detail, the narrator notes: “While Dev was at the airport, Miranda went to Filene’s Basement to buy herself things she thought a mistress should have.” She purchases “black high heels” and “a satin slip,” “sheer stockings with a seam,” and “a cocktail dress made of a slinky silver material that matched her eyes” (92). This turn in the story cleverly links sexual infidelity and consumerism to regional provincialism: Miranda is at once commodified and embodied as Dev’s illicit lover, premised on small-town ideas about how a mistress should look. Yet the scene also links this commodified subjectivity to the thematic thread of infidelity and cartography that unifies the story. “As [Miranda] shopped,” the narrator observes, “she thought about Dev, and about what he’d told her in the Mapparium. It was the first time a man had called her sexy, and when she closed her eyes she could still feel his whisper drifting through her body, under her skin” (92). Unwittingly, perhaps, Miranda has traded the unsettled and contingent geographies of the Mapparium and returned to the one site in Boston where she still feels most at home in her navigations: Filene’s. It is a flailing attempt to feel both embodied and emplaced as a mistress—with all of that subject’s potentially erotic and cosmopolitan connotations—even as it once again exposes Miranda’s naiveté. She will never have an occasion to wear the cocktail dress on a date with Dev. Their affair devolves into Sunday afternoon trysts in her apartment, and the lingerie she purchases goes into a dresser drawer while the cocktail dress dangles precariously in the closet.  The third and final cartographic exchange in “Sexy” takes place in Miranda’s apartment, a scene that harkens back to the afternoon with Dev and  The Economist  while also echoing their date in the Mapparium. Having been persuaded by Laxmi to babysit her cousin’s son, Rohin, Miranda and the young boy begin their Saturday together with a geography lesson of sorts. Rohin is competing with a classmate to memorize all of the capitals of the world; he has already mastered Europe and, like a colonialist of old, is now working his way through Africa. Describing Rohin’s “paperback world almanac,” the narrator notes: “The countries were arranged by continent, six to a page, with the capitals in boldface, followed by a short entry on the population, government, and other statistics” (102). As the boy adeptly rattles off capitals, Miranda again assumes the position of novice: “She remembered looking at Africa in the Mapparium. She remembered the fat part of it was green” (103). As in “Mr. Pirzada,” Lahiri juxtaposes discrepant maps: the outdated, poorly detailed map of colonial-era Africa that Miranda recalls, and the child’s paperback almanac that presents Africa’s more contemporary, postcolonial history through a set of banal, easily memorized statistics. The exchange between Miranda and Rohin recalls Lilia’s “blank maps” of colonial America and space as an absence to be filled in.  As their afternoon together wears on, the story takes an almost fanciful turn. Rohin finds the silver cocktail dress on the closet floor and asks Miranda to try it on for him. The moment, as surreal and uncomfortable as it becomes, serves as a catalyst for Miranda. As the narrator comments, “There was no reason to put it on. Apart from in the fitting room at Filene’s she had never worn it, and as long as she was with Dev she knew she never would. . . . They would meet in her apartment, on Sundays, he in his sweatpants, she in her jeans” (105). By wearing the dress, stockings, and heels at home, Miranda conflates this domestic scene and Filene’s as the only places she has tried on, or played at, this identity. When she presents herself to Rohin, he is described as “holding his almanac in his hands” (106), an oddly specific detail that can only be meant to extend the various linkages between geography and infidelity—either by relating maps to sexual betrayals and conquests or by emphasizing unfaithful geographic representations. When he sees Miranda, “Rohin put[s] down the almanac” and says, “You’re sexy.” Asked to clarify what “sexy” means, the young boy explains, “It means loving someone you don’t know” (107), a moral lapse his father has committed. The tacit recognition by Miranda that she is the sexy other woman in Dev’s life seems quite literally to unsettle her. She is both upset and jolted out-of-place by this revelation, which Lahiri signals for the reader by having Miranda retrieve and flip through the pages of Rohin’s almanac. As she at last acknowledges the implications of her relationship with Dev, the references to maps accumulate. Miranda recalls “the Mapparium that day, all the countries had seemed close enough to touch, and Dev’s voice had bounced wildly off the glass. From across the bridge, thirty feet away, his words reached her ears, so near and full of warmth that they’d drifted for days under her skin” (108-09). It is a memory of intimacy and distance, expressed through the penetrating “warmth” of Dev’s words, despite his standing on the other side of the stained-glass world. The overdetermined geographic references in this scene—she is both holding the paperback almanac and thinking back to the Mapparium—frame Miranda’s encounter with the uncanny in which nearness and distance coexist and familiar settings are rendered strange. This personal epiphany, however, also exposes the more far-reaching effects of the cartographic exchanges that have taken place over the course of the story. Through these amateur geography lessons, Lahiri links maps to sex, desire, exoticism, conquest, dislocation, and emplacement. For Miranda, these maps come to embody the “double movement of standing and unsecuring” (Israel 14-15). In the Mapparium, Miranda “felt as if they were standing in the center of the world” (Lahiri, “Sexy” 90), as if the vast expanse of the globe had been scaled down to human size, but this foundation masks the shifting and transformative sites through which a new sense of attachment or cultural belonging must emerge out-of-place. The closing section of the story bears witness to both the amicable demise of Miranda’s affair with Dev and the promise that she might at last begin to feel at-home in the city. The Sunday following her afternoon with Rohin, Miranda cancels her scheduled rendezvous with Dev. She resolves to spend one or two more Sundays with him, but events conspire to keep them apart for the next two weekends, and their relationship fades away without incident or much remark. On “[t]he third Sunday she got up early and went out for a walk” (110), and despite the cold, Miranda walks the length of Commonwealth Avenue. She maps—or re-maps—the city on her own, without Dev’s direction, and her newfound, independent mobility lays claim to these places for herself. Her path leads her back to the Christian Science center, and although it is closed, she sits in the plaza across from the church, “gazing at its giant pillars and its massive dome, and at the clear-blue sky spread over the city” (110). A genuine aura of closure pervades the ending. Recalling that Dev introduced Miranda to the cosmopolitan life of Boston, the detail that she walks “past the restaurants where Dev had kissed her” appears to push those scenes into the past (110), foreclosing the illusory sense of identity embodied by the cocktail dress, stockings, and high heels. More significantly, Miranda returns to the site of uncanny displacement, the Mapparium, even though, at that moment, its map remains inaccessible to her. But it is early Sunday morning, and most of Boston’s public sites remain closed, so this exclusion is not freighted with the burden of estrangement. The conclusion of “Sexy” suggests an incipient sense of emplaced identity, and like Lilia in “Mr. Pirzada,” Miranda also returns to an outdated map. At the end of the story, Miranda appears poised, under the city’s “clear-blue sky,” to declare herself both unsettled and at-home.  In the contemporary moment, living under the frenetic conditions of postmodern globalization, perhaps our minds are not capable of “map[ping] the great global multinational and decentered communicational network in which we find ourselves caught as individual subjects” (Jameson 44). Somewhat ironically,  Interpreter of Maladies  uses outdated maps to make this “un-mappable” dilemma explicit. Lahiri’s stories underscore the contested, impermanent nature of mapmaking, the ways it gives meaning to space and encodes difference. As Wood suggests, “no sooner are maps acknowledged as social constructions than their contingent, their conditional, their . . .  arbitrary  character is unveiled” (19). In “When Mr. Pirzada Came to Dine” and “Sexy,” Lahiri adeptly exposes maps as fields of exchange that trouble our assumptions about settled and unsettled identities, but she also uses these maps to draw our attention to other social constructions at the intersection of race, gender, and geography.   Although racial differences alter the stakes of Lilia’s and Miranda’s respective interactions with maps, as female subjects they both encounter the “politics of location”: the specific, situated power relations that shape and renegotiate gendered identity at a particular place and time.  19  According to Blunt and Rose, “Mapping operates in hegemonic discourses as a form of mimetic representation[,] . . . but this form of mapping is contested in discourses of resistance. Mapping thus appears to be a spatial image that directly addresses the politics of representation as they are bound into the politics of location” (8). For Lilia and Miranda, this linkage between the politics of representation and location begins at home, and domestic space serves as an initial site of resistance. In “Mr. Pirzada,” postcolonial geopolitics disrupts patriarchal divisions of private and public realms, but a variation on gender politics remains: Lilia’s father emphasizes her Indian cultural heritage while her mother affirms her American citizenship. The immigrant home forges Lilia’s political subjectivity as a female Indian American citizen, and her interactions outside the home expose the contested nature of that identity. Lilia negotiates her identity in dialogue with the domestic and the foreign and through her resistance to the hegemonic discourses she encounters outside the home. “Sexy,” on the other hand, with its emphasis on husbands, lovers, and jilted wives, appears at first glance to offer a more traditional gendered coding of specific spaces. But feminine tractability and domestic seclusion give way to a more nuanced exploration of urban mobility as Miranda renegotiates her dislocation into a sense of feeling at-home in the cosmopolitan city. Notwithstanding key racial differences, then, Lilia and Miranda follow trajectories that deepen our understanding of the politics of location in a dynamic, tumultuous world of multiple affiliations and shifting borders.   I would like to thank Rachel Stein for her comments on an early draft of this essay. I am also grateful to Gary Totten, the editorial staff at  MELUS  , and the three anonymous reviewers—especially the second reviewer, whose detailed comments and incisive questions about race, gender, and citizenship helped me to clarify the key claims of this project.  despite—or rather because of—its negativity, abstract space carries within itself the seeds of a new kind of space. I shall call that new space ‘differential space’, because, inasmuch as abstract space tends toward homogeneity, towards the elimination of existing differences or peculiarities, a new space cannot be born (produced) unless it accentuates differences. (52) The social construction of gender difference establishes some spaces as women’s and others as men’s; those meanings then serve to reconstitute the power relations of gendered identity. However, since the outcome of the decoding process [of spatial, symbolic, and social orders] can never be guaranteed, contestation and renegotiation of the meaning of spaces is also always possible. (3) Oxford University Press is a department of the University of Oxford. It furthers the University's objective of excellence in research, scholarship, and education by publishing worldwide Sign In  or  Create an Account This PDF is available to Subscribers Only For full access to this pdf, sign in to an existing account, or purchase an annual subscription. 