Team Killers Won ' t Be Perma-Banned in Rainbow Six Siege | SegmentNext One issue that all multiplayer shooter games have is teamkillers. Those who just can t resist killing their own teammates. Each developer has its own way to deal with them but all deal with such players with a firm hand. Ubisoft has released a new Rainbow Six Siege update that will ban players instantly after a team kill. If you kill a teammate for the first time, there is 30 minutes ban. Each time the duration of the ban increases, the longest being a week-long ban on your fifth offense. Here are the rest of the patch notes. Bug fixes -Gameplay Fixed – [PC][PS4][XB1] A number of crashing issues across all platforms. Fixed – [PC][XB1] Cannot use melee for a short while after using prone. Fixed – Players are able to take the defuser through the walls. Fixed – Throwing C4 on an electrified wall will not destroy the nitro cell on contact. Operators -Maverick Fixed – The bullet casings are ejected forwards when firing the AR-15.50 weapon. -Clash Fixed – Clash’s Shield can be deployed while crouched. Fixed – Clash’s CCE shield can clip in the arm and clip in the pistol. Fixed – Clash is able to fire her gun before weapon appears on screen. Fixed – In the loadout menu charms are not equipped in the same place as during a session for Clash’s CCE Shield. Fixed – When a player is killed by the CCE shield, the generic death icon is displayed instead of the taser shield Fixed – [PC][XB1] Clash’s CCE shield is clips through partially broken barricades when rotating. -Smoke Fixed – If the attackers drop the defuser, Smoke can move it by throwing his gadget on it. Level design -Hereford Fixed – Players are able to throw gadgets outside during the prep phase via the floor of 2F Bathroom. User Experience Fixed – Inconsistency between thumbnail icon and preview for Buck’s Grim Sky BDU. Fixed – Non-purchased items have the ‘set as active’ option. Fixed – Error message present in the pop-up modal when 2SV is active. Fixed – Pressing enter multiple times while the title is loading will cause the title to start a situation with the 2SV pop-up still on the screen. Fixed – All the Six Major Paris Charms appear with a placeholder model. While these measures are welcomed, there needs to be a perma-ban for those 