Avocado Kimchi Grilled Cheese - My Planted Plate My Planted Plate A healthy vegan and sugar free food blog! June 6, 2018  by  Maeve Holmberg There are some food combinations that are just a little  too far  out there, like pickles and peanut butter (I m looking at you, Uncle Glen), but then there s this incredible vegan avocado kimchi grilled cheese sandwich! With creamy avocado, gooey cheese, and spicy and tangy kimchi all sandwiched between two crisp slices of bread, you really can t go wrong! If you were brave enough to click on this post, congratulations! You re clearly a risk taker, so this avocado kimchi grilled cheese sandwich should be right up your alley. It s safe to say we ve all had those days when we can t match any typical human food with our appetite, so we embark on a wonderful journey down the road of weird food combinations. Last night, that was  exactly  how I felt. It was cold outside, so salads and buddha bowls were crossed off my list, but a regular sandwich just didn t sound appetizing. Then, my eyes fell on the Rejuvenative Foods  Raw Organic Kimchi jar in my fridge, and boom! A masterpiece was born. Want to know something strange? The first time I ve ever tried kimchi was in this sandwich last night. Originally, I wanted to try out Rejuvenative Foods  kimchi because it s  filled  with tons of health benefits! I figured that if the taste wasn t on point, at least I was fueling my body with a variety of nutrients, probiotics, enzymes, vitamins, and minerals. But then I tried it. GUYS. This stuff is amazing!! The taste is so fresh, juicy, flavorful, all with a touch of heat. If you don t believe how good their kimchi tastes, I ve already used it on my avocado toast this morning,  and  my grain bowl this afternoon! So I ve basically eaten it with every meal since I opened the jar last night. I might be a little bit obsessed . All I can say is if you want to take this vegan avocado kimchi grilled cheese to the next level, swing by Whole Foods to pick up a jar of Rejuventaive Foods  kimchi, I promise you won t regret it! By now, you might be wondering:  how did you decide to put kimchi and avocado in grilled cheese? How are you  such  a genius? Honestly, I don t know. Except for the last part   I d blame it on my excessive avocado intake. Avocados go good with just about everything, so it was a no brainer to combine them with kimchi. As for the grilled cheese part, I just crossed my fingers and hoped for the best, and boy was I happy with the result! One of the most difficult parts about cooking is messing up the food with a simple mistake. As I used my spatula to check on the crispiness of this sandwich, I held it up  just a little  too high and the whole thing flipped over face-down in the pan! Just as I was ready to throw in the towel, the kimchi started sizzling in the pan and it hit me   I can cook the kimchi! So, half of my avocado kimchi grilled cheese sandwich contained cooked kimchi, while the other half offered an awakening bite of fresh kimchi. Both halves tasted phenomenal, so it s really up to your flavor preferences for which you prefer to make! This avocado kimchi grilled cheese sandwich will literally blow your mind! It s super easy and simple to make, vegan, made with no butter, and packed with tons of health benefits! If you make this vegan avocado kimchi grilled cheese, please make sure to tag me in a photo on Instagram @myplantedplate or send me an email at myplantedplate@gmail.com, I’d love to see how it turned out for you! For more tasty and health-filled recipes like this one, feel free to click the button that says  “ Click Here To Subscribe To My Weekly Newsletter! ” on the bottom of this page – you don’t want to miss out)! Cook 6 mins Total 6 mins Author Maeve Holmberg Yield 1 sandwich This is seriously the best healthy grilled cheese sandwich you'll ever have! Packed with tons of protein, fiber, probiotics, and health benefits - this easy and simple recipe featuring creamy avocado, gooey cheese, crisp bread, and tangy and spicy kimchi is sure to blow your mind! Cuisine Vegan Serving Size 1 sandwich Amount Per Serving Calories 369 % Daily Value Total Fat 15.7 g 24% Saturated Fat 2.1 g 11% Sodium 626 mg 26% Total Carbohydrates 43.8 g 15% Dietary Fiber 14.8 g 59% Sugars 2.1 g Protein 17 g 34% * Percent Daily Values are based on a 2,000 calorie diet. Your daily values may be higher or lower depending on your calorie needs. Click Here To Subscribe To My Weekly Newsletter! Filed Under:  Comfort Food ,  Popular Posts ,  Recipes Tagged With:  avocado ,  cheese ,  comfort food ,  dairy free ,  easy ,  egg free ,  fiber ,  food ,  grilled ,  grilled cheese ,  grilled cheese sandwich ,  healthy ,  kimchi ,  no butter ,  probiotics ,  protein ,  quick ,  recipe ,  sandwich ,  sandwiches ,  savory ,  simple ,  spicy ,  vegan ,  vegetarian ,  veggie ,  vitamins I m Maeve, and my goal is to create healthy, wholesome, nutrient-dense recipes that will find their way to your table. I m a 17-year-old recipe developing, avocado loving, almond butter fanatic with a passion for healthy foods. Here, you ll find all my recipes for healthy comfort foods, veggie based snacks, dinner inspiration, and even guilt-free desserts!  Read More Copyright  &# x000A9; 2019  Foodie Pro & The Genesis Framework Powered by  OptinMonster 