Sharon Schwarze, PhD hero-angle-alpha hero-angle-beta icon-rss-square icon-instagram icon-rss icon-facebook icon-facebook-square icon-facebook-official icon-twitter icon-twitter-square icon-google-plus icon-google-plus-square icon-linkedin icon-linkedin-square icon-pinterest icon-pinterest-square icon-youtube icon-youtube-square icon-youtube-play icon-search icon-gift icon-graduation-cap icon-home icon-bank icon-envelope icon-envelope-square Cabrini Logo Cabrini Logo icon-chevron-right icon-chevron-left cab-logo category academics category athletics category just for fun category service and mission category living on campus category profiles category advice category activities and events Cabrini University logo with crest icon-search icon-bank icon-gift Cabrini University logo with crest Cabrini University logo with crest Sharon Schwarze, PhD Professor, Philosophy  Grace Hall, Room 251 Chair and Professor, Philosophy Sharon Schwarze, PhD, came to Cabrini in 1971. She teaches Political Philosophy, Philosophy of Science, Contemporary Moral Problems, Logic, Philosophy of Law, and Critical Thinking. With colleague Harvey Lape, Schwarze wrote “Thinking Socratically” (Prentice Hall), now in its third edition, to encourage students to apply critical thinking to a variety of contexts and events. The text is used in colleges and universities across the country. Over her years at Cabrini, Schwarze has watched students gain that knowledge, a process she refers to as “awakening.” The most rewarding aspect of teaching at Cabrini for Schwarze is seeing students awaken, graduate, and succeed. In the community, Schwarze engages in town and gown activities in Wayne, Pa., where she resides. And for 15 years, she has worked on literacy skills with a senior citizen, who continues to improve his reading ability every week. Schwarze earned doctoral and master’s degrees from the University of Pennsylvania, and a bachelor’s from Smith College in Massachusetts. Discover Cabrini University's strategic plan for diversification, sustainable growth, and expanded outreach. Cabrini University logo with crest icon-bank icon-gift Cabrini University  is a Catholic, liberal-arts university dedicated to academic excellence, leadership development, and a commitment to social justice. icon-twitter icon-instagram icon-facebook icon-linkedin icon-youtube 