Is it wise to try for a second baby with a big fibroid in uterus? - Quora a CqRBR d DzRUT NSrEV b Vl y vYb Jlo W Ru o e r N l hu d bU Hil L d i RR f qgyy e r s vV t ls y r l gUKYg e OSHZ It actually depends on your age and type of fibroid....If you are in late age group complications are more likely bt if you are 20 ' s you may land up in complications bt less likely... Its better you treat your fibroid first E.g if you have intramural type of fibroid then its quite a bad choice to try for conceive baby.... What i would suggest is that if you strongly desire for baby consult a OGcian and get it clarified about the Postives and negative and type of fibroid you have and what are the steps you have to do inorder to have safe child birth... There are risks but its better you clarify ... It actually depends on your age and type of fibroid....If you are in late age group complications are more likely bt if you are 20 ' s you may land up in complications bt less likely... Its better you treat your fibroid first E.g if you have intramural type of fibroid then its quite a bad choice to try for conceive baby.... What i would suggest is that if you strongly desire for baby consult a OGcian and get it clarified about the Postives and negative and type of fibroid you have and what are the steps you have to do inorder to have safe child birth... There are risks but its better you clarify each and everthing and go fa baby.... 1,824 Views 1,389 Views 242 Views 1,586,626 Views 2,077 Views It depends, some women ' s fibroids shrink, some stay the same size and some grow. So unless your fibroids shrink, the chance of getting degeneration pain is about the same as the first pregnancy. Women will not necessarily have the same issue in the 2nd one as the 1st one, and in his experience the majority of fibroid cases like ours can get painful and scary but turn out ok in the end anyway (research does bear that out too, though our odds of problems are worse than with no fibroids). Uterine fibroids are abnormal, noncancerous growths that develop on a woman ' s uterus. Their cause is unclear... It depends, some women ' s fibroids shrink, some stay the same size and some grow. So unless your fibroids shrink, the chance of getting degeneration pain is about the same as the first pregnancy. Women will not necessarily have the same issue in the 2nd one as the 1st one, and in his experience the majority of fibroid cases like ours can get painful and scary but turn out ok in the end anyway (research does bear that out too, though our odds of problems are worse than with no fibroids). Uterine fibroids are abnormal, noncancerous growths that develop on a woman ' s uterus. Their cause is unclear, but they may be related to hormones or run in families. Once a woman is pregnant, fibroids can ' t be removed because the uterus is prone to bleed more than normally. So women have to live with them until after the baby is born. Complications during delivery: s XVZyj p whqAl o imYKS n ClJP s lP o peEGu r z e ISF d zwxus l b XU y zwo BBw S q c jSIQX r P i LUB b S o K l XvR TTJwJ P lbHyt u pHHf b EElh l l i Xic s M h qHXcW i sRq n GDOAD g lmx 1,824 Views 1,586,626 Views 242 Views 1,389 Views 2,077 Views 7,664 Views 771 Views 8,226 Views 124 Views 15,786 Views 800 Views 4,412 Views 6,213 Views 21,868 Views 613 Views 