OYO 12989 White Diamond Hotel, Jalandhar, India - Booking.com Loading Pick your preferred language. We speak English and 42 other languages. View vacation packages to 2, 66ft Road, Near Curo Mall, Mithapur, Jalandhar., 144003 Jalandhar, India Show map Facilities 6.4 Cleanliness 7.1 Comfort 6.4 Value for money 6.4 Location 6.4 Total 6.5 Free WiFi 5.0 Staff Located in Jalandhar, OYO 12989 White Diamond Hotel has a bar, garden and terrace. Among the facilities of this property are a restaurant, a 24-hour front desk and room service, along with free WiFi throughout the property. Private parking can be arranged at an extra charge. At the hotel all rooms include a closet, a TV and a private bathroom. A continental breakfast is available every morning at OYO 12989 White Diamond Hotel. The nearest airport is Raja Sansi International Airport, 62 miles from the accommodation.  We speak your language! OYO 12989 White Diamond Hotel has been welcoming Booking.com guests since Apr 5, 2018 Distance in property description is calculated using © OpenStreetMap What would you like to know? Thank you for your time Your feedback will help us improve this feature for all of our customers We're sorry, but there was an error submitting your comment. Please try again. Continental Good  Coffee! Free WiFi Free private parking available at the hotel Be one of the first to add No credit card needed to book.  We'll send you an email confirming your reservation. Get instant confirmation with FREE cancellation on most rooms! When would you like to stay at OYO 12989 White Diamond Hotel? Enter your dates to check availability. Your departure date is invalid. Very good location and very well maintained What would you like to know? Thank you for your time Your feedback will help us improve this feature for all of our customers We're sorry, but there was an error submitting your comment. Please try again. Prices you can't beat! Manage your bookings online The staff speaks English Booking is safe Pets are not allowed. Free! WiFi is available in all areas and is free of charge. Free! Free private parking is available  on site (reservation is not needed). What topic(s) do you want to know more about? Room Property Location  &  transportation Food  &  Drink Policies Other Thanks for your help! Your opinion helps us figure out what kinds of info we should ask properties for. Whoops! It looks like something went wrong submitting this. Try again? Check-in 12:00 PM From 12:00 PM Check-out 11:00 AM Until 11:00 AM Cancellation/ prepayment Cancellation and prepayment policies vary according to accommodations type.Please  enter the dates of your stay  and check what conditions apply to your preferred room. Children  &  Beds Children of all ages are welcome. Children 6 and above are considered adults at this property. To see correct prices and occupancy info, add the number and ages of children in your group to your search.  There's no capacity for cribs at this property. This property doesn't offer extra beds. Pets Pets are not allowed. Cards accepted at this hotel Cash OYO 12989 White Diamond Hotel accepts these cards and reserves the right to temporarily hold an amount prior to arrival. Payment before arrival by bank transfer is required. The property will contact you after you book to provide instructions. Guests staying at OYO 12989 White Diamond Hotel can enjoy a highly-rated breakfast during their stay (guest review score: 3.8). Breakfast option(s) include:  The following parking options are available to guests staying at OYO 12989 White Diamond Hotel (subject to availability):  Check-in at OYO 12989 White Diamond Hotel is from 12:00 PM, and check-out is until 11:00 AM. Room options at OYO 12989 White Diamond Hotel include:  The prices at OYO 12989 White Diamond Hotel may vary depending on your stay (e.g. dates, hotel's policy etc.). To see prices, enter your dates. OYO 12989 White Diamond Hotel has 1 restaurants:  Verified guest reviews from real Bookers Real Bookers. Real stays. Real opinions. Read more Awesome: 9+ 2 Good: 7   9 2 Okay: 5   7 0 Poor: 3   5 1 Very Poor: 1   3 2 There was a problem loading the reviews.  ><a class="bui-link bui-link--primary" title="" href="javascript:B.Reviews.load();">Try again< a> Be one of the first to add Open your list Find quick answers or ask questions to the property Thanks! You'll receive an email as soon as the property answers your question. Reviewed: March 4, 2019 Isha Arrived at property after midnight and took over 1.5 hours to check in to a decent room after having to call managers on their mobiles to sort out the situation Nothing. Staff attitude was disgusting and the rooms were absolutely horrible with damp walls. Stayed in March 2019 Reviewed: November 3, 2018 Amandeep Food is very teasty Stayed in November 2018 Reviewed: August 30, 2018 Anonymous Behavior of staff, not even Hi or Hello, specially room service we really did not like. They were so rude, harrasful, and dishonored Extremely bad Service ,. Extremely bad Management.Only sounded AC in room no Fan was provided  so it was so uncomfortable. Nothing to like there in that hotel .... Unexpected horrible staff and management.Just building looks good. Area was good . Stayed in August 2018 Reviewed: July 16, 2018 Id staff not good for reception Stayed in July 2018 Reviewed: June 10, 2018 Pawan Very good location and very well maintained Stayed in June 2018 Most Popular Cities Error: Please enter a valid email address. Error: Oops! An error has occurred. Thanks! We've sent you an email so you can confirm your subscription Refer a property List your property Booking.com is part of Booking Holdings Inc., the world leader in online travel and related services. We have more than 70 million property reviews, all from  real, verified guests . 1 The only way to leave a review is to first make a booking. That's how we know our reviews come from real guests who have stayed at the property. 2 When guests stay at the property, they check out how quiet the room is, how friendly the staff is, and more. 3 After their trip, guests tell us about their stay. We check for naughty words and verify the authenticity of all guest reviews before adding them to our site. If you booked through us and want to leave a review, please sign in first. Check-in date Check-out date Get exclusive Booker deals by email For a limited time only Error: Please enter a valid email address. Error: Oops! An error has occurred. 