Why Not Fund the Search for Extra-Terrestrial Intelligence with a Lottery Bond? The Search for Extra-Terrestrial Intelligence or SETI is one of the highest profile projects in science. That’s partly because of the cultural role that extra-terrestrials play in films, books and so on. But also because of the genuine interest of many scientists and the belief that a discovery of this kind will change humankind forever. And yet SETI suffers from an ongoing funding problem. Government funding agencies generally ignore SETI so most programs have to rely on donations from wealthy patrons and private individuals. Microsoft’s co-founder Paul Allen is one of these, having donated more than $30 million for the construction of a radio interferometer designed to scour the skies looking for signs of extraterrestrial intelligence. But despite his investment, this facility is only partially operational and still incomplete because other donations have dried up. Attracting new donors is tricky because the timescale involved is entirely unknown. The search may be completed in 10 years or 10,000 years— it’s impossible to know. And that means SETI projects have to ask repeatedly for funding from essentially the same small group of people. But there may be another way to fund the search, says Jacob Haqq-Misra at the Blue Marble Space Institute of Science in Seattle. His idea is to fund future SETI research with a lottery bond. So investors purchase shares that the yield a fixed rate of interest until SETI succeeds. That’s like a perpetual bond such as the UK’s Premium Bonds But to add an element of excitement, Haqq-Misra suggests adding a little randomness into the mix. When the search is over, he suggests that a random subset of shares should be awarded a prize from the kitty. “The total capital raised this way will provide a fund to >be managed by a ﬁnancial institution, with annual payments from this fund to support SETI research, pay investor interest, and contribute to the lottery fund,” says Haqq-Misra.< p> That’s an interesting idea that raises a number of important issues. The first is whether such an idea can succeed. Haqq-Misra points out that many otherwise unattractive projects have been financed in this way. Indeed, one of the earliest recorded lotteries was a way of funding the construction of the Great Wall of China over 2000 years ago. He says that SETI is ideally suited to this approach because it is fundamentally different to most other scientific endeavours, which have well defined timetables that are designed to allow investors to see the fruits of their investment. By contrast, SETI is open-ended so there is a great uncertainty, but also a certain thrill, associated with the possibility of discovery that other projects do not share. A lottery is a way of creating a similar thrill for investors, says Haqq-Misra. Another question is how to define success. The obvious way would be to create a scientific board that oversees and reviews the results. The SETI project will only be considered completed given widespread consensus that extraterrestrial intelligence has been found. Then there is the possibility of fraud. The prospect of a decent financial payout would surely be a great incentive to manufacture seemingly persuasive evidence. Expect a new generation of UFO videos if this comes to fruition. Once again, the scientific board will have to step in to make a judgement. Finally, there are the practicalities of creating and running such a fund. Haqq-Misra says that only a properly licensed financial institution could run such an operation and one or more would be needed to step forward to take on the job. This institution must be competent and will require payment so a certain fraction of potential research funds will be lost in this way. Nevertheless, Haqq-Misra is confident that a lottery bond would have global appeal and could generate several to tens of millions of dollars per year for SETI research. The end result is an idea that could well be attractive to financial institutions, to potential investors and also to SETI organisations around the world. The only question now is whether anybody is willing to pick up this ball and run with it. Ref:  http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2467  : Funding the Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence with a Lottery Bond Written by 