Dust Collection Module | Global Finishing Solutions Dust Collection Module | Global Finishing Solutions "Having GFS equipment married with REVO Systems is a great marketing tool, and there is nothing like it — the dry time, the cleanliness, the appearance, everything.” “The quality of the paint booth and the materials that GFS uses creates a design that I know will last a long time. The service made it a really easy decision.” “When people come to our facility with their aircraft, they see this new, very impressive booth and feel confident having us do their paint and refurbishment work.” Effectively Captures Dust From Sanding  &  Grinding Applications Home  »  Products  »  Dust Collection  »  Dust Collection Modules Integrated into our Sanding and Grinding Booths, Blast Booths or sold separately, Dust Collection Modules from Global Finishing Solutions ®  (GFS) provide a safe, effective means for containing dust produced from sanding, grinding and blasting applications. With the help of a direct-drive fan and motor, air is pulled into the module and through a cartridge filtration system. Dust is filtered, and clean air is exhausted back into the plant. GFS Dust Collection Modules are constructed with single-skin, 12-gauge, painted mild steel. Each Global Finishing Solutions Dust Collection Module contains an  open louver  door design for dust and sanding or  spark arrestor  door for all grinding applications. Dust Collection Modules from GFS ship fully assembled and feature heavy-duty, durable construction. Featured in GFS’ Dust Collection Modules, high-efficiency cartridge filters remove dust and recirculate clean air back into the facility. Global Finishing Solutions  Dust Collection Modules include a direct-drive blower and motor. HEPA filtration GFS guarantees that our products meet or exceed all of the applicable codes related to the equipment. Our engineers regularly follow and contribute to the advancement of codes and standards that affect the industries that we work in. One of our engineers currently serves on the NFPA Technical Committee on Finishing Processes, a key standard in the finishing industry. Several considerations must be taken when choosing between a gas and electric oven, as your decision will have a direct impact on your business’ financial and production capabilities. We have identified four things for you to know about gas and electric ovens. With such intricate scenery design comes a need for high-quality finishing equipment. A pair of decade-old Open Face Spray Booths from Global Finishing Solutions (GFS) was not cutting it for the company, so Mystic Scenic Studios started looking into enclosed spray booths with an added heat option.  Choosing the right type of panels for your paint booth or powder coating booth can make a big difference in quality, productivity and maintenance. If you are considering a new paint booth or powder coating booth, here are four things you need to know about pre-coated white panels, compared to galvanized steel panels: Paint Booths by Airflow REVO Systems Parts  &  Filters Blog Support Careers Distributor Portal 12731 Norway Rd  Osseo, WI 54758 info@globalfinishing.com 800-848-8738 Global Finishing Solutions will use the information you provide on this form to be in touch with you and to provide updates and marketing. You can change your mind at any time by clicking the unsubscribe link in the footer of any email you receive from us, or by contacting us at info@globalfinishing.com. We will treat your information with respect. For more information about our privacy practices please visit our  privacy policy . By clicking below, you agree that we may process your information in accordance with these terms. We use MailChimp as our marketing automation platform. By clicking below to submit this form, you acknowledge that the information you provide will be transferred to MailChimp for processing in accordance with their  Privacy Policy  and  Terms . 