Top 6 Serial Killers in Video Games! - Bloody Disgusting [Butcher Block] S. Craig Zahler-penned ‘Asylum Blackout’ Offers Exploitation Savagery [Trailer] Severin Releasing FX Artist Gabe Bartalos  Crazy, Gory, Totally Bizarre  Saint Bernard  in May! So What s the Status On That  Crooked Man  Spinoff Movie, You Ask? Gory and Intense  4DX Showings of  Hellboy  Will Simulate Blood Splatter By Shooting Water at Your Face The Fourth Annual  Alien Day  Celebrates the Franchise s 40th Anniversary On April 26th! Full Episodes of the 2003  Tremors  TV Series Being Officially Uploaded to YouTube for Free Viewing Images from Jamie King Starrer Zombie Series  Black Summer , Now Streaming on Netflix [Trailer]  The Twilight Zone  Returns Tomorrow With Sanaa Lathan in  Replay Ghost Hunters  Stars Reuniting for Brand New Travel Channel Series  Ghost Nation Flight and Fright: Richard Matheson’s “Nightmare at 20,000 Feet” and Its Many Adaptations [Review]  The Silence  is a Joyless and Forgettable Killer Bat Horror Movie [Review]  Outward  is a Rough and Overwhelming Survival RPG, But Can Be a Rewarding Experience [Book Review]  The Lady from the Black Lagoon  Shines an Essential Light on  Creature  Designer Milicent Patrick [TV Review] The Dark Lord Gives Part 2 of “Chilling Adventures of Sabrina” Darker Focus and Confidence The Walking Dead  Ends Excellent Season 9 With One of the Coolest, Most Unique Episodes to Date The “D Trilogy” Was Weird, Wild, and Truly One-of-a-Kind [Butcher Block] S. Craig Zahler-penned ‘Asylum Blackout’ Offers Exploitation Savagery [Editorial] The Musicality of Rob Zombie s Films, From  House of 1000 Corpses  to  31 Flight and Fright: Richard Matheson’s “Nightmare at 20,000 Feet” and Its Many Adaptations Live or Die, Make Your Choice: A Celebration of the Most Macabre Games in Horror Movies [Trailer] Severin Releasing FX Artist Gabe Bartalos  Crazy, Gory, Totally Bizarre  Saint Bernard  in May! The 27 Club  Investigates the Deaths of Iconic Rock Stars [Trailer] RoboDoc  Director Shares Never Before Seen  RoboCop  Footage [Video] Killer Fan Film  Michael vs. Jason: Evil Emerges  Has Racked Up 1.5 Million Views in One Week! [Trailer] Heart Transplant Goes Horribly Wrong in Netflix s Uma Thurman-Starring Horror Series  Chambers The “D Trilogy” Was Weird, Wild, and Truly One-of-a-Kind Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice  Slices its Way to More Than 2 Million Copies Sold in Just Over a Week The  Hitman 2  Expansion Pass Roadmap For 2019 Reveals New Maps and Modes to Die For Latest  Rage 2  Trailer Warns That Everything is Coming For You The Exorcist Legion VR  Developers New PSVR Horror Title  A Chair in a Room: Greenwater  Out Later This Month Published on By When  Silent Hill 4: The Room  released in 2004, it polarized a lot of people. Some found its atmosphere, music, monsters and mind-f**k of a story satisfying enough, while others were unable to find that  Silent Hill  charm under all its problems. I considered myself a member of the latter group until I played the game again a few years back. It s not the strongest of the bunch, but my opinion of it has softened a bit over time, possibly because the games that followed it took the series even further away from its roots. There s a feeling of unease that permeates  The Room . It s an unnerving game, and the source of some of that comes from the game s serial killer antagonist, Walter Sullivan. Sullivan is a product of the Order, a cult that brainwashed him as a child, instilling the belief that he must kill innocent people to fulfill some sort of ritual. What makes this serial killer so different from the others on this list is his effect on the world the game takes place in. His fears built the horrors that lurk in  Silent Hill 4 s  version of the Otherworld, which easily ranks among the scariest Otherworlds of the series. Pages:  1 2 3 4 5  6  7 8 Gamer, writer, terrible dancer, longtime toast enthusiast.Legend has it Adam was born with a controller in one hand and the Kraken's left eye in the other. Legends are often wrong. Looking Back at  Manhunt  and its Unique Take on Video Game Violence Quantic Dream Bringing  Heavy Rain ,  Beyond: Two Souls ,  Detroit: Become Human  to Epic Games Store The Top 75 Theme Songs in Horror! Copyright © 2018 Bloody Disgusting, LLC 