Dr Susan Coulshed | Nephrologist | Renal Medicine specialist | Wollstonecraft, Sydney | Australia | Aushealthpages Dr Susan Coulshed is a Nephrologist specialising in Renal Medicine in Wollstonecraft, Sydney, Australia. Nephrology/Renal Medicine A Nephrologists specialises in the management of conditions that affect the kidneys. This branch of medicine is called Nephrology, or renal medicine. This involves diagnosis and treatment of diseases and disorders of the kidneys. The kidneys, located in the rear of the abdominal cavity, filter out wastes and excess fluid from the blood and excrete them as urine. Common problems with the kidneys include: acute (sudden) sudden loss of kidney function, or chronic (long-term) worsening of function; kidney stones; urinary tract infections; blood loss in the urine (haematuria); and protein loss in the urine (proteinuria). Treatment for many kidney disorders commonly involves medications. However, if kidney function worsens or begins to fail, dialysis (using a machine to filter the blood) may be needed and, later, kidney transplantation. Nephrology at the Mater Allergy Children's Health Fertility, Pregnancy  &  Gynaecology Men's Health Mental Health Skin Cancer Women's Health Aushealthpages is a leading online reference resource for all Australians. The site features a comprehensive directory of private medical specialists so you can find expert help now. We specialise in meeting the needs of health professionals, making referrals easy, and making it easy for everyone to find health services. We love to improve so thank you for your bright idea and feedback. Note:  If your request is urgent we would suggest you telephone the organisations or individual as different organisations process and action emails with different levels of priority. Where Organisations have provided the ability for you to email them, this is for the purpose of potential Patient or Clients enquiry or contact and for referral purposes only. It is not to be used to solicit business or the seeking of employment etc. Any detected or reported abuse of this, may result in you being blocked from accessing this website. Please also be aware that this email service is a standard email service and your message is not encrypted. 