© 2006-2019 Raising Children Network (Australia) Limited. All rights reserved. Warning: This website and the information it contains is not intended as a substitute for professional consultation with a qualified practitioner. © 2006-2019 Raising Children Network (Australia) Limited. All rights reserved. Warning: This website and the information it contains is not intended as a substitute for professional consultation with a qualified practitioner. Packing healthy lunches for children | Raising Children Network A healthy lunch box full of fresh food gives your child the  energy to concentrate, learn and play  all day. How much you put in your child s lunch box depends on the length of your child s day. For example, children who go to child care, kinder or school for six hours a day might need to bring food for morning tea and lunch. Children who go for longer periods might also need afternoon tea. It s also a good idea to pack a bottle with tap water for your child to drink. Fruit juice and soft drinks are high in sugar and aren t recommended for children because they can lead to  tooth decay  and other health problems. Packing a lunch box from home means you can offer your child a range of healthy lunch options from the five food groups: Here are some  healthy lunch ideas  for getting the five food groups into your child s lunch box: If your child won t eat anything but white bread, try a high fibre, low-GI loaf. These are more nutritious than white bread and will stop your child from getting hungry again too quickly after lunch. Healthy snack options  Fresh fruit, stewed fruit in natural juice, dried fruit, muesli, yoghurt, pieces of cheese, fruit bread, rice cakes, pikelets and wholegrain crackers all make nutritious snacks. You could also try making your own healthy muffins or cakes using vegetables or fruit   for example, sultanas, carrot, banana, pumpkin or zucchini. Sweet cakes are best kept for special occasions such as birthdays. Unusual and interesting fillings can get your child excited about her sandwich, so why not be a little adventurous? For example, you could try flat or pita bread with chopped carrot, celery, capsicum, snow peas or cucumber. What about cherry tomatoes, corn, beetroot or sprouts with dips? Or add grated carrot, zucchini, sliced red cabbage, raisins or sultanas, sliced apple or fresh herbs to liven things up. Here are more  tasty sandwich combinations : Foods to keep out of lunch boxes  Meats such as salami, mortadella, Strasburg, smoked turkey and pastrami are highly processed and salty. They can also be fatty. You might want to save these for every now and then, rather than packing them every day. Check the  allowable  foods policy  at your child s centre, kinder or school. Many centres and schools ask that you don t pack certain foods   for example, eggs or anything with nuts. This is to protect children with allergies from coming into contact with those foods. Kids usually want to eat quickly so that they can go and play. Here are some ideas to make it easy for them. Keep it simple Keep it small and easy to handle Minimise mess If there s no other choice, your child is more likely to eat the healthy food you ve packed. So avoid putting in  sometimes foods  such as sweet treats   for example, muesli bars or fruit bars such as roll-ups   and salty or fatty treats   for example, packets of chips. These foods aren t recommended for every day, because they re low in nutrition and high in calories. Save these foods for special occasions, such as birthdays. Before preparing your child s lunch box, always wash your hands well with warm soapy water. Make sure all chopping boards and utensils are clean and dry. Any lunch box containing meat, fish, chicken, eggs, noodles, rice, pasta, yoghurt, cheese or milk needs to be kept cold, so choose an insulated lunch box or one that can fit a freezer pack or small bottle of frozen water. This will stop the growth of harmful bacteria, which could make your child sick. Also make sure to check the use-by date for items like yoghurt and milk. If you make your child s lunch the night before, keep it in the fridge (below 5 C) overnight. In the morning, add a bottle of frozen water to the lunch box to keep it cool until lunch time. If you re packing a warm food such as soup, heat it up in the morning and pack in a thermos   it will still be warm at lunchtime. Add a wholemeal bread roll for extra fibre. Some schools have microwaves for children to heat their lunch, so check whether your school has one. National Health and Medical Research Council (2013).  The Australian guide to healthy eating . Canberra: NHMRC. Retrieved April 11, 2014, from http://www.eatforhealth.gov.au/guidelines/australian-guide-healthy-eating. Raising Children Network is supported by the Australian Government. Member organisations are the Parenting Research Centre and the Murdoch Childrens Research Institute with The Royal Children s Hospital Centre for Community Child Health. Follow us on social media © 2006-2019 Raising Children Network (Australia) Limited. All rights reserved. Warning: This website and the information it contains is not intended as a substitute for professional consultation with a qualified practitioner. Raising Children Network is supported by the Australian Government. Member organisations are the Parenting Research Centre and the Murdoch Childrens Research Institute with The Royal Children s Hospital Centre for Community Child Health. 