Sudip Domala - Summer Analyst Intern - Bank of America | LinkedIn Liked by  Sudip Domala Liked by  Sudip Domala Liked by  Sudip Domala Jun 2018   –  Present 1 year 7 months Roseville, California ●  Analyzed retail sales bottlenecks and successfully communicated key factors of improvement to management program leaders to strengthen client traffic  ●  Initiated a client outreach internship program and utilized marketing analysis to strengthen digital banking adoption  ●  Led 14 different college interns across the nation to create wealth outlooks for three different Merrill Lynch clients. ●  Analyzed retail sales bottlenecks and successfully communicated key factors of improvement to management program leaders to strengthen client traffic  ●  Initiated a client outreach internship program and utilized marketing analysis to strengthen digital banking adoption  ●  Led 14 different college interns across the nation to create wealth outlooks for three different Merrill Lynch clients. 2017   –   2019 Primary Depths: Finance, ISOM  Secondary Depth: Analytic Consulting Courses: Business Data Analytics, Strategic Management, Process Systems Management, Marketing Management, Organization Management, Data Analytics and Visualization, Supply Chain Management, Corporate Finance, Financial Statement Analysis, Investments, Sports Finance, Marketing Analysis in Excel, International Finance, Data Science, Global Derivatives Markets, Real Estate Finance, Business Law Primary Depths: Finance, ISOM  Secondary Depth: Analytic Consulting Courses: Business Data Analytics, Strategic Management, Process Systems Management, Marketing Management, Organization Management, Data Analytics and Visualization, Supply Chain Management, Corporate Finance, Financial Statement Analysis, Investments, Sports Finance, Marketing Analysis in Excel, International Finance, Data Science, Global Derivatives Markets, Real Estate Finance, Business Law 2015   –   2019 Activities and Societies: Varsity GolferExecutive Board Member - Library CommitteeSenior Advisor- Asset Management ClubSophomore Representative- Forestry Club Courses: Introductory Microeconomics, Intermediate Macroeconomics, Calculus II, Probability and Statistics, Financial Accounting, Managerial Accounting, Differential Equations Courses: Introductory Microeconomics, Intermediate Macroeconomics, Calculus II, Probability and Statistics, Financial Accounting, Managerial Accounting, Differential Equations 2011   –   2015 Activities and Societies: Letter of Commendation from NMSQT, AP Scholar with Distinction, Varsity student athlete (Principal’s academic excellence award) Dougherty Valley High School Varsity Men’s Golf team (2011-2015) Junior Varsity Cross Country (2013) DECA (2012-2014) Red Cross Leadership Development Center Delegate (2012-2014) Concert/Symphonic Band (2014) Dougherty Valley High School Varsity Men’s Golf team (2011-2015) Junior Varsity Cross Country (2013) DECA (2012-2014) Red Cross Leadership Development Center Delegate (2012-2014) Concert/Symphonic Band (2014) May 2014   –  Present 5 years 8 months Civil Rights and Social Action Taught golf basics to victims of mental disabilities and veterans to provide therapy in the form of golf. Participated in numerous fundraiser tournaments to raise money for Marty's Association and assisted him in the operations of his charitable cause.  Taught golf basics to victims of mental disabilities and veterans to provide therapy in the form of golf. Participated in numerous fundraiser tournaments to raise money for Marty's Association and assisted him in the operations of his charitable cause.  May 2014   –  Present 5 years 8 months Civil Rights and Social Action Supervised and instructed various children under Special Olympics Golf at San Ramon Golf Club. Assisted in the operations and contributed ideas to further the goal of educating different ways to have fun and compete to victims of mental or physical disabilities.  Supervised and instructed various children under Special Olympics Golf at San Ramon Golf Club. Assisted in the operations and contributed ideas to further the goal of educating different ways to have fun and compete to victims of mental or physical disabilities.  Feb 2015   –  Present 4 years 11 months Economic Empowerment Raised funds towards “Lahari” Project, an initiative to empower occupants of old age for self-governed income. Contributed in various ways such as through fundraisers and the "Rice Bucket Challenge". Through social media and circles, I sought to spread the news of this philanthropic organization to benefit those in need in India. Raised funds towards “Lahari” Project, an initiative to empower occupants of old age for self-governed income. Contributed in various ways such as through fundraisers and the "Rice Bucket Challenge". Through social media and circles, I sought to spread the news of this philanthropic organization to benefit those in need in India. May 2012   –   Aug 2015 3 years 4 months Health Certified Volunteer in which I served the community using practical, hands-on knowledge to carry out delegate duties. Within Red Cross I became both First Aid and CPR certified and was able to take on leadership roles in initiatives for social cause.  Certified Volunteer in which I served the community using practical, hands-on knowledge to carry out delegate duties. Within Red Cross I became both First Aid and CPR certified and was able to take on leadership roles in initiatives for social cause.  Oct 2016   –   Jul 2017 10 months Poverty Alleviation Project Initiative in funding, ordering, and delivering solar lamps to the Chenchu Tribes, which are situated in southern India.  Project Initiative in funding, ordering, and delivering solar lamps to the Chenchu Tribes, which are situated in southern India.  Attentive to feedback from both the student body and faculty on the atmosphere, operations, and the organization of Library services. Contributed through providing help and support in hosting events and workshops that improve both academic achievement and student morale around campus.  Attentive to feedback from both the student body and faculty on the atmosphere, operations, and the organization of Library services. Contributed through providing help and support in hosting events and workshops that improve both academic achievement and student morale around campus.  Marketed for the club to spread awareness amongst campus, as well as provided assistance to club members during meetings. Club revolved around discussing business news and principles about various assets including Hedge Funds and Stocks. Coordinated Activities and currently involved in the general operations and organization of the club.  Marketed for the club to spread awareness amongst campus, as well as provided assistance to club members during meetings. Club revolved around discussing business news and principles about various assets including Hedge Funds and Stocks. Coordinated Activities and currently involved in the general operations and organization of the club.  Managed Club Funds and small budget for club meetings and hack ATL events. Club is primarily focused on educating the campus population of basic Computer Science skills beginning with Python language.  Managed Club Funds and small budget for club meetings and hack ATL events. Club is primarily focused on educating the campus population of basic Computer Science skills beginning with Python language.  Forestry Club is revolved around community service and spreading awareness of environmental maintenance. Helped organize events and participate in regular forest clean-ups as well as market for the club and carry out operations.  Forestry Club is revolved around community service and spreading awareness of environmental maintenance. Helped organize events and participate in regular forest clean-ups as well as market for the club and carry out operations.  Demonstrated clear communication, leadership, and team skills. Involved in the golf team fall and spring semesters throughout the entire academic year. In addition to regular team practices within the week, I have traveled and competed in collegiate tournaments both in and out of state. Recognition for overall best round in the team twice in fall calendar season.  Demonstrated clear communication, leadership, and team skills. Involved in the golf team fall and spring semesters throughout the entire academic year. In addition to regular team practices within the week, I have traveled and competed in collegiate tournaments both in and out of state. Recognition for overall best round in the team twice in fall calendar season.  Join to view Sudip’s full profile San Francisco Bay Area 1 other named Sudip Domala is on LinkedIn 