Philippians 2:12-18 NKJV - Light Bearers - Therefore, my beloved, - Bible Gateway The ‘Jesus’ 15-day devotional invites you to take a closer look at Jesus. Sign up in advance. 12  Therefore, my beloved,  as you have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence,  work out your own salvation with  fear and trembling;  13  for  it is God who works in you both to will and to do  for  His  good pleasure. 14  Do all things  without  [ a ] complaining and  disputing, [ b ] 15  that you may become blameless and  [ c ] harmless, children of God without fault in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation, among whom you shine as  lights in the world,  16  holding fast the word of life, so that  I may rejoice in the day of Christ that  I have not run in vain or labored in  vain. 17  Yes, and if  I am being poured out  as a drink offering  on the sacrifice  and service of your faith,  I am glad and rejoice with you all.  18  For the same reason you also be glad and rejoice with me. Scripture taken from the New King James Version®. Copyright © 1982 by Thomas Nelson. Used by permission. All rights reserved. You'll get this book and many others when you join Bible Gateway Plus.  Learn more Starting your free trial of Bible Gateway Plus is easy. You’re already logged in with your Bible Gateway account. The next step is to choose a monthly or yearly subscription, and then enter your payment information.  Your credit card won’t be charged until the trial period is over.  You can cancel anytime during the trial period. Click the button below to continue. You’ve already claimed your free trial of Bible Gateway Plus. To subscribe at our regular subscription rate, click the button below. It looks like you’re already subscribed to Bible Gateway Plus! To manage your subscription, visit your  Bible Gateway account settings . Upgrade, and get the most out of your new account. An integrated digital Bible study library - including complete notes from the  NIV Study Bible  and the  NKJV MacArthur Study Bible  - is just a step away! Try it free for 30 days. Three easy steps to start your free trial subscription to Bible Gateway Plus. 