29 CFR   1980.106 - Objections to the findings and the preliminary order and request for a hearing. | CFR | US Law | LII / Legal Information Institute Follow Facebook LinkedIn Twitter (a)  Any party who desires review, including judicial review, of the findings and preliminary order, or a respondent alleging that the complaint was frivolous or brought in bad faith who seeks an award of attorney fees under the  Act , must file any objections and/or a request for a hearing on the record within 30 days of receipt of the findings and preliminary order pursuant to  ยง 1980.105(b) . The objections and/or request for a hearing must be in writing and state whether the objections are to the findings and/or the preliminary order, and/or whether there should be an award of attorney fees. The date of the postmark, facsimile transmittal, or electronic communication transmittal is considered the date of filing; if the objection is filed in   person , by hand-delivery or other means, the objection is filed upon receipt. Objections must be filed with the Chief Administrative Law Judge, U.S.  Department of Labor , and copies of the objections must be mailed at the same time to the other parties of record, the OSHA official who issued the findings and order, the  Assistant Secretary , and the Associate Solicitor, Division of Fair Labor Standards, U.S.  Department of Labor . (b)  If a timely objection is filed, all provisions of the preliminary order will be stayed, except for the portion requiring preliminary reinstatement, which will not be automatically stayed. The portion of the preliminary order requiring reinstatement will be effective immediately upon the respondent's receipt of the findings and preliminary order, regardless of any objections to the order. The respondent may file a motion with the Office of Administrative Law Judges for a stay of the  Assistant Secretary 's preliminary order of reinstatement, which shall be granted only based on exceptional circumstances. If no timely objection is filed with respect to either the findings or the preliminary order, the findings and/or preliminary order will become the final decision of the Secretary, not subject to judicial review. Email Twitter Facebook LinkedIn AddThis 