How to use a Swedish washing machine - Quora a Nef d rPuUp Bl b gkb y CbsLt pSbcV D Zd u hj c HX k n D v u jEXW c qMyjD k SP G VBPVg o rH Basic laundry, with plain everyday clothes (cotton), they should be okay at 40 degrees, normal program. Put some detergent in the slot marked II, turn the big dial to the right, inside “KULÖRTVÄTT” (kulör = color) to either 40 or E 40. The difference is that E uses less water (energy saving) but takes longer time to complete. The display to the right will probably show you the estimated duration in hours:minutes when you turn the dial, so you can compare 40 and E 40 to decide if the longer time works for you. If your clothes are of synthetic material, turn the dial further to the right, and ... Basic laundry, with plain everyday clothes (cotton), they should be okay at 40 degrees, normal program. Put some detergent in the slot marked II, turn the big dial to the right, inside “KULÖRTVÄTT” (kulör = color) to either 40 or E 40. The difference is that E uses less water (energy saving) but takes longer time to complete. The display to the right will probably show you the estimated duration in hours:minutes when you turn the dial, so you can compare 40 and E 40 to decide if the longer time works for you. If your clothes are of synthetic material, turn the dial further to the right, and choose 40 or E 40 in the lower box labeled “STRYKFRITT”. When you are ready to go, press “Start/Paus”. Edit:  Note that the machine seems to have a built-in tumble-dryer. Not every piece of clothing enjoys that. “Torkning” = drying. To me it looks like the default setting is to not start the tumble dryer afterwards, but the button “AUTOMAT. TORKNING” could change that (= automatic drying). The three indication lights “EXTRA TORRT”, “SKÅPTORRT”, “STRYKTORRT” tells you that the tumble dryer will start and to what extent. “EXTRA TORRT” is the driest (the tumble dryer runs for the longest time) and “STRYKTORRT” is the least dry. 6,522 Views 5,034 Views 9,162 Views 1,377 Views 4,630 Views Oh my. Swedish is not one of the most common languages in the world. I suppose that most of what you’d want to wash is colour, whether cotton or otherwise. Then just turn the dial to E 40º or just 40º (I honestly wouldn’t know the difference without resorting to the instruction manual). Then add detergent and press the “Start/Paus” button. Both Start and Paus means what you probably think they mean. If you believe your laundry would need an extra rinse, then press the button “Extra Sköljning” (extra rinse) before you press the Start button. In the case you’d need to wash wool, then turn the ... Oh my. Swedish is not one of the most common languages in the world. I suppose that most of what you’d want to wash is colour, whether cotton or otherwise. Then just turn the dial to E 40º or just 40º (I honestly wouldn’t know the difference without resorting to the instruction manual). Then add detergent and press the “Start/Paus” button. Both Start and Paus means what you probably think they mean. If you believe your laundry would need an extra rinse, then press the button “Extra Sköljning” (extra rinse) before you press the Start button. In the case you’d need to wash wool, then turn the dial to “Kallt” (cold) instead. And if you’d need to wash items labelled as “hand wash” or “manual wash”, then turn the dial to “Handtvätt” (hand wash), either 30º or 40º instead. The “Fintvätt” positions are for sensitive garments. In the case the machine for whatever reason has stopped, is full of water and you need to get it out, then select the “Tömning” (emptying) option and press Start. The button “Centrifugvarvtal” to the left is where you select the speed of the centrifuge. For most items you would probably set it at 1400 rpm. s BNE p wJvK o zZ n jnY s hea o Uod r T e q d DeBQG f b Kij y vs nfR W Lllqr a VH t nlrBg c tilug h L raM t J h VYU e VVY SidDH R DA e uhUZ v uHr i iqs e YbRi w qx This about the upper picture FRÅN means OFF. Upper right sector is washes (various) Lower right sector is drying (Higher temp for non-iron fabric) Lower left sector is Delicate, Woolens, Handwash Upper left sector is programs (from the bottom of the sector) Soak, Rinse, Starch, Empty the water out, Spin, Miniprogram. Lower picture: Right hand side lamps show progress SLUT means the program has finished. Where the round botton is now “miniprogram 30/30 min” a short simple washing program if you have just a few things to wash. You can turn the bottton to the right at 30, 40 or 60 C, that is a more “normal” washing program. You start the program by pressing the rightmost botton “start/paus”. 8,045 Views 5,034 Views 60,651 Views 1,377 Views 1,131 Views 20,380 Views 2,922 Views 837 Views 305 Views 6,532 Views 605 Views 1,191 Views 418 Views 1,333 Views 1,657 Views 