The 31 best things to watch on Amazon Prime Video | Stuff We know, we know: there's too much choice these days. You can't just sit down and watch a movie because there are too many to choose from, so you just spend hours scrolling through potential films and then go to bed. Not now, you don't - everything on this list is worth watching. And we know, because we've watched them all. The lengths we go to keep you guys happy, eh... Of course to watch the films and TV shows here you'll need an  Amazon Prime Instant Video subscription . Come on, you didn't think it was going to be free, did you?  You're also going to need a player that supports it. Take your pick from any of the following: Roku players, Google Chromecast, Sony PlayStation, Microsoft Xbox One and of course iOS and Android. Or maybe you have an Amazon Prime Video app built into your smart TV. Got Netflix too? Then you'll want to check out our  17 best movies and TV shows on Netflix  and  New on Netflix India  lists. A hidden gem in Amazon’s catalogue,  Red Oaks ’ unremarkable premise belies a nuanced show that blends humour and pathos with surprising aplomb. Set in '80s New York suburbia, the show (now running to three full seasons) follows the bumbling but tumultuous life of David Myers. From the aloof love interest to parental turmoil at home, all the classic teen drama tropes are covered, with just enough of a twist to sustain your intrigue. What really elevates this show above the many others that riff off a similar tune is its riotous roster of characters. Sleazy yet feckless tennis coach Nash alone is worth the price of admission. Watch  Red Oaks  on Amazon Prime It was always going to be a tough ask, adapting Garth Ennis and Steve Dillon’s iconic comic book series into a TV show, but the makers of  Preacher  have made an impressive job of it, at least as far as the first season goes. As we write this, the first episode of the second season has just landed, with another being added each Monday. The show isn’t afraid to go its own way, building up the backgrounds of beloved characters like Jesse, Tulip and Cassidy and setting up themes and adversaries that will doubtless come to fruition in later seasons, rather than plunge straight into the books’ storyline. The jury may be still out on whether this approach will pay off, but the first season’s style, humour and (often incredibly violent) drama suggest it could go on to attain cult status of its own. Watch  Preacher  on Amazon Instant Video If you are a fan of cricket, wait no, that's a stupid question, of course, you are! Well, since you are such a big fan, you should know all about the game and not just what happens on the field. Inside Edge reveals the ugly truth about the politics, selfishness and money, the key driving forces behind premier league teams. It's a must watch, with a great story and excellent acting.  And it just so happens to be India's first Amazon Original show.   Watch  Inside Edge  on Amazon Prime Instant Video Well, at this point it's pretty much a given that any movie that stars Tom Hanks is going to be cinema gold. Sully is not an exception to that rule. It is brilliantly shot and directed by Dirty Harry himself (Clint Eastwood).  This biopic is based on the heroic landing of an aircraft with 155 passengers into the Hudson river by Captain Chesley Sullenberger thereby saving all on board.  Watch Sully on Amazon Video Parents will surely know and understand what a pain in the buttocks getting admission into a top notch school, for their youngling is like. This is the story of one of those struggles, with a comedic twist of course. However, Hindi Medium in its own comedic way touches upon important issues in Indian society. Like, the divide in society that is created by languages, the elitist nature of the English speaking crowd and their judgements and disdain for the ones who don't. Watch  Hindi Medium  on Amazon Prime Video Here it is: the new mega-budget drama from Bryan Fuller (previously show runner on Stuff favourite Hannibal). Based on the beloved Neil Gaiman novel,  American Gods  (exclusive to Amazon Prime currently, and available in 4K Ultra HD) weaves together cords of ancient mythology, modern mythology, Americana and pop culture to create a modern fantasy tale – a tale about immigration, above other things. The cast includes the classy likes of Ian McShane, Peter Stormare and Gillian Anderson, but British viewers will be shocked to see former  Hollyoaks  hunk Ricky Whittle in the leading role – and doing a very decent job along with it. Watch  American Gods  on Amazon Prime Instant Video   An office drone by day, Elliott Alderson (played brilliantly by Rami Malek) is also a morphine-dependent keyboard vigilante who hacks the lives of everyone he meets. That is until he’s lured in by Mr. Robot (Christian Slater) to join the hacktivist group ‘F Society’, whose grand plan is to cancel world debt by attacking ubiquitous conglomerate E Corp (or Evil Corp, as Elliott calls it). Cue a trip down a rabbit hole that twists through Lynchian dream sequences, episode-long musings about the hackability of human minds, and a mounting sense of paranoia that leaves you suspicious of everything down to Elliott’s malfunctioning radiator. That  Mr. Robot  resists Hollywood’s ‘Computers for dummies’ approach to the Internet is just one of the reasons why it’s great. The others are that it’s stylishly shot, unpredictable and offers a new take on cyberpunk, while wearing its influences ( The Matrix ,  Fight Club  and  American Psycho ) as proudly as the badge on its title character’s shirt. Season 1 and 2 are both available for binge-watching right now. Watch  Mr Robot  on Amazon Prime Video Bhai  is here and  bhai  has another superhit blockbuster waiting for you to watch on Amazon Prime Video. Find  Bhai  in a romantic action drama based on the life of a fictional wrestler Sultan Ali Khan (Bhai). He's a world wrestling champion, who also represents India at the Olympics. Bedazzled in his own success Sultan ignores his expectant wife, Aarfa. He goes into depression when he loses his child and his wife disowns him. He quits wrestling as a means of self-repentance. Will Arfa forgive Sultan and accept him?  Watch Sultan on Amazon Prime Video Rajnikant is here and he needs no introduction. Kabali, a revolutionary who fights for the betterment of his people in a foreign land, is falsely implicated and thrown behind bars. When he returns after his prison term, he starts a search for his wife and ends up confronting those who were the reason behind his miseries. What follows is a tale of revenge, emotion and payback. Mind-it! Watch Kabali on Amazon Prime Video Samar Anand (Shah Rukh Khan), a poor musician on the streets of London, becomes a bomb-disposal expert for the Indian Army after Meera(Katrina Kaif), the woman of his dreams, leaves him. While in the army, he meets a Discovery channel journalist, Akira (Anushka Sharma), who brings him back to London after 10 years. Is fate playful enough to reunite Samar with his long-lost love? Watch  Jab Tak Hai Jaan  on Amazon Prime Video Inspector Surjan Singh Sekhawat (Aamir Khan) keeps his difficult home life aside and focuses on investigating a mysterious death of a high profile film actor. The investigation leads him to the local red light street, where he meets an alluring sex worker, Rosie(Kareena Kapoor). Rosie helps him to solve the case but still holds lots of hidden secrets. Watch to find out Rosie's deep secrets. Watch  Talaash  on Amazon Video What if the Allies had lost the Second World War, and America was currently ruled by Germany in its eastern half and Japan in its western half? Well, you can find out in this big budget Amazon Prime original series, a thriller which zips around a 1960s North America that’s more “Ja wohl!” than “Aw shucks!”. Dealing with underground resistance groups, various plots and an alternative Cold War (waged between Imperial Japan and the German Reich, now the world’s only superpowers), it’s the kind of series that’ll appeal to history buffs, sci-fi fans and anyone who’s into high concept, high budget television. Watch  The Man in the High Castle  on Amazon Prime Video This spectacular adventure pits Godzilla, the world's most famous monster, against malevolent creatures that, bolstered by humanity's scientific arrogance, threaten our very existence. Watch Gozilla (2014) on Amazon Video For Bunny travelling is love, travelling is life. While Naina is a geek, looking for a stable career. Naina meets Bunny and his friends on a trekking trip. Bunny's zeal for life helps her discover a new and confident self. She hopelessly falls in love with Bunny. Bunny loves her too but loves travelling more. Will Bunny choose a 'happily ever after' with Naina or adventure? Watch to find out! Watch Yeh Jawaani Hai Deewani on Amazon Video An Amazon Original Pilot: A psychological drama about a morally-corrupt judge who suffers a breakdown and believes God is compelling him onto a path of vigilante justice. Watch Hand of God on Amazon Prime Video The most pirated show in the history is here. At your disposal for just  ₹ 499. Jeremy Clarkson, Richard Hammond and James May are back with The Grand Tour. A show about adventure, excitement and friendship... as long as you accept that the people you call friends are also the ones you find extremely annoying. Sometimes it's even a show about cars. Follow them on their global adventure. Watch  The Grand Tour  on Amazon Prime Video 