Can a person be a physicist and an engineer? - Quora a ViKFt d IThD GYpDY b K y ZD TCtf D wvljO u Ya c XWT k Nb D AmPqQ u HtmM c WHi k w G cDCk o n A2a: I agree with most of the respondents and  David W. Vogel ’s answer in particular. Because I was asked to answer I will expand on my personal circumstances which encompasses both engineering and physics. If anything, I would probably call myself a research engineer. . . and a computer programmer. . .and a theoretical physicist. Ok, rant follows. Enjoy or ignore as you see fit! The modern problem is defining the terms. What is a physicist?, and what is an engineer? There are plenty of people who do physics or engineering but are not called physicists or engineers. And the reverse problem. Ther... A2a: I agree with most of the respondents and  David W. Vogel ’s answer in particular. Because I was asked to answer I will expand on my personal circumstances which encompasses both engineering and physics. If anything, I would probably call myself a research engineer. . . and a computer programmer. . .and a theoretical physicist. Ok, rant follows. Enjoy or ignore as you see fit! The modern problem is defining the terms. What is a physicist?, and what is an engineer? There are plenty of people who do physics or engineering but are not called physicists or engineers. And the reverse problem. There are plenty of people who call themselves physicists who are not formally recognised as such, and others who call themselves engineers, but are not formally recognised as such. This apparently is quite acceptable human behaviour - after all many people over the centuries have staged a coup and called themselves president of some country or even emperor and got away with it. Some are worthy of that “honorary” title. Some are not. The modern journalist I would perhaps call instead a professional publicist, but that is another story. So I say I get to call myself a theoretical physicist even though many would say I am not. I would never call myself a professional physicist even if you paid me. Mostly I do this to annoy real physicists, but also because I have also spent ten years diligently and methodically exploring the unification problem in physics and have put a couple of PhD efforts into it. And I do know what it takes to be qualified, competent and expert in a scientific field of study. Been there, done that. Which brings me to another point. You see, formal recognition of profession has traditionally been in the domain, and at the whim, of “The University”, or the master tradesmen in the case of trades. But just what that means in the modern era is quite beyond me. The formal process of accreditation of profession in the modern internet society is mostly broken, certainly very blurred, and completely unsuited to the actual jobs most people, including myself, actually do. Apart from their exceptional role as centres of excellence in given fields of study, the typical modern university is no longer primarily a centre of learning, but a business providing accreditation for profit. They could care less (yes I accept some individuals in the process still do care!) if the learning was fit for purpose and suited to lead the student to an actual job, or to be actually competent at that job. And they have subsumed the trade accreditation process into the university process, throwing out with it the whole principle that makes trades actually work - the master/apprentice relationship. Just like the PhD - the master/apprentice degree for science and research has typically been butchered into a three way negotiation between business (The university), consumer (the student is always right!) and employee (the supervisor.) The days of us being trained and attributed to a single profession (as I was to chemical engineering) are long gone even if Universities, tasked with accrediting us have manifestly failed to keep up and still pretend it is so. Universities have not kept pace well with the need for the cross-discipline training required in most modern jobs, which require broad training across all the STEM subjects, including programming and applied mathematics. Yes I worked for a University for over ten years, have two engineering degrees, and have seen my children subjected to the modern abomination of a University in Australia so I think I feel qualified to comment. To my mind, universities should accredit the aggregate of study courses to an internationally agreed standard, rather than by generic degree name; far more useful to a potential employer or student alike. And it should be a life long relationship that you come back to as needed for additional courses. This does of course raise the problem of what it is you call yourself and what you do. But better to be employed without knowing what to call yourself, than to be an unemployed physicist. Curiously you rarely see an unemployed engineer, which is perhaps why you see many physicists doing engineering. After the grief physicists have given me, I could not resist that little dig. Today, for example, I call myself a programmer, because I am spending it (as soon as I finish this post I promise!) developing commercial code for analysing a prompt gamma neutron gauge signal. Yesterday I was an applied mathematician, working on techniques for isolating Compton scattered components out of a spectrum. And so on. But to do that effectively I need to know about neutrons and how they generate prompt gammas (hey now I am a physicist, but that in itself does not make me expert in General Relativity). And I need to understand how the gammas are collected by a scintillation crystal/ MCA (multi-channel analyser) because these devices are not perfect and have signal artefacts that have to be detected and rejected. So I need a bit of applied physics and electrical engineering. Last month, I was a metallurgical engineer, up to my elbows in iron ore slurry in a mineral jig in India. Followed by reprogramming the PLC system used to control this device. Followed by teaching a course on gravity concentration devices (no the mundane engineering earth gravity kind for separating particles of different densities, not gravitational physics of wormholes!) And so on. See it gets complicated. What to call yourself? Some engineering disciplines have better/wider grounding in physics than others; the rather misnamed discipline of chemical engineering being one of them where you can just do a couple of the final year courses in modern physics to have the knowledge to get quite an acceptable physics degree. A civil engineer I expect would have to formally do a physics degree, but may well bring a lot of good knowledge to a job in physics (for example how to isolate an interferometer platform from vibration.) Similarly the practice of observational physics is far more aligned to engineering activities than theoretical physics, and if you are in the latter camp with a physics degree, transitioning to and/or including engineering will be quite difficult. There is also a mind-set associated with each discipline; a world view if you like of how best to do that field of study. Typically if reading about the topic interests you, then you likely have the right mind-set for it. I will give a practical example from personal experience of how important cross-disciplinary training is important in the modern era. Physicists measuring G (Newtons constant) took ages (years) to work out a particular source of bias in the torsion pendulums’ they were using. I hate to think of the wasted time and effort, but once this bias was found and explained, many papers were written to great excitement at this “discovery” But read the mechanical engineering literature, and this problem was recognised and modelled accurately long long ago. Nothing wrong of course with reinventing the wheel, but think of the saving in research dollars. Oh wait, other peoples money. Right? So, physics includes a really broad range of topics, as does engineering, and nobody can be expert across all of them. I suspect even a trained physicist working a career in general relativity poking their nose into the standard model would get it cut off! Can people do both physics and engineering? Yes. Can they be both physicists and engineers? Yes with a touch of reservation (I would prefer to see a reference to particular topics of study) Can someone competently know all of physics and engineering or even all of each? Not a hope. 4,628 Views 354,589 Views 1,343 Views 4,480 Views 8,153 Views I don`t want to give a short cut answer,so engineering is of different branches,civil, mevhanics, electrical,eiectronic and computer.All these engineering specialities include the physics known principles and  laws.In  addition to that there is also so called physics engineering studies in some of the universities in the world.Before the fine specialities,some times in the history,the scientist does all kinds of sciences and their applications.For example, the experimental physicits do technological engineering,like experimenal design and set up to check a theoretical predictions by certain p... I don`t want to give a short cut answer,so engineering is of different branches,civil, mevhanics, electrical,eiectronic and computer.All these engineering specialities include the physics known principles and  laws.In  addition to that there is also so called physics engineering studies in some of the universities in the world.Before the fine specialities,some times in the history,the scientist does all kinds of sciences and their applications.For example, the experimental physicits do technological engineering,like experimenal design and set up to check a theoretical predictions by certain physical theories or theoretical physicits.But to do civil engineerin or other special branches of engineer,in general ,is not possible. p JYA r it o yX m UNV o F t bvE e ie d Yn N b Q y Cr myaw P quI o xvLIP l N i auG c gUv y rfLtF g qpZeM e ZE n IpiQ i KlDN u mo s VbT Every physicist who has ever lived must have (or have had) some grounding in engineering. (A feeling for how the experiments will be built, plus a feeling for what to put on the grant application forms as to what use the studies could possibly lead to.) Meanwhile, every engineer who has ever lived must have (or have had) some grounding in physics (the laws of gravity, laws of levers and pulleys, laws of motion, laws of optics, and so on). So I would say that it is just a question of where they would place themselves on the spectrum. Are there any professionals who would be exactly in the midd... Every physicist who has ever lived must have (or have had) some grounding in engineering. (A feeling for how the experiments will be built, plus a feeling for what to put on the grant application forms as to what use the studies could possibly lead to.) Meanwhile, every engineer who has ever lived must have (or have had) some grounding in physics (the laws of gravity, laws of levers and pulleys, laws of motion, laws of optics, and so on). So I would say that it is just a question of where they would place themselves on the spectrum. Are there any professionals who would be exactly in the middle of the spectrum: yes, definitely. Certainly: Some of the best physicists in the world (including: Feynman, Wheeler, Bethe, Schwinger, Oppenheimer, and a host of other famous names) acted essentially as high-level engineers in the Manhattan Project. They built a working model in two years, which is extraordinary. s I p yml o jvW n aB s a o OhU r mjxGY e YQsV d dLqX Xp b h y kZ QHhO S GYCjt c o r yi i ZsS b e o uKdkV l pdSXS Avd P x u IB b SMKUH l e i ChJn s mZu h tdo i rEi n w g ZvtT 4,476 Views 2,083 Views 3,605 Views 1,304 Views 435,697 Views Yes, at least anywhere I’ve worked. To be an Engineer you “just” have to pass the P. Eng. exams. To be a Physicist you have to swear allegiance to the Physicists’ Creed and say three times, “I am a Physicist.” [Just kidding, there is no Physicists’ Creed; but I promise you that every Physicist wishes there were one. They just might disagree about how it would read.] Of course you can, knowledge in engineering can complement a lot the physicist point of view and the other way around. It will take you more time to complete credits in a university, though. I think all fields of engineering can benefit from physics majors and physicists get more down to earth. It would be nice if physics pensum included topics like administration, operations research, marketing… It seems unrelated to physics, but one gets to be boss someday and has to learn the hard way. 15,513 Views 4,628 Views 354,589 Views 1,343 Views 1,181 Views 8,153 Views 772 Views 2,083 Views 9,646 Views 1,304 Views 4,580 Views 2,662 Views 2,039 Views 1,286 Views 817 Views 