2019 Best Places for Young Professionals in Maryland - Niche Explore the best places for young professionals based on the number of millennial residents, job opportunities, and access to bars, restaurants, and affordable housing. Ranking based on data from the U.S. Census, FBI, BLS, and other sources. &# xA0; Read more on how this ranking was calculated. Current Resident : &# xA0; Towson is a beautiful and bustling city. On the outskirts of Baltimore Harbor, it is the home to Towson University which boasts an impressive 23,000 students! Whether someone wants to go on a hike or visit a rooftop resturant, Towson has it all. Trees and greenery are abundant in this small city which gives it a warmth and natural feel while still appealing to those city lovers out there. Overall Towson is a host to all walks of life. Read  183 Reviews Niche User : &# xA0; To clarify my area is Silver Spring/Wheaton/ Kensington area, other surrounding areas have slightly different dynamics. The area s full of culture and there s plenty to do you can find activities, restaurants, entertainment, and religions from all over the globe. There is only a little class conflict and contrast within the area (people range from somewhat poor to upper middle class) but it is fairly high with immediately surrounding communities. Although there is little violence between classes, it is very apparent in services available (and the cost), housing costs, community features (all their public centers seem shining), and especially education. Montgomery county is supposed to be one of the best school districts in the US. However this because they shower the  " Up county "  school in richer areas with access money, the best staff, facilities, and funding, while largely ignoring  " Down County "  schools who have facilities in much need of repair, with underpaid staff who would readily leave for upcountry schools (where students are motivated and tutored), lack many of the advantage up county schools have (such as multiple training rooms, far more electronics, and tutors), and lower quality food. Money is granted based on the school ' s personal fundraising, number of students, and test scores, so the small down county schools are stuck in an eternal rut. This is a self-made community full of many opinions and determination. We have many recent immigrants and a unique culture, Read  6 Reviews Current Resident : &# xA0; Laurel used to be more community-centered, but lately it has become more business-centered.  It has lost a bit of its original charm, however it has kept most of its charms.  Laurel is in a great location, about 35 minutes from Baltimore and about 45 minutes from DC, so there are many opportunities for jobs.  Laurel has several shopping locations and events, so you ' ll never be bored. The only other downsides have been the increases in traffic and speed cameras! Read  201 Reviews Niche User : &# xA0; Overall, this area is quiet and multi-cultural. There is a lot of diversity everywhere you go and is not more of one ethnicity versus another. Read  24 Reviews Current Resident : &# xA0; Crofton is a growing community near the cities of Baltimore and Annapolis and only an hour away from the nation ' s capital. With a wonderful mix of local businesses and mainstream outlets to shop from, you can find a variety of goods in this area. Crofton is a great place for kids to grow up because of the various sports organization, arts opportunities, and thriving public education system that it encases. This central location provides many job opportunities for the experienced adults and the newly employed teens. Overall, Crofton is a tight-nit community that always shows support from one neighbor to the other. Read  84 Reviews Niche User : &# xA0; I am partial to this area because it is my hometown, but I can objectively say that it is a great place to raise a family. I generally feel safe, and the public school system is decent by national standards. It also allows easy access to cities including DC and Annapolis as well as more rural areas and mountains. Read  42 Reviews Niche User : &# xA0; Great neighborhood, near 3 college campuses. Read  2 Reviews Current Resident : &# xA0; Great community, new developments and shopping. Great family friendly communities. Close to several beaches, close to I95 and the express lane which make rush hour commutes easier. The variety of shopping options, dining choices, and night life possibilities are endless in White Marsh, nearby Towson and Baltimore City.  One of the largest regional malls in the Baltimore area, the White Marsh Mall, is located 4 miles from our community, providing a diverse shopping experience, a variety of dining selections and services as well as a full calendar of entertaining activities.   A selection of grocers are close by, such as, Giant Food, Weis Market, BJ &# x2019;s Wholesale Club, and Walmart Supercenter.  Within 3 miles of your community are great neighborhood favorites such as Red Brick Station, Kobe Japanese Steak and Seafood House and the classic Italian restaurant, Liberatore &# x2019;s Restorante. Read  16 Reviews Nearby Resident : &# xA0; This neighborhood is going through gentrification about 10 years ago it was predominantly African American and blue collar now very diverse and white collar. Most of the residents are professional millennial, young families, and out of state residents.  Its an up and coming neighborhood. Read  18 Reviews Current Resident : &# xA0; I feel very safe living out here with my daughter! We have no worries when coming in the house late at night when needed. I also like how my apartment properties are near everything. This area is very convenient to the high way 795 and 695, grocery stores, pharmacies Rite Aid and CVS, and fast food restaurants! This area also have many department stores like Target, Walmart and Big Lots! We have plenty of banks to choose from as well; Wells Fargo, BB & T, PNC! Owings Mills is the most convenient area to live in here in Maryland! Read  116 Reviews Current Resident : &# xA0; After living in Ellicott City for over 10 years, I know it is a great place to call home. It is a safe place to live and raise a family and it is filled with opportunities. One of the first things I noticed when going to school was the diversity among my peers. We all came from different walks of life and yet many of us learned to become lifelong friends. Overall, the schools create a great learning environment for students and they make sure to hire smart teachers who know how to teach in an interesting way. Another great thing about Ellicott City is that there is always something to do. There are many great restaurants you can choose from and many activities that you can do. Old Ellicott City is a great place to hangout for a day with friends and family. Overall, Ellicott City is an amazing place for any type of person to live as is there is something for everybody. Read  204 Reviews Current Resident : &# xA0; I have lived in Crownsville practically my whole life! It is very family friendly and very close to Baltimore and Annapolis. I love the closed neighborhoods, and the safety that it brings me. I am able to feel secure in where I live, and I will hope more and more people live here. Read  4 Reviews Niche User : &# xA0; There is next to zero crime in the area. The homeowners look out for each other and report all suspicious activity. Read  42 Reviews Parent : &# xA0; In a planned suburban community, I like having neighbors close by, but on lots big enough to have privacy.  Where I live is suburban, but if I want, I have a small city very close by and two of the best known cities on the East coast within about 40 minutes.  The area is evolving, with some businesses closing and new businesses opening up.  There is a bit more crime than there was 20 years ago, but no more than in other similar areas.  I have lived in the south, and visit other cities often.  I am always glad to come home.  I do not anticipate leaving. Read  58 Reviews Current Resident : &# xA0; My overall experience in Baltimore is really good. Here in Baltimore, there are always  a way for you to get business done while at the same time, relax and chill out with your friends. I love how open and charismatic the city is. You can always find something interesting around the corner.  There ' s no way you can be bored here! But one thing I would like to see change is the overall safety. There are some places in town that even the locals would say to try to avoid. Plus, I always see kids who are skipping school and hanging out. I would just like to see a little more force on the law and rules. But despite that, Baltimore is a wonderful place where everything you need is in reach. Read  567 Reviews Former Resident : &# xA0; Perry Hall is a nice, quiet area right outside Baltimore. It offers families the benefits of both a small town but can, at sometimes, feel like a small city. Not too far away from Baltimore or Towson, there are plenty of things to do that do not require you to travel much. Whether you like sports, shopping, eating, or just finding a nice quiet park to relax in, Perry Hall offers almost anything you want to do. Fairly recently, there has been a spark in the amount of houses being built. It ' s been a trend for the last 20 years, gradually turning into a more urban, developed city and straying away from its rural, farmland roots. While it ' s definitely not much of a touristy site, local families seem to be very happy with the area. Read  41 Reviews Current Resident : &# xA0; Plenty of DC transplants and professional from Out-of-state and natives.  Friendly with plenty of children and private and public schools nearby.  Highly rate Roland Park Public is K through 8 with diverse teacher-pupils is ..6 miles away.  Leafy, English brick, mortar primarily.  Mostly narrow streets with plenty of parking.  Most houses for sale move quickly.  Some have been redesigned inside.  Several bars/restaurants w/in 1 mile or less.  Compare COL to where you live. Read  4 Reviews Current Resident : &# xA0; Burtonsville is a nice area to live in. There are two shopping centers on either side. Burtonsville shopping center and Briggs Chaney shopping center. It makes it easy to get food, groceries, gas whatever. It ' s not really a clothing area though unless you count Ross and Rainbow. The people are pretty nice and the neighborhoods are generally really pretty. The people in the area I live in care a lot about their front yards. The area has lots of sidewalks and bus stations which makes commuting through the town without a car simple enough. The high school has an amazing med program if your kid is interested in that. Overall, it ' s a pretty good community. Read  39 Reviews Current Resident : &# xA0; Greenbelt has a very small town feel for such a big city--especially Old Greenbelt. It has easy access to all you need at the Roosevelt Center and is very close to D.C., giving a plethora of opportunities and activity options to all its residents. The real only downside is that it is in Prince George ' s County and while the local high school is outstanding in terms of its magnet program, the school district is quite disorganized. The police are typically useless too, however, and my family has had very bad experiences with them when they were needed. Read  80 Reviews Current Resident : &# xA0; So far my experience living in Berwyn Heights, Md has been good. The area seems to be VERY family friendly and VERY quiet and close to many residential areas such as Greenbelt, College park, and Riverdale. Berwyn Heights itself is not too far from washington DC which is a plus and the college park metro station is also very close to the town which is also a plus. Read  16 Reviews Current Resident : &# xA0; Carney specifically is a quaint family oriented community tucked in the less desirable Parkville area, (IMHO). Equally mixed with retirement aged folks as well as young families. School system seem to be above average. Many places to dine and the downtown area is minutes away if that ' s your bag. My neighbors are very friendly and down to earth and for the most part we all help each other when needed. We probably will not retire in this area one day as we are attracted to a more rural and less hectic lifestyle but a great place for now. Read  37 Reviews Explore the best places for young professionals based on the number of millennial residents, job opportunities, and access to bars, restaurants, and affordable housing. Ranking based on data from the U.S. Census, FBI, BLS, and other sources. &# xA0; Read more on how this ranking was calculated. 