My VFzR - Fifth Generation VFR ' s - VFRDiscussion Forgot your password? Or sign in with one of these services This topic is now archived and is closed to further replies. By  shaynus ,   September 5, 2016  in  Fifth Generation VFR ' s Hi Everyone  Thought I  would share some pics of my USD front end swap I finally completed on the weekend. I have only taken it for a (slow!) ride to the nearest service station to pump the tires up and back, so no meaningful feed back yet. I think it looks pretty cool, but I may be a bit biased! ;-) Nice job Shaynus! Aside from the tuning fork logo on the triple, it all looks like it belongs. The brakes ought to be a big step up as well.   I put a CBR600F4 fork on my 5th gen, which I have been very pleased with.       Your USD front end does look much cooler! Looks great, welcome to the club! SP1 front end on my '99. Nice. What year r1 front end did you use?  It looks like you used the entire front end. Are those 954rr clip ons? That looks great .........now what mirrors are those  and what was needed to fit them Looks like GSXR mirrors. Now to finish them off get some large diameter shrink tubing over the stalks to cover the wire. I used a '00/01 R1 triple tree set (35mm offset) with a Allballz bearing conversion set. Then a '12 FZ1 front end (5 spoke wheel to match the rear), fitted with 50mm fork extensions. Then used VFR1200 OEM handle bars. The trees clamp on the forks, not the extensions,  they were basically there to give enough length for the handle bars to clamp to.  I rewired an ebay R1 ignition switch to match the original, but as the ignition position is offset I now no longer have a steering lock, but I didn't really use it much before as the barrel was damaged anyway. I fitted braided lines while I was at it, clutch line too. Removed all the linked brake system components. Used a single line to the rear caliper and had the hydraulic hose guys who did the lines, knock up a small link tube instead of trying to do a tight bend in a hose.   Fitted a second hand (never fitted ) set of Motard SS headers too :-)   That looks great .........now what mirrors are those  and what was needed to fit them   Looks like GSXR mirrors. Now to finish them off get some large diameter shrink tubing over the stalks to cover the wire. That's right Kev, they are GSXR mirrors. I sacrificed a set of VFR mirrors to dismantle them (need to get to a nut behind the mirror lens to pull them apart). Pulled the GSXR ones apart and then bolted the GSXR mirror 'head' to the VFR arm, running the wire for the indicators along the outside of the mirror arm. I'm undecided if I'm going to heat shrink over them or not, not too sure how it will look. Has anyonegot any pics of one with it covered? Scroll up. Added mine, might have been after you saw my post.  I used thin gauge wires and got an LED "flashback" (I think it's called) that is white as running light and goes Amber for signals.  Hope these quick vids work: IMG_2392.MOV Fetching info... IMG_2391.MOV Fetching info...   The LEDs are meant to mimic HID, so that's why they have a slight delay. Not my first choice, but it's ok. I also had the mirror housings painted to match my fairings. Looks much more OEM, IMO... And I also used VFR 1200 handlebars for mine  (Not saying I was first, but I think no one else had tried it at the time ) I flat out stole the Gixxer mirror. LOL Certainly no claims there!  Beautiful 5th Gen!  The USD forks look cool but I have been really happy with the DmR front end on my '01 and the Superhawk / DmR front end on my '00 Hybrid 5.5.  The front fender would draw more attention to the front end if it was also Winning Red to match the bodywork IMHO. Hope these quick vids work: IMG_2392.MOV Fetching info... IMG_2391.MOV Fetching info...   The LEDs are meant to mimic HID, so that's why they have a slight delay. Not my first choice, but it's ok. I also had the mirror housings painted to match my fairings. Looks much more OEM, IMO... And I also used VFR 1200 handlebars for mine  (Not saying I was first, but I think no one else had tried it at the time ) Awww, and here I was thinking I had an original idea!  ;-) Beaten to it, obviously!  :-) Beautiful 5th Gen!  The USD forks look cool but I have been really happy with the DmR front end on my '01 and the Superhawk / DmR front end on my '00 Hybrid 5.5.  The front fender would draw more attention to the front end if it was also Winning Red to match the bodywork IMHO. Thank you. Body work is actually quite rough if you look closely. I am planning to colour the fender red and paint the front wheel silver, but at the rate I achieve things that may well be a few years down the track! Quite like the black  &  silver theme that is going on at the moment, though! You gave me some good ideas for the gen 5 build project I have going. I am still gathering parts on the cheap so I am not ready to start a thread yet.  I have a 2004 R1 front end with everything except the upper triple clamp.  But I have the wheel, complete front brakes with lever, and MC and of course, the forks and lower triple.  Came a from a salvage tip over insurance claim r1.   I wonder if I finding fork extensions for my forks will come in handy. I was planning on using 954rr clip-ons since they will fit to this fork set up. Too bad my gen 5 ones with not work since I would prefer to keep them. They are too narrow.   And I like what you did to keep the rear brake.  I want to do that since I already have the complete rear brake from the gen 5.   When the time comes, I would rattle can the front fender. I read somewhere that the r157 paint is really some 60's GM red color...   Here is a link that I am planning on referencing if I decide to paint some parts...   http://www.xjrider.com/viewtopic.php?f=72 & t=934 & sid=cf1070764d2bd23adc45b3471f1561cb & start=10   Great thread. Nice to see two clean Gen 5 front end conversions of different types side by side.   Some members love their R1 front ends [Shaynus, zRoyz, and others], some got great results from the RC51 SP1/SP2 forks [Veefer800Canuck, KevCarver, dogman, zRoYz, and others],  and some have found the best combo to be from stock CBR1000RR or even Ohlins for CBR1000RR [zRoYz, any others?]. And that doesn't even begin to list ZX6 or ZX10 options. There does seem to be one member who's done it all...    Terry - on your CBR600F4i conversion, did you use the F4i upper fork sliders or longer VFR/VTR upper sliders? Do you have any measurements for unloaded, extended length of [1] CBR600F4i forks?  and/or [2] VFR800 forks? If so, can you please specify if measurement is from center of axle to fork cap or some other point on fork?   Thanks I like the voltmeter through the neck.   I am using complete CBR600F4 forks, and IIRC these ended up about 10mm shorter than the VFR forks. I have them set so the fork cap is flush with the upper triple, and was previously running the VFR forks slid up through the triples by about 8mm, so the wheel is sitting in about the same relative position to the frame.    With the voltmeter, that was my lazy way of mounting without having to fabricate a bracket, I used a garden irrigation fitting as the base, and the meter is held in place by the blade terminals passing through tight holes, and secured by the female connectors underneath. Helps to have a bit of free wire length for accessing those parts during assembly. I have a bit of rubber hose around the wires as they pass out of the bottom of the stem to prevent chafing. Terry thanks for the info on your F4i forks' length. For VFR fork length, I just realized that instead of waiting for someone to fill in the blank, I can go out to the garage, put my Gen 5 front end up on the triple clamp stand, and measure them myself - doh! I really should learn not to mention such glaring flaws in my logic when I notice them.   And the voltmeter location is indeed super-sano. I've got a DIN power outllet in my steering stem, so wiring is already there. Which voltmeter did you use? It looks practically factory perfect. Cool - I'll look up volt meters. I hadn't thought of just putting one into my DIN plug until I saw your installation.   In case this info helps anyone: 2001 Gen 5 forks are 764mm center of axle to bottom of fork cap. vfrdiscussion.com Powered by Invision Community By using this site, you agree to our  Privacy Policy . 