Kimpton to Debut La Peer Hotel in West Hollywood, CA | Hotel Business LOS ANGELES—Kimpton Hotels  &  Restaurants will introduce La Peer Hotel this fall in what will be a new luxury tier in the brand’s portfolio. Located at Santa Monica Blvd. and Melrose Ave. in West Hollywood’s Design District, La Peer Hotel will have 105 rooms and suites, a rooftop deck, a pool and fitness center, and more than 8,000 sq. ft. of indoor and outdoor dining and lounge spaces. “As we began developing programming for La Peer Hotel, this idea of ‘unbuttoned luxury’ crystalized as an overarching ideal where we incorporated all of the quality, thoughtfulness and anticipation that guests of five-star hotels would expect, while dropping our ties, lightening up on the starch and focusing on natural and unscripted guest engagement,” said Nick Rimedio, GM at La Peer Hotel. “This philosophy is evident throughout our amenities and services, which will feature exclusive partnerships with some of the very best local businesses in West Hollywood.” Jade yoga mats will be placed in each room for complimentary use along with a yoga wake up app. Resident trainer Marco Reed will oversee all fitness classes on site and be available for individual training sessions, as well as to offer diet and meal planning for guests. Amenities include room service featuring custom picnic baskets, a bath menu with butler service, in-room bottle service that brings craft cocktails to the guest, as well as morning coffee, afternoon iced tea, social hour and evening nightcaps. In terms of F & B options, the hotel will open Viale dei Romani, a trattoria-style restaurant. In addition, La Peer will offer guests a variety of ways to explore its neighborhood. A partnership with Bikes  &  Hikes LA will provide several different bike tours to explore Beverly Hills and West Hollywood, CA. Each guest can pick up a La Peer Passport, a pocket-size neighborhood guide of the district’s top spots for the arts, shopping and nightlife within a one-mile radius of the hotel. Guests can visit participating businesses to receive custom stamps to be eligible for exclusive hotel benefits. You must be  logged in  to post a comment. 