Chilli chocolate syrup + a chilli chocolate martini - The KitchenMaid It s about this time of year that I start to feel slightly panicked and wish I could run away to some kind of closed community where they don t celebrate Christmas, or have jobs, or blogs or Things To Worry About. Do you feel like that too? The internet is the worst place to be if you re in that kind of mood, because CHRISTMAS is around every turn. Don t, whatever you do, venture on to Pinterest, or you ll fall into a deep depression at the realisation that you ve failed dismally as a mother/partner/sibling/friend/member of society because you haven t planned your themed decorations, hand-stitched jaunty bunting or made 20 sets of Frozen-themed figurines of every kid in your child s class from air-dried clay. And you ve still got to bake for the school gala, sort your invoices, locate the spare car key and send your dear friend her birthday present, now three months overdue (sorry Claire!). Fear not, friends, because I have a remedy to lift you to a higher place. It s chocolate chilli syrup   and if pouring it over cake or ice cream doesn t cheer you up, then adding it to a martini certainly will. Here s how. Chocolate chilli syrup If you re stuck for easy DIY Christmas gifts, this should go on the list. It takes minutes, doesn t cost much and is extremely simple. It s my offering for this month s  We Should Cocoa challenge , hosted by the lovely  Shaheen of Allotment2Kitchen . No surprises in guessing this month s guest ingredient   it s chilli. 1 cup water 1 cup caster sugar 3 Tbsp good quality cocoa powder 1 tsp chilli flakes Stir the sugar and cocoa together in a small pot, then add the water and mix well. Bring to the boil and let simmer for five minutes, then remove from heat. Stir in the chilli and let cool to room temperature. Strain through a fine sieve into a jar or bottle and cover tightly. Store in the fridge. Chocolate chilli martini Martini purists, look away now   this is very much my desperate housewife interpretation. 60ml ice cold vodka 30ml vermouth 30ml chilli chocolate syrup ice Put all ingredients in a cocktail shaker (confession: I use a jam jar) and shake well. Strain into a martini glass (or two, if you re generous). I love this, I really do   I was thinking of making some chilli chocolate syrup but was not sure on the quantities, so you have truly helped me out.  I will defo be making this and can see its versatility in my kitchen too.  Yum.  The martini looks good too!  Thank you so much for sharing with WSC, and your genuine warmth x oh my god fuck yes! he he love this post and love the sound of this chilli chocolate syrup. Wish I was on your Christmas present list.Thanks for sharing your recipe Lucy. debx I am feeling the same way about Christmas   though I love a peek on pinterest for ideas but I do wonder who are these superparents doing all the amazing stuff (and sometimes I just comfort myself that these are the professionals!).  I can imagine these would make a very elegant Christmas present. Chocolate and chillies, sounds odd to me, and with vodka, seems weird combination, but sounds  " exited "  to me. And this is easy, can ' t wait to stimulate my tongue. 🙂 Oh this would so suit me right now. Just perfect. You ' d be most welcome in my (sort of) closed community. We don ' t celebrate Christmas (well, hardly) and we don ' t have jobs any longer but sadly we have a lot to worry about. Although after a couple of these little drinks I suspect that the worries would evaporate.  Haha, I feel like this all the time. I could so lose myself in one of your Martini ' s right now, but sadly I ' m on a fast day. Great idea for syrup   just add milk for a perfect hot chocolate too. Thanks for another great We Should Cocoa entry. Your email address will not be published.  Required fields are marked  * Comment Name  * Email  * Website Current ye@r  * Leave this field empty I'm a writer, editor, mother and cook, living in Wellington, New Zealand. I like bread, books, chocolate, cheese and wine (not necessarily in that order).   Follow on Pinterest Follow Lucy Corry s board Three Ways With  on Pinterest. I d love you to share my recipes and photos, but please don t reproduce them in any form without asking first. 