Entrepreneur makes her pet project work | Stuff.co.nz ©  2019  Stuff Limited Serial entrepreneur Angela Beer is fussy about who looks after her fur children, otherwise known as her pet dogs. So fussy, she laughs, that she thought the best way to ensure the best care for them was to create her own company and do it her way. So dog-walking and pet care company Pets  &  Pats was born in January this year. In an unregulated, young sector, Beer's aim with the company is to raise the standard of professionalism and safety. Staff are scrupulously hand-picked by Beer and have qualifications in pet care first aid and a long history in animal care. Although Beer gets a buzz from growing businesses - such as her international gift brand business Hello Dolly - she's not interested in franchising Pets  &  Pats. Beer sees pet care as being incredibly personal and wants to maintain the quality of the service. Many of her clients are professional single people, couples who have just had a baby and need help looking after their dog, and older professional women. " A bad day in a corporate is not winning a bid or a meeting going badly. In the petcare industry, a bad day in the office may mean one of your lovely clients moves cities and you have formed a true attachment to them.  Pathetic I know, but very true. " W hy did you become an entrepreneur? I first became an entrepreneur because I had a burning desire to create wealth and flexibility for myself so I had financial options around becoming a mother. I was burnt out and tired of being on the corporate ladder working 80 hours a week and for what? A bigger pay cheque, more staff, responsibilities and headaches so I could slave away creating someone else's dream life. I thought, why not do it for myself. That was in the early days. Now I'm an entrepreneur because I love it. What have been the biggest obstacles in running your business? I believe there are common issues for all small start-up businesses. The most common is you have to be a jack of all trades to get things started and off the ground, but once you have some experience you know you can't do things on your own, you need to either hire the right people or contract the right suppliers. Knowing what you are great at and what you're not is important.  Name one thing you've learnt in business and through whom? I launched my other company Hello Dolly on Dragons' Den. I went on the show for the publicity as I had no marketing budget (see the things you will do when you are under-capitalised!). It was a high-risk strategy that paid off big time. What I learnt through that process is where there is a will there is a way, and sometimes you have to be very brave. What are your business and personal goals? To be a happy and a good person, to enjoy what I do, and to be of service to others.  At Pets  &  Pats we have a poster on the wall that says I want to be the person my dog thinks I am. Dogs, animals and their owners make me be a better person, and I love being of service and being useful Your tips to other budding entrepreneurs? Surround yourself with positive people. Get rid of the doomsayers, they are often emotional vampires who will suck the life out of you. That's not to say live in la-la land - get a coach to keep you accountable and on task.   BusinessDay.co.nz I am sharing the news that 4 beautiful, healthy, 100 year old Oak trees that shade the path leading down to the train tracks and domain tunnel from Gibraltar Crescent are being cut down by Summerset Development tomorrow. This is being done without providing the public or neighbours notice. The council has accepted a nomination to list these trees as notable and therefore protected, so Summerset is rushing through the destruction of these trees tomorrow before they can be protected. Neighbours to the development offered to allow Summerset to build an extra floor above the normal height if they would save the trees and this has been refused. If anyone can do anything to help it would be amazing! Please share this and shame Summerset Group. If supermarkets want to be environmentally responsible and care about peoples health then they should stop selling cigarettes. Removing plastic bags is not enough and pushes the cost onto the consumer hence why it was rolled out at all. " Thank you for a wonderful garden make-over. I ' m absolutely thrilled! "  SS Mission BayBusy Lizzy Gardens is available this week if you would like a garden tidy-up or help planning a garden transformation...www.busylizzygardens.com Have your windows looking crystal clear again with a professional interior  &  exterior clean.Bookings for December available. Pure water fed pole or traditional methods available. ©  2019  Stuff Limited 