Unal Emery: Neymar Will Remain at PSG Amid Rumours of Unhappiness at Club | Bleacher Report | Latest News, Videos and Highlights By using this site, you agree to the  Privacy Policy  and  Terms of Use. Close Icon Close Icon Bleacher Report App Logo Get the Latest PSG News Bleacher Report Logo Facebook Logo Twitter Logo Copy Link Icon Comment Bubble Icon Paris Saint-Germain manager Unai Emery has dismissed suggestions that Neymar wants out of his new club and has said the Brazilian will not be going anywhere. Some speculation has surfaced in recent weeks that the Brazilian regrets leaving Barcelona for the Parc des Princes in the previous transfer window. But talking to the press on Thursday, Emery said the forward is not up for sale. "When we took him (from Barcelona) it was with one precise goal," he said, per the Press Association (h/t  Sky Sports ) . "The club and the president want him to stay and he's going to stay here." As noted in the PA report, it's been suggested that Neymar told former Barcelona team-mates  Luis Suarez  and Gerard Pique that he wished hadn't moved to the French capital in the world-record deal. Additionally,  Real Madrid 's legendary captain Sergio Ramos is noted to have told   Cadena Ser   that he would welcome Neymar to the Santiago Bernabeu despite his connections with their fierce Blaugrana rivals. In a separate interview with   L'Equipe   quoted by PA, Emery said the focus should be on how Neymar is performing in PSG colours. "The most important thing is the pitch and his performances there," said the coach. "All footballers are men before being footballers. I speak to Neymar, and it's that which is more important than rumours. Adapting is different for each player and more or less quick. We're doing everything to help him to adapt as well as possible." The man himself had also denied the speculation during the international break, per Goal UK: Neymar: I live on goals and I live on winning https://t.co/oWu0PF9vrJ If Neymar isn't in the best frame of mind, he isn't showing it, as he's grabbed seven goals and registered five assists in his seven Ligue 1 outings so far.  The Brazilian has brought the flair and penetration that he so frequently showcased at Barcelona to the French capital. Neymar has shown he is ready to lead the attack, as he's carried the ball forward, set up team-mates and helped himself to a fair share of goals. And while both he and Kylian Mbappe only joined the Ligue 1 side in the summer, already there's a clear understanding on the field between the duo and centre-forward Edinson Cavani.  As noted by Footy Accumulators, the trio are among the most exciting and effective forward lines anywhere in Europe: This season: Depay, Mariano  & amp; Fekir - Goals: 26Cavani, Mbappe  & amp; Neymar - Goals: 24👀👀👀 https://t.co/YeI5LX21r5 For Neymar, adapting to a new environment and new expectations may be a challenge, especially given the pressure has been piled upon him to perform. As such, some early doubts may well be in his mind, though after working so hard to get him on board, PSG will not want to relinquish one of the world's best footballers. While it'd be a surprise to see Neymar end his career with the French side, he's made it clear he made the move to the club to become the finest footballer on the planet. And for a man who has proved himself to be both a determined and skilled footballer, it's unlikely he'll go elsewhere until such a standard has been reached. Facebook Logo Twitter Logo Copy Link Icon Liverpool superstar could be targeted next summer Flamengo will (likely) face Liverpool in the World Club Cup final this month Three Lions will face Italy, Denmark, Austria and Romania Close Icon Follow  Bleacher Report Football  on Facebook Bleacher Report Logo Facebook Logo Twitter Logo Instagram Logo Turner Logo 