Alert Schedule - General - Warframe Forums This topic is now archived and is closed to further replies. By  Omnifrost ,   October 6, 2013  in  General Every one of you know that feeling when something you need/want get on Alert mission, some of you use Nexus application, some ( like myself ) use Twitter. But there is a problem about Time Zones, for example : I wait for Rhino Vanguard alt Helmet for mouth or two, and this morning i woke up early ( around 6 am, was hungry. I hate that ) and reguraly log on Twitter ( i'm really active Twitter guy, 25/7 on it ) and saw RHINO VANGUARD ALERT Tweet, i was so happy i just woke up in time to get item i wait so lon..BUT WAIT it was about 4 hours before i saw Tweet. And to cut this and get to the point.. *TIME ZONES* it's not fair, if i need to seat down at pc whole night and day to wait something to get then f*ck it. This game is not AMERICANS only ( or whatever they are ) if you make multy country game then make multy county alert sistem, or simply repeat rewards like your time 4 pm ( our / mine 4 am ) then your 4 am ( mine 4 pm )  Simply not fair guys from other time zone ( your ) got what they need and Us ( from other third time zone county ) get's nothing. IF i need to camp and have no real life just to get freaking helmet for frame i farm, build and spend time to level up and play then it's not worth it. Some of you will say something like " OH USE PLAT TO GET ITEMS U SO NOOB " you know, not every parent is rich or not every one want to spend money on free to play game ( in my case i don't have nor money nor way to pay it..3rd world county so i wait for alerts )  Really hope devs will see it, because when i write this i write in name of a houndreds of palyers from my county and many more from others. It's random. It's random and timezones don't affect it. There are alerts at 4 am in America's time too, and I can't get any of those.  It's completely random - there was on Saturday a reactor alert, and for me it was great, but my friend from America didn't get it.   Yes, it can be realy annoying, and maybe on the realy rare items DE should extend the time again to something like 12 hours, but this is why the alerts after a livestream have a 24 hours duration. Okay, thanks everyone for replay. I didn't know it was Random. Yeah, it suck but there is no other way. Thanks again ;) Powered by Invision Community 