2019 Best Places for Young Professionals in Washington - Niche Explore the best places for young professionals based on the number of millennial residents, job opportunities, and access to bars, restaurants, and affordable housing. Ranking based on data from the U.S. Census, FBI, BLS, and other sources. &# xA0; Read more on how this ranking was calculated. Current Resident : &# xA0; Beautiful town with lots of gorgeous flowers. Always decorated for the holidays with fun and beautiful lights. Downtown is well kept and full of welcoming people! Read  10 Reviews Current Resident : &# xA0; Overall is a very lovely place to live. The people are friendly, the housing is comfortable. Though some of the dogs are a little yappy sometimes. Read  5 Reviews Current Resident : &# xA0; I love Arlington! This side of Washington has a great scenery, it is always so beautiful. There are a great things to do around here. Seattle is about an hour South and there are a lot of hikes to go on. However, there can be quite a few homeless people in this area that you want to stay away from. Read  65 Reviews Current Resident : &# xA0; Washougal is a great Community. It is not to small and not to Big. It has great schools and is close to Vancouver and Portland. It takes 20 minutes to get to the airport. It is beautiful area lots of Green trees, it is close to hikes around Lacamas Lake. The Washougal River is great in the summer. lots of swimming holes to cool off outside. If you like fishing it is awesome lots of fishing opportunities on the little river or the Columbia River. There are new homes being built all the time. I have lived in Washougal since the late 80 ' s and could not ask for a better place to call home. Read  30 Reviews Former Resident : &# xA0; Cheney is a great town to live in and to have a family. The education system is amazing because of the teachers. As someone who graduated through the Cheney schooling system k-12 I can say with assurance that at every level, Cheney is filled with caring and impactful teachers. The town is very safe and child-friendly. The people there are also polite. All in all, it ' s a quaint little town. However; it does not have very much diversity in its population. A final complaint would be that it also does not have a large deal if activities to participate in for fun. Read  112 Reviews Current Resident : &# xA0; Eatonville is a quiet town. If you drive the streets at 9 pm, you would think it was a ghost town. So if you ' re into that thing, this is the best place for you and perfect for your family. There is a lot to do outdoors, from hikes to waterfalls, to parks, to wide open fields throughout town. But if you are looking for things to go do (movies, bowling, etc), you will soon find this is not the place for those. You can drive to the nearby towns for more to do. So if you don ' t mind the outdoors, and longer commutes, Eatonville is the place for you! Read  20 Reviews Niche User : &# xA0; There is minimal crime, except an occasional burglary. Read  14 Reviews Current Resident : &# xA0; Battle Ground is suburban living with small town charm and the convenience of being a stone ' s throw from the city when you need to go for work or want for play. I ' ve loved building relationships with my wonderful neighbors, my local grocery store clerks know me by name, and there ' s so much Natural Beauty to behold! Read  81 Reviews Current Resident : &# xA0; As a citizen of Goldendale and a student at Goldendlale High, I can attest to its high standard of education. Goldendale is a rural town nestled between the two mountain ranges of the Columbia Hills and the Simcoe Mountains on the border of the Columbia river and the Oregon border. Hunting, fishing, recreation, camping, and hiking make up most of its residents hobbies when not working or farming. Read  8 Reviews Current Resident : &# xA0; Orting is my hometown. It offers a small town feel while remaining close to neighboring cities for easy access to shopping malls, movie theaters, and hospitals. It is also in a prime location for outdoor adventures including rivers, lakes, and mountains. Read  25 Reviews Current Resident : &# xA0; Kalama is a small town so you get to know almost everybody there. There are great local shops and restaraunts and big cities like Longview, Vancouver or Portland are either less than a half hour or less than an hour drive away so it ' s convenient to live next to a big city but grey the small city living that you love. There is only one high school there which is well operated and all of the teachers are really nice and you can also do running start at a couple of nearby colleges if you are interested. Overall, Kalama is a nice small town and a great place to live. Read  9 Reviews Niche User : &# xA0; I love this area. I love how there is a vast range of weather and temperature, so I never get bored. I love how mountains, deserts, forests, and the beach are all in a 2 hour distance to me. I hope I live her for the rest of my life. Read  2 Reviews Current Resident : &# xA0; Just bought a home in Aberdeen, was very impressed with the look of the areas surrounding it, and the city itself is very nice! I love this small town feel, the homes are quite nice. The people friendly, and we love the new home we bought! I feel this will be our forever home, good for 1st time home buyers, and those who wish to retire here. Can ' t beat the inexpensive, gorgeous homes here!!! Read  58 Reviews Current Resident : &# xA0; Colville is a extraordinary town to develop close relationships. Friendly occupants of the town support each other and often enjoy meals in each other &# x2019;s company. The mountains boast safety from the strongest winds and offer accessible and well maintained trials for those who love to explore. A ten minute drive from town leads to the nearby drive-in (outdoor movie theater), a national treasure. If possible, the town would be better off without the forest fires. However, the firefighters are plentiful and devoted to protecting the town. However, it is important to know the town struggles with accepting the different ideas than their own. The town council overall is quite resolute in their decisions, whether good or bad. Yet Colville remains a beautiful small town with the residents treating everyone as close family. Read  23 Reviews Current Resident : &# xA0; Fall City is a nice quiet place to raise a family. The commute into Seattle can get pretty bad, but Fall City is close to many recreational possibilities: skiing, floating down the river, camping, lots of hiking! Parts of Fall City are still wild. The schools are pretty good, but not excellent. All in all, a fantastic place to live if you can afford it. Read  12 Reviews Current Resident : &# xA0; Ridgefield is a small town in southwest Washington known for our local wildlife refuge, friendly community, and growing town. Our historic downtown offers monthly events and a weekly farmers market. Our most popular event is the 4th of July celebration where there are events happening all day including the popular parade through downtown. Due to our easy access to the Columbia River there are lots of outdoor recreational activities to do like fishing, waterskiing, kayaking, and swimming. If you are every driving through I highly recommend stopping through our town and visiting the wildlife refuge and eating a meal at one of our local restaurants. Read  18 Reviews Current Resident : &# xA0; Nooksack is a small farming town. It offers great school system and has the small town atmosphere. The surrounding area is expected to grow over the next ten years so there are plenty of living options. Outside the city limits, nooksack is surrounded by farm land.  Read  2 Reviews Niche User : &# xA0; I really enjoy living here for the most part. It ' s absolutely gorgeous and most of the people are very friendly. I haven ' t lived in a great many locations, but I enjoy to variety of trees and flowers here. Back home, we have a tendency towards binary options for tree growth and flowers only last a few weeks. Sometimes the cloudy/rainy spring can be cold or just gloomy, but I like the rain usually, so it could be worse. Read  24 Reviews Current Resident : &# xA0; Deer Park is a small town with a sense of community. I really like small town living. I graduated from deer park high school with a class of about 130. Everyone knows everyone in a small school. I got to be a part of different clubs and cliques so I could talk with people I maybe wouldn ' t in a big school. Being a small town deer park seems to be a prettt safe place to live and raise a family. The community gets together for park festivals, rodeos, parades, and events in each season. Everything you need is in the heart of the town which means there aren ' t jobs available and an opportunity to support local business. We have grocery stores, restaurants, coffee shops, salons, consignment stores, auto repair shops, and much more. Deer Park is a town where you can have a peaceful family oriented lifestyle and be involved in your own community! Read  12 Reviews Explore the best places for young professionals based on the number of millennial residents, job opportunities, and access to bars, restaurants, and affordable housing. Ranking based on data from the U.S. Census, FBI, BLS, and other sources. &# xA0; Read more on how this ranking was calculated. 