Sexism in Schools - ScienceDirect ScienceDirect Sexism is gender-based prejudice or discrimination. As with other forms of prejudice and discrimination, it functions to maintain status and power differences between groups in society. One manifestation of sexism involves prejudice and discrimination against girls and women who seek to achieve in prestigious fields traditionally associated with males. Another manifestation of sexism, however, occurs when pressures are placed on boys and men to conform to traditional conceptions of masculinity. Over the last two decades, an increasing number of developmental and educational psychologists have become concerned about sexism directed toward children and adolescents in school contexts. Our chapter reviews the research on this topic. After providing an overview of different processes related to sexism, we examine how it is manifested in school contexts. Sexism is seen through gender-stereotyped biases against girls and boys in academic and athletic achievement. Also, it occurs through sexual harassment in social interactions. We also address factors related to children &# x27;s awareness of sexism and coping responses to sexism. Finally, we consider possible ways to reduce sexism and foster effective coping in schools. The constructs known as stereotypes, attitudes, prejudice, and discrimination are interrelated. The term stereotypes refers to particular attributes believed to characterize a group (e.g., “Girls play with dolls”). The term attitudes refers to the positive or negative emotional associations between particular attributes and groups. More specifically, a proscriptive attitude refers to an attribute that the perceiver believes a group should exhibit (e.g., “Girls should play with dolls”); whereas a prescriptive attitude refers to an attribute that the perceiver considers that members of a group should avoid (e.g., “Boys should not play with dolls”). Prejudice occurs when the perceiver evaluates other persons based on their own stereotypes and attitudes (e.g., negative perception of boys who play with dolls). Discrimination is the behavioral expression of prejudice (e.g., bullying a boy who plays with dolls). When prejudice and discrimination are based on a person &# x27;s gender, it constitutes sexism. Analogous bias against sexual minorities is known as heterosexism. There are two distinct, but related, types of sexism. According to  Glick and Fiske &# x27;s (1996)  ambivalent sexism model, gender-based prejudice is ambivalent because there are asymmetries in status and power between men and women, yet there is male–female interdependence within families and heterosexual relationships. In the model, sexism can include both hostile and benevolent types. Hostile sexism refers to negative attitudes toward individuals who violate traditional gender stereotypes. For example, as in the previous example, teasing a boy who plays with dolls is an expression of hostile sexism. In contrast,  benevolent sexism  includes protective paternalism (i.e., belief that men must protect women) and complementary gender differentiation (i.e., belief that women and men are different and complement one another). For example, classrooms that teach boys and girls very differently based on presumed gender differences often express benevolent sexism. Although benevolent sexism is often more attractive to women and men than hostile sexism, both reinforce traditional gender roles and status imbalances. Researchers studying  social cognition , based on a dual-process model of cognition, have illustrated that stereotypes, attitudes, and prejudices can operate at both conscious (or explicit) and unconscious (or implicit) levels (e.g.,  Greenwald et al., 2002 ). Conscious or explicit stereotyped attitudes are reflected in the views that individuals deliberately express to others. For example, a child might observe a boy playing with a doll and state, “Only girls can play with dolls.” Unconscious or implicit stereotyped attitudes are seen when individuals respond automatically in situations based on conditioned semantic and emotional associations to particular social categories. These automatic responses sometimes differ from the conscious or explicit beliefs that children and adults hold ( Greenwald et al., 2002 ). Two kinds of sexism occurring in school contexts are addressed in this chapter. First, gender biases are sometimes reflected in differential expectations for girls and boys in overall school success, particular academic subjects, or athletics. These biases can affect children ' s developing beliefs, motives, and abilities. Second, sexual harassment is another form of sexism that affects many students in schools. It refers to inappropriate or hostile sexual behaviors that occur in  face-to-face interactions  (e.g., sexual teasing, unwanted touching) or through the use of online social media. With both types of sexism, children ' s achievement and well-being can be affected both directly and indirectly. Direct influences occur when institutions, adults, and peers encourage or discourage particular behaviors based on children ' s gender. Indirect influences occur when children internalize gender-stereotyped expectations and thereby avoid practicing particular behaviors or achieving in particular domains they see as contrary to their gender ideology. Sexism is sometimes experienced differently based on the individual &# x27;s ethnicity or race. As explicated in feminist standpoint theory, ethnicity/race intersect with gender in complicated ways ( Basow and Rubin, 1999 ,  Stewart and McDermott, 2004 ).  Barbarin, Chinn, and Wright (2014)  [ Chapter 10  of this volume] and  Rowley et al. (2014)  [ Chapter 9  of this volume] address this complexity by highlighting the unique experiences of African American boys within and outside of school contexts. This intersection can impact sexism within schools in at least three related ways. One issue is that children from different ethnic/racial groups may be differentially knowledgeable about and sensitive to sexism. In some situations, both boys and girls from minority ethnic/racial groups (such as African Americans, Latino/a Americans, and Asian Americans) are more sensitive to all forms of discrimination and therefore are more likely than White European American children to recognize sexism (see  Kane, 2000 ). However, at times, the opposite trend seems to occur; that is, gender bias is most salient to White European American children because gender is their primary social identity ( Brown et al., 2011 ,  Turner and Brown, 2007 ). A second issue related to ethnicity/race is that gender is sometimes constructed differently in certain cultural contexts. For example, gender-typing pressures tend to be more traditional among Latino children compared to White European American children (e.g.,  Azmitia  &  Brown, 2000 ). Furthermore, among adolescents, many Latinas have distinct conceptions of feminism, in which they combine cultural ideals of  marianismo  (e.g.,  Hurtado, 2003 ) with notions of gender equality ( Manago, Brown,  &  Leaper, 2009 ). In contrast, gender typing tends to be less traditional among African American children than among European American children (see  Kane, 2000 ). Finally, ethnicity and race are associated with their own academic stigmas and achievement gaps. For example, throughout elementary school, Latino students perform worse on average in math and reading, and are more likely to perform below grade level, than their European American counterparts (e.g.,  Lee  &  Bowen, 2006 ). These types of ethnic achievement gaps can exacerbate or mitigate gender-based achievement gaps (e.g., gender gaps in math achievement are highest for European American students and nonexistent among African American students;  McGraw, Lubienski,  &  Strutchens, 2006 ). Thus, any discussion of sexism within schools should acknowledge that sexism occurs within a particular ethnic/racial context and does not impact all children in the same way. Sexism can be perpetuated in schools directly and indirectly. Within the classroom, teachers can express implicit and explicit sexist attitudes and show differential treatment of boys and girls (e.g.,  Tiedemann, 2000 ). Within hallways and other public spaces in schools, peers can perpetrate sexism by harassing and rejecting the target of their gender bias. Sexism can also be perpetuated in schools indirectly. Parents are influential in shaping the academic attitudes that children bring to school (e.g.,  Frome and Eccles, 1998 ,  Herbert and Stipek, 2005 ). Popular media consumed by most children is also a powerful source of sexism through its pervasive reinforcement of gender stereotypes ( Signorielli, 2012 ). Once children begin school, teachers may perpetuate sexism in various ways. Studies from the 1990s found that some teachers hold sexist attitudes about children &# x27;s abilities and interests. Some teachers, for example, were more likely to perceive boys than girls as logical, competitive, liking math, independent in math, and needing math and were more likely to attribute boys’ success in math to ability but attribute girls’ success to effort ( Fennema et al., 1990 ,  Jackson and Leffingwell, 1999 ,  Li, 1999 ,  Tiedemann, 2000 ). These implicit and explicit biases can affect teacher &# x27;s expectations for their students, and research has consistently shown that expectations about students’ abilities can be self-fulfilling ( Jussim  &  Harber, 2005 ). The same era of research revealed that, in some studies, teachers treated boys and girls differently in the classroom, such as favoring boys over girls when calling on students, asking students to explain their answers, and giving repeated explanations in science and math classes ( American Association of University Women (AAUW), 1992 ,  Jackson and Leffingwell, 1999 ). When girls did get attention, it could be contradictory: They may have received criticism for the content of work completed, yet praise for the neatness and timeliness of the work ( AAUW, 1992 ). Perhaps because of this differential treatment, teachers’ gender stereotypes are reflected in students’ gender stereotypes ( Keller, 2001 ). More recent research has shown that many teachers try to be egalitarian in their explicit beliefs ( Garrahy, 2001 ,  Jones and Myhill, 2004 ). Teachers often rate boys and girls similarly on math competencies, which is consistent with boys’ and girls’ actual performance ( Helwig et al., 2001 ,  Herbert and Stipek, 2005 ). Researchers have observed patterns that are opposite to those seen in earlier studies; that is, some teachers now evaluate girls higher than boys in math competence when they are aware of students’ gender—but not when they are blind to students’ gender ( Lavy, 2008 ). Conversely, some teachers perceive boys as more likely to be underachievers and troublemakers compared to girls ( Jones  &  Myhill, 2004 ); this difference is particularly pronounced for African American boys and girls ( Wood, Kaplan,  &  McLoyd, 2007 ). Yet, even when teachers perceive gender similarities in overall academic competence, they often assume that boys and girls have different learning styles and interests ( Skelton et al., 2009 ). Current research focuses on how teachers’ implicit gender biases may influence children within the classroom. An example of a how implicit sexism can affect children is the finding that female teachers’ own math anxiety is associated with an increase in girls endorsing the stereotype that “boys are good at math and girls are good at reading” ( Beilock, Gunderson, Ramirez,  &  Levine, 2010 ). This in turn is associated with girls’ lower math performance ( Beilock et al., 2010 ). Although the exact mechanism of influence is unclear, some female teachers may model these stereotypes through their own nonverbal behavior (see  Lane, 2012 ,  Petersen and Hyde, 2014  [ Chapter 2  of this volume]). Peers can also be sources of sexism at school for children and adolescents. Although peer-directed sexism can be important across all school years, the impact of peers is particularly influential during middle school ( Brown  &  Larson, 2009 ). Most frequently, peers express sexism through perpetrating sexual harassment toward classmates and through rejecting or teasing gender-atypical classmates. As will be described below, peers are the most frequent perpetrators of sexual harassment ( Fineran  &  Bennett, 1999 ). Furthermore, because sexual harassment typically occurs in public (often in school hallways and classrooms;  Harris Interactive, 2001 ;  Timmerman, 2005 ), peers have the opportunity to reinforce and regulate these behaviors. Indeed, adolescents indicate that sexual harassment is both implicitly condoned and explicitly encouraged by peers. About 54% of adolescents admit to perpetrating sexual harassment against a peer ( Harris Interactive, 2001 ). Of those students, a majority stated that they sexually harassed a peer because “a lot of people do it” (reported by 39% of perpetrators) or “their friends encouraged them” (reported by 24% of perpetrators;  Harris Interactive, 2001 ). Peer norms about the acceptability of sexual harassment are a strong predictor of an individual &# x27;s own sexually harassing behavior ( Jewell  &  Brown, 2013 ). In addition to perpetrating and condoning sexual harassment, peers also perpetrate sexism by teasing other classmates who do not conform to gender norms. Research on group norms indicates that children who do not meet the norms or fit the stereotypes of the group can be bullied, mocked, or ostracized by group members ( Abrams, Rutland, Cameron,  &  Ferrell, 2007 ). Peers frequently harass and ostracize boys and girls who are deemed atypical for their gender ( Jewell and Brown, 2014 ,  Russell et al., 2010 ,  Smith and Leaper, 2006 ,  Young and Sweeting, 2004 ). Conversely, highly gender-typical children have the most positive peer relations, being rated as the most liked and the most popular ( Egan and Perry, 2001 ,  Jewell and Brown, 2014 ,  Lobel et al., 1993 ,  Rose et al., 2011 ). This form of sexism is condoned, with adolescents reporting that it is more acceptable to exclude or tease a gender-atypical peer than a gender-typical peer ( Horn, 2008 ). There is asymmetry, however, in that boys are more likely than girls to experience negative peer sanctions for low levels of gender typicality. Although peers make negative comments to girls when they engage in traditionally male activities such as athletics and mathematics ( Leaper  &  Brown, 2008 ), boys who appear feminine or have poor athletic abilities face even harsher repercussions from their peers ( Lee and Troop-Gordon, 2011 ,  Pascoe, 2007 ).  Poteat, Scheer, and Mereish (2014)  [ Chapter 8  of this volume] provide a detailed account of the frequency and consequences of the victimization of gender non-conforming and  sexual minority youth . Although a discussion of the myriad ways that parents shape children &# x27;s gendered behavior is beyond the scope of this chapter, parents can influence children &# x27;s academic lives through their own implicit and explicit sexism, thus becoming an indirect means by which sexism occurs in school ( Gunderson, Ramirez, Levine,  &  Beilock, 2012 ). Like teachers, some parents show implicit sexist attitudes about their children &# x27;s academic abilities. In some studies, parents perceived both science and math to be more important for boys than for girls; they perceived boys to be more competent in science and math than girls; and they expected higher science and math performance from boys than from girls ( Andre et al., 1999 ,  Eccles et al., 2000 ). Parents assumed girls are as not interested in computer science as sons ( Sáinz, Pálmen,  &  García-Cuesta, 2012 ). Furthermore, in one older study, parents attributed boys’ math success to ability, but they attributed girls’ math success to effort ( Yee  &  Eccles, 1988 ). Parents’ stereotypes, assumptions, and expectations can influence their beliefs about their children ' s abilities and interests, which in turn affect children ' s  self-perceptions  and performance ( Gunderson et al., 2012 ,  Jacobs et al., 2005 ). Research has consistently shown that parents’ expectations and beliefs about math (particularly when they align with gender stereotypes) can impact children &# x27;s math attitudes and aptitudes ( Yee  &  Eccles, 1988 ). Parental expectations, and the resulting encouragement and support behaviors, can be more important than any actual academic experiences. For example, Greek parents’ expectations and encouragement about computer science were stronger predictors than children &# x27;s own computer-based activities in predicting children &# x27;s computer self-efficacy ( Vekiri  &  Chronaki, 2008 ). Beyond that, parents have been shown to steer children &# x27;s occupational choices in stereotypical directions ( Chhin et al., 2008 ,  Whiston and Keller, 2004 ). Parents’ gender biases regarding academic achievement may also include the differential treatment of daughters and sons ( Gunderson et al., 2012 ). Studies conducted in the United States observed that parents of sons discussed math and science concepts more frequently and in more detail with their children than parents of daughters. For example, parents of preschoolers at a science museum were three times more likely to explain science exhibits to sons than to daughters ( Crowley, Callanan, Tenenbaum,  &  Allen, 2001 ). Another study observed that when parents were assigned to teach their 10-year-old child about a physics phenomenon, fathers were more likely to use teaching talk (e.g., by asking for causal explanations and using conceptual descriptions) with sons than with daughters ( Tenenbaum  &  Leaper, 2003 ). Still another investigation noted that mother–son conversations included three times more talk about numbers and quantities than did mother–daughter conversations ( Chang, Sandhofer,  &  Brown, 2011 ). These patterns of differential treatment can privilege boys with relatively more background knowledge and comfort in math and science; in turn, these experiences help to strengthen boys’ self-efficacy and interest in these academic domains. Sexism has been documented in nearly all forms of children &# x27;s media. Media, by presenting sexist images and narratives, perpetuates common gender stereotypes that are then applied to children within schools. This perpetuation of stereotypes can justify and reinforce sexism at school. For example, analyses of popular children &# x27;s television programs show that boys are portrayed as answering more questions, telling others what to do more often, and showing more ingenuity than girls ( Aubrey  &  Harrison, 2004 ). These stereotypes of boys as more assertive than girls are then reinforced by the differential treatment of boys shown by teachers. Video games typically portray boys as aggressive and girls as sexually objectified ( Dill  &  Thill, 2007 ). These stereotypes of aggressive boys and sexual girls further justify sexual harassment by boys directed at girls. Sexist portrayals of boys and girls also infiltrate educational media. In elementary school textbooks, females possess some masculine characteristics (such as assertiveness), but males rarely possess feminine characteristics (such as  empathy ;  Evans  &  Davies, 2000 ). This trend is also evident in books prevalent in school libraries. Even among award-winning children &# x27;s books considered to be nonsexist, boys rarely have feminine-stereotyped traits or occupations ( Diekman  &  Murnen, 2004 ). Girls’ underrepresentation and the gender-stereotypical portrayal of occupations in children &# x27;s book continue in the new millennium ( Hamilton, Anderson, Broaddus,  &  Young, 2006 ). Sexism affects both boys and girls in school. Girls are stereotypically assumed to be less competent than boys in subjects related to science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM). Girls are also assumed to be less athletically competent than boys (see  Solmon, 2014  [ Chapter 4  of this volume]). Boys, however, are stereotypically assumed to perform worse than girls in their overall school achievement. On the basis of these negative stereotypes, boys and girls can be the target of sexism during academic classes and sports participation. In this section, we outline the differences between boys and girls in STEM subjects, athletic participation, and overall school achievement and describe the ways in gender biases partially explain the gender differences in these domains. Students’ achievement in subjects related to STEM is considered important for economic success in today &# x27;s increasingly technological world ( Zakaria, 2011 ). Accordingly, policymakers and researchers have been concerned with the gender gap in some STEM fields. Compared to 57% of all bachelor &# x27;s degrees recently going to women in the United States, only 43% of mathematics degrees, 20% of physics degrees, 16% of computer and information sciences, and 18% of engineering went to women ( National Center for Education Statistics [NCES], 2013 ). The association between gender and bachelor &# x27;s degrees in these fields varies somewhat across the world, however ( UNESCO, 2010 ). Also, the gender gap in all of these fields has narrowed over the last four decades within the United States ( National Science Foundation [NSF], 2013 ). Finally, women are not underrepresented in all STEM fields. In the United States, 58% of bachelor &# x27;s degrees in the biological and biomedical sciences recently went to women ( NSF, 2013 ). Average gender differences in achievement in mathematics and some science subjects emerge during adolescence (see  Petersen  &  Hyde, 2014 , [ Chapter 2  of this volume] for a review). The STEM-related subject that has garnered the most interest is mathematics. Based on a recent meta-analysis of data collected across the world ( Lindberg, Hyde, Petersen,  &  Linn, 2010 ), no significant average gender differences in mathematics test performance were indicated during elementary school and middle school; however, there was a significant but small difference favoring boys in high school and college. The slight advantage seen among boys in high school parallels a trend whereby girls tend to decrease their interest in mathematics between middle school and high school ( Hill, Corbett,  &  St. Rose, 2010 ). As far as other STEM-related subjects, there is cross-national evidence that boys scored significantly higher on average than girls on the TIMMS high school physics test ( TIMMS International Study Center, 2000 ). Also, significantly higher averages for boys than for girls were indicated on the AP Physics and the AP Computer Science exams ( Hill et al., 2010 ). Despite the slight average advantage for boys over girls in standardized test performances, girls actually attained higher average grades in American high school math and science courses ( Hill et al., 2010 ,  National Center for Education Statistics, 2013 ). Developmental scientists recognize that multiple factors contribute to gender-related variations in achievement (see  Leaper, 2013 ). There is strong evidence, however, that gender biases are among these influences. Studies suggest that many children stereotype males as better than females in many STEM-related fields or they view STEM fields as male domains. For example, this pattern has been indicated for mathematics (e.g.,  Muzzatti and Agnoli, 2007 ,  Steffens et al., 2010 ), physics (e.g.,  Andre et al., 1999 ,  Kessels, 2005 ), and computer science (e.g.,  Mercier, Barron,  &  O &# x27;Connor, 2006 ). A few studies have begun to examine both implicit and explicit  stereotyping  in children. In these investigations, some children who did not explicitly endorse gender stereotypes about math showed evidence of implicit gender stereotypes ( Cvencek et al., 2011 ,  Del Río and Strasser, 2013 ,  Steffens et al., 2010 ). These findings are notable because implicit attitudes may have an impact on self-concepts and performance (e.g.,  Nosek et al., 2009 ,  Steffens and Jelenec, 2011 ).  Nosek and colleagues (2009)  examined nation-level variations in gender-science implicit stereotypes and eighth graders’ achievement in science and mathematics. Across the 34 countries sampled, the implicit stereotyping of science as male was strongly related to national gender differences in eighth graders’ performances in science ( β  = 0.56) and mathematics ( β  = 0.52). Girls’  internalization  of gender stereotypes may affect achievement in STEM-related subjects. When interest and the perceived value of particular subjects have been assessed, researchers commonly observed girls tended to rate mathematics, physical science, and computers and technology lower than did boys (e.g.,  Chow et al., 2012 ,  Dickhäuser and Stiensmeier-Pelster, 2003 ,  Else-Quest et al., 2010 ,  Kessels, 2005 ,  Riegle-Crumb et al., 2006 ). As several studies have documented, the perceived value of a domain generally predicts subsequent achievement (see  Eccles  &  Wigfield, 2002 ). The impact of negative gender stereotypes on performance has also been illustrated in research on stereotype threat. When a social identity is threatened, it can lead to heightened arousal that disrupts working memory and can impair controlled cognitive processing ( Krendl, Richeson, Kelley,  &  Heatherton, 2008 ). As a result, performance in assessment settings can suffer. According to a recent meta-analysis testing for stereotype threat effects on female math performance ( Picho, Rodriguez,  &  Finnie, 2013 ), there was a small overall effect size for high school students ( d  = 0.30) indicating girls’ math performance significantly declined during stereotype threat conditions. Other studies find it is possible to counteract stereotype threat. For example, it is sometimes possible to boost a person ' s performance when a positive stereotype about a self-relevant social identity is made salient ( Ambady, Shih, Kim,  &  Pittinksy, 2001 ). Furthermore, stereotype threat effects can be subverted if the person uses strategies such as  self-affirmation  or focusing on an alternative social identity ( Shapiro  &  Williams, 2012 ). Girls learn about negative gender stereotypes through their interactions with parents, teachers, and peers. According to one survey study in the United States, half of adolescent girls between 13 and 18 years reported hearing disparaging statements about girls in math, science, or computers from these sources ( Leaper  &  Brown, 2008 ). The most commonly cited perpetrators were male peers (32%), which were followed by female peers (22%), teachers/coaches (23%), fathers (15%), and mothers (12%). The likelihood of these reports increased with age. In a subsequent analysis of this data ( Brown  &  Leaper, 2010 ), it was found that girls’ experiences hearing these sexist comments were negatively related to their ability beliefs and interests in math and science (even after controlling for grades and family backgrounds). Some parents hold gender-stereotypical views about math and science that may not reflect their children &# x27;s actual achievement. When this occurs, girls’ motivation and performance may suffer. One longitudinal study found that these negative stereotypes in mothers predicted subsequent declines in daughters’ self-concepts and motivation in math and science (e.g.,  Bleeker  &  Jacobs, 2004 ). Another investigation observed that parental  gender stereotyping  of math was related to higher levels of intrusive parental support during homework and lower math ability beliefs in daughters ( Bhanot  &  Jovanovic, 2005 ). Conversely, other studies suggest ways that some parents may provide more encouraging behaviors to sons than to daughters regarding their achievement in STEM-related subjects (e.g.,  Simpkins et al., 2005 ,  Tenenbaum and Leaper, 2003 ,  Tenenbaum et al., 2005 ). In summary, negative gender stereotypes persist about girls in some STEM fields. These stereotypes may lead some parents and teachers to underestimate girls’ potential. Discrimination may occur through the relatively greater provision of encouragement to boys than to girls for achievement in STEM subjects. Moreover, it may also involve overtly discouraging comments about girls’ capacities to do well in these areas. Evidence suggests many girls internalize these biases, decreasing their achievement within STEM fields. One of the most dramatic gender-related changes in achievement seen in the United States (and many other countries) has been the tenfold increase in girls’ participation in high school sports since the 1972 enactment of Title IX of the U.S. Civil Rights Act. At the time, participation in high school sports was approximately 4% for girls and 50% for boys; today, it is approximately 40% for girls and remains 50% for boys ( Women &# x27;s Sports Foundation, 2009 ). Despite this change, many children continue to stereotype sports as a male domain (e.g.,  Cockburn and Clarke, 2002 ,  Rowley et al., 2007 ,  Shakib, 2003 ). Also, certain sports tend to be viewed as appropriate for “boys only” (e.g., football, wrestling) or for “girls only” (e.g., cheerleading, ballet) ( Schmalz, Kerstetter,  &  Anderson, 2008 ). Furthermore, some girls may find athleticism conflicts with their peers’ norms for  femininity  and heterosexuality ( Cockburn and Clarke, 2002 ,  Shakib, 2003 ). Hence, in some social settings, girls may experience pressures to drop out of sports. According to one survey study in the United States, three-fourths of adolescent girls between 13 and 18 years reported hearing disparaging statements about girls in sports ( Leaper  &  Brown, 2008 ). The most commonly cited perpetrators were male peers (54%), which were followed by female peers (38%), teachers/coaches (28%), fathers (30%), and mothers (25%). The likelihood of these reports increased with age. Even if most girls are not being actively discouraged to participate in sports, many of them may not be getting the same degree of support that boys experience. Studies suggest that peer popularity is more strongly tied to athletic participation among boys than among girls (e.g.,  Shakib, Veliz, Dunbar,  &  Sabo, 2011 ). Also, some parents are more likely to expect athletic achievement in sons than in daughters and therefore may express more enthusiasm for their son &# x27;s sports involvement. In turn, parents’ expectations of success generally tend to predict children &# x27;s actual achievement (e.g.,  Fredricks  &  Eccles, 2002 ). Finally, the sports culture can be a context in which sexist and heterosexist attitudes are reinforced in boys. In many schools, teammates and coaches use misogynistic and antigay comments to enforce conformity and pressure achievement in players ( Messner, 1998 ). Furthermore, tolerance for aggression on the field or court may generalize whereby some athletes view aggressive behavior as legitimate for solving problems outside of the sport ( Conroy, Silva, Newcomer, Walker,  &  Johnson, 2001 ). In some cases, this may extend to an increased risk among some male athletes for sexual violence ( Forbes, Adams-Curtis, Pakalka,  &  White, 2006 ). Compared to girls, boys are more likely to get lower grades and are more likely to drop out of high school in most industrialized countries ( UNESCO, 2010 ). (In many nonindustrialized countries, the opposite trend is seen, whereby school access may be limited primarily or solely to boys.) The specific subjects with the largest gender gap in achievement favoring girls include reading, writing, and the arts ( Eurydice Network, 2010 ,  National Center for Education Statistics, 2013 ). The gender gap in academic achievement extends into college. Among all bachelor &# x27;s degrees recently awarded in the United States, only 43% went to men ( NCES, 2013 ); a similar gender gap in college degrees is seen in most OECD countries ( OECD, 2013 ). Within the United States, the gender gap in academic achievement is wider for African Americans and Latino/as youths than for White European Americans or Asian Americans ( NCES, 2013 ). Research suggests that sexism and adherence to traditional notions of masculinity may partly account for these gender gaps. Sexism functions to maintain traditional status and power relations between men and women in society. One manifestation of sexism involves discrimination against girls and women who seek to achieve in prestigious fields traditionally associated with males (e.g., STEM fields and sports). Another manifestation of sexism, however, occurs when pressures are placed on boys and men to conform to traditional conceptions of masculinity. For example, boys who are not viewed as tough or athletic are commonly teased ( Jewell  &  Brown, 2014 ). Traditional masculinity can undermine some boys’ academic achievement. In some communities, doing well in school is viewed as a violation of masculine norms ( Kessels and Steinmayr, 2013 ,  Legewie and DiPrete, 2012 ). For example, boys who are concerned with appearing tough may be reluctant to seek help or to comply with teachers’ authority (e.g.,  Kiefer and Ryan, 2008 ,  Santos et al., 2013 ). In addition, specific subjects—such as reading or the arts—may be viewed as being especially feminine (e.g.,  Plante et al., 2009 ,  Rowley et al., 2007 ). Thus, boys who do well in school or who like feminine-stereotyped subjects may be teased by their male peers (e.g.,  Sherriff, 2007 ,  Van de Gaer et al., 2006 ). Furthermore, these pressures may be more common among youths from lower-income or some ethnic minority backgrounds ( Fuller-Rowell  &  Doan, 2010 ). Endorsement of traditional masculinity ideology may undermine some boys’ academic achievement and lead them to resist teachers’ authority. However, some teachers and school administrators may exaggerate the extent and the degree that these patterns occur among boys. Teachers may form generalized expectations that girls are better than boys at school (e.g.,  Jones  &  Myhill, 2004 ). Boys may infer these sentiments about teachers’ expectations (e.g.,  Hartley  &  Sutton, 2013 ). Also, boys in general—but especially African American and Latino boys—are subject to disproportionate rates of disciplinary action for school misbehavior ( Barbarin et al., 2014  [ Chapter 10  of this volume];  Losen, 2011 ,  Rowley et al., 2014  [ Chapter 9  of this volume]). Sexual harassment includes sexually disparaging comments, unwanted sexual interest, unwanted touching, and sexual coercion. It can involve physical aggression (e.g., unwanted touching, sexual coercion) or verbal aggression (e.g., unwelcome sexual comments, homophobic insults). Also, it can be expressed directly in  face-to-face interactions  or via electronic messages sent to the victim; or sexual harassment can be expressed indirectly behind the target ' s back (e.g., spreading sexual rumors). The prevalence and the consequences of sexual harassment in school are reviewed below. Sexual harassment is a common experience for girls and boys in many countries around the world (see  Leaper  &  Robnett, 2011  for a review). For example, the  American Association of University Women (AAUW, 2011)  conducted a study of sexual harassment in the United States based on a nationally representative sample of students in grades 7–11. Across all grades, 56% of girls and 40% of boys reported experiences with sexual harassment. The gender gap in sexual harassment increased with age; among 12th graders, 62% of girls and 32% of boys reported having experienced sexual harassment. When specific types of sexual harassment were examined across all grade levels, girls were twice as likely as boys to report being targets of unwelcome sexual comments/jokes (46% of girls vs. 22% of boys). Girls and boys reported experiencing antigay or anti-lesbian insults at similar rates (18% of girls vs. 19% of boys). Given the importance of electronic media in many youths’ lives, it is also pertinent to note that 36% of girls and 24% of boys experienced online sexual harassment through text messages, e-mail, or Web postings. The AAUW survey also asked students to identify the gender of the perpetrators and to evaluate the attributes most likely associated with the targets of sexual harassment. In general, boys were more likely than girls to be perpetrators of sexual harassment. Among the students experiencing sexual harassment, 66% identified boys, 19% identified girls, and 11% identified a combination of boys and girls as the perpetrators. The attributes associated with students viewed as most likely to be sexually harassed reflected characteristics associated with sexual attractiveness or traditional gender roles. The qualities attributed to girls who were most likely to be sexually harassed included being physically developed (58%), very pretty (41%), not pretty or not very feminine (32%), or overweight (30%). The attributes associated with boys considered most likely to be sexually harassed included being not athletic or not very masculine (37%), overweight (30%), or good looking (11%). Other surveys point to similar patterns as those reported in the AAUW survey, although the incidences of sexual harassment vary somewhat ( Chiodo et al., 2009 ,  Lacasse et al., 2003 ,  Leaper and Brown, 2008 ,  Pepler et al., 2006 ,  Petersen and Hyde, 2009 ,  Wei and Chen, 2012 ). In some studies, higher rates of peer sexual harassment were indicated for boys than for girls ( Petersen and Hyde, 2009 ,  Wei and Chen, 2012 ), which may be related to higher rates of same-gender harassment among boys than among girls. Studies further suggest sexual harassment may be especially likely for  sexual-minority youths  (i.e., lesbian, gay, bisexual,  transgender , and intersex; e.g.,  Williams, Connolly, Pepler,  &  Craig, 2005 ). Also, higher rates of sexual harassment may occur for students in lower than in higher income neighborhoods ( AAUW, 2011 ). The AAUW survey did not find evidence that ethnic or racial background moderated the incidence of sexual harassment ( AAUW, 2011 ). Besides being somewhat more liable to be targets of sexual harassment, girls are more likely than boys to be negatively affected by sexual harassment ( American Association of University Women (AAUW), 2011 ,  Fineran and Bolen, 2006 ). Sexual harassment also tends to have a more negative impact on sexual-minority boys than on heterosexual boys ( Kosciw, Greytak, Diaz,  &  Bartkiewicz, 2010 ). Negative reactions to sexual harassment include internalizing symptoms (e.g., anxiety, depression) and decline in academic performance (see  American Association of University Women (AAUW), 2011 ,  Leaper and Robnett, 2011 ,  Poteat et al., 2014  [ Chapter 8  of this volume]). For example, in the AAUW survey, some of the most commonly reported reactions to sexual harassment included not wanting to go to school (37% of girls and 25% of boys), finding it difficult to study (24% of girls and 24% of boys), staying home from school (14% of girls and 9% of boys), and stopping doing an activity or sport (9% of girls and 5% of boys). A longitudinal study of Canadian youths ( Chiodo et al., 2009 ) found that sexual harassment victimization during the 9th grade predicted higher incidences during the 11th grade of feeling unsafe in school,  emotional distress , substance abuse, and victimization by peers and dating partners. Experiences with sexual harassment also appear related to increased body image concerns among girls ( Chiodo et al., 2009 ,  Lindberg et al., 2007 ). Thus, repeated experiences with sexual harassment can have negative consequences on girls’ and boys’ socioemotional adjustment and academic achievement. In addition to research focusing on the impacts of sexism within schools, research also examines children &# x27;s perceptions of sexism at the individual level, their developing awareness of sexism in general, and their coping responses when sexism is encountered. Perceiving sexism can be a complex phenomenon. There are some instances when a child or an adolescent may be the target of sexism but is unaware of it. For example, a girl can hear a discouraging comment about her math abilities, but she may attribute it to her individual poor performance rather than a gender-based stereotype. There are other instances when the child is the target of sexism and perceives it as bias. A high-achieving boy may be teased for not seeming tough, but he can recognize the teasing is based on a stereotype of how boys are supposed to act. Each situation may differentially impact the child. At the individual level, perceiving sexism can be associated with negative psychological outcomes, such as greater stress, lower global self-esteem, more emotional problems, and more behavioral problems (e.g.,  DuBois, Burk-Braxton, Swenson, Tevendale,  &  Hardesty, 2002 ). Simultaneously, there can also positive consequences of perceiving individual sexism. After receiving personal negative feedback, individuals can attribute the feedback to gender bias as opposed to their own competency, thus maintaining a positive sense of self-efficacy ( Brown, Bigler,  &  Chu, 2010 ). At the broader group level, knowledge of sexism can help members of a group attribute underrepresentation to gender bias instead of innate group traits. Girls, for example, can attribute the lack of female U.S. Presidents to institutional sexism instead of women being incompetent leaders ( Bigler, Arthur, Hughes,  &  Patterson, 2008 ). Knowledge of historical sexism regarding math and science careers has been shown to motivate girls to combat future discrimination ( Pahlke, Bigler,  &  Green, 2010 ). Knowledge of sexism can also help individuals be more accepting of gender nonconforming peers, to challenge sexist comments by their peers, and to view media (and all other environmental inputs) through a “sexism” filter that prevents such messages from reinforcing personal  gender stereotyping  and prejudice ( Pahlke, Bigler,  &  Martin, 2014 ). Most importantly, when children are aware of sexism and can perceive it in any given situation, they then have the opportunity to cope with it. In the following section, we first describe children &# x27;s developing awareness of sexism and then describe ways in which children cope with sexism when it does occur. To be generally aware of sexism, children must first have knowledge of gender stereotypes and gender inequalities. Evidence suggests that children are aware of gender stereotypes early in childhood, well before they enter elementary school (see  Halim  &  Ruble, 2010 ). As children get older, their knowledge of gender inequalities increases.  Liben, Bigler, and Krogh (2001)  found that, by middle childhood, children were aware of the greater status (e.g., greater income) associated with the jobs performed by men compared to jobs performed by women, even when the jobs are fictional and thus not based on actual job characteristics. By the start of elementary school, the majority of children were aware that no woman has ever been president of the United States, although this knowledge became more common across the elementary school years ( Bigler et al., 2008 ). A little more than one-quarter of children (with slightly higher rates among girls than among boys) spontaneously attributed the historical lack of female presidents to discrimination (e.g., “People like voting for boys more than girls.”). One quarter of children agreed with the statement that it is  currently  against the law for a woman to be president (a form of institutional sexism) and half believed that individual voters would be discriminatory ( Bigler et al., 2008 ). As children enter adolescence, they become more aware of societal levels of gender inequality. Yet, although women still make 70 cents for every dollar paid to men and are underrepresented in the upper echelon of corporations, children are more likely to perceive status inequalities in politics than in the business world ( Neff, Cooper,  &  Woodruff, 2007 ). Beyond knowledge of sexism in general, children can also recognize  gender discrimination  in their own lives by middle childhood. In surveys about school gender bias given to students in fourth through eighth grade ( Brown et al., 2011 ), girls typically reported that boys receive preferential treatment in athletics (e.g., “The P.E. teacher always thinks boys will be faster”); in contrast, boys reported that girls are given preferential treatment within the classroom (e.g., “When a girl does something wrong, the teacher never gets her in trouble; a boy does the same thing, and he always gets in trouble”). Although children and adolescents are generally aware of sexism and capable of perceiving discrimination (see  Brown  &  Bigler, 2005 ), individuals perceive themselves to be the target of discrimination rather infrequently ( Crosby, 1984 ,  Taylor et al., 1990 ). As reported above, although approximately 50% of adolescent girls reported that they had experienced gender discrimination within academic or athletic domains, most girls reported it happening only once or twice within the last year. Interestingly, such low frequencies are common in studies of perception of racial and ethnic discrimination as well (e.g.,  Benner and Graham, 2011 ,  Brody et al., 2006 ,  Greene et al., 2006 ). The adoption of conservative standards for labeling negative treatment as gender discrimination or sexism may be due to the psychological costs associated with perceiving oneself to be the target of discrimination ( Quinn, Roese, Pennington,  &  Olson, 1999 ). To date, most research on children &# x27;s perceptions of sexism involves retrospective self-reports of their past experiences with discrimination. Although such studies are important, they provide little information about  when  and  why  some but not other individuals perceive themselves to be targets of discrimination. Furthermore, it begs the question of whether children are actually only infrequently subject to discriminatory treatment on the basis of gender or whether individual and developmental factors affect children &# x27;s tendency to perceive experiences as discriminatory. To answer these questions, experimental studies are required in which the feedback and the context are tightly controlled. Two experimental studies have examined children &# x27;s perceptions of individual sexism. In one study, elementary school children were read stories in which a teacher treated a boy and a girl differently from one another. When children were told that the teacher had a history of favoring one gender over the other, children were more likely to attribute the teacher &# x27;s behavior to discrimination than more benign reasons, and this attribution was more frequent among children in upper than in lower elementary school ( Brown  &  Bigler, 2004 ). However, when children were given no information about the teacher &# x27;s past choices or were told the teacher had a history of fairness, they were more likely to blame the child &# x27;s lack of effort or ability for the negative treatment. A slightly different pattern emerged in a separate experimental study in which children were given negative feedback about their own performance in a presumed art contest (i.e., they were told they lost an art contest;  Brown et al., 2010 ). Of the very few children who perceived personal discrimination (8 of 108 children), they  only  perceived their own negative feedback to be due to gender discrimination when they were told (a) the contest judges were of the other gender, (b) the contest judges picked other-gender winners in previous years, and (c) the contest judges picked other-gender winners this year. Despite all of the experimental “clues” suggesting gender discrimination at work and despite children &# x27;s awareness of sexism in general, very few children perceived themselves to the target of gender discrimination. These findings suggest that surveys of children and adolescents’ experience with sexism are likely to yield underestimates of the frequency of these experiences. Beyond children &# x27;s tendency to perceive gender discrimination in certain contexts more than others, developmental models of children and adolescents’ perceptions of discrimination posit that awareness of sexism is influenced by the child &# x27;s cognitive development, situational variables, gender attitudes, and gender ( Brown  &  Bigler, 2005 ). For example, within any given situation, children with more advanced social perspective-taking abilities and classification skills, and children who can better compare their outcomes with others, will be more likely to perceive sexism than children with less advanced cognitive abilities. Furthermore, evidence suggests that children perceive sexism more readily when it is directed toward others or toward a group than when directed at themselves ( Brown and Bigler, 2004 ,  Brown et al., 2010 ), and when they perceive available social supports ( Leaper  &  Brown, 2008 ). Children &# x27;s gender attitudes are also associated with their awareness of sexism. Adolescent girls were more likely to recognize gender discrimination when they held gender-egalitarian attitudes ( Brown and Bigler, 2004 ,  Leaper and Brown, 2008 ) or reported having learned about feminism ( Leaper  &  Brown, 2008 ). Finally, girls are more likely to perceive sexism than boys during middle childhood and adolescence; this pattern may reflect girls’ greater awareness of their lower social status relative to males (e.g.,  Brown and Bigler, 2004 ,  Brown et al., 2011 ,  Brown et al., 2010 ,  DuBois et al., 2002 ). When youths perceive sexism, the ways in which they cope with the experience are important in influencing the outcome. According to  Lazarus and Folkman &# x27;s (1984)  model of stress and coping, effective coping to any stressful situation, including experiencing sexism, depends on the person ' s cognitive appraisal of the stressful event, and the subsequent type of behavioral  coping strategy  used. There are two broad types of coping strategies used in response to sexism, and the type of strategy used is partially based on the individual ' s appraisal of the costs and benefits of each behavioral response. A general distinction is often made between approach (or engagement) and avoidant (or disengagement) coping strategies ( Compas et al., 2001 ,  Lazarus, 1999 ,  Lazarus and Folkman, 1984 ,  Magley, 2002 ).  Approach strategies  are oriented toward addressing the threat. These might include confronting the source of the stress (e.g., confronting someone about sexist behavior) or seeking social support (e.g., talking to someone about what happened). People may seek others to gain emotional reassurance, to clarify their understanding of the situation, or to get advice. In contrast,  avoidance strategies  are oriented away from the threat such as downplaying or ignoring the event. In general, research indicates that approach strategies are more effective than avoidant strategies in reducing stress in adolescents ( Compas et al., 2001 ) and adults ( Lazarus, 1999 ). In response to sexism, approach strategies can empower the individual, reduce stress, and increase motivation; whereas avoidance strategies can lead to a sense of helplessness and diminish motivation (e.g.,  Miller and Major, 2000 ,  Swim and Thomas, 2006 ). Recent research has highlighted the relevance of the stress and coping model to adolescent girls and women &# x27;s experiences with sexism (e.g.,  Ayres et al., 2009 ,  Cortina and Wasti, 2005 ,  Kaiser and Miller, 2004 ). For example,  Kaiser and Miller (2004)  found that women &# x27;s cognitive appraisals predicted their likelihood of confrontational responses to recent experiences with sexism. Researchers have found that adolescent girls and young women who perceive social support were more likely to use approach coping strategies than girls without social support ( Holahan et al., 1995 ,  Moradi and Funderburk, 2006 ). Feeling supported from friends or parents (particularly mothers) may bolster girls’ confidence to use approach coping strategies when sexism occurs ( Leaper, Brown,  &  Ayres, 2013 ). This could include either confronting perpetrators of sexism or seeking others for advice and emotional support (e.g.,  Cortina  &  Wasti, 2005 ). Having a meaningful social identity, particularly one that is empowering in the face of sexism, also seems to be important in helping individuals cope with sexism. Some evidence, for example, suggests that having a feminist identification helps girls (and women) cope with gender discrimination (e.g.,  Ayres et al., 2009 ,  Leaper and Arias, 2011 ). This parallels research on ethnic identity, which finds that having a positive ethnic identity helps buffer against the negative effects of ethnic discrimination (e.g.,  Umaña-Taylor  &  Updegraff, 2007 ). Because of the important social, emotional, and academic consequences of sexism from peers and teachers, numerous attempts have been made to reduce gender biases in school. Some attempts involve experimental interventions directed at changing children &# x27;s behaviors and attitudes. Some attempts involve changing the school itself: either the school climate or the school infrastructure. In this section, we outline ways that sexism can potentially be reduced within schools, beginning with changes to the gender composition of the schools and then discussing interventions that have been implemented within existing schools. One approach to reduce sexism within schools has been to segregate schools, or at least classes within schools, on the basis of gender (see  Bigler, Hayes,  &  Liben, 2014  [ Chapter 7  of this volume]). Instituting single-gender public education is possible because of changes to educational policy enacted after No Child Left Behind Act was passed in 2001 and the U.S. Department of Education (DOE) issued new regulations in 2006. Since then, more than 1000 school districts in 46 states have instituted some degree of single-sex public education (although the exact numbers are difficult to determine;  Klein  &  Sesma, 2011 ). Proponents of single-gender schools argue that segregated education reduces sexism in schools in two ways. First, several influential proponents of single-gender education argue that there are important, innate sex differences between boys’ and girls’ brain structure (e.g., differences in size of corpus collosum), hormones, and physiology ( Gurian, 2001 ,  Sax, 2005 ). Because of these supposed differences, they argue that boys and girls have different learning styles and interests, and teaching boys and girls similarly constitutes a form of bias. For example,  Gurian (2001)  argues that girls are not as capable as boys of abstract thought, instead needing to “have things conceptualized in usable, everyday language, replete with concrete details” (p. 46). Thus, according to this argument, it is unfair to teach girls’ abstract concepts in the same way that boys are taught. Supporters of this approach also argue that boys and girls have innately different interests, and to be equitable, schools should tailor education toward those interests. For example, some schools are using hunting analogies in lessons for boys and dishwashing analogies for girls ( Weil, 2008 ). The second reason that some schools implement single-gender education is based on the argument that, regardless of biological and neurological differences, the current coeducational schools are overly feminine and fail to meet the needs of boys, especially ethnic minority boys (see  Barbarin et al., 2014  [ Chapter 10  of this volume]), thus contributing to the behavioral problems of boys (e.g.,  Whitmire, 2010 ). They cite evidence that boys are twice as likely as girls to be suspended and more than twice as likely to be diagnosed with Attention Deficit-Hyperactivity Disorder ( Rao  &  Seaton, 2009 ). They also argue that girls are overly inhibited around boys, largely because of boys’ domination of teacher attention and girls’ concerns with being attractive to boys (see  Salomone, 2006 ). There are many critics of single-gender education. Critics of single-gender education argue that educational segregation by gender is, by definition, a form of gender bias ( Halpern et al., 2011 ). Critics point to research indicating that gender segregation in education actually fosters and increases gender stereotypes ( Fabes, Pahlke, Martin,  &  Hanish, 2013 ). Recent research shows that randomly assigning children to one single-gender class led to a 14% increase in the odds of believing that “boys are better than girls at math” and “girls are better than boys at language arts.” Children who were randomly assigned to eight single-gender classes were 112% more likely to become gender-stereotypic ( Fabes et al., 2013 ). Additional negative consequences of gender segregation are outlined by  Martin, Fabes,  &  Hanish (2014)  [ Chapter 5  of this volume]. Neuroscientists also point out that there are, in fact, very few innate differences in brain structures, hormones, and physiology ( Eliot, 2009 ). They argue that there are small differences at birth that become larger as children are increasingly socialized in gender-stereotypical ways ( Eliot, 2009 ). Thus, basing educational policy on sex differences that do not exist is misguided ( Halpern et al., 2011 ). Several meta-analyses have examined whether single-gender education is educationally beneficial compared to coeducational education. Shortly before issuing regulations for the implementation of single-gender education, the  U.S. Department of Education (2005)  found that there were no conclusive educational advantages to single-gender education. After taking into account various moderators (e.g., participants’  socioeconomic status , methodological factors), the results of two additional meta-analyses indicated no meaningful differences in educational outcomes when comparing single-gender versus coeducational schooling ( Pahlke et al., 2014 ,  Signorella et al., 2013 ). Because there seem to be important disadvantages of single-gender education (i.e., increased gender stereotypes), and no educational advantages ( Pahlke et al., 2014 ,  Signorella et al., 2013 ,  U.S. Department of Education, Office of Planning, 2005 ), critics of single-gender education argue that segregating by gender is not the solution for reducing sexism within schools (see  Bigler et al., 2014  [ Chapter 7  of this volume]). Other approaches to reducing sexism within schools have taken a more direct approach to countering the bias that occurs. Some approaches teach children to confront sexism they encounter; some approaches help children attribute negative feedback to discrimination when it is appropriate; and other approaches try to reduce the impact of sexism on children &# x27;s academic outcomes. First, some interventions have taught individuals to confront instances of bias that they witness. Research has shown that teaching people to publically confront instances of prejudice can reduce the biases of those who witness the confrontation ( Czopp, Monteith,  &  Mark, 2006 ). This has been shown to be particularly influential when the confrontation comes from an individual who is not the target of bias but rather from a bystander ( Rasinski  &  Czopp, 2010 ). Extending this research (which was focused on ethnic bias) to instances of gender bias, some studies have examined whether confronting sexism reduces the sexist attitudes of those who witness the confrontation. Within the classroom, teachers are important individuals to train to confront sexism. Teachers who confront sexism in the classroom, because of their special authority within the class, are particularly able to model a gender-fair norm ( Pornpitakpan, 2004 ). In one study, students saw videotaped vignettes in which a student made a sexist comment about girls not being good at math ( Boysen, 2013 ). The teacher in the video either confronted the offending student or ignored the comment. College students who watched the teacher confront the sexist student showed reduced sexist attitudes after watching the confrontation ( Boysen, 2013 ). Importantly, in a follow-up study, students showed a similar reduction in sexist attitudes after watching a peer confront a sexist student ( Boysen, 2013 ). Fewer interventions have tried to teach children how to confront, and thus reduce, sexism. In one effective example,  Lamb, Bigler, Liben, and Green (2009)  taught elementary school children to respond to sexist comments they heard from peers. Most of the comments that peers said to one another involved teasing a gender-atypical student. The researchers taught children to use funny retorts (e.g., “You can’t say ‘Girls can’t play’”) or direct rebuttals to the sexist comments. They found that the training intervention, particularly when children practiced the responses using role-playing, was effective in increasing children &# x27;s confrontation of sexist comments (similar results were replicated in  Pahlke et al., 2014 ). Indeed, using retorts in response to sexism seemed to spread over time to the other experimental groups. Large-scale bystander intervention studies (e.g., the Green Dot program in which college students are taught to speak out and report instances of violence against women) have also been effective in increasing confrontations against sexism ( Coker et al., 2011 ). Other approaches have suggested that it is beneficial for children to recognize sexism when they encounter it, thus making it possible to attribute their negative feedback to external (rather than internal) causes and recognize it as unfair. To test this premise, the effects of learning about  gender discrimination  on American adolescent girls’ science motivation were tested in an experiment ( Weisgram  &  Bigler, 2007 ). Girls participated in a program aimed at increasing interest in science, with the experimental group additionally receiving lessons about gender-based occupational discrimination. Girls in the experimental group showed increased self-efficacy and value about science after learning about gender discrimination compared to the control group (who did not learn about discrimination). Additional research has shown that learning about past discrimination inspires girls to battle future discrimination ( Pahlke et al., 2010 ). These studies suggest that one way to reduce the impact of sexism is to directly teach about sexism. Because bystander inventions and confronting sexism when it is encountered seem to be an important step in reducing sexism within schools, approaches that alter the entire school climate are likely to be the most effective in reducing sexism. In other words, it is likely that school-wide programs that make sexism unacceptable, and make it normative to confront sexism, will show the greatest reduction in sexism. These broad-based interventions have been shown to be effective in reducing bullying at schools ( O &# x27;Moore and Minton, 2005 ,  Salmivalli et al., 2005 ). The goal of these approaches is to change the climate so that peers are intolerant to bullying. Research has shown that the greater and more widespread the implementation, the larger the effects. For example, schools were most effective in reducing bullying when they implemented a school-wide policy against bullying; when teachers were educated about bullying; and when teachers worked with their entire classroom using role-playing and establishing anti-bullying rules ( Salmivalli et al., 2005 ). Sexual harassment perpetration seems to be largely influenced by school climate ( Attar-Schwartz, 2009 ). For example,  Ormerod, Collinsworth, and Perry (2008)  examined the impact of sexual harassment on high school students. School climate moderated the impact of sexual harassment on both girls and boys. When the school climate was tolerant of sexual harassment, the impacts on self-esteem, body image,  psychological distress , school withdrawal, and perceptions of school safety were worse. As we have reviewed in our chapter, sexism in schools can undermine the academic achievement and social adjustment of girls and boys. Sexism outside of school can also affect children ' s behavior and motivation in the classroom. The perpetrators of sexism may include teachers, parents, peers, and media. In these contexts, children may experience gender-stereotyped biases regarding the kinds of achievements that are viewed desirable or inappropriate for girls and boys. Some of the biases that we reviewed include negative stereotypes about girls and women in many STEM fields and athletics. We also noted how traditional notions of masculinity can undermine boys’ overall academic achievement. Furthermore, surveys indicate that most girls and boys experience sexual harassment in schools. In addition to the negative impact on their socioemotional adjustment, sexual harassment can reduce students’ academic motivation. Next, we addressed factors related to students’ awareness of sexism in schools as well as effective  coping strategies  that can bolster students’ resilience in the face of sexist events. Finally, we considered some of the strategies that have been examined for reducing gender bias and sexism in schools. In contrast to some who have advocated single-gender schools as a means to improve boys’ and girls’ academic success, comprehensive reviews of the research literature do not point to meaningful difference between single-gender and coeducational schooling in relation to student outcomes. Other strategies, such as teaching about gender bias, promoting proactive coping in children, and fostering an egalitarian school climate, may be more promising ways to increase the success of both girls and boys in our schools. Elsevier We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content and ads. By continuing you agree to the  use of cookies . Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. or its licensors or contributors.  ScienceDirect ® is a registered trademark of Elsevier B.V. ScienceDirect ® is a registered trademark of Elsevier B.V. 