What is Personification? - Twinkl Teaching Wiki Personification is a type of figurative language which gives an animal, plant or object human characteristics. It is used in fiction to help describe things. Bestowing human characteristics onto non-human objects or creatures helps to inspire empathy in the reader. If we describe a teddy bear as  mistreated  by its owner, we cannot help but feel sorry for it even though it is an inanimate object. Personification can also be used to create strong visual images in the mind of the reader. When we describe flowers as swaying  or trees as  waving , we are attributing them with an agency they do not have. However, the image it evokes is one that is familiar and also beautiful and meaningful to the reader. In this example, the stars are the subject of the sentence, and are an object. Dancing, however, is a verb generally associated with people and gives an image of the movement of the stars. Again, lions can t sing. Maybe the lion is making a sound, but use of the verb sing adds an element of emotion and description to the action. In this example, the flowers need water, but using the dramatic verb  beg  gives them a much more human character and creates an emotional response from the reader. Personification falls under the umbrella term of figurative language in the National Curriculum and is required knowledge in Lower Key Stage 2. The Curriculum states that they should be able to: By Year 5 and 6, the understanding becomes more developed, and they should: Personification is a wonderful technique to improve your class  creative and independent writing. If you d like to teach your class about personification and how to effectively use it, you may like to use our  Understanding Figurative Language PowerPoint . If you d like to set an exercise too, try our  Personification Differentiated Worksheets  which have been developed according to the 2014 National Curriculum aims. They are the perfect activity for mixed ability groups to ensure every member of your class understands personification and how to use it effectively. 