Travis Scott Shares Sweet Message In Honor of "Wifey" Kylie Jenner's 21st Birthday Theo Wargo Kylie Jenner  rang in her 21st birthday with an over-the-top pink-themed party, a limited edition makeup collection, and a whole lot of love from Travis Scott and baby Stormi Webster. The rapper gifted Jenner with a vintage white Rolls Royce in honor of the big day, and filled their entire garden with thousands of red roses (taking a little inspo from  Kanye West , perhaps) to make the reveal even more special.  " Woke up to a little fairytale  &# x1f495; thank you baby  @ travisscott, "  the makeup mogul captioned a video of herself discovering the gift.  " A blessed birthday ✨ so grateful, "  she wrote on a second shot of herself posing with the car. Scott shared her reaction to the lavish gift on his own Snapchat, writing  " Love u baby happy bday, "  alongside a video of the makeup mogul checking out her new ride while holding their 6-month-old daughter.  " I love you mommy, Stormi, "  he can be heard saying in the background of the clip. Gifting her a pricey car wasn ' t the only thing Travis Scott did to make Kylie Jenner ' s birthday extra special. He also shared a carousel of photos from their relationship to Instagram, including one shot from the 2018 Met Gala of the two of them looking lovingly into each other ' s eyes on the red carpet, and another of them posing on a private jet, with a sweet message to the mother of his child.  " Happy bday wifey I love u mommy u my heart rib toes and all, "  he wrote.  " May GOD continue to bless u and ur spirit.  This mark in ur life is the start to more greatness. " Despite calling her  " wifey "  in the post, Jenner and Scott are not married (or if they are, they haven ' t spoken publicly about it), but sparked  engagement rumors  earlier this year thanks to a massive diamond ring on Jenner ' s left hand. The couple has been together since meeting at Coachella in April, 2017 and welcomed their first  child  in February, 2018. Now, they have a really, really cool classic car to drive her to Kindergarten in. Related:  Kylie Jenner Took Out an Entire Billboard in West Hollywood for Travis Scott ' s Birthday Travis Scott Continues To Drop Hints That He ' s Already Married to Kylie Jenner Kylie Jenner and Travis Scott Reportedly Want To Get Married 10 of the Most Extravagant Gifts Celebrity Couples Have Given Each Other Did Travis Scott Propose to Kylie Jenner AFTER the Super Bowl? Kylie Jenner Responds to Rumors About Baby Number 2 Kylie Jenner Reveals the Name—and First Photo!—of Her Baby Girl Here ' s How All Your Favorite Celeb Couples Celebrated Valentine ' s Day She ' s Here! Kylie Jenner Gives Birth to a Baby Girl! Cardi B Just Officially Announced Her Baby ' s Gender Khloe Kardashian Threw an Over-the-Top Baby Shower in Los Angeles Kim Kardashian and Kanye West Welcome a Baby Boy Everything You Need To Know About Priyanka Chopra and Nick Jonas ' s Romance All the Celebrities Who Have Gotten Engaged In 2019—So Far! Everything You Need To Know About Jennifer Lopez and Alex Rodriguez ' s Relationship It ' s Kate Middleton ' s Birthday! Here Are 41 of Her Cutest Moments With Prince William All of the Celebrity Couples Who Tied the Knot in 2018 