London Underground - Getting Around London - visitlondon.com Travelling soon? Find the latest information on how Brexit may impact your travel plans. The Underground is divided into nine zones: central London is covered by zone 1. There are 11 Tube lines. The Tube fare depends on how far you travel, time of day, and how you pay. Oyster or contactless payments are the cheapest ways to pay for single fares. Tube services usually run from 5am until midnight, with Night Tube services on some lines on Friday and Saturday evenings.  Greater London is served by 11 Tube lines, along with the  Docklands Light Railway  (DLR), London Overground line and an interconnected  local train  network. Underground trains generally run between 5am and midnight, Monday to Saturday, with reduced operating hours on Sunday. For more detailed  traveller information  on which stations to use and suggestions for the best route to reach your destination, use  Transport for London's Journey Planner . A post shared by Mary🍻 (@marycullins_)  on  Apr 3, 2019 at 2:55am PDT Buy a  Visitor Oyster card , Oyster card, Travelcard or use a  contactless payment card  to get the best value as cash is the most expensive way to pay. Check out our guide to  cheap travel  for more money-saving tips when travelling in London. An adult cash fare on the London metro for a single journey in zone 1 is  4.90. The same Tube fare with Visitor Oyster card, Oyster card or contactless payment card is  2.40. For more details about London Tube prices, see the  Transport for London website . For contactless payment cards issued outside the UK, please check for transaction fees or bank changes. There are various  discounts available for children, students , and  elderly  travellers on the London subway. If you plan on travelling around London to do some sightseeing and visit some of London's best attractions, why not get a London Pass and save even more money. Visitor Oyster A post shared by Sultans of String (@sultansofstring)  on  Feb 5, 2018 at 12:46pm PST Devised in 1933 by Harry Beck, the London Underground map is a 20th-century design classic. It's very useful, clearly indicating the general directions used to designate trains (north, south, east or westbound), and with all interchanges clearly shown. Visit our  Travel Maps  section to download a pdf of the London Tube map. Transport for London (TfL) produces free maps and guides to help you get around. You can pick up a London Underground Map upon arrival at any London Tube station. London Travel Information centres sell tickets and provide free maps. There are centres at all  Heathrow Airport  terminals, major stations in London and at  Tourist Information Centres . You can also download a handy Tube and bus map designed for visitors in our  Travel Maps  section. A post shared by Amy Winegardner (@awinegardner13)  on  Apr 3, 2019 at 9:30am PDT Travelling around London on the Tube? Here are some other useful tips that will make your journey more enjoyable and efficient: London Underground opening times vary slightly from line to line, but the first London subway trains normally start running around 5am, from Monday to Saturday, with reduced operating hours on Sunday. London metro trains normally run until around midnight. Check with staff at the particular tube station you plan on using to find out exactly when the last train runs. A 24-hour underground service operates on certain lines. For more information, read our  Night Tube  page. Access to most Tube stations is via numerous steps. The London metro system can become very crowded at peak times and, therefore, difficult for those with mobility problems. Many deep-level Tube stations have escalators to platforms. But nearly all the stations with escalators or lifts also have stairs between street level and the ticket hall and/or between the escalator/lift and the platforms. The dowloadable Tube map on our  free London travel maps  page indicates which Tube stations are step-free. When boarding Tube trains, be aware that there is generally a step of up to 8 inches (20cm), either up or down, between the platform and the train. If this is problematic, travel in the first carriage, so the driver can see you more clearly, and allow enough time for you to get on or off. For more information, visit  Transport for London's Accessibility page . Read more 