Rock Smash (move) - Bulbapedia, the community-driven Pokémon encyclopedia Rock Smash  (Japanese:  いわくだき Rock Smash ) is a damage-dealing  Fighting-type move  introduced in  Generation II . It was  TM08  in  Generation II ,  HM06  in Generations  III  and  IV ,  TM94  in  Generation V  and  Pokémon X and Y , and  HM06  in  Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire . The move inflicts damage and has a 50% chance of lowering the target's  Defense  stat by one stage. Rock Smash has a base power of 20. Rock Smash now has a base power of 40. Rock Smash can be used to break  breakable rocks  to clear a path. Occasionally, breaking a rock will cause a  wild Pokémon  to be encountered. Rock Smash can be used to break breakable rocks, but no wild Pokémon will appear. Rock Smash can be used to break breakable rocks, and  wild Pokémon  or items can be found. Items that can be found include  Heart Scales ,  shards , and  Fossils . Rock Smash is no longer a  field move . In  Black 2 and White 2 , if a Pokémon in the player's  party  knows the move Rock Smash when they talk to one of the  Workers  in  Clay Tunnel , they can help clear a section of boulders. Rock Smash can be used to break breakable rocks and certain cracked walls. Wild Pokémon and items can be found when breaking rocks (but not cracked walls). Rock Smash is no longer a field move. Prior to  Super Mystery Dungeon , Rock Smash turns a wall tile in front of the user into a floor tile, revealing any item hidden within it. It has 99 PP but cannot target enemies or be used diagonally. In Super Mystery Dungeon, Rock Smash now also damages enemies and has a starting PP of 15. In  Super Smash Bros. Brawl , Rock Smash is  Charizard 's Side Special move. Unlike in the Pokémon games, Charizard will create a boulder and crush it with its head, producing multiple fragments of debris that fly off for extra damage. Rock Smash has with high damage and knockback and can potentially KO a foe in one hit. In  Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS/Wii U , Rock Smash has been made Charizard's Down Special move, with  Flare Blitz  taking its former position. It was weakened greatly, but now also grants armor to protect Charizard from incoming attacks. * 