thatbohogirl break up   iChhori   The tree hugger, Kritika Khurana is breaking stereotypes by being a fashion blogger, traveler and a YouTuber. She is a proficient girl and a great influencer for this generation. A Delhi based girl who is considered to be one of the best fashion bloggers on the internet. She is travelling all over the countries like Italy, Denmark, Canada, Copenhagen and London. She had been through so many flips in her life and reportedly, her personality changed after high school because she had been tortured in some ways. From being an introvert to such a confident girl now, it takes a lot of courage and confidence to use that fire within you to get that flame. Every girl owns that fire, she just needs to have a right platform and people who believe in her. According to her,  whatever you believe, you can achieve  and her weight loss journey is an example, she has lost over 17 kgs by believing in herself so yes, believing in yourself is the key and this 25 year aged woman can make you love yourself and how can you be  happy as a clam  even going through some hardships in your life. She will make you learn that how you can let go the negative things from your life and go, live your life kind of attitude. This crackerjack and astonishing girl will change your perspective towards the definition of a perfect woman. She knows how to live her life perfectly with imperfections and that s what makes thousands to follow her. She is also known for the amazing hair colour that she owns and what one can say about her dressing sense, she carries every outfit quite elegantly and beautifully. This stunning woman is like a delightful cake and her outfits are like a cherry on it. Dog lover? A big one she is. You can see that. Kritika is very expressive and what else the social media seeks for? It seeks for the passion and enthusiasm and she has that in her genes because being an introvert, she expresses her thoughts on the social media so perfectly.  She s a perfect package of passion and talent and she s an inspiration for the girls who are working on their dreams. Being an aesthetic, she s a girl with a pure soul. She gets inspired by her inspirations but she has no clue that how she is leaving her passionate mark on every girl by living her dreams. There are many influencers that you see on Instagram or other social media platforms and she is definitely one of the best. She is one of the best influencer for today’s young generation. Picture credits ~ Google  Read More... If you are what iChhori stands for. If you are the one who loves to break stereotypes, please share your thoughts with us. If your thoughts/content/narration/ideas are good enough for our regular Chhories to read, we will post them here on this website. Hit the Contact button and surrender yourself! 