Elis Venari - Technical Sales Manager - KUK-Adding Value | LinkedIn Experienced Project Manager with a demonstrated history of working in the food  &  beverages industry. Skilled in Negotiation, Management, Teamwork, Team Leadership, and Project Management. Strong research professional with a Master's degree focused in Food Science and Technology from Tirana University Faculty of Natural Science.  Liked by  Elis Venari Liked by  Elis Venari Liked by  Elis Venari Aug 2017   –  Present 2 years 5 months Tirana Jul 2015   –   Aug 2017 2 years 2 months Albania Jun 2014   –   Jun 2015 1 year 1 month Gjirokaster Albania May 2013   –   Nov 2013 7 months Albania 2011   –   2013 Specialists in the field of Food Sciences and Technologies. Specialists in the management of raw materials and their processing in the food industries, modern food technologies and industrial processes within technological lines. Specialists in enzymatic processes in the Food Industry, carried out with the action of micro-organisms of industrial importance. Food analysis specialists, able to work in laboratories where analyzes of raw materials and products are carried out. Food safety assessors and food quality experts, and good knowledge of the functioning of the appraisal systems, well-informed about the Food Law and its implementation in practice. Specialists in the field of Food Sciences and Technologies. Specialists in the management of raw materials and their processing in the food industries, modern food technologies and industrial processes within technological lines. Specialists in enzymatic processes in the Food Industry, carried out with the action of micro-organisms of industrial importance. Food analysis specialists, able to work in laboratories where analyzes of raw materials and products are carried out. Food... Specialists in the field of Food Sciences and Technologies. Specialists in the management of raw materials and their processing in the food industries, modern food technologies and industrial processes within technological lines. Specialists in enzymatic processes in the Food Industry, carried out with the action of micro-organisms of industrial importance. Food analysis specialists, able to work in laboratories where analyzes of raw materials and products are carried out. Food safety assessors and food quality experts, and good knowledge of the functioning of the appraisal systems, well-informed about the Food Law and its implementation in practice. 2008   –   2011 With the general and professional ethics in the field of Food Chemistry, where fundamental science of first and second absorbed by me will be in service for this discipline. With a general and professional culture in the field of Food Technology, including the production technology of basic daily consumption products, called "commodities" and some specific technology of those products that under the conditions of a market of food markets are considered to be advantageous For consumption as for the way of production and the possibility to be consumed by the average population level. With a general and professional culture in the field of Food Microbiology, where the general aspect consists of the taxonomic studies of industrial microorganisms and then the in-depth knowledge of microorganisms that participate in the enzymatic processes of basic food and contaminant industries. With the general and professional ethics in the field of Food Chemistry, where fundamental science of first and second absorbed by me will be in service for this discipline. With a general and professional culture in the field of Food Technology, including the production technology of basic daily consumption products, called "commodities" and some specific technology of those products that under the conditions of a market of food markets are considered to be advantageous For consumption... With the general and professional ethics in the field of Food Chemistry, where fundamental science of first and second absorbed by me will be in service for this discipline. With a general and professional culture in the field of Food Technology, including the production technology of basic daily consumption products, called "commodities" and some specific technology of those products that under the conditions of a market of food markets are considered to be advantageous For consumption as for the way of production and the possibility to be consumed by the average population level. With a general and professional culture in the field of Food Microbiology, where the general aspect consists of the taxonomic studies of industrial microorganisms and then the in-depth knowledge of microorganisms that participate in the enzymatic processes of basic food and contaminant industries. Join to view Elis’ full profile 