Which V-brakes? | Singletrack Magazine Forum I ve had a pair of XTR V-brakes for years, and had them on different bikes.  They ve been one of my better bike purchases!  However, I now need to buy a V-brake set for a second bike, and it looks like XTRs are no longer available.  The ones I have are grey and have the parallel linkages. Am I likely to find these for sale anywhere?  I ve had a quick look online but can t see them, so presumably XTRs haven t been made for years. What else would give equivalent performance?  I ve come across: Standard Shimano (eg Deore or XT) Paul Motolite Avid Ultimate Magura HS33 Thanks I ve got a VGC pair of XTR levers for sale if you re interested Your best bet would be 2nd hand via the classifieds on here, or ebay, to find better quality V brakes, they don t really make many any more cos the world has moved over to discs really. cos the world has moved over to discs really.  Do you actually believe that?   😯 If it s got to be rim brakes then personally I d go for HS33 s rather than vee s.  Not having to think and worry about cables would be quite appealing, especially if you re used to discs. The for sale section of the  retrobike.co.uk  forum would be your best bet walking with a bit of patience.  Shimano have now dropped the parallel linkage and XT does seem as high as they go. I always liked the Avids   stopping power was as good as Shimano but less likely to squeal like a stuck pig. I used to use SD Ti but it looks like they don t do those any more, so I d go for the Ultimates. Thanks.  It seems like I ll have to hunt around.  (Mboy, I ve emailed you about the levers).   I m not sure about the HS33 s.  I saw in a catalogue that they weigh around 980g for a full set, plus the brake pads I like to use aren t available in that size.  I suspect it could be difficult to get spare pads a few years from now. I m still not sure about the other options.  I m not sure if it s better to look for some secondhand XTR s or splash out on something new like the Pauls or Avids, or just go for something bog-standard like Deore or XT. don t rule out avid sd7 s great brakes, a lot cheaper or if weight is important   and looking bling:  I have Avid Arch Rivals on 3 bikes, they can crack around the adjuster screw hole (eventually) but they work really well, easily as good as discs and a lot less hastl, but I have the physique of a racing snake I ve actually got a pair of those KCNC s on another bike!  I was building up a weight-weenie titanium recumbent, and thought they d do the trick.  However, and it may be partly due to the silly wheels I have on the bike, the brakes have never given me any confidence.  I always remember a hefty mechanic giving the levers a good squeeze, and one of the titanium  springs  popped out of the brake arms.  I know I said I didn t fancy the heavy HS33 s, but it s possible to go too far the other way. Do you have the KCNC s, and if so, how do you rate them? I have just a sinple set of Tektro ones on my Floval Flyer and they ll rip your spleen out!  cheap and just do the job something bog-standard like Deore I bought some Deore s to replace the parallel linkage XT s that finally gave up the ghost. Not even comparable in terms of performance sadly  🙁 But on the plus side, they were only £12. I love the look of the KCNCs and I ve got a lot of their other bits, but even in my most weight weenie days I could never justify that kind of money for v-brakes. The best V brakes I ever had were the XT M760s. These were the revised parallel push ones and they were ace. Plus they didnt go rattly like the old ones did. I never understood why they went back to on linkage ones on later XTs. I know you don t like them but another vote here for the HS33s.  I put them on a tandem which didn t have disc mounts and they were a huge improvement because you no longer have to deal with crappy cables. What else would give equivalent performance? Have tried them all imho nothing comes close to XTR v-brakes they re in a class of their own. Would recommend finding another set it ll be worth it I d be looking for XTR 2nd hand. IME they combined the modulation and adjustability of the Avid SD with most of the power of the Shimano XT parallel linkage.  Sorry to taunt you slightly but I ve got a pair of mine destined for my daughter for as soon as she has a bike that can take the upgrade. I reckon it could really make a difference to her development. Avid single digit s on my cross bike (with travel adjust) really rate them I got two sets of  rear  shimano DXR they only do a rear as it is the BMX groupo, but work on the front once you swap the pads round very nice looking   shiny silver   sort of SLX/XT level in terms of look/feel , long arms £21 a pair here: http://www.tritoncycles.co.uk/m8b0s286p8352/SHIMANO_BR-MX70_DXR_V-brake couple of quid more at evans http://www.evanscycles.com/products/shimano/mx70-dxr-v-brake-ec032991 Agree with  Flashes , Avid Arch Rivals are brilliant and quiet. deejayen, if you are still looking I was tidying my garage today and found a pair of parallel push XTs (they are from about 1999, M750 I think) and a pair of Avid Ti. The Avid s have levers, although one is an SD7 as the SD SL got smashed. The XT s don t have any levers. Yours for the postage if you want them (email in profile). Have tried them all imho nothing comes close to XTR v-brakes they re in a class of their own. IME the parallel push XT/LX were heavier but better.  At 100kg I give brakes a hard time, and to get equivalent performance with discs I ve had to go for 203 rotors. Original V-brakes were ace The topic  Which V-brakes?  is closed to new replies. Join us for 99p with code  stm99 Post in Forums • Post comments • Sell your stuff • Fewer Ads • Message other members • It s FREE! Singletrack Deal Finder Contact Us Privacy Premier Club Classifieds Rules Link Removal Forum Rules Login/cookie issues? Numbers: August  Unique Site Visitors: 1,675,816 Advertising:  ads@singletrackworld.com Singletrack Partners 