Rocco – POMSKY SALE FROM Carmarthen, Carmarthenshire   Pomsky : Foxy Pomsky : United Kingdom Ad ID:  1967 Added:  June 8, 2018 Sale Price:  800 Location:  United Kingdom State:  Wales Phone:  07403660151 Views:  438 call:07403660151  07792414998 Contact the Seller Avatar Emma C. Private Seller  Carmarthen, Carmarthenshire  Member since May 2018 Important : BEFORE contacting the advertiser, please read and digest our Pet Buying/Adoption Checklist below. Key Advert Facts Pet Type : Dogs Pet Breed : Pomsky (Breed Info) Advert Type : For Sale Location : Carmarthen Advertiser Type : Private Seller Pets Current Age : 7 months, 1 day old  Full Advert Details This is Rocco our gorgeous Pomsky! He has been fully vaccinated, wormed  &  flead up to date and is micro-chipped. He is registered with the vets so has had regular check ups. His mum is a kc registered husky and dad is a kc registered Pomeranian. He is the most friendly, loving, excited, playful puppy who loves his walks and being outdoors. We have 2 small toddlers so he is used to being around children who my kids absolutely love. Unfortunately we do not have the time to give him all the attention for outdoor walks which he loves due to work commitments and hobbies and also feel he needs more outdoor space. He is brilliant off the lead and is very good with commands, also fully toilet trained. No time wasters please as he truly deserves a loving home like we have provided him Your email address will not be published. required fields are marked  * Member Since October 19, 2017 Please input the result of 5 + 6 =   Category :  Plush Pomsky  Category :  Plush Pomsky  Category :  Blue-eyed Pomsky  Category :  Pure White Pomsky  Category :  Blue-eyed Pomsky  Category :  Short-haired Pomsky  Category :  Blue-eyed Pomsky  Category :  Plush Pomsky  Category :  Plush Pomsky  Category :  Blue-eyed Pomsky  Category :  Foxy Pomsky  Category :  Pure White Pomsky  Category :  Plush Pomsky  Category :  Plush Pomsky  Category :  Blue-eyed Pomsky  Category :  Pure White Pomsky Copyright © 2018 Pomsky | All Rights Reserved or Maximum upload file size: 300 MB. Suggested image dimensions: {{data.suggestedWidth}} by {{data.suggestedHeight}} pixels. Describe the purpose of the image  (opens in a new tab) . Leave empty if the image is purely decorative. Describe the purpose of the image  (opens in a new tab) . Leave empty if the image is purely decorative. Describe the purpose of the image  (opens in a new tab) . Leave empty if the image is purely decorative. Describe the purpose of the image  (opens in a new tab) . Leave empty if the image is purely decorative. No items found. 