The Strait of Gibraltar poses an effective barrier to host-specialised but not to host-generalised lineages of avian Haemosporidia - ScienceDirect ScienceDirect • A high diversity of haemosporidian parasite lineages was found on both sides of the Strait of Gibraltar. Higher parasite prevalence was found in northwestern Africa than in northwestern Iberia. Haemoproteus  and  Leucocytozoon  lineages were predominantly host-specialised, and  Plasmodium  lineages were host-generalised. Abundant generalist parasites were more likely to cross the Strait than abundant specialist. One of the major concerns with ongoing environmental global change is the ability of parasites to shift their distribution (both geographically and across hosts) and to increase in virulence. To understand the structure, diversity and connectivity of parasite communities across the Mediterranean Sea, we used avian haemosporidian communities associated with forest birds of northwestern Africa and northwestern Iberia as a model system. We characterised host specificity of lineages and tested whether host generalists are more likely to cross the biogeographic barrier imposed by the Strait of Gibraltar than host specialists. We sampled 321 birds of 43 species in northwestern Africa and 735 birds of 49 species in northwestern Iberia. Using a PCR-based approach to amplify  Plasmodium ,  Haemoproteus  and  Leucocytozoon  parasites, we retrieved 969 sequences representing 200 unique cytochrome-b lineages. Haemosporidians infected a significantly higher proportion of birds in northwestern Africa (78.5%) than in northwestern Iberia (50.5%). Relative diversity of different haemosporidian genera did not differ between our study areas, but  Plasmodium  was overrepresented among individual infections in northwestern Iberia.  Haemoproteus  and  Leucocytozoon  lineages were predominantly host-specialised and  Plasmodium  lineages were host-generalised. The number of regions occupied by lineages was significantly associated with their host specificity and abundance. These data are consistent with the positive abundance–occupancy relationship and patterns of host specificity among different haemosporidian genera observed in other studies. Download :  Download high-res image (85KB) Download :  Download full-size image Global climate change (GCC) is affecting all of Earth’s ecosystems and one of the major anticipated consequences of GCC for biodiversity is disruption of ecological communities ( Hurrell and Trenberth, 2010 ). Although most members of temperate communities are expected to react to GCC by shifting their ranges pole-wards or upslope in the mountains, species differ in their tolerance to change, dispersal abilities and other life history traits ( Parmesan, 2006 ). These differences result in reshuffling of ecological communities and changes of species’ realised niches, which are determined by interactions with other community members. The complexity of these interactions can lead to unexpected responses to GCC ( Pimm, 2009 ). Of particular concern is the potential of pathogens to shift their distribution (both geographically and across hosts), and to increase in virulence due to GCC. In fact, there are several studies demonstrating the devastating consequences of invasive or emerging parasites on animal and plant populations ( Daszak et al., 2000 ,  Anderson et al., 2004 ,  Smith et al., 2009 ). GCC is expected to especially impact pathogens employing arthropod vectors for transmission. A number of studies have confirmed the importance of climate as a limiting factor in the distribution of many insect and tick vectors ( Kovats et al., 2001 ), therefore, changes in climatic patterns and in seasonal conditions may affect disease spread, survival, transmission rate and persistence in novel habitats ( Patz and Reisen, 2001 ,  Harvell et al., 2002 ,  De la Roque et al., 2008 ,  Dukes et al., 2009 ). Parasites capable of infecting multiple species – host generalists ( Humphery-Smith, 1989 ) – are also expected to be more successful at establishing in novel host communities. The Mediterranean Basin is one of the world’s hotspots of biodiversity and is a priority for conservation ( Myers et al., 2000 ). Climate model projections suggest that this region might be especially vulnerable to GCC ( Giorgi and Lionello, 2008 ) with a high risk of endemic species extinction ( Malcolm et al., 2006 ). If GCC allows vector-transmitted pathogens to spread from the tropics into temperate latitudes, the Mediterranean could be significantly impacted. Furthermore, when these pathogens are restricted to tropical areas, their impact may be buffered by high species diversity, but expansion to temperate, less diverse regions may result in greater disease impact on individual host species ( Pascual and Bouma, 2009 ). Moreover, most studies of infectious diseases have focused on human pathogen systems in which a single pathogen infects a single host species, and have not considered multiple host species systems with multiple pathogens ( Dobson, 2009 ). Birds have long been used as model systems to study infectious diseases ( Atkinson et al., 1991 ,  Valkiūnas, 2005 ) and can provide important data on pathogen ecology. Unfortunately, very little is known about the dynamics of their parasites at the community level ( Ricklefs et al., 2005 ). The Iberian Peninsula and northwestern Africa (NWA) are located at the southwestern edge of the Palearctic, and share similar forest and scrubland bird communities ( Covas and Blondel, 1998 ). Nevertheless, the avifauna exchange between the two regions appears to be restricted by the Strait of Gibraltar inhibiting the gene flow ( Dietzen et al., 2008 ,  García et al., 2008 ,  Valera et al., 2011 ). This lack of gene flow between NWA and Iberia has also been observed in other vertebrates ( Carranza et al., 2006 ) and invertebrates ( Wahlberg and Saccheri, 2007 ), but not in dipteran insects ( Esseghir et al., 1997 ,  Porretta et al., 2011 ), which are vectors of important human and wildlife blood parasites, e.g., malaria. Avian Haemosporidia are a diverse group of widespread, abundant and readily sampled parasites that provide an excellent opportunity to study the ability of arthropod-mediated pathogens to move across the Mediterranean Sea. Rapidly increasing information about these parasites in public databases, e.g., MalAvi ( Bensch et al., 2009 ) may further facilitate our understanding of patterns of their dispersal. Here, we compare the diversity of Haemosporidia in the forest bird communities of NWA and northwestern Iberia (NWI;  Fig. 1 ). Specifically, we (i) describe the diversity of haemosporidians in Iberia and Africa; (ii) compare haemosporidian community structure between the two areas; and (iii) characterise host specificity in both parasite communities. We further test what parasite characteristics (genus, host-specificity and abundance) influence their ability to cross the Mediterranean Sea biogeographic barrier. According to the abundance–occupancy hypothesis ( Gaston, 1996 ,  Gaston et al., 2000 ), a pervasive ecological phenomenon demonstrated in a large variety of organisms including avian Haemosporidia ( Jenkins and Owens, 2011 ,  Drovetski et al., 2014 ,  Clark and Clegg, 2015 ), we predict that host-generalists and abundant parasites will be more likely to cross the strait due to their ability to occupy larger geographical regions. These data should also establish a baseline for future analysis of the impact of GCC on the dynamics of these communities and their host–parasite interactions. Fig. 1 . Bird sampling regions and localities in the study. NWI, northwestern Iberia; NWA, northwestern Africa. A total of 735 breeding or resident birds of 49 species were sampled in NWI, and 321 birds of 43 species in NWA between 2009 and 2012 ( Fig. 1 ;  Supplementary Table S1 ). These samples have already been used by  Drovetski et al. (2014)  for a wider study of the abundance–occupancy relationship (AOR) in avian Haemosporidia across NWA, NWI, western Greater Caucasus and Transcaucasia. In that study the authors found that the number of regions occupied by lineages was associated with their frequency, suggesting the presence of AOR in avian Haemosporidia. However that study focused on the host specificity of only the 13 most abundant and widespread lineages whose hosts occur throughout the western Palearctic. It did not conduct detailed analyses of the distribution and host specificity of less abundant lineages or compare communities across geographic areas, which are the focus of the current study. In both regions, sites were selected in forest-dominated areas. Birds were captured using mist-nets (Ecotone, Gdynia, Poland). Each bird was ringed and, when possible, aged and sexed, and released at the site of capture after a blood sample was taken. Blood samples were obtained by brachial venipuncture with a sterile needle. Blood was collected into a heparin-free capillary tube and immediately transferred into a vial with 96% ethanol. Samples were kept at room temperature until DNA extraction. Scientific names of avian host species follow the Clements Checklist v. 6.9 ( Clements et al., 2014 ). Total DNA was extracted from avian blood samples using the JETQUICK Tissue DNA Spin Kit (Genomed, Löhne, Germany) according to the manufacturer’s protocol. The presence of haemosporidian parasites was detected by PCR amplification of a fragment of their mitochondrial (mt)DNA cytochrome-B gene ( cyt-b ). We tested each sample with three pairs of primers. All pairs amplified  Plasmodium ,  Haemoproteus  and  Leucocytozoon  parasites, and used the same forward primer (UNIVF CAYATAYTAAGAGAAYTATGGAG, sites 187–209 from the 5′ end of  cyt-b ), and one of three different reverse primers (UNIVR1 GCATTATATCWGGATGWGNTAATGG, sites 715–739; UNIVR2 ARAGGAGTARCATATCTATCWAC, sites 745–768; or UNIVR3 ATAGAAAGMYAAGAAATACCATTC, sites 781–804) ( Drovetski et al., 2014 ). The shortest of these PCR fragments was 505 bp (UNIVF - UNIVR1) and completely covered the 479 bp fragment of avian haemosporidian  cyt-b  sequence adopted as a standard for the MalAvi database ( Bensch et al., 2009 ). Each sample that was negative in the first specific primer pair PCR was repeated to ensure that it was truly negative for that particular primer pair. Samples were considered parasite-free when negative for all six PCRs. PCR volume was 12.5 μl and contained 1x GoTaq Flexi buffer, 2 mM MgCl 2 , 0.2 mM of each dNTP, 0.3 mM of each primer and 0.313 u of GoTaq Flexi DNA polymerase (Promega, Madison, Wisconsin, USA), and 2 μl of DNA extract. The thermal profile for amplification with the different primer pairs was the same and started with 3 min of denaturation at 94 °C, followed by 41 cycles at 94 °C for 30 s, 52 °C for 30 s, and 72 °C for 45 s, ending with an elongation step at 72 °C for 10 min. All PCR sets were accompanied by negative and positive controls to detect PCR success and possible contamination. PCR products were purified using ExoSAP (United States Biochemical Corporation, Cleveland, Ohio, USA) according to the manufacturer’s instructions and sequenced directly using an Applied Biosystems 3730xl DNA Analyser at the Macrogen Europe sequencing facility (Macrogen Inc., Netherlands). PCR fragments were sequenced in both directions when positive for the UNIVF-UNIVR1 primer pair and only with UNIVR2 or UNIVR3 for their respective pairs to ensure complete coverage of the 505 bp region between primers UNIVF and UNIVR1. Sequences were aligned using Sequencher 5.0.1 ( http://www.genecodes.com ) and trimmed to 505 bp. When a PCR amplified mixed infections they were phased, employing several approaches described in detail by  Drovetski et al. (2014) . These approaches utilised unambiguous sequences from PCR(s) of the same individual with another primer pair(s), the relative height of peaks in a chromatogram, and our reference library of unambiguously resolved unique haplotypes to ensure consistent phasing of lineages, minimizing the number of novel haplotypes that are not represented in the reference library. All novel haplotypes found only in multiple infections were double-checked in order to confirm that they were indeed new lineages and not misreads of the chromatograms or inconsistencies in lineage phasing. Unique haplotypes were identified from the individual sequences in DnaSP 5.10.00 ( Librado and Rozas, 2009 ) and compared with GenBank sequences and the MalAvi database ( Bensch et al., 2009 ;  http://mbio-serv2.mbioekol.lu.se/Malavi/  accessed 18 September 2014) in order to identify known parasite lineages and their geographic distribution. All statistical tests were conducted in R 3.1.0 ( http://www.R-project.org/ ). To compare the relative diversity of the three haemosporidian genera and their contribution to the total number of observed infections between NWA and NWI, we used G-tests (likelihood ratio test, package Deducer;  Fellows, 2012 ). For this we built a contingency table (3 × 2) with the total number of lineages found per genus in each area, and the total number of infections found per genus in each area, respectively. Differences between NWA and NWI in the overall parasite prevalence, prevalence of mixed infections, average number of lineages per infected host and parasite diversity, were assessed by building several generalised linear mixed models (package lme4;  http://cran.r-project.org/package=lme4 ). Region (NWA or NWI) was used as an explanatory variable and host species as a random effect. For parasite prevalence each bird was categorised as either infected or not infected, and a model with a binomial distribution was built using the logit function. A similar model was built for the prevalence of mixed infections using only infected individuals. Each bird was categorised as either carrying a mixed infection or a single infection. To test whether the number of parasite lineages per bird differed between NWA and NWI, we built a Poisson model using the number of parasite lineages present in each infected bird as the dependent variable. Finally, to assess whether there were differences in parasite richness between both areas, we built a Poisson model using the richness of parasite lineages per bird species as the dependent variable and number of infections as the offset. Host specificity of the parasites was compared among genera using G-tests. Each lineage occurring more than once was characterised into three categories: species specific (SS) if it was found in a single host species, family specific (FS) if it was found in multiple hosts species of the same family, and generalist (G) if it was found in multiple host species of different families. This was repeated using information from the MalAvi database, with the difference that lineages occurring only once in our dataset but deposited to MalAvi by other researchers were also used. In order to understand which parasite characteristics led to their ability to cross the Strait of Gibraltar, we built a binomial model with a logit function using the number of regions occupied by the parasite lineage (one or two) as the dependent variable, and parasite characteristics as explanatory variables. The latter included host specialisation (SS, FS or G), parasite genus ( Plasmodium ,  Haemoproteus  or  Leucocytozoon ), and parasite lineage sample size (log transformed number of times each lineage was found – Log( n )). Model building followed the information theoretical approach of  Burnham and Anderson (2002) , which compares the relative support of a suite of candidate models using Akaike’s information criterion (AIC). Candidate models were built using all variables and their possible interactions (package MuMIn;  http://cran.r-project.org/package=MuMIn ). The model with the lowest AIC was selected and the significance of its variables evaluated with ANOVA (package car;  http://cran.r-project.org/package=car ). MalAvi information was incorporated to characterise the host specificity of each parasite lineage, as well as its occurrence across the Strait of Gibraltar. Lineages that occurred only once were excluded from this analysis. All analyses were done with and without samples of migratory species, but due to the lack of differences in the results, only results using the complete dataset are shown.  P  ⩽ 0.05 was considered significant. We identified a total of 200 unique parasite lineages among 1056 birds sampled in Africa and Iberia ( Supplementary Table S1 ). Only 87 (43.5%) of these lineages matched lineages deposited to the MalAvi database, whereas 113 (56.5%) lineages appear to be recorded for the first time ( Supplementary Table S2 ). Because our  cyt-b  fragment is 26 bp longer than the fragment available in MalAvi, in several cases two of our different haplotypes matched the same MalAvi sequence (H161 and H177 = BRAM2, H163 and H176 = BRAM3, H200 and H202 = PARUS11, H011 and H174 = SGS1, H139 and H236 = TUMER01). We found 127 lineages among 433 parasite sequences from 321 birds sampled in NWA. The majority of infections in NWA were found in the common chaffinch ( Fringilla coelebs ,  n  = 131), distantly followed by the great tit ( Parus major ,  n  = 49), and the African blue tit ( Cyanistes teneriffae ,  n  = 42).  Haemoproteus  was the most diverse of the three genera in NWA (61 lineages), followed by  Leucocytozoon  (50 lineages) and  Plasmodium  (16 lineages;  Fig. 2 ). Fig. 2 . Relative abundance of haemosporidian genera and lineages in northwestern Iberia (NWI, white columns above the zero-line) and northwestern Africa (NWA, black columns below the zero-line). Numbers above or below columns show the number of lineages found in NWI and NWA for each haemosporidian genus. The three most frequently encountered lineages of each genus in each area are identified with their avian malaria database name (MalAvi;  Bensch et al., 2009 ). We found 113 lineages among 536 parasite sequences from 735 sampled birds in NWI. The majority of infections in Iberia were found in the blackcap ( Sylvia atricapilla ,  n  = 90), the great tit ( n  = 80) and the blackbird ( Turdus merula ,  n  = 72;  Table 1 ). In contrast to NWA,  Leucocytozoon  (55 lineages) was more diverse than  Haemoproteus  (46 lineages) or  Plasmodium  (12 lineages) in NWI ( Fig. 2 ). However, the proportion of haemosporidian genera among lineages did not differ significantly between our study regions (G = 4.417, degrees of freedom (df) = 2,  P  = 0.110) suggesting similarity in the relative diversity of haemosporidian genera. The distribution of individual infections did not follow a pattern, similar to that of the relative diversity of haemosporidian genera ( Fig. 2 ). Despite the low diversity of  Plasmodium , most of the individual infections in NWI belonged to this genus ( n  = 195), followed by  Leucocytozoon  ( n  = 183), and  Haemoproteus  ( n  = 158). The relative contribution to individual infections by different haemosporidian genera differed significantly between NWA and NWI (G = 42.208, df = 2,  P   <  0.001), with  Haemoproteus  being more common in NWA ( n  = 174), followed by  Leucocytozoon  ( n  = 161) and  Plasmodium  ( n  = 98). Table 1 . Sample size, number of infected birds, number of birds with multiple infections, number of parasite sequences obtained and number of parasite lineages found per bird species sampled from northwestern Africa (NWA) and northwestern Iberia (NWI). Although in most avian species with sample sizes  > 2 we detected haemosporidian parasites, there were several exceptions worth noting. We failed to detect haemosporidian pathogens in the greater spotted woodpecker ( Dendrocopos major , NWA = 4, NWI = 8), the long-tailed tit ( Aegithalos caudatus ; NWI = 25) or the firecrest ( Regulus ignicapilla ; NWA = 4, NWI = 19). Overall, parasite prevalence was significantly higher in NWA where 252 (78.5%) of 321 birds were infected, than in Iberia where only 371 (50.4%;  Table 1 ) of 735 birds were infected ( z  = −6.474,  P   <  0.001,  Supplementary Table S3 ). Not only was the proportion of infected individual birds higher in NWA than in NWI, but also the frequency of multiple infections was significantly higher in NWA (122 birds; 48.8% of infected birds) than in NWI (134 birds, 35.8% of infected birds;  z  = −3.173,  P  = 0.002;  Fig. 3 ). The number of parasite sequences retrieved per infected bird also differed between study areas ( z  = −2.702,  P  = 0.007), suggesting that significantly fewer birds in NWA carried the same number of haemosporidian sequences than in NWI. At the same time, parasite richness did not differ between the two regions ( z  = −0.45,  P  = 0.653). Fig. 3 . Distribution of the number of parasite lineages per individual bird sampled from northwestern Africa (NWA) and northwestern Iberia (NWI). The number of observations is shown above each bar. For NWA, the category ⩾4 includes 11 individuals with four different infections, one with five, and one with six. The host specificity of haemosporidian lineages varied from a single avian species to 29 species from 13 avian families for H011 (SGS1) in our data set. When data available in MalAvi were considered, SGS1 appeared to parasitise 92 species from 31 avian families ( Supplementary Table S2 ). Parasite genera differed in their host specificity (G = 12.738, df = 4,  P  = 0.013).  Haemoproteus  had the highest proportion of lineages that parasitised a single host species (32 of 44), followed by  Leucocytozoon  with a slightly lower proportion of host specialist lineages (22 of 39). In contrast to  Haemoproteus  and  Leucocytozoon  lineages, only two of 10  Plasmodium  lineages parasitised a single host species. This pattern persisted when information from the MalAvi database was added (G = 14.389, df = 4,  P  = 0.006), although the proportion of host specialist species evened between  Haemoproteus  and  Leucocytozoon . The best model to explain the probability of a lineage occurring across the Strait of Gibraltar included host specialisation, lineage abundance, and their interaction as explanatory variables ( Supplementary Table S4 ). These were all statistically significant (host specialisation:  x 2  = 9.912, df = 2,  P  = 0.007; lineage abundance:  x 2  = 6.651, df = 1,  P  = 0.010), except the interaction which was close to significance ( x 2  = 5.900, df = 1,  P  = 0.052). Host specificity and lineage abundance had an overall positive effect on the ability of parasites to cross the Strait of Gibraltar, i.e., generalist and common lineages were more likely to cross the barrier. However the interaction between these variables revealed that abundant species-specific lineages were less likely to occur in both regions than generalist abundant lineages ( Fig. 4 ,  Supplementary Table S5 ). Fig. 4 . Predicted curves derived from the best model describing the probability of occurrence of a parasite lineage across the Strait of Gibraltar according to its host specialisation (SS, species-specific; FS, family-specific; G, generalist; and abundance (Log( n )). Our study is the first known extensive molecular survey of haemosporidian parasites in forest bird communities of southwestern continental Palearctic. Although other studies have focused on Iberian Haemosporidia using molecular methods, they have focused either on a restricted number of species or only on long-distance migrants ( Bensch et al., 2004 ,  Marzal et al., 2008 ,  Martínez-de la Puente et al., 2011 ,  Casanueva et al., 2012 ,  Ventim et al., 2012 ). We found an overall high number of haemosporidian lineages (200). More than half of these lineages (113) were recorded for the first time. Such a high diversity of parasites can only be compared, as far as we are aware, with 137 lineages (45  Plasmodium  and 92  Haemoproteus ) identified in the survey of 4513 birds of 47 avian species from Spain to Sweden ( Pérez-Tris et al., 2007 ). The high diversity found in our study with a much smaller sample size can potentially be explained by three factors. First, we used new primers that were specifically designed to amplify as much known diversity of haemosporidians as possible ( Drovetski et al., 2014 ) and allowed us to resolve multiple infections, greatly increasing the number of parasite observations. Second, relative to most western Palearctic studies, we sampled a high number of host species (64 in total), most of which are resident (∼80%). Finally, we sampled two different areas separated by a biogeographic barrier (the Mediterranean Sea) instead of a single continuous biogeographic area. The poor knowledge of the North African haemosporidian community may have also contributed to the high proportion of new mtDNA  cyt-b  lineages found in our study. Our data suggest that although the diversity of lineages among haemosporidian genera did not differ significantly between NWA and NWI, the distribution of individual infections among haemosporidian genera differed significantly. This difference in the relative proportion of  Plasmodium  and  Haemoproteus  between both areas could result from various factors. Differences in habitat and vector composition can lead to different haemosporidian abundance (e.g.,  Loiseau et al., 2012 ,  Okanga et al., 2013 ), and even the presence of small landscape features such as ponds and streams can have an important impact on lineage composition ( Wood et al., 2007 ). However, the fact that we sampled many locations with different relief features (e.g., lakes, streams, different plant communities) in both regions should minimise these differences. Another factor known to shape haemosporidian communities is altitude ( Pérez-Rodríguez et al., 2013 ,  Rooyen et al., 2013a ,  Galen and Witt, 2014 ).  Rooyen et al. (2013a) , in particular, found that higher altitudes were positively correlated to the prevalence of  Haemoproteus  and negatively to that of  Plasmodium , which seems to be the case in our study, with sampling locations in NWI being located at lower altitudes and with a higher prevalence of  Plasmodium  than in NWA. However, this pattern was demonstrated in an altitudinal gradient, within the same geographic region, and in the same host-species. Little is known at the community level over large geographic areas. Some studies suggest that avian haemosporidian communities are better predicted by their avian host communities than by geography ( Scordato and Kardish, 2014 ), especially in  Haemoproteus  parasites ( Olsson-Pons et al., 2015 ). The fact that we sampled similar bird communities (which were found in high altitudes in NWA and low altitudes in NWI) gives us greater confidence that our results represent differences between regions (probably in vector composition) rather than between different host compositions linked to different altitudes. The overall higher haemosporidian prevalence in NWA is consistent with the inverse latitudinal trend found in other studies ( Merino et al., 2008 ). This difference in prevalence was even more striking when the proportion of multiple infections is compared between our study areas. In NWA, the proportion of multiple infections (38.0%) was more than twice that observed in NWI (18.2%). The proportion of infected birds carrying multiple haemosporidian lineages varied greatly across species. Among species with  n  ⩾ 5, the Cetti’s warbler ( Cettia cetti ), the black redstart ( Phoenicurus ochruros ) and the Eurasian wren ( Troglodytes troglodytes ) had less than 1% of their infected individuals carrying multiple infections, whereas in the great tit and the Iberian magpie ( Cyanopica cooki ) this proportion exceeded 70%. Only two recent studies of great tits found similarly high levels of multiple infections, reaching 61% and 82%, respectively ( Rooyen et al., 2013a ,  Rooyen et al., 2013b ). In contrast, an earlier study focused only on  Leucocytozoon  infections ( Jenkins and Owens, 2011 ) reported only 5% of blue and great tits harbor multiple infections of  Leucocytozoon . We found 32% of blue and 40% of great tits to carry more than one  Leucocytozoon  lineage. Another study reported 20% of infected blackcaps carry multiple parasite lineages ( Pérez-Tris and Bensch, 2005 ) whereas we found 48% of infected blackcaps carrying multiple lineages. Thus, our results and some other recent studies suggest that multiple infections affect a much larger number of birds than had been assumed previously. Although challenging and demanding extra time and effort, mixed infections deserve much more attention, for they seem to be the rule rather than the exception. Studies of multiple infections can provide crucial information about host–parasite interactions, and help to elucidate the dynamics of intra-host competition, and the evolution of parasite virulence and transmission ( Rigaud et al., 2010 ). The reason we had unusually high success in detecting multiple infections in our study is likely related to the use of alternate primers and to the use of several primer pairs ( Drovetski et al., 2014 ). The use of multiple primer pairs was also essential for successful phasing of haplotypes in multiple infections. Host specificity of haemosporidian lineages differed significantly among genera with host specialists being predominant among  Haemoproteus  and  Leucocytozoon  but absent among  Plasmodium  parasites. This pattern of host specialisation across the three haemosporidian genera, with  Haemoproteus  being the most host specialised and  Plasmodium  being the least host specialised, is consistent with patterns discovered in several other studies ( Ricklefs and Fallon, 2002 ,  Waldenstrom et al., 2002 :  Beadell et al., 2004 ,  Hellgren et al., 2008 ,  Dimitrov et al., 2010 ,  Martínez-de la Puente et al., 2011 ,  Drovetski et al., 2014 ). Despite confirming with the general pattern of differences in host specificity across haemosporidian genera, our data significantly changed existing knowledge about host specificity and distribution of some individual lineages. For example,  Plasmodium  lineage LK6 (H158) that previously was reported only from the lesser kestrel ( Falco naumanni ) in Spain ( Ortego et al., 2007 ,  Ortego et al., 2008 ) and Berthelot’s pipit ( Anthus berthelotii ) in Canary and Madeira archipelagoes ( Illera et al., 2008 ,  Spurgin et al., 2012 ), parasitised six common passerine species from five different families in NWA (African blue tit, coal tit  Periparus ater , cirl bunting  Emberiza cirlus , crested lark  Galerida cristata , Moussier’s redstart  Phoenicurus moussieri , and Sardinian warbler  Sylvia melanocephala ). We sampled four of these six species in NWI but failed to detect LK06. Another two lineages of  Leucocytozoon , TUMER01 (H139 and H236) and TUMER02 (H234), were previously detected only in blackbirds from the Azores ( Hellgren et al., 2011 ) but we found them in blackbirds from both NWA and NWI, demonstrating that it is not endemic to Azores. These unexpected discoveries suggest many lineages may have very different distributions and host use patterns from those we identified to date. There is a clear need for community-wide comparative studies. The lack of such studies, together with poor coverage of large portions of the globe, are significantly inhibiting our understanding of haemosporidian life history and evolution. Results of our analysis suggest that the probability of crossing the biogeographic barrier imposed by the Strait of Gibraltar by haemosporidian parasites was associated with the degree of their host specialisation and abundance. This result is consistent with the positive AOR, in which locally common species have large geographic ranges and locally rare species have small geographic ranges. Thus, abundant haemosporidian parasites with large geographic ranges are more likely to cross biogeographic barriers and move between different host communities than less common parasites with restricted geographic ranges ( Drovetski et al., 2014 ). It is also not surprising that host generalist parasites are more efficient at establishing in different host communities separated by geographic barriers. In contrast, host specialists cannot colonise different areas unless their host species are abundant on both sides of the barrier. The fact that some host species are not shared between Iberia and North Africa (e.g., the Iberian azure-winged magpie and the African/Eurasian blue tit), have very restricted gene-flow (e.g., the Coal tit), and have different abundances on opposite sides (e.g., the blackcap) may explain why common specialist lineages were less likely to cross the Strait of Gibraltar. This pattern, of common host specialised parasites being less able to cross geographic barriers than less common generalist parasites, has been found in single host species studies in Iberia and in Australia ( Pérez-Rodríguez et al., 2013 ,  Clark and Clegg, 2015 ), but had never been described in complex host communities. The fact that parasite genus was not an important predictor of the ability of parasite lineages to occur in both study areas, does not mean that all parasite genera are equally able to cross the Strait of Gibraltar, but rather that this capacity is related to their host specificity instead of their ecology or life history patterns. As we saw,  Plasmodium  parasites were in general less host-specific than  Haemoproteus  and  Leucocytozoon , and were thus more likely to pass the barrier. This is in agreement with a recent study done by  Olsson-Pons et al. (2015)  in which they found that while  Haemoproteus  parasite communities were better predicted by host species composition,  Plasmodium  parasites were better predicted by geography, showing an isolation by distance pattern. The fact that  Plasmodium  parasites have a wide range of hosts means that, in theory, if at least one of the host species is able to cross the geographic barrier, so are the parasites (assuming that the vectors are present in both regions). This seems to be the case with the Strait of Gibraltar, with host-generalist  Plasmodium  lineages being able to cross, and host-specialist  Haemoproteus  being less likely to do so. The fact that the Strait of Gibraltar does not pose a barrier to abundant and generalist haemosporidians means that if there is a change in vector distribution during GCC, those parasites that reach North Africa will most likely be able to cross to Iberia. However, given the fact that a decrease in precipitation is expected to occur in North Africa and southern Europe ( Giorgi and Lionello, 2008 ), GCC may create an arid barrier to insect vectors and their parasites, and thus expand the effect of the Strait of Gibraltar. Clearly more studies are needed to better disentangle the complex effects of GCC on insect-mediated parasites. We suggest that monitoring and modeling of possible haemosporidian impacts on host populations should focus on the abundant and widespread lineages. To identify such lineages, future studies should sample local host communities as broadly as possible, include poorly surveyed geographic regions, and efficiently share information with other researchers in the field through public databases such as MalAvi ( Bensch et al., 2009 ). Another urgent challenge is to include multiple infections in the analysis as they are likely to represent mixtures of the most abundant haplotypes. Many recent studies discarded host individuals with multiple infections from their analyses ( Dimitrov et al., 2010 ,  Jenkins and Owens, 2011 ,  Belo et al., 2012 ,  Levin et al., 2013 ) despite their apparently high frequency in avian populations. Finally, the incorporation of data on the distribution and abundance of dipteran vectors, as well as their host specificity and haemosporidian lineage association, will also help to elucidate the complex network of interactions among birds, their haemosporidian parasites and insect vectors. Understanding of these networks will further improve our ability to forecast the impact of haemosporidians on avian populations under GCC scenarios. We are grateful to Instituto da Conservação da Natureza e das Florestas (Portugal) and the Haut Commissariat aux Eaux et Forêts et à la Lutte Contre la Desertification (Morocco) for the ringing and blood sampling permits. This study was supported by the  European Regional Development Fund  (Programa Operacional Factores de Competitividade, Portugal) and the  European Social Fund  (Programa Operacional Potencial Humano and Quadro de Referência Estratégico Nacional, Portugal) and by the  Fundação para a Ciência e a Tecnologia, Portugal  (FCOMP-01-0124-FEDER-008941 and PTDC/BIA- BEC/103435/2008 to S.V.D., and fellowships SFRH/BPD/40786/2007 and SFRH/BPD/84141/2012 to R.J.L), and University of Porto and Santander, Portugal (grant PP-IJUP2011/195 to V.A.M.). We would also like to thank two anonymous referees for their helpful comments to an earlier version of the manuscript. Download :  Download spreadsheet (93KB) Supplementary Table S1 . Information regarding sampled hosts from northwestern Africa (NWA) and northwestern Iberia (NWI), and their infections. Supplementary Table S2 . Host and geographic information of lineages found during the current study. Supplementary Table S3 . Summary of the generalized linear mixed models built in this study. Supplementary Table S4 . Candidate models of parasite characteristics influencing the ability of parasite lineages to cross the Strait of Gibraltar. Candidate models were built with the variables Genus (Gns), parasite abundance (LgN), host specificity (HSpc) and their possible interactions. Supplementary Table S5 . Table of terms of the best model describing the ability of parasites to cross the Strait of Gibraltar. Explanatory variables included are lineage host specificity (HSpc), abundance (Log(n)) and their interaction. Elsevier We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content and ads. By continuing you agree to the  use of cookies . Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. or its licensors or contributors. ScienceDirect ® is a registered trademark of Elsevier B.V. 