City of Houston | LinkedIn Home to a respected and energetic cultural arts scene, celebrated restaurants featuring flavors from 35 countries, world-renowned theater groups and the brains behind U.S. space exploration, Houston is a diverse metropolis brimming with personality. With nearly 21,000 concerts, plays, exhibitions and other arts programs presented in Houston annually, residents and visitors have access to a wide variety of cultural programs. On any given night, it ' s a safe bet that there ' s a show somewhere in Houston ' s Theater District. More than 2 million people visit the Downtown area each year to attend one of the city ' s world-class performances. Within the Museum District you will find eighteen world-class institutions, including the Menil Collection, Museum of Fine Arts, Houston and the Houston Museum of Natural Science are clustered in this area, drawing a reported seven million visitors to the district each year.Houston’s restaurant scene is as ethnically diverse as its 4 million residents. ForbesTraveler.com ranked Houston as one of the best restaurant cities in America. The city is jam-packed with more than 8,000 tempting eateries that feature culinary flavors from more than 35 countries.With 56,405 acres of total park space, Houston rates first among the nation ' s 10 most populous cities in total acreage of park land. The 165 public and private golf courses around the city and teams in nearly every major professional sport keep sports fever high year-round.The city also employs over 22,000 full-time staff to keep the city running. We are always looking for everyone from Engineers to IT Professionals, from entry level to executive level. Check back here for current postings, follow us on Facebook at www.facebook.com/cohcareers or on Twitter @COHCareers for all the up to date recruitment happenings! 901 Bagby Houston, TX 77002, US 611 W Walker St Houston, Texas 77019, US 2999 S Wayside Dr Houston, TX 77023, US How do you respond to rejection? Finding out that you weren’t selected for your dream job may be difficult. It’s tempting to simply delete the message and move on. But, taking the time to send a thoughtful message may beneficial in the long run.  #COHTalks #careers You ' re  never too old to learn new communication skills. Learn more about how you can become an effective communicator in the workplace. Here’s a link to article about effective communication and team work.  http://bit.ly/2RHnZXb #COHTalk: What is your favorite interview question to answer that shows off your skills and experience to an employer? #jobsearch #interview #hiring #newjob #interviewtips 