Soft Robotic Muscles Fold Like Origami [video] | Health Tech Insider  by  Bruce Brown  |  January 1, 2018  |  Enabling Tech ,  General News  |  0 comments Soft robotics enable smoother movement and greater dexterity than hard material robotics, traditionally at the cost of strength. Similarly, when we were kids, many of us learned the different characteristics of erector sets and cat s cradle. We ve written about soft robotics applications for  exoskeletons  and movement  assistive clothing . Recently researchers at  Wyss Institute at Harvard University  and  MIT’s Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory (CSAIL)  employed soft materials, fluid, and mad origami skills to create soft robotic artificial muscles able to move as much as 1,000 times their weight. In a  study published  in  Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (PNAS) , the researchers expressed their surprise at the strength of the origami-inspired artificial muscles.  We expected they’d have a higher maximum functional weight than ordinary soft robots, but we didn’t expect a thousand-fold increase. It’s like giving these robots superpowers,” says Daniela Rus, Ph.D., one of the lead researchers. The team focused on designing how the structures folded, which determines their movement. Each structure has an inner skeleton in a sealed plastic or textile bag filled with air or liquid. The motion of the muscles occurs in reaction to a vacuum applied inside the bag. The vision for this technology foresees compact, simple artificial muscles that can be mounted on a body, providing robotic function without great weight or bulky structure. The Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), the National Science Foundations (NSF), and the Wyss Institute for Biologically Inspired Engineering funded the research. The work so far has proved to be scalable and amenable to a wide range of materials, which widens the horizon for potential applications. Researchers have made rapid advances in computer miniaturization, which makes it possible to develop smaller robot brains. Unfortunately, existing actuators remain bulky which limits the possibilities for smaller robots or intelligent prosthetic limbs. Existing soft-actuator technologies require external equipment to pneumatically or hydraulically inflate plastic skins with air or liquid, much… October 16, 2017 In  " Enabling Tech " The concept of artificial muscles is intriguing. Whether the purpose of lab-sourced musculature is greater strength or enhanced mobility for humans or robots, the idea is easy to grasp and the prospects are inspiring. We ' ve written about researchers at the University of Illinois Department of Mechanical Science and Engineering working on rubber-reinforced… July 11, 2019 In  " Enabling Tech " Most people routinely pick up hundreds of objects during a typical day, and they never give a second thought. For mechanical devices -- such as robots or powered prosthetics -- gripping objects of different sorts can pose a serious challenge. And if the object is fragile like an egg, the… March 20, 2019 In  " Enabling Tech " Your email address will not be published.  Required fields are marked  * Comment Comment Name  * Email  * Website Notify me of follow-up comments by email. Notify me of new posts by email. This site uses Akismet to reduce spam.  Learn how your comment data is processed . All text © 2019 Desktop Wings, Inc. Privacy Policy  /  Terms of Service 