Products | Canopy Growth No matter what the brand or variety, our Company prides itself on growing only the highest quality cannabis that meets and exceeds the requirements of the most stringent regulatory environments in the world, and the most discerning customers. We vigorously follow industry best practices for cultivation, harvest, cure, trim and packaging, using only the highest quality nutrients and state of the art growing techniques in our production processes. Using high-quality inputs, we produce cannabis extracts using state-of-the art supercritical fluid CO2 extraction technology. This process extracts the major cannabinoids (THC and CBD), as well as the minor cannabinoids, terpenes, and flavonoids that contribute to the overall medicinal value of medical cannabis, resulting in a highly concentrated resin which can then be dissolved in a food oil carrier to comply with government regulations and to make it easier to administer orally. We produce cannabis oil products with different ratios of THC and CBD in order to meet the unique medical needs of our customers. Softgels offer a convenient, precise and discrete dosing solution for those interested in consuming their cannabis in pill form. Our Softgels are currently available in a variety of concentrations, from micro to full doses, with more to come. Industrial hemp is a tall, leafy plant with a strong fibrous stalk that is grown for a wide range of end-uses, including food, skincare, textiles, fuel to name a few. Although hemp varieties are members of the cannabis plant family, they contain very low levels ( < 0.3%) of the psychoactive ingredient THC (delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol). Hemp is an excellent source of low-cost CBD, and by leveraging our expertise in hemp farming and cannabinoid extraction, our hemp division is uniquely positioned to take advantage of the proposed regulatory changes that will allow the collection and processing of CBD from hemp. With acres of hemp production under ownership, the longest history in Canadian hemp, and a home-base in Yorkton, Saskatchewan, we support the towns in which our farmers are located. 