When Is the Ralph Lauren Winter Sale? It's really simple to set up. Create an account or log in to get started.  Try again or  Reset Password.  Try again or  Go Back  and try Google or Facebook instead. Please close this dialog and try and again  A  Ralph Lauren  sale isn't uncommon, but not all of the brand's discounts are created equal. Here's our breakdown of the six best ways to save on Ralph Lauren, including the upcoming Winter Sale.  Though Ralph Lauren sales don't always offer free shipping, the retailer does dole out free shipping coupons a few times a year. During the Winter Sale, you can't count on no-minimum free shipping. However, you'll likely be able to get free shipping on orders of $125 via an easy-to-remember Ralph Lauren coupon code (last year it was "FREESHIP125").  If free shipping isn't available, or you simply aren't spending enough to meet the threshold, you might want to opt for "Economy" shipping. Ralph Lauren automatically applies $8 "Fast" shipping to smaller orders, but Economy is a cheaper option: it tacks only $5 on to your total. What's the difference? Economy arrives within 5 to 7 business days of shipping, while Fast orders are typically delivered within 2 business days.  Another Ralph Lauren sale to look for is its private sale. The retailer usually offers two private sales each year, with the spring sale typically taking place around the end of April, and the fall sale around the end of October. Each lasts about one to two weeks. SEE ALSO: When Does Burberry Go on Sale?  Private sales generally discount a wide range of apparel,  shoes , and  accessories  from various lines, such as Polo Ralph Lauren and Lauren Ralph Lauren. Some home items are included, too. Products are normally marked down by up to 50% or 70% off, and you can expect a coupon to cut an extra 10% or 15% off.  Each Memorial Day weekend, Ralph Lauren has offered a coupon that cuts an extra 30% off sale items   a very good coupon for Ralph Lauren. (Memorial Day is the last Monday in May.) For the past few years, it's offered a similar deal during the first week of July, as well, to commemorate the Fourth of July.  Other federal holidays, such as Labor Day and Columbus Day, have also been marked by meaningful Ralph Lauren discounts   but less reliably. They're worth keeping an eye on, though.  Ralph Lauren's Summer Sale, Winter Sale, and End of Season Sales last several weeks, and the best deals often aren't active right away. Discounts sometimes increase as the sale wears on, or stacking  coupons  may be added that further reduce the price. During the last Winter Sale, for example, you could initially get up to 60% off select styles and  home items . A few weeks later, a coupon for an extra 30% off was added to that discount.  On the flip side, if a Ralph Lauren sale offers free shipping with lower or no minimums, that may be only at the beginning or middle of the event. So if all you want is that adorable little hat for your co-worker's newborn, by all means, snag it right away.  So when is the Ralph Lauren Winter Sale and the other seasonal sales? Dates vary slightly, but you can typically expect a winter-themed Ralph Lauren sale to start just before Christmas and end around mid-January. (We've also seen it last from early January to early February.) A Summer Sale will normally occur during the month of July or August, and End of Season Sales fall around February and September.  Sometimes the best deals on Ralph Lauren don't come from the brand at all! We've seen excellent deals on Ralph Lauren from  Men's Wearhouse ,  Macy's ,  Neiman Marcus , and even  Amazon . Set up a  DealNews alert for "Ralph Lauren"  and we'll send you an email when we see a tempting offer.  Readers, what are your favorite ways to save on Ralph Lauren? Let us know in the comments below! 