Free OBD2 scans? : vancouver Hi there, we just bought a used car and the check engine light came on after purchase. I already bought an OBD2 reader (online) but it won &# x27;t be here  &# x27;til October, anywhere I can go to just check what the computer says the problem is? For free or cheap? Yeah, I have an OBD2 scanner. If you &# x27;re by Boundary / 1st I &# x27;ll help you out. Bought online and it won &# x27;t be here till  October ? o_O BTW, I have no affiliation but I keep hearing about local company  Moj.io  that does OBD2 smartphone apps, etc.  Just an FYI on the OBD2 topic. Good luck! yeah, free shipping woes just means you gotta wait. Guess I could &# x27;ve sprung for the 2 day shipping... It actually looked like a good offer, all the apps, tracking and everywhere analytics. But... Out of stock eBay probably.  Free slow shippers from china I actually purchased my Bluetooth obd2 scanner a couple years ago for 30 bucks and paid for torque pro which was 5 bucks.  Probably the best 35 bucks I &# x27;ve ever spent on tools over the years.  Now when my friends ask for a scan, they usually bring beer over.  I &# x27;ve lost count how many cases of beer my scanner has got me. Haha, guess I should start advertising to my friends then Look on craiglist. I bought by blue tooth obd2 scanner there for like $20. Guy even texted me the full ripped app (the free app at the time was good enough to get the codes). He even dellivered. It &# x27;s been a couple years so I lost his card. Anyways I am positive if you look on craiglist you will find them. Try calling the nearest Napa or Lordco. A lot of them will scan your vehicle in an effort to try and sell you something. This is more common in the US, but I think some stores here will do it. Worth a call! Will give it a try, thanks If you wanna come to my place tonight (Brentwood mall) I can read the code using my reader. Let me know Awesome thanks! around Burnaby Heights, near Holdom, but we can now drive just about anywhere in the GVA. If you have one I &# x27;ll go to you! Is it transient? Do a google search, for engine light, fuel tank or similar, e.g.  this post .  I used to have a Toyota Avalon, and sometimes after refueling vapor pressure in the tank would trigger that sensor; I could safely ignore it and it would eventually go away.  That was in the South (NC, USA) where it was warm; it &# x27;s been warm here last week and this.  Just a thought. :-)  Wow, I miss that car (another story)!  ;-) No, actually it &# x27;s like half-lit, like it wanted to go off but then decided not to. Once my wife brings it back from work we can take a picture and post it here, it &# x27;s a little strange-looking. A lot of shops will scan your car for free. That &# x27;s actually the topic, you know of any in particular that you know will do it? If your still looking I have an ODB2 reader that you can use. I &# x27;m near Edmonds Skytrain. Already got it checked, P0741 - torque converter issue; probably needs transmission fluid changed, according to the seller the only maintenance they &# x27;ve done in 11 years is oil changes Edit: thanks  u/zhanger  ! Other than this, we also visited Horseshoe Bay and had C-Lovers (one of your suggestion) which was really nice. Also visited Granville Island (Omaya Sausage is so good!). Walked through downtown, English Bay, Jericho beach, Kitsilano (Oyster Bar), had House of Dosas at Kingsway, went to Whistler for a day(the drive through Sea to Sky Highway was everthing!) and Queen Elizabeth Park. Overall it was the trip I wanted. Thank you all for taking the time to review my trip itinerary and providing your invaluable suggestions. Edit: OMG I got my first gold! THANK YOU!!!!!! I forgot to mention one important thing, I found people in Vancouver to be more friendlier than in Toronto (although I ' ve heard mixed opinion from my friends and on Reddit). But especially the people living in North Van were so friendly and helpful! Also I can ' t understand/believe/comprehend the fact that people actually grow numb to this beautiful city HOW?!! 156k Members 2.0k Online Mar 28, 2008 Cake Day 