NYC s 6 Best High End Pet Boutiques   CBS New York Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Reddit AddThis New York City is second to none in its restaurants, its hotels, its theater, its concerts or its parks. If you are accustomed to treating yourself to the finest the city has to offer, why should your pet deserve any less? Here are the city s best high end boutiques that will enable doting pet owners to pamper their pooch or cater to their cat. Related :  NYC s 6 Best Dog Groomers And Care Services (credit: The New York Dog Shop) Related :  Guide To Owning A Dog In New York City The name, The New York Dog Shop, says it all. Here you will find everything from collars and leads to designer dog clothing by Puppia, Cloak and Dawggie. The store has a special section for big dogs. You can also order online and shipping is free for orders $50 or more. Photo Credit: ThinkStock For the past thirty years, Pets on Lex is the pet store of choice of celebrities and the rich and famous. The selection of merchandise is large and ranges in price from affordable to luxurious. You can chose from an assortment of chew toys to the perfect carrier. Keep your fashionable pup happy by shopping at Pets on Lex. $125 for quarterly membership; $300 for annual membership The 13,000-square-foot Fetch Club is one of New York s most exclusive dog boutiques. It is a one-stop paradise for your pet that includes a spa and salon, fitness center, theater and hotel. Also, it boasts a pet restaurant that serves high-quality meals customized to the specific needs of each canine. For high-end pampering, be sure to check out the Fetch Club. (credit: Trixie + Peanut) Trixie + Peanut carries a full line of pet apparel, furniture, accessories and grooming supplies. The store also carries a line or organic pet apparel, which include collars produced from plastic bottles, organic plush toys and all-natural grooming essentials. Photo Credit: ThinkStock Canine Styles offers high-end style and convenience. There are four locations, two on the East Side, one on the West Side, and one in the Village. Canine Styles bills itself as the oldest dog emporium in the city, having opened in 1959. The store specializes in personalized engraved collars. You can also get a portrait of your favorite furry friend made at Canine Styles. (File photo by Miguel Villagran/Getty Images) If you re looking for a hammered copper dog dish, a plush blanket, a custom pet armoire or a dog bed shaped like a bagel, Bitch New York is your one-stop shopping venue. Items in the designer showcase include Dora Jean sweaters, Lola Santoro beds, and Gidget Gear shirts, pants, and more by Tiki. You can also purchase crystal dog collars and engraved name tags. Be sure to check out this trendy boutique if you want your pet to look like a star. Howard Portnoy is a freelance writer in New York. He has more than 17 years of experience, which include publishing a novel and writing for several national magazines. His work can be found at  Examiner.com . Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Reddit AddThis These cookies are essential for the proper functioning of our properties. In addition, we use the Google and Tealium Tag Managers. Essential cookies cannot be switched off in our systems. You can set your browser or device to block or alert you about these cookies, but some parts of the site will not work.  These cookies allow us to collect information about how visitors use our properties. Some examples include counting visits and traffic sources, so we can measure and improve the performance of our site. If you do not allow these cookies we will not know when users have visited our properties and will not be able to monitor performance. These cookies enable the website to provide enhanced functionality and personalization. They may be set by us or by third party providers whose services we have added to our pages.    If you do not allow these cookies then some or all of these services may not function properly. These cookies may be set by us or through our property by our advertising partners. They may be used by those companies to build a profile of your interests and show you relevant adverts on other properties. If you do not allow these cookies, you will still see ads, but you will experience less relevant advertising.   These cookies are set by a range of social media services that we have added to the site to enable you to share our content with your friends and networks. They are capable of tracking your browser across other sites, building up a profile of your interests to show you relevant content and adverts on properties. If you do not allow these cookies you may not be able to use or see these sharing tools. Back Button Back Search Icon Filter Icon Clear Fliters All Consent Allowed 3 Purposes Arrow Consent Purposes Location Based Ads Consent Allowed Legitimate Interest Purposes Personalize Features Location Based Ads 