Caring: The Essence of Nursing - Hospice Palliative Care Associate (HPCA)  Donate Login As we continue our #HospiceVisits at Boland Hospice, we chat to Professional Nurse, Fransina Andrews. About 30 years ago career paths for many people were very limited when finishing school. Choices included either becoming a panel beater, bricklayer, nurse etc. For Fransina, studying to become a nurse was her preference even though she could not handle blood or hospitals. 22 years later, her profession in nursing has been growing from strength to strength. Fransina was born in Rawsonville, Worcester and after completing school decided to move to Cape Town where she enrolled as a student at the Nico Malan Nursing College. After completing her studies, she started her career as a professional nurse at Conradie Hospital and later joined Tygerberg Hospital where she spent the last 18 years. In 2015, she resigned and decided to become a stay at home mom to look after her 2 children. Fransina then joined Boland Hospice on the 4 March 2016 and although she is still very “new” in this role, she is enjoying it to the max. “Ensuring patients are well looked after and that their medication is being taken on time, is very important to me” she added. “Before studying to become a nurse, I never had a clue as to what palliative care was all about. All I heard was that it was a place where people would die. I wish that at the time when I was studying at college that Palliative Care would be part of the module. Hopefully it can be introduced soon.” Fransina is currently studying an online short course in Palliative Care. She expresses how informative it is and although it can be difficult at times, I am determined to do my best! She is motivated and is giving it her all, knowing that what she sowed, she will definitely reap. As I finished my interview with Fransina at the In Patient Unit, in the corner of my eye I saw a lady with the most beautiful smile staring at me and decided to have a chat with her. Katrina Belinde, 66 years old praises Boland Hospice for the amazing work they do to an extent that she does not ever want to go home. Suffering from bad asthma, she comes to hospice to relieve her family for at least 2 weeks (respite care). “Die plek is so lekker” (this place is so nice). The carers take such good care of me and they are so warm and friendly – I don’t want to leave. To learn more about Boland Hospice,  click here 1st Floor Eagle Park Corner of Bosmansdam and Omuramba Road Milnerton Cape Town 7441 Tel: +27(0)21 531-0277 | Fax: +27(0)21 531-1706 Email:  info@hpca.co.za Donate Online  © Copyright 2018   Hospice Palliative Care Association of South Africa (HPCA)   003 – 462 NPO (Non Proﬁt Organisation registered with Dept. of Social Development) Reg. No. 1986/001887/08 Designed  &  Developed by  B Online 