I have a 2004 MDX with about 80K miles on it. I ' ve been having problems with the engine light coming on periodically, Acura Have Legal Questions? Ask a Lawyer Now. Connect  one-on-one  with a mechanic who will answer your question Hi Sir or Madam, welcome to Just Answer. I ' m acuramstr. That code is for intake manifold runner control motor sticking. Usually this is caused by carbon build up in the intake causing the valve to stick. The best thing to do is remove the cover from the intake and clean the shaft and valve with carb cleaner. This will not hurt anything but you might experience lower fuel economy and power due to the manifold not switching between high and low modes. Under the plastic engine cover you will see a plate with several 10mm bolts holding it down, remove this cover to get to the IMRC valve and clean it . Here is a drawing of the plate  acramstr is online now How JustAnswer works : I took the Power Steering O-Ring service bulletin linked from JustAnswer to my Acura dealer, and not only did they no-charge the o-ring, they also replaced the power steering pump at no cost.   Thank you very much for saving my daughter and her family a lot of money on her Honda.  You are definitely on my list for future help.  Thanks, again.  I just heard from my mechanic. You were right...a $45.00 job. THANK YOU!! Your response was received in less than 10 minutes!!  Your answers were clear and the diagrams were perfect. Dealer wanted $87 for an hour of labor and even I did it in 15 minutes.  HONDA PLATINUM was great. I really appreciate his help. I was ready to trade my new Honda until he told me to wait until I got 3,000 miles on it and my gas mileage would get much better. Wonderful service, prompt, efficient, and accurate. Couldn ' t have asked for more. I cannot thank you enough for your help.  This expert is wonderful. They truly know what they are talking about, and they actually care about you. They really helped put my nerves at ease. Thank you so much!!!! < Previous  |  Next > thebesthonda ASE MasterTechnician 785 satisfied customers 26 years experience Kyle N. ASE Certified Tech 631 satisfied customers Master ASE Tech,  Ca. smog lic George H. ASE Certified Technician 471 satisfied customers ASE Master Tech 15+ years w/L1 Drivability certification HONDASERVICE7791 TECHNICIAN 462 satisfied customers OVER 20 YRS EXPERIENCE, OVER 10 YRS ACURA/HONDA EXPERIENCE Andrew ASE Master Tech 350 satisfied customers Master tech for 11 years. Chris (aka- Moose) Acura Technician 287 satisfied customers 16 years of experience Don - Mo Lurch Acura Mechanic 158 satisfied customers Aftermarket  &  Factory Mobile Electronics. Sales, Installation  &  Repair for 30 years. R/S, etc. < Previous  |  Next > Disclaimer: Information in questions answers, and other posts on this site ( " Posts " ) comes from individual users, not JustAnswer; JustAnswer is not responsible for Posts. Posts are for general information, are not intended to substitute for informed professional advice (medical, legal, veterinary, financial, etc.), or to establish a professional-client relationship. The site and services are provided  " as is "  with no warranty or representations by JustAnswer regarding the qualifications of Experts. To see what credentials have been verified by a third-party service, please click on the  " Verified "  symbol in some Experts '  profiles. JustAnswer is not intended or designed for EMERGENCY questions which should be directed immediately by telephone or in-person to qualified professionals.   2003-2019 JustAnswer LLC 