Trans health needs better inpatient services too | The BMJ Cookie Notice We use cookies to personalise content and ads, to provide social media features and to analyse our traffic. We also share information about your use of our site with our social media, advertising and analytics partners.    Our privacy and cookie policy Show Vendors Your Privacy Strictly Necessary Cookies Performance Cookies Functional Cookies Targeting Cookies Privacy and cookie policies Privacy Preference Centre Active Always Active Intended for healthcare professionals We agree with Torjesen that we need increased capacity in gender dysphoria clinics, as many practising clinicians have limited knowledge in this area. 1  We would also like to see better guidance on referrals of trans patients to inpatient services. Gender dysphoria clinics are a special service that is not available in every geographical region. When trans patients require urgent in-hospital consultations, such as management of the adverse effects of hormone therapy or postoperative complications, where should they be referred to? Gynaecology, plastic surgery, urology, psychiatry, endocrinology, general surgery, or medicine? These patients cannot be immediately referred to the gender dysphoria clinics which are not always nearby and available 24/7. This confusion is especially problematic when emergency doctors are looking for admitting services for these patients in the middle of the night. The admitting service physicians could argue that they have no experience managing trans patients and decline to admit them. But we cannot simply keep patients in the emergency department until the gender dysphoria clinics are open. Not only do we need better availability of gender dysphoria services, but we also need to enrich the knowledge and experience of physicians, regardless of specialties, on management of trans patients. Competing interests: The authors have been paid for working as physicians, but not for writing this letter. Respond to this article Register for alerts If you are unable to import citations, please contact  technical support for your product directly (links go to external sites): Thank you for your interest in spreading the word about The BMJ. NOTE: We only request your email address so that the person you are recommending the page to knows that you wanted them to see it, and that it is not junk mail. We do not capture any email address. Who is talking about this article? See more details Read  related article See  previous polls 