How To Archives - Ruck Dot Beer Press enter to see results or esc to cancel. Let s begin with the most important item in this entire discussion, and that is that food is a luxury. That s right, having access to food during your GORUCK event is not guaranteed. As easily as you packed it in your ruck, the GORUCK cadre can decide to take it away. So, as you plan on  My two cents? No. Sure, GORUCK is slapping handles every which way on rucks these days. The Rucker now has a bottom handle. The GR1 s that were offered in the workshop had side handle options. And, of course, there are plenty of sites that sell ruck handles that you can buy and attache via the  Recently I was reminded, yet again, that I suck at explaining GORUCK to people. The conversation usually goes something like this: Person: How s it going? Me: Good. I m a little tired. I ve been training for a thing I have coming up. Person: Oh yeah. What is that thing you do? The thing with backpacks or something.  I finally got my first GR2, a 40L Coyote Brown beauty. To break her in, I m loading her up for a 9-day trip. I m posting here to show you how I packed it out and to demonstrate how much stuff this puppy can hold. Situation The family is heading off on a 7-night cruise to  While I m a big advocate for putting in miles and suffering through PT sessions as a great way to train for a GORUCK Heavy, Tough, or Light, there is no substitute for just getting stronger. For the past year, that has been my main training goal: get stronger. For me, this is been primarily through my gym s  In the video below I show exactly what (and how) I pack for a GORUCK Heavy, Tough, and Light. I ve also included my gear list below the video with links in case you want to grab anything you see. If you have any questions (or suggestions) drop them in the comment section below. Gear List  Simply the best quick and easy upgrade you can make to your ruck. Below are step-by-step instructions on how to make your own frame sheet. But, first, why make this upgrade? Here s a quick image to show the difference between the standard GORUCK Frame Sheet (white) and the Kydex Upgrade (black). Step 1   Get  I have a couple hats that I really like, but they aren t  Patch Hats.  This quick and easy hack will help you make almost any hat into a patch hat. Make sure the logo/design on your hat is patch sized Simply take a patch and hold it over the logo. If it covers it, you re  Join our mailing list to receive the latest news and updates from Ruck.Beer. At the end of December, we'll give away 10 free patches. 