Leukocytes in Urine: What You Should Know A  complete blood cell (CBC)  test often includes a measurement of the level of leukocytes, or white blood cells (WBCs). Higher levels of leukocytes in the bloodstream may indicate an infection. This is because WBCs are part of the  immune system , and they help fight off disease and infection. Leukocytes may also be found in a  urinalysis , or a urine test. High levels of WBCs in your urine also suggest that you have an infection. In this case, your body is trying to fight off an infection somewhere in your urinary tract. Usually, that means the  bladder  or the urethra, which is the tube that carries urine from the bladder. Leukocytes in the urine could also suggest a  kidney infection . Infections or obstruction in the urinary tract or bladder may cause you to have an increased amount of leukocytes in your urine. Infections may be more severe if you re  pregnant , which increases the odds of developing problems such as  urinary tract infections (UTIs) . If you re pregnant and have an infection in your urinary tract, it s important to receive treatment because it could complicate your pregnancy. You re at risk for developing a bacterial infection in your bladder if you hold your urine too long before relieving yourself. Repeatedly holding in urine can stretch the bladder too much. Over time, that makes your bladder less likely to empty fully when you go to the bathroom. When urine remains in the bladder, it raises the chances that bacteria will increase in number, which may lead to a bladder infection. Uncomplicated cystitis is another name for a urinary infection that s limited to the bladder in healthy people who aren t pregnant. Kidney stones , a tumor in the pelvis, or some other type of blockage in the urinary tract may also cause more leukocytes to appear. Leukocytes in urine don t necessarily cause symptoms on their own. If you do have leukocytes in your urine, your symptoms will vary depending on the condition that is causing the leukocytes to build up in your urine.  The symptoms of a UTI include: Obstructions in the urinary tract can cause a range of symptoms depending on the location and type of obstruction. In most cases, the main symptom is pain on one or both sides of the abdomen. Kidney stones may cause similar symptoms as a UTI but may also include  nausea ,  vomiting , and intense pain. Women tend to be a greater risk for urinary tract infections, and, therefore, more likely to have leukocytes in their urine. Pregnant women have an even higher risk. Men can develop these infections, too. Having an  enlarged prostate , for example, raises the risk of UTIs in men. Anyone who has a compromised immune system may also be at higher risk for any type of infection. If you re healthy, you can still have elevated leukocytes in your bloodstream and urine. A normal range in the bloodstream is between 4,500-11,000 WBCs per microliter. A normal range in the urine is lower than in the blood, and may be from 0-5 WBCs per high power field (wbc/hpf).  If your doctor suspects you have a UTI, they ll likely ask you to provide a urine sample. They ll test the urine sample for: You re bound to have a few WBCs in your urine even when you re healthy, but if a urine test identifies levels above 5 wbc/hpf, it s likely you have an infection. If bacteria are detected, your doctor may perform a  urine culture  to diagnose the type of bacterial infection you have. A urine test can also aid in the diagnosis of kidney stones. An  X-ray  or  CT scan  can help your doctor see the stones. Your treatment will depend on the cause of your elevated leukocyte levels in your urine.  If you re diagnosed with any type of bacterial infection, your doctor will most likely advise you to take antibiotics. If this is the first time you ve had a UTI or if you get UTIs infrequently, then a short-term course of antibiotics is appropriate.  If you get recurrent UTIs, your doctor may prescribe a longer course of antibiotics and further testing to see if there are specific reasons for repeat infections. For women, taking an antibiotic after sexual intercourse may be helpful, but you should only take prescription medications as recommended by your doctor. In addition to antibiotics, increasing your fluid intake can help flush out a UTI. Drinking more water may seem unappealing if urinating is painful, but it can help speed up the healing process.  If an obstruction, such as a tumor or kidney stone, is causing the high leukocyte levels, you may need a surgical procedure.  If you have small kidney stones, increasing the amount of water you drink can help flush them out of your system. Passing stones is often painful.  Sometimes, larger stones are broken up using  sound waves . Surgery may also be necessary to remove large kidney stones. If the blockage occurs due to a tumor, treatment options may also include surgery,  chemotherapy , or  radiation .  If diagnosed early and treated thoroughly, UTIs usually clear up in a short amount of time. Kidney stones are also treatable.  Benign tumors  or other growths in the urinary tract may also be treated, but they may require surgery and recovery time. Cancerous growths may require longer-term treatment, as well as monitoring to watch for the spread of cancer to other parts of the body. One of the easiest ways to help keep your urinary tract free of infections or kidney stones is to  stay hydrated . Drink several glasses of water per day, but talk with your doctor about what amount of water is best for you. If you re frail or you have a condition such as heart failure, your doctor may recommend that you limit your fluid intake. If you re active or pregnant, you may need to drink more water every day. Eating cranberries and drinking  cranberry juice  may help lower your risk of developing UTIs. That is because a substance in cranberries  may help protect Trusted Source  your bladder and make it more difficult for certain bacteria to stick to your urinary tract.  Learn more: 7 Best remedies for bladder infection  Tell your doctor if you notice anything unusual about your urine, such as its  color ,  smell , or any  discomfort  you experience while urinating. Don t wait. A urinary tract infection that starts in the urethra can spread to the bladder and kidneys, which makes the problem much more serious and can lead to complications. LetsGetChecked offers at-home tests for kidney function and performance. Get free shipping, medical support, and fast results from accredited labs.  6 sources collapsed Learn more about leukopenia, including its symptoms, causes, and how you can treat it. Here are six home remedies to prevent and treat UTI (Urinary Tract Infections). These are very common, and can be painful or even dangerous. White blood cells are an important part of your body’s immune system. Read more on two tests that can help diagnose disease by measuring your white… A urinalysis is a laboratory test to detect problems with your body that can show signs in your urine. Problems with your lungs, kidneys, urinary… Do you have a bladder infection? Learn about seven remedies for bladder infections that can ease symptoms and get rid of the infection. Some of these… Learn about the symptoms and causes of kidney infection, plus how this potentially serious condition is treated. If you have a healthy urinary system, holding your pee is generally safe. But doing so over prolonged periods of time may cause complications. Learn… A complete blood count, or CBC, measures several components of your blood and can help diagnose a broad range of conditions, from anemia and to cancer. Urinary tract infections are common for pregnant women. Here’s a look at the symptoms and treatment options.  Pregnancy can make women more prone to infection. Here’s a list of common complications and options for treatment.  Fitness and nutrition tips, health news, and more. Your  privacy  is important to us 