10. Wipeout 2097 (PS1, 1996): Stuff's Best Games Ever: The 25 best PlayStation games of all time | Stuff The original  Wipeout  might have introduced the series' iconic anti-gravity racing premise, but its sequel  Wipeout 2097  gave the game a heart and soul – and perhaps most importantly, bite. The result is flashy and fun, not to mention aggressive and challenging, with impeccable visual design and one of the greatest soundtracks ever assembled for a game. It's still the high-water mark for this excellent franchise. Widely regarded as one of the best fighters of all time,  Tekken 3  landed in PlayStation gamers’ homes a year after it first entered the world in arcade cabinet-form. Its side-scrolling fighter action threw in an element of 3D depth, allowing players to dodge attacks by jumping towards the background, and its roster of characters was about as diverse as you can get.  We each had our favourites of course, but we were always rather fond of Paul Phoenix’s incredible hair and Yoshimitsu’s sword-bouncing madness. Yes, we mashed the buttons in panic-stricken rage, but thankfully the on-screen action was still thrilling to behold. Nathan Drake has led a rather exciting life in gaming, and we've enjoyed every moment of it along the way. But  Uncharted 4: A Thief's End  sees the hero hang up his gun holster for seemingly the last time – and it's an absolutely brilliant send-off. Not only does  Uncharted 4  wrap up Drake's story with an array of thrilling missions, but it also adds new strategic tweaks to the formula, offers  amazing  graphics, and has really fabulous character interactions. It's not  our all-time favourite  Uncharted , but it's damn close. Some would say  Sensible Soccer  was the best footie game ever back in the 16-bit days. Some would argue that  FIFA 15  on PS4 takes the honours. But for many, many people it's  PES  from about 2001-2004. Why  Pro Evo 3  specifically? Well it's the one with Pierluigi Collina on the front, for starters. But beyond that it nailed the balance between exciting goalfests and more realistic tactical battles, expanded the superb Master League and improved the graphics to the extent that some of the players really did look vaguely like those they were supposed to be. We could easily have picked  PES 4 , which further expanded things and added a load of licensed teams, but it's  3  that we remember most fondly on account of the sheer joy we got from crafting an eight-pass move finished with a flourish by a number 9 who looked a bit like Ruud Von Nistelroum. The first  Gran Turismo  properly shook up the racing game genre with its utterly unbelievable graphics and simulation physics, but it’s the second game that casts the longest shadow over every car game that's been released ever since. That’s because it combined that revolutionary realism and presentation with a huge package that included 27 tracks and no less than 650 cars. It was bewildering, big and brilliant. It still is. 