Siegburg/Bonn to Mulhouse We and  partners  use cookies and your location for analytics, advertising purposes, and to improve your experience. See  here  for choices. The best prices from hundreds of train and coach companies Join millions of people who use us every day Travel to thousands of destinations in 45 countries Search all times and prices for today Photo :  JoachimKohlerBremen ,  under licence   CC BY-SA 4.0 The Deutsche Bahn Group is owned by the German State and controls the majority of rail traffic in Germany as well as in many border regions of the country. Every year, Deutsche Bahn transports several billion passengers and many stations in Germany are served exclusively by DB trains, including the ICE, IC and EC fleet. Photo :  Ctruongngoc ,  under licence   CC BY-SA 3.0 SNCF is the national train operator of France. It operates all domestic trains and routes across France, as well as international services to Spain and Germany. There are three different types of domestic trains that operate under the SNCF banner – TGV (high-speed, full-service trains that connect the major cities in France), Intercités (usually a more frequent stopping service, but with all the amenities), and TER (regional train services with basic onboard facilities). Most of the train companies across Europe release their tickets around three to six months in advance, many of which can be cheaper the earlier you book. If you know the dates you want to travel, you may be able to find some cheaper train tickets from Siegburg/Bonn to Mulhouse by booking early. § Many of the train services in Europe are also popular commuter services, lots of train companies increase ticket prices during “peak hours” (generally between 06:00 – 10:00 and 15:00 – 19:00 on weekdays). If you can, consider travelling outside of peak hours to find lower priced tickets. On some of the busier routes, you might also have the option to take a slower or connecting train. It may take a little longer than some high-speed or direct services, but if you have a little extra time on your hands, you might find a cheaper fare. Plus, you &# x27;ll have more time to enjoy the view of the countryside! Take a look at  günstige Bahntickets  to check when European train operators release their special deals and offers to see if you can find cheap tickets for your journey. For specific information about how to get your hands on cheap tickets, check out our  European train tickets  hub. The average journey time by train between Siegburg/Bonn and Mulhouse is 4 hours and 32 minutes, with around 25 trains per day. The journey time may be longer on weekends and holidays, so use our  Journey Planner  on this page to search for a specific travel date. The fastest journey time by train from Siegburg/Bonn to Mulhouse is 3 hours and 41 minutes. Train tickets from Siegburg/Bonn to Mulhouse can start from  as little as €88.90  when you book in advance and are usually more expensive when purchased on the day. Prices can also vary depending the time of day, route and class you book. No, there are no direct train services from Siegburg/Bonn to Mulhouse. Travelling from Siegburg/Bonn to Mulhouse by train will require a minimum of 1 change. The first train from Siegburg/Bonn to Mulhouse leaves at 04:36. Times and services may vary during weekends and holidays. The last train from  Siegburg/Bonn  to  Mulhouse  leaves at 23:14. Trains that depart in the early morning hours or very late evening may be sleeper services, time and services may also vary during weekends and holidays. Trains travelling from Siegburg/Bonn to Mulhouse cover a distance of around 339km during the journey. We help customers across Europe make more than 172,000 smarter journeys every day. Trainline 