Alpacasso Flower Crown Kids Alpaca Plush Collection (Big) | Tokyo Otaku Mode Shop Select Version US $27.99 Currently, there is no plan for this product to be restocked. Alpacasso  are very popular of course in Japan, but also in the United States!  Alpacasso  are kawaii characters inspired by  Alpaca , social herd animals! These rosy-cheeked  Alpacasso  plushies seem to have been relaxing in a field of flowers! Each are adorned with a cute flower crown. White, Beige, Peach ( Momo -chan), and Flower (Hana-chan) look like best friends! White and Beige are boys, whereas Peach and Flower are girls with cute eyelashes! Flower is the white  Alpacasso  with a crown of all pink flowers. Collect them all to add the cheerfulness of spring to your collection. These are top-quality, genuine  Amuse  Alpacasso plushies from Japan and they often sell-out extremely fast, so we recommend ordering yours right away! This product cannot be shipped to the following countries due to copyright and other region restrictions: Belarus, Japan, Pakistan. We ship via fast and trackable shipping services. Packages from our US warehouse are shipped via USPS. Packages from our warehouse in Japan may be shipped via EMS, SAL Parcel, SAL Small Packet Registered, or Air Small Packet Registered. Not all shipping methods are available for every order. Click here  for more information on each shipping method and their limitations. Please note, some countries do not accept EMS or SAL packages. If your country is not listed, please  contact us . Sorry, there were no matches This is so cute and lovely soft and cuddly, the flower crown is so nice too. Have a sneak preview at the International Tokyo Toy Show 2016! Have the adorable dreams of otaku worldwide become real?! A surprising Alpacasso 100-plushie set is here! The TOM Premium Shop is offering items at prices up to 80% off, alongside free shipping coupons! This is a special time double offer that won’t last! Check for details on how to get massive discounts! *Alpacasso: The Origin*, a movie based on the popular plushie series Alpacasso, was released on April 1! FOLLOW US Shipping Japan's finest OTAKU goods to the world! That is the Tokyo Otaku Mode Shop mission! To live up to it, TOM's experienced buyers carefully select high-quality, beautifully designed products that are always authentic. Item has been added to the cart. 20,000+ MEMBERS STRONG Your  30-day free trial  will  AUTO-RENEW at $14.99 (for 90 days) . In exchange, you’ll receive  $16.50 TOM Points  each time. This discussion section is a place for TOM members to talk and discuss the product. >Feel free to post your thoughts on any expectations, excitement, etc. regarding this product!< p> Important:  Note that while this section will be somewhat monitored, personal topics related to your own orders, customer support related issues, and requests related to sales and promotion of the item are not guaranteed to be answered in a timely fashion by TOM staff. If you have an inquiry related to the TOM Shop rather than purely about the product, please contact us through the  contact form . Comments that are not in accordance with the Guidelines and/or that violate TOM’s Terms of Use and/or other policies are eligible to be reported or removed. >Comment removal is at the sole discretion of TOM.< p> Please do not: These guidelines may be revised at any time without prior notice. >Please <a href="https: /otakumode.com/inquire">contact us  if you have any questions about a comment or the Guidelines. This discussion section is a place for TOM members to talk and discuss the product. >Feel free to post your thoughts on any expectations, excitement, etc. regarding this product!< p> Important:  Note that while this section will be somewhat monitored, personal topics related to your own orders, customer support related issues, and requests related to sales and promotion of the item are not guaranteed to be answered in a timely fashion by TOM staff. If you have an inquiry related to the TOM Shop rather than purely about the product, please contact us through the  contact form . Comments that are not in accordance with the Guidelines and/or that violate TOM’s Terms of Use and/or other policies are eligible to be reported or removed. >Comment removal is at the sole discretion of TOM.< p> Please do not: These guidelines may be revised at any time without prior notice. >Please <a href="https: /otakumode.com/inquire">contact us  if you have any questions about a comment or the Guidelines. The price in local currency reflects yesterday's exchange rate. Actual cost may vary. Learn More About “Check-out Later” This feature allows you to hold the items in your cart for 24 hours and complete your purchase through email. Your order is not complete until you complete your purchase through your email. For more details, visit our  help center . Delete Review Are you sure you want to permanently delete this Review? Cancel Delete 