Lubricants for Food Industry - Eni eni.com Homepage > Products  &  Services brad(); Eni  has developed a new lubricants  food grade  line that meets the needs of food, pharmaceutical, cosmetics and pet food industry.  The utilization of Eni lubricants "food grade" allows to: Eni food grade lubricant line is formulated only with raw materials included in FDA Group 21 CFR 178.3570 *, approved and registered by NSF ** such as H1, or "Authorized for applications where is possible the accidental contact with food".  The NSF Mark is the guarantee that one of most respected, independent certification organizations approves the product. The NSF Mark is recognized by consumers, producers, retailers and worldwide regulatory agencies.  Eni food grade lubricants line produced in a plant certified according to ISO 21469.  This International Standard specification, is the guide line for hygiene requirements necessary to develop, produce, utilize and handle the H1 lubricants. These lubricants may get accidentally in contact with products and packaging utilized for food for animal, pharmaceuticals, cosmetics and human food production. *F.D.A. (Food and Drug Administration) is a US governmental agency. The purpose of F.D.A. is the regulation of food and pharmaceutical products, protection of public health through regulations and the control of the products placed on the market.  **N.S.F (National Sanitation Foundation) is an American institution, founded in 1944, which deals of registration and verification of suitable lubricants in the food industry. Share Eni Profile Sustainability Contacts Automotive Lubricants Industrial Lubricants Marine Lubricants Distributors Car Dealers / Workshop Truck Dealer / Workshop Transport Marine Online lubricants store Your Career Opportunities We are an energy company.    We are working to build a future where everyone can access energy resources efficiently and sustainably. Our work is based on passion and innovation, on our unique strengths and skills, on the quality of our people and in recognising that diversity across all aspects of our operations and organisation is something to be cherished. We believe in the value of long term partnerships with the countries and communities where we operate. 