AP English Literature and Composition: The Course | AP Central – The College Board Updates to CED, Rubrics, and Scoring Guidelines  The  AP English Literature and Composition CED  has been updated, along with the  rubrics  and CED sample question  scoring guidelines . Please refer to the  errata sheet  for details about the specific updates that were made. A  simplified rubric document  (without decision rules and scoring notes) is also now available, featuring a single-page rubric for each question. New AP Resources AP Classroom is now available. Designed with AP educators, it helps you provide students daily practice and personalized feedback throughout the year. Sign in to access AP unit guides with aligned resources, topic questions, personal progress checks, the progress dashboard, and your question bank. Sign In to AP Classroom AP English Literature and Composition is an introductory college-level literary analysis course. Students cultivate their understanding of literature through reading and analyzing texts as they explore concepts like character, setting, structure, perspective, figurative language, and literary analysis in the context of literary works. AP English Literature and Composition Course and Exam Description Walk-Through AP English Literature and Composition Course and Exam Description—Fall 2019 AP English Literature and Composition CED Errata Sheet This document details the updates made to the course and exam description (CED) in September 2019. It includes printable copies of the updated pages, which can be used as replacement sheets in your CED binder. AP English Literature and Composition Course at a Glance Excerpted from the AP English Literature and Composition Course and Exam Description, the Course at a Glance document outlines the topics and skills covered in the AP English Literature and Composition course, along with suggestions for sequencing. AP English Literature and Composition CED Scoring Guidelines  One-Page AP English Literature and Composition Scoring Rubrics This is a simplified version of the longer scoring rubric document, with the decision rules and scoring notes taken out. This document features a student-friendly single-page rubric for each free-response question. AP English Literature and Composition Rubrics with Decision Rules and Scoring Notes This document features general scoring criteria that apply to each of the three free-response questions, regardless of specific question prompt. Originally published in June 2019, it was updated in September 2019 for clarity. Excerpt from the novel Lucy by Jamaica Kincaid The course content is organized into units that have been arranged in a logical sequence. This sequence has been developed through feedback from educators as well as analysis of high school and college courses and textbooks. The units in AP English Literature and Composition scaffold skills and knowledge through three genre-based, recurring units. This course framework provides a description of what students should know and be able to do to qualify for college credit or placement. The AP English Literature and Composition curriculum is made up of nine units. As always, you have the flexibility to organize the course content as you like.   The updated AP English Literature and Composition framework included in the course and exam description outlines distinct skills that students should practice throughout the year—skills that will help them learn to read texts critically.   Higher education professionals play a key role developing AP courses and exams, setting credit and placement policies, and scoring student work. The  AP Higher Education site  features information on recruitment and admission, advising and placement, and more. This chart  shows recommended scores for granting credit, and how much credit should be awarded, for each AP course. Your students can look up credit and placement policies for colleges and universities on the  AP Credit Policy Search . Meet the  Development Committee  for AP English Literature and Composition. AP Classroom AP English Literature and Composition Classroom Resources AP English Literature and Composition Teacher Community AP English Literature and Composition Frequently Asked Questions © 2019 The College Board  |  PSAT/NMSQT is a registered trademark of the College Board and National Merit Scholarship Corporation. 