TG Ascent - TG Developers at Hosa Road, Bangalore Hosa Road, Bangalore  53.85 Lakhs June 2020 TG Ascent, a project with boundless innovations, has come into existence by one of the most remarkable builders, TG Developers. Comprising of contented and sophisticated Apartments with a soothing situation, it comes at reasonable prices. It is positioned at Bangalore and it inclines to make an easy and comfortable living. LandMark: Near Rayasandra Lake or ACTS School Designed with creativity and built with passion, T.G.Ascent is a unique residential lifestyleExperience from T.G.Developers. Planned to perfection to effuse unmatched comfort, with an eye to the minutest details, T.G.Ascent promises to fill your senses with luxury and serenity. An abode with privileged amenities and proximity to IT Parks, hospitals and schools, T.G.Ascent is a rare opportunity for uncompromised living. Relax in lush gardens, Sprint on the jogging track, get fit in the gym, take a dip in the swimming pool, host a party in the posh club house, practice cricket , compete in a game of basketball and many more activities to make sure you live your life daily to the fullest. Established in the year 2012 by Mr.Sandeep Kumar S, T.G.Developers is an ISO 9001:2008 certified Real Estate Development Company. In a short span of 4 years , T.G.Developers has 2,45,000 sft of completed residential space and 3,20,000 sft of residential space under various stages of construction. Our portfolio consists of approximately 7,25,000 sft of residential space to be launched in various projects in the year 2016. We are a customer centric team and push ourselves that extra step to provide complete customer satisfaction. Hosa Road, Bangalore 3/5, Devarachikahalli Main Road,  Bannerghatta Road, Bangalore Content provided by TG Developers.      Info Edge (India) Ltd. disclaims all warranties against infringement. Land Starting at Availability Ready to Move Project Area 30.00 Acres No. Of Towers  Towers No. Of Floors/ Units  Floors | 400 Units 