Seaside Apartments at Las Vistas Tenerife - Accessible Spain Travel View on map Located at the  Las Vistas  promenade in Los Cristianos, these wheelchair accessible villas in Tenerife offer a great combination of comfort and recreation. The  six beach-houses complex  called “Casas de Playa” are located 30 minutes drive from the  Tenerife South Airport  and consist of houses with beach and ocean views and other located just behind in second line, featuring spacios rooms, fully equipped kitchen and outside patios. All houses are wheelchair accessible being suitable for anyone with reduced mobility. All six houses offer similar facilities and have similar structure. Apartment 1 can host up to 5 people featuring two bedrooms with twin beds and a sofa-bed. Apartment 2 also has two twin bedroom and includes an articulated electric bed. Each apartment offers different distribution and beds can be adjusted as doubles or twins. The area of Las Vistas (Los Cristianos) offers a great variety of  restaurants and bars , as well as a close-by Shopping Mall. The beautiful beach of  Las Vistas  is probably the most accessible beach area in Spain and it is fully equipped with ramps, adapted toilets, amphibious chairs and staff offering support for bathing. This apartment features two bedrooms with two beds each, a living room with a sofa bed, satellite TV and internet, a bathroom with wheel-in shower, a dining area and a kitchen equipped with a large fridge, oven, microwave, electric coffee maker, kettle and washing machine. The garden has a patio area with deck chairs . Spacious and quiet house with a beautiful patio and garden. The beach is just 20 metres away and it has two twin-bed bedrooms, one with an  articulated electric bed . The kitchen includes a large fridge, oven, microwave, electric coffee maker and kettle. The spacious living room has a satellite TV and internet connection while the one bathroom has a wheel-in shower. The garden includes deck chairs and a large table that comfortably seats six people. View on map Your service is professional and well organised, keep up the good work! We would not hesitate to use you again. Itinerary was great, with panoramic views of the city, the old quarter and the wonderful Guggenheim museum. Access was very good, the route through the old town was very well planned to be as flat as possible. I would highly recommend you and your company to anyone requiring accessibility travel support.  Your assistance made our holiday travel in Spain effortless. Thank you again for all your help   I would never have found this hotel without you. Everything was perfect: walk-in shower with fold down seat, ground floor room, extremely helpful people in reception and fabulous food for breakfast. Sonia, thank you very much for our tour in Vigo. Our guide was very knowledgeable and helpful. I will definitely use you again when we are back in Spain  Accessible Spain Travel.  All rights reserved. 