DOOGEE Mobile Phones Price List in the Philippines December 2019 | Priceprice.com What ' s been going on with DOOGEE Mobile Phones lately? We ' re here to give you the answers! You don ' t want to miss out on all the trending items of November 2019.  Look for popular products, for great prices. Most viewed :  Y8 ,  MIX , and  N20  got the most views last month. How long will this trend last?  New items :  There was 1 product added last month. It was  S40 Lite .  Latest discounts :  Y200  had the biggest price drop last month. Must be a great deal. Get your hands on it while it lasts!  4.3 (1) 4.0 (1) 5.0 (1) 3.8 (2) 4.1 (1) 5.0 (1) 4.0 (1) 4.0 (3) 4.1 (2) 4.0 (3) Show all products Page 1 of 3 Kids Gift Christmas SALE Grab your wallet and get ready to shop your gifts for Christmas to SAVE more budget. What are you waiting for?! New Lazada Best Deals Flash SALE Up to 90% OFF Watch out for your favorite items from fashion, accessories, groceries, gadgets and many more at great prices. Collect yours now and SAVE more budget. New Enjoy 25% OFF On Your First Shopping Shop items from Zalora ' s mainshop and avail 25% discount.Use the given code upon your checkout to SAVE more budget. Hurry! Our quest for a true bezel-less smartphone might end with the DOOGEE MIX 4 which has a sliding display and in the normal condition hides the selfie camera and sensors. Interestingly the camera, however, can be used after sliding down the display. Read more DOOGEE Mobile Phones > Y8 Gamit ko sya ngaun, magnda full display sya, medyo bulky. Kaya din yung mga games like Ros, mobile legends without lag, na max setting pa. medyo mainit nga lang pero doesnt affect sa performance, d  ... Read more DOOGEE Mobile Phones > X60L This is the awsome phone i ever had thanks to priceprice and lazada your the best the display is awsome to. DOOGEE Mobile Phones > X5 Pro nabili q doogee x5 pro q sa lazada worth 2,166...dhil sa voucher ng crystalawaking 2,466 xia eh....OK n phone 2 wlang lag sa online games like mobile legends... nkakalaro aq ng high graphics games  ... Read more Hey guys, is this for real? Because I ' m planning to get a new smart phone for gaming. I don ' t care about the camera but this bezel-less phone is amazing for just 6000-10,000 PHP. Good afternoon sa inyong lahat, paano po ba ang gagawin kung meron pong mga software updates? Thank you sa inyo. ngayon lang ako nakita doogee quality ba yan DOOGEE Mobile Phones is a fast-rising brand coming up in the smartphone industry. Their products are all about top-end specs and bargain price tags. It has captured quite a bit of market in the Philippines, going past a few premium existing brands. Read on. DOOGEE has come up as a leading smartphone manufacturer with high-end devices at exceptionally bargain price tags. A Chinese multinational, DOOGEE Mobile Phones are among the more popular ones in the Chinese market. Working from Shenzhen, they are going global with a new range of products along with their flagship DOOGEE MIX.  DOOGEE Mobile Phones are a notch above other competitors. Although they concentrate on giving their products the additional USP of affordability, they steer clear manufacturing entry-level products. Instead of just affordability, these devices score high on value-for-features which is just what their range of products exhibit. DOOGEE MIX is worth a special mention; it is their flagship device. DOOGEE has progressively integrated multiple industry-leading features and specifications into this device. So far, first looks are enough to make a buyer think about going for this device. The 5.5-inch Super AMOLED display is the only one of its kind with a curving bezel-less display similar to a Samsung Galaxy S8's Infinity Display.Performance comes from a 2.5 GHz Helio P25 processor, 900 MHz industry-leading Mali-T880 GPU and 3380 mAh battery. The rear camera is a dual shooter setup. A 16 MP monochrome merges with an 8 MP RGB sensor. PDAF comes in at 0.1 seconds. With an additional Samsung ISOCELL Sensor, this device rates as one of the best shooting setups available.Storage configurations include 4 GB or 6 GB ROM along with 64 GB or 128 GB internal storage.  Android 7.0 Nougat along with all additional updates is compulsory. This is the Flagship and DOOGEE mobile phones have already hit the headlines with its curving Super AMOLED display. It's a powerhouse inside too with the latest Mali series GPU and the dual-camera setup is brilliant. DOOGEE MIX looks all set to make quite mark on the market.  For a company aiming to push beyond regional markets and into the international ones, it's important to have a strong range of products to appeal to a larger section of consumers. DOOGEE incorporates multiple high-value features while keeping the price considerably low. These are among the best of the lot.  Ergonomic but stunning, DOOGEE X10 runs on a 28nm 1.3 GHz MediaTek MT6570 Cortex A7 processor setup coupling with a Mali-400 series GPU.  The vibrant 5-inch HD display with 1000:1 contrast ratio draws power from a 3360 mAh battery.  Memory configurations include a 512 MB RAM along with an internal storage of 8 GB running an Android 6.0 inside. A 5 MP rear camera and a 2 MP front camera complete the camera setup. There are few low-end smartphones around which can match the sleek design and utilitarian performance of this device. Specs put it quite a bit above the entry level range but what will attract buyers is the bargain price tag. DOOGEE X9 series includes Pro and Mini configurations both with the only differences coming in the 5.5-inch SHARP HD and 5.0-inch HD Displays. A 2.5D Arc Glass protection up comes as standard. Both are curvaceous designs sporting dual-hue metal bordering and a smooth rear frame make both these devices look out of the ordinary. X9 series comes with D-Touch Fingerprint Sensor functions along with an Android 6.0 Marshmallow.  Performance comes from Quad-Core 1.3 GHz ARM Cortex A53 processor with a Mediatek MT6737 and a Mali-T720MP2 GPU - perfect for multi-tasking thanks to a standard 2 GB RAM configuration. Internal Storage comes in at 16 GB. Dual memory slots allow a maximum 64 GB of extendable storage. The 8 MP dual LED rear camera, and 5 MP 80-degree wide-lens front camera add more value to this device.  Power comes from 3000 mAh battery.  The list of specs along with the features this product comes with will be enough to draw buyers towards it.  Philippines are one of the most important markets for DOOGEE, and there's a high chance that these devices will come into it along with other ones. Buyers can expect the price tags to be well under what the specifications might render. Philippines customers do have quite a few manufacturers to choose from, but DOOGEE mobile phones do have higher end specs without compromising on affordability.  Narrow your search Brands/Maker More Brand New More Type More OS More SIM More Storage More RAM More Display Size More Main Camera More Shape More Color Price Range View Brands/Maker Brand New Type OS SIM Storage Display Size Shape Related Category More Copyright   Priceprice.com All rights reserved. (Produced by kakaku.com that is Japan's No.1 Comparison Website) 