At MyGlasses.com, Your Complete Satisfaction is Guaranteed! Authentic Brand-Name Designer Frames:  Guaranteed! Every pair of brand-name designer frames is guaranteed authentic. We purchase our frames from the same suppliers who serve upscale retailers like Bloomingdales and Saks Fifth Avenue. Each pair of frames comes in its MyGlasses.com offers a fabulous selection of the latest, most popular eyewear fashions from all of the world s top designers. You will always find what you re looking for in the MyGlasses.com online gallery. Original manufacturer s packaging, original case and includes the original manufacturer ' s warranty, all proof of your purchase s complete authenticity. You can be absolutely sure that every MyGlasses.com purchase is brand-new, never-worn, 100% authentic frames. Absolute Lowest Price:  Guaranteed! What s the difference between MyGlasses.com and our high-end retail competitors? We ve slashed our overhead by eliminating the fancy showrooms and brick-and-mortar stores. We believe you would rather shop from the comfort of your own home, while paying much lower prices for the exact-same authentic designer frames. In addition, we offer MyGlasses.com customers our Price Match Guarantee: If you can find the same eyeglasses or sunglasses frames for a lower price from any other authorized online eyewear store, we ' ll match their price. (For full details of our Price Match Guarantee, see Terms and Restrictions at the bottom of this page.) Problems-Free Online Purchasing:  Guaranteed! Being afraid of making online purchases is a thing of the past. Online retail has become a trillion-dollar industry. Shoppers love the broad selection and the convenience of shopping from home. One reason online shopping is now problems-free is the BuySAFE guarantee. BuySAFE is an exclusive seal of approval earned by the finest online retailers. MyGlasses.com is proud to carry the BuySAFE seal. We are one of the few online eyewear stores to fully comply with all of BuySAFE s strict standards. That means every MyGlasses.com purchase is automatically covered at no extra cost under the  BuySAFE triple guarantee * $100 price guarantee:  If the price goes down on your MyGlasses.com purchase within 30 days of your initial order, BuySAFE will pay you the difference up to $100. * $1,000 purchase guarantee : If there is any unresolved problem with your purchase, BuySAFE will reimburse you up to $1,000. * $10,000 ID theft protection:  If your personal information is mishandled, you are covered for damages up to $10,000. All personal and credit card information is protected by industry-standard Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) technology with 256-bit encryption so you can enjoy a completely safe shopping experience. Prescription Accuracy:  Guaranteed! Every MyGlasses.com order is filled with thorough attention to prescription accuracy. We pride ourselves on getting your glasses right the first time. Before we ship your glasses, your lenses are inspected by one of our licensed opticians. In the rare event that the glasses we make do not match your prescription, we will replace them at no cost to you. Your Complete Satisfaction:  Guaranteed! MyGlasses.com is one of the world s leading online optical stores thanks to our thousands of repeat customers. We want you to come back, which is why your complete satisfaction is so important to us. If you are not 100% satisfied with your purchase, you may exchange it or return it within 30 days of receipt.  (For more information, see our  Returns and Exchanges .) We love to hear from our customers. Contact us with any of your questions or concerns. Call a customer care specialist at 866-398-0123, or email us at customerservice@MyGlasses.com. ---- 5. Other rules and exclusions  Applies only to frames; prescription lenses are excluded.  The competitor s product must be the exact brand, style, color and size of the  MyGlasses.com product you are ordering.  The competitor must be an authorized U.S. dealer of eyewear frames. Amazon, Ebay and other online auction sites do not qualify.  We will not match a price that is below our wholesale cost.  We will not match a price that is due to a misprint or false advertising.  Applies only to a competitor ' s actual retail price, not prices that are artificially low due to a promotion or rebate.  Prices that have been discounted due to the Price Match Guarantee cannot be further reduced by promo codes and other discounts. 2014-2019  © MyGlasses. All rights reserved.  Privacy Policy Terms of Use 5724  E 7th St,   90803  Long Beach, USA 2014-2019  © MyGlasses. All rights reserved.  Privacy Policy Terms of Use 