100 best places to live and launch - 3. Buford, Ga. (3) - FORTUNE Small Business Safe neighborhoods, affordable real estate and a relaxed pace, along with easy access to major highways, draw Georgians to lakeside Buford, 35 miles northeast of Atlanta. Besides being home to an artist colony with 40 working painters, photographers, sculptors, and other creative types, Buford also draws entrepreneurs: about 30 new startups launch every month in this 16-square-mile city, according to Buford's occupational tax clerk.  As part of Gwinnett County, Buford is involved in the region's greater effort to develop its presence in industries such as healthcare, information technology, distribution and trade, and advanced communications. Depending on the business, owners may find tax exemptions (for instance, a 100% sales tax break for qualified manufacturing equipment), tax credits (such as the job tax credit for certain tech industries creating at least 25 jobs in a single year), and assistance in permit acquisition and hiring. Active small business organizations, such as the nonprofit  Buford Business Alliance , bring member owners together for networking events and to promote tourism in the area. Besides lakeside activities such as boating and fishing, the area downtown bustles with restaurants, boutiques, and art galleries. There's also the Mall of Georgia, the largest in the Southeast, with 15 million visitors a year.  -Peter McDougall Interactive map: Buford, Ga. Find homes for sale in Buford, Ga. NEXT: 4. Marina del Rey, Calif. Most stock quote data provided by BATS. Market indices are shown in real time, except for the DJIA, which is delayed by two minutes. All times are ET. Disclaimer. Morningstar: © 2018Morningstar, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. 2018. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile Association: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S & P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S & P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard  &  Poor &# x27;s and S & P are registered trademarks of Standard  &  Poor &# x27;s Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices © S & P Dow Jones Indices LLC 2018and/or its affiliates. © 2018Cable News Network. A WarnerMedia Company. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service is provided to you.  Privacy Policy. Do Not Sell 