Ausangate to Lake Sibinacocha: Remote Trekking in Peru | Ayni Peru Expedition Trekking along Lake Sibinacocha, Peru Ausangate-Lake Sibinacocha is a challenging, high-altitude and stunningly gorgeous route, beginning just four hours outside of Cusco.  Along with the opportunity to hike along the Ausangate massif, the final days of this route features beautiful, glacier-fed Lake Sibiniacocha, the 22 nd  highest lake in the world. This is a great route for anyone looking for a remote and adventurous trek in Peru, with tons of options for side trips and extra climbs to surrounding glaciers and passes!  Our standard itinerary is 6 days and 5 nights, but can be modified to include an array of exciting alternatives and additional day trips along the way.  Please contact us on order to customize your trek itinerary at  info@ayni-peru.com .  The detailed itinerary can be found on our website:  http://ayni-peru.com/ausangate_sibinacocha6d.php Llama and alpaca herding along the route Looking for a truly unique adventure during your time in Peru? Consider combining a Sibinacocha trek with an extension to Marcapata.  Doing so allows you to experience an enormous diversity of climates, as the trek descends from the glaciers of Sibinacocha to the high jungle town of Marcapata.  Marcapata is a fascinating, little-visited area, with a beautiful colonial church and hot springs.  From there, trekkers can choose either to return to Cusco or continue to Puerto Maldonado and the Amazon lodge of their choice! This trek can depart any day of the week, April-November, and can easily be combined with a trip to Machu Picchu. Descending to Marcapata Ausangate Trekking: Woo-hoo! In  " Ausangate " New Trek Routes-Visit the Quelccaya Ice Cap! In  " Peru travel " What do I Pack for my Andean Trek!? In  " Ausangate Trek " Your email address will not be published.  Required fields are marked  * Comment Name  * Email  * Website Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email. View Full Site Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com. 