Raiders safety Karl Joseph will return from toe injury against Texans GET BREAKING NEWS IN YOUR BROWSER. CLICK HERE TO TURN ON NOTIFICATIONS. X Trending: ALAMEDA — Raiders rookie Karl Joseph, out the past four games with turf toe, said Tuesday that he will be back in the lineup for Saturday s Wild Card playoff game against the Houston Texans.  I’ve been wanting to play,  Joseph said.  I feel a lot better than I have in previous weeks so I definitely feel I’m ready to go this week. Nate Allen has started and played well the past four games in Joseph s absence, but he left Sunday s regular season finale with a concussion and remains in the protocol. The Raiders haven t announced his status for Saturday s game in Houston, but it could be tough for him to get back in time to face the Texans and Joseph indicated as much.  We’re going to be down a safety, so I’ve got to go,  Joseph said.  It s win or go home, so even though I’m still not 100 (percent), I definitely want to go. I don’t want to wait too long or it’ll be the offseason. Joseph s rookie season has been a bit up and down. He was eased in during training camp as he made his return from surgery to repair a torn anterior cruciate ligament he suffered his senior year at West Virginia.  The Raiders waited until the third game of the season to add their first round pick to the starting lineup, but he played pretty well once he was inserted. Despite starting only 10 games, he remains fifth on the team with 60 total tackles and had one interception.  It has been tough,  Joseph said of his first NFL season,  coming off the ACL surgery and then battling through this injury I had the past couple of weeks. Been up and down, but most important thing is we have been winning. Now we have a chance to be in the playoffs. I’m grateful for that and happy that I’ll be able to have a chance to go back out there. Joseph said he s never dealt with turf toe before and was surprised how debilitating it can be.  I never thought how serious it could be until you actually have it yourself,  Joseph said.  It’s a pretty hard injury. As a DB, you use your feet for everything. While being out was frustrating, he was comforted a bit by how well Allen played in his stead. With him likely out this weekend, Joseph is even more anxious to return.  I never like not playing,  he said.  I’m a competitor. I want to play. It’s been hard for me to not be able to be on the field. Nate’s definitely been playing very well for us. Him going down, that definitely got us short in the back end. I’ve been wanting to play. Get Morning Report and other email newsletters 