Top Tannersville Bed and breakfasts  &  Vacation Rentals | Airbnb® Very nice, clean place in a lovely area. Perfect for solo or duo travellers. Communication with Maria is perfect, she is nice and easy going. Maria’s place is so cute and welcoming. Very quiet and peaceful for a good nights sleep. We found plenty of food ...yummy food! Garlíc steakhouse was delicious but be ready to spend a little money. Antijos Colombian restaurant tasty food and decent prices. Everything was close and the community within her home and outside of it was very welcoming , kind, and friendly. Maria &# x27;s home is cozy, convenient, and safe! Highly Recommend this location. Good location and value for price. I booked this room for my husband and he has nothing but good things to say about it. - clean and comfortable!! Nice bedroom and private bath, super clean, quiet and wooded neighborhood, just what I needed! Maria was helpful with places to eat and visit during our stay. Since she and her family were camping while we were there we had the place to ourselves. Check-in was easy and we were very comfortable there. Her place was close enough to quite a lot of great restaurants and we visited Bushkill Falls while we were there. Plus, we saw tons of deer in Maria &# x27;s neighborhood! Great clean placr Private room House 2 1 East Stroudsburg, PA, United States To start off the house is extremely clean! Jenny is so nice and accommodating. The tv/dvd player wasn’t working and she had a new one over to us the same afternoon. The place is very roomy, good for a couple people, or a whole group to hangout at. It is also located extremely close to a lot of places such as the Outlets, and Camelback Mountain. We had an amazing time, and would definitely love to come back again! The home is very clean and has a great homey feel. I felt right at home. It is a very quiet location and if you &# x27;re looking for that solitude you are in for a big treat with this home. Jenny is very responsive and home then happy to be of help. The cost is a steal, most places go for twice the price and the quality of the home is absolutely amazing. If you &# x27;re looking for a spot in the mountain this is the place to be. Good location. Definitely coming back again! Great place to stay and explore, especially if it is the first time in this area! Entire home/apt Townhouse 10 2 Pocono Township, PA, United States Nice house close to all of the Poconos attractions. Convenient to grocery, shopping, restaurants, etc. Communicative host. Would definitely book again! Our new go-to house until we get our own in the poconos! This house was so comfortable! Everyone really enjoyed it from my parents to the little toddlers we had running around. It is very clean, the backyard is really nice, they literally provide you with almost everything which is super convenient. We had to give Richard a call and he answered and directed us right away. We felt safe, clean and comfortable. The outside grill and firepit is a great touch. The property is in a perfect location with a huge Weis supermarket, liquor store, a couple of little malls just a few mites away. Oh and the little note they left us was such a nice touch! the Checo family :) This home was so much better than we even expected and every detail was thought of. The beds were all super comfortable too which we haven’t found at any other home we have rented in the past. Thank you for a wonderful weekend!! We will definitely be back!! The Bunkhouse was absolutely beautiful and so much fun for a family vacation in the Poconos. The location was perfect and extremely convenient! Richard was a wonderful host and was always readily available for questions and concerns. My family and I had such a wonderful time staying at this house. Comfortably accommodated 12 people, 9 adults and 3 kids. I am definitely planning another trip to the Poconos in the near future and staying again at the Bunkhouse! Just arriving home from a fabulous girl &# x27;s weekend, and had to write a five-star review. Although we were initially surprised by the location, the home itself is absolutely perfect and is decorated so nicely. Richard was extremely responsive and offered helpful hints on working the hot tub, and even went above and beyond to recommend a winery in the area despite his own unfamiliarity. All of my guests had a wonderful time thanks to the beautiful accommodations! Thank you again! The house is pretty there is a lot of space but we didnt enjoy it as much because the host made multiple calls which made us feel like we were on surveillance so we did not enjoy as much as wed like. when we rented the house it said hotub included but later we found out that it was an extra fee for it and we got charged 2 days for something we only used a couple hours. The first day we stayed at the house but the second day we felt like we were forced to leave and arrive at night because of so many excess calls Second time staying here and it was wonderful!  Such a cozy home! A beautiful home that was even better than the pictures. The bunk room was a perfect place for the kids to play, they were safe in there without me having to hover over the baby who crawls on everything. The two bathrooms were newly tiled and I loved the farmhouse style. We walked to the ice-cream store on the corner. Everyone loved the hot tub and the patio was a great place to relax! Entire home/apt House 12 4 Tannersville, PA, United States My wife and I stayed here for a few nights to do some leaf peeping in the Poconos.  It is a very convenient location.  The large deck is great and the property is large enough to walk around.  The cabin is in perfect condition with a nice TV.  This place is a great value and we would definitely come here again. Couldn’t have been better. The cabin was beautiful and equipped with everything we needed and lots of lovely touches. Marijke was very helpful and the location was great. Clean and cozy cabin in a great location. Shopping and restaurants are close by while the cabin is private and peaceful. Marijke is a great host and has added special touches to make you feel like you are at home. The cabin is updated and has great outdoor space too!  We hope to be back for a longer visit! Great place,clean and cozy. Marijke was quick to answer any questions. Marijke is a great host. She was very accommodating and responsive. The cabin is also clean and cozy. Highly recommend! My first time using AirB & B, and was impressed! Marijke &# x27;s was super cute, clean, and exactly what we were looking for. She is an absolute pleasure to deal with, and just an overall cool person. We will definitely be booking her space again. Marijke is an amazing host,  quick to respond and her attention to detail is great.  The cabin was a little difficult to find but the location is perfect with plenty of deck space to relax and enjoy the beautiful Mornings and cool evenings.  There &# x27;s a firepit which was great to sit around and roast marshmallows and enjpy the night.  Everything was close by,  especially appreciated all the pamphlets our host provided to help us plan our days. We will definitely be coming back! Definitely recommend! Marijke was incredibly accommodating and allowed for me to arrive an hour or so after midnight while driving cross country, though I had arranged much earlier in the day. With little time to look, her place seemed like a very relaxing, restful experience, and it absolutely was just that. This cabin has been incredibly updated and is obviously very well taken care of. Marijke provided plenty of instruction for me to locate the cabin at night, and as a 30 year old female driving to a cabin in the poconos at night I still felt safe in the area. I was even gifted a bit of extra rest time last minute, which was so very helpful and something I don’t often ask for (nor do I ever mind if it isn’t logistically  possible), and her cleaning lady even adjusted her schedule a bit for me. Incredible host, wonderful Airbnb, excellent for all travelers; individuals, groups, families, and even same-day guests traveling solo with their service pup 👏🏼👏🏼👏🏼 Entire home/apt Cabin 6 3 Stroudsburg, PA, United States The highlight of Greg’s place is the tremendous value. It is almost like an entire home AirBnB rental as you have his huge finished basement to yourself with private bath and separate entrance with Smart Lock. Greg is very personable and spent a long time orienting me to his place and chatting. If you need another reason to rent this place Greg is a Navy veteran who served his country overseas! Thank you for your service Greg and for being a great host! Absolutely no issues and a stress-free stay. Very comfortable stay.  Greg communicated well and responded quickly. It was just what I needed for a short stay! I have been staying at this wonderful place a little longer than I expected but Greg and Sasha were very welcoming and made my stay so comfortable. It was a pleasure to be there. You have pretty much the entire basement to yourself. Cute little seating area nook to read or watch movies comfortably. The bathroom is big and offers everything you need for your stay. Everything is sparkly clean. So yes! I would definitely recommend this place. We enjoyed our stay in Greg &# x27;s place. It is a gated community and you can haven a pretty private stay in the basement. He has been a great host. He has got great pups. The place is beautiful. I had to cut ahort my trip because of some family emergency. But i loved the part i stayed there. Greg is a great host. Very accommodating. Nice clean and private room. Thank you! Awesome, Place upgraded Bathroom and PS4. Games are kinda old Private room House 2 1 East Stroudsburg, PA, United States Henry is great! He was an amazing host and was very accommodating. Place was outstanding and we had the best time. Henry’s place is a place where you can definitely get away from your regular life and feel comfortable. Lovely birthday weekend at Henry’s home. Henry was an excellent host, very quick to respond to any questions. The house was spotless and better than we expected for a night gateway with a group of friends! Great house! Super clean. Henry was very helpful! Great location, clean place with nice sleeping accomodations.  We loved the house!  I would definitely come back again. This is a great space! The house was very clean and comfortable and Henry was constantly available for any possible questions. You can expect a Safe, Neat, Clean, and Classy house that you and all your guests will fit comfortably in. The check in process is easy and Henry is very Reasonable when it comes to anything. Would Stay again Entire home/apt House 12 3 East Stroudsburg, PA, United States Had a great stay! Perfect for a weekend getaway to the poconos. Great hiking close by! Great place, better than advertised!  Would highly recommend this place to others! Very quiet place clean, great linens.  Close to shopping, wineries and hiking trails.  Would definitely stay again. Great place, very clean, nice decorations This location is well worth the trip to see. The area is absolutely beautiful, secluded, and definitely gives you more than what you pay for just in the views around you alone. I definitely recommend his spot for anyone trying to escape the business of the area and just relax in your down time. Close to everything, can &# x27;t ask for much more. This is a great location for wineries and hiking. The kitchen is no frills but decorated nicely and all the amenities for cooking. Beautiful wooded neighborhood with great sense of privacy. This place is a good, no-frills spot to lay your head. We loved that it was dog friendly and we were able to take our dog to nearby Delaware Water Gap and Camelback area for hiking and outdoor eateries. Mountain View Vineyard  & Winery is fantastic. We wished there was an outdoor space to hang out at the apartment but the outdoor space (backyard) belongs to the main house which of course we respected. The house is on a very quiet cul-de-sac and you’ll see deer wandering about, but there is a shopping center practically around the corner so you’re not totally in the middle of nowhere. Bottom line - if you’re looking to sit by a firepit and look at the stars at night this may not be the place for you. If you’re not the outdoorsy type it’s perfect. And it would be a great place to stay over the winter when you want to be close to Camelback and/or the Outlets! Entire home/apt Apartment 3 1 Stroudsburg, PA, United States Beautiful view! Home is just as beautiful as the pictures had depicted. 3 beds/no baths but no bathroom on the main level. 2 bedrooms (king bedroom and bunk beds) are downstairs as well as main bathroom. Den room (queen bed) is upstairs with its own bathroom. Warm/muggy up there but there &# x27;s a tower fan so that helps. There &# x27;s a tower fan in every bedroom (a major plus). Place was immaculately clean. Enough space for 12 people! 2 foam mattresses were provided in the big closet downstairs. They &# x27;re very comfortable. The unit itself is a corner unit and close to the gate/entrance and the office. Amenities were very nice. I highly recommend this place! The home was beautiful clean and spacious. I recommend this space if ever in the area Everything was as described. Beautiful home, very clean  &  spacious. The only downside is that there is only one AC in the living room, the second floor bedroom  &  basement bedrooms only have fans which makes it very humid at night. Place was as seen in the photos I really recommend it, it’s very clean and close to the places I wanted to go. La casa esta buena condiciones para una estadia en familia solo que tube cuanto problemas devido a la calor que hacia en cada cuarto en tiempo de calor deveria de aver aire acondicionado los cuarto son super caliente . Tambien tube problema con la televicion pero le pregunte a la duena y me dijo que me iva a reponder y no lo hizo cosas que tuvimos que conectar el celular para poder tener algo de entreteniemiento para los ninos . Deveria de ver poco mas de juego para ninos . gracias .. Entire home/apt Townhouse 12 3 Tannersville, PA, United States A beautiful apartment style air bnb complete with snacks, streaming services on the tv and the cozy smell of a wood fire. You get a bedroom, small lounge, eating area and full bath, all private. Inger was warm and easy going, I Would love to come back when we have more time! Great place for our brief stay while attending a wedding in the area.  A rustic space in a house built in the early 1900 &# x27;s. The house has great antique wide plank timber flooring.  We had everything we needed and more.  Thanks Inger :) Inger &# x27;s place is a perfect place for a weekend getaway. She was very friendly and our space was incredibly clean and tidy.   For a home that is listed as a  " private room " , you really feel like you have an  " entire place " . The upstairs is sectioned off and includes a breakfast room, an additional sitting room, the bedroom, and a full bathroom. Towels and toiletries are graciously provided. The space is both homey and very private. There is onsite parking as well. I would recommend staying here! A great place to stay! I had the whole second floor to myself, with a sitting room and breakfast nook. Everything was very clean and comfortable. Inger and her husband are very welcoming. Great value, too. So charmed!! Stayed two nights for a wedding that was a bit far from home. First impression was wow! Such a beautiful space to walk into from our long drive and if there was a word stronger than comfortable, Id use it! Warm, cozy, secure and so cute! The breakfast snacks from cereal to yogurt to loose leaf tea were very much enjoyed.  Really couldn &# x27;t have asked for anything more. Thank you again Inger for hosting us! You cant be disappointed if you choose her place :) she responds quickly, this was second time. it was great as expected. My stay at Inger’s has by far been my favorite Airbnb experience. Though we only stayed one night, she was the perfect host, responding quickly when I needed directional help and letting me know a light was still on in my car. The upstairs was cute, clean and provided everything we needed.  I’d absolutely stay at Inger’s again.  She gets my highest recommendation. Our stay was very pleasant.....having so much space with the extra rooms was great. Everything was very clean and comfortable and  the decor very rustic and quaint. Private room House 2 1 Stroudsburg, PA, United States This house is beautiful beyond words. Words and pictures don &# x27;t do it justice. Georgi and his wife are phenomenal hosts. They were always accessible for any questions we had. The house is immaculate with so many amenities provided. Staying at this house makes me want to move to this area. I can &# x27;t wait to come back in the future and stay here again. We were greeted to the house with a bottle of wine and chocolate to welcome us. They also gave us a nice note and a list of things to do and places to eat in the area. The grounds of this property are gorgeous as well with many outdoor things such as seating, a BBQ, a fire pit area and a swing set. It is the perfect home for families. It is in a great location with access to everything imaginable. The outlets are up the block as well as many restaurants and other shops near by. The outlets have two pop up wineries and a pop up brewery with delicious wine. We went to Bushkill falls which was beautiful as well. I sent this listing to many friends and family who stated they would certainly save it and visit in the future. I loved that they were pet friendly as well so I could travel with my fur baby. It made traveling so much easier. They even had a water bowl set up for him when we arrived! Thank you again and see you soon in the future! The house is absolutely beautiful! Extremely clean and well-designed space. Close to everything! Georgi was a great communicator. Thanks for the bottle of wine too! Ramones-Aviles Family had a Great time. Excellent condition with a lovely kitchen and awesome backyard. Would certainly stay again! Georgi’s place was very clean and tastefully decorated. The kitchen was stocked with all the amenities we could possibly need to make our trip with friends very comfortable. Entire home/apt House 9 3 Tannersville, PA, United States Had a great stay. The location was quiet and the neighbors were nice. House was very clean and nice inside. Would stay there again My mom and I came for a relaxing girls weekend and were able to have just that as a result of this wonderful place. There were extra special touches everywhere and everything was just so easy and well thought out. I would absolutely recommend this to anyone looking to get away to a place that’s peaceful and serene. With everything you will need in the home!!! Wish I could give it MORE stars!! Lymar and Venice have a lovely home and you will not be disappointed if you choose to stay at their home. Everything that they listed on the site  about there  home is exactly what me and my guest saw. Furthermore, they both went above and beyond for me and my guest and was available to  assist me with any questions when needed. Also, Lymar was even kind enough to assist me with directors to there lovely home. Also, as soon as we arrived we were greet by Venice and she showed us everything in the house and was even nice to provide bottle water bottles, a basket of snacks, a packet of local restaurants and activities to do within the area as well as a reminder list of rules and regulations of the house. Overall, my guest and I had a lovey time and we can not wait to book this place  again in the future.  SO CLEAN. EASY TO WORK WITH. GREAT LOCATION. WOULD DEFINITELY STAY AGAIN Wonderful place to stay! Very clean and welcoming. Extras like water in the fridge and k cups for coffee. All directions where written out perfectly! Would recommend to anyone Excellent Airbnb with great amenities. Very clean and comfortable This is a cozy apartment in the Poconos.  It was very clean and new.  It was perfect for my husband, son, and I.  The owner is in the adjoining house and is very sweet should you have questions or concerns. But she does not bother you in the least (we did not even know she was there).  The neighborhood has much wildlife along with two pools and a lake to swim in.  There is much to do which is a drive away (waterparks, hiking, swimming holes, kayaking etc).  We will be returning again in the future. The apartment was great and the neighborhood beautiful. Close to lots of attractions.  Entire home/apt Guesthouse 2 1 East Stroudsburg, PA, United States Adorable house nestled in the poconos . Close to everything !! Clean and warm-friendly Energy !! Wow!!! This place, the hosts and all of the personalized touches far exceeded our expectations. First, the photos do not do this place justice! We were looking for a reasonable getaway close to Camelback. What we received was so much more! Lisa and Rick were completely available from our time of booking to answer any questions and provide tips for local things to do. They also were completely accommodating and allowed us to check in early since we had to leave early Sunday morning, this was a lifesaver with young kids! Their place is just over ten minutes from Camelback and in a perfect location. Food store and other attractions all within five minutes. The house was modern, sparkling clean and immaculately decorated. It was cozy and gorgeous. The rooms are spacious and open and it was a perfect size for our family of five. Also, the house is appointed with plenty of items for baby and toddler so it makes packing a breeze! A brand new pack n play, sheets, high chair as well as all of the utensils/plates/cups you could want are available. Also the kitchen is fully stocked- you don’t need a thing! The beds are heavenly as well as the linens and we all slept great! We encountered a good amount of snow on our stay so my husband shoveled the driveway. As a sign of appreciation, Lisa and rick sent us a pizza dinner which was so thoughtful and such a nice touch. They are fabulous hosts who take pride in their home and will stop by to meet you and offer local recommendations. It was a wonderful home with wonderful hosts and we definitely will be back to visit again soon! This house is sparkling clean and makes for a delightful cozy mountain get away. Less than 10 minutes to camelback mountain for the skiers out there. The hosts are very responsive and wonderful to deal with. Hands down, one of the best Airbnb’s we have ever been to! We were there for only one night, but next time we will skip the resort and just stay there. They had everything for our infant—high chair, pack & play, baby dishes, and clean covers to put on the high chair. Aside from the baby stuff, they had brand new board games and a wireless speaker which made for a perfect night in. They had everything to make a nice family dinner— pots, pans, dishes, etc! We really loved how cozy and modern it was. They were also super nice and checked in on us. Would highly recommend this house! Lisa  &  Rick are Fabulous !!! There place is very tastefully done and Immaculate. If you need anything no problem. There response time is right on.  I recommend a stay here to everyone !!!!! Lisa and Rick’s place was GREAT! My boyfriend and I along with another couple spent the weekend there, and we couldn’t have asked for a better house. Very clean, very accessible, and great amenities. Lisa and Rick gave us awesome tips on places to eat around the area, and they were very quick to respond to all of our questions. They even brought over a bottle of wine for us for the weekend! Would recommend again and again!! Lisa and Rick have a beautiful home and were amazing hosts! Me and my friends visited the area for a couple’s ski trip to Camelback Mt and we are definitely hoping to visit again. Lisa and Rick showed great hospitality and were extremely thoughtful in treating us to local gifts (local wine, chocolate, etc.). The weekend we were visiting there was a winter storm (about 9-10 in of snow) and they were accessible by phone and made sure to check in to see if we needed anything. Overall, our skication was amazing all thanks to Lisa and Rick! We had such a lovely stay in Rick and Lisa’s home. They were so responsive and kept in touch with me the entire weekend. The house had plenty of amenities. We really didn’t have to worry about anything. The rooms were lovely and the beds were comfortable. The decor was so beautiful. They left recommendations for restaurants and bars in the area. I would definitely stay in this adorable place again! Entire home/apt Chalet 8 3 Pocono Township, PA, United States Great place and Maggie was so nice! Great place great host Maggie was such a great host. She was so thoughtful and went out of her way for me and my family. She made the stay even more memorable with personal touches for my children. She made us feel right at home. We will definitely return and stay there again!! Excellent tiny home nestled in the woods.  Was fun to see the wildlife.  When we first got the house was warm.  No A/C but we opened the windows and it cooled down to a comfortable temp.  Fresh air coming in was nice. Maggie &# x27;s place was the perfect place for our girl &# x27;s weekend trip!! The house is amazing, and close to so many attractions, the amenities are amazing, we will definitely be coming back for another girls trip!!!! A nice place to spend a day! I had a great time! Many things to do around the area. The house was beautiful and cozy. Beautiful place... loved it .. definitely more than I expected... I would love to come back :) Entire home/apt House 7 2 East Stroudsburg, PA, United States Had a great time with my family, very easy check in and out.  Great place! Clean and comfortable Wonderful place to stay if visiting Camelback. House matched the pictures and was super clean and spacious. Igor was very friendly and easy to reach. Me and my friends would highly recommend staying here! The house was beautiful and clean! Igor is a great host! Great place ! Nice and quiet . Very close to the resort and skiing. Very clean Great place, quiet but close to everything. We LOVED staying here. It was the perfect spot to make our family getaway special. We took 4 kids ages 9, 7, 4 and 3 away for 3 days and spent 2 nights at Igor &# x27;s place.   Day 1 went to Crayola, Day 2 hiked Bushkill Falls, Day 3 hung at the pool and headed home. This was the perfect middle point between our activities.   Loved playing pool and ping pong, roasting marshmallows in the fireplace, riding our scooters in the driveway, hanging out on the patio and enjoying nature and overall homey feel of the place. Kitchen had everything we needed.   Highly recommend this place. It was great Entire home/apt Townhouse 12 3 Tannersville, PA, United States Cozy, clean, and host was very prompt to reply to messages. We also appreciated how peaceful it was, no road or neighbor noise. If the weather is bad, there are games, as well as a pool table to keep you busy for some inside fun. The weather was on the chilly side, but we did have some time on the beautiful deck. There is a basket with different flyers for what is around town. Peggy’s house was spectacular. The house was clean, spacious, in a great location and it had everything we needed. I would definitely book this place again! This was a brilliant place. Extremely clean and nice. I &# x27;d definitely recommend it to any and everyone looking for a great time Immaculate! This place is amazing! So clean and everything is fresh and exactly what we were looking for! Nice relaxing deck and grill with an awesome fire pit! Great relaxing jacuzzi tub! Probably the cleanest nicest Airbnb yet!! Thanks for having my family! Great home with more than enough space for our large group. Amenities were wonderful and the home was very clean We didn’t want to leave and hope to come back!!!  Love it!Love it! Clean comfortable,you have everything you need and more!Highly recommended. We are soo happy that we chose this house .. the house was very clean,spacious, nicely decorated. All the supplies were there .. quickly response to our messages was another star for us .. thank u soo much peggy for ur help Entire home/apt House 10 4 East Stroudsburg, PA, United States This place is a great place to stay. I had everything I needed. I asked for an iron and they provided it as soon as they could. Staying at other peoples places as a queer and non-binary identified person makes me a little nervous. But I felt welcomed here. I would stay again! Nature Lover &# x27;s Paradise was exactly as described. The accommodations were clean and well maintained, and worked well for my family of 5. The landscaping on the surrounding property was beautiful, and we enjoyed watching the variety of birds, feeding peanuts to the chipmunks, and relaxing by the koi pond. Evenings were starlit, and we even joined our host family to enjoy the meteor shower one night. Ed and Aimee were always prompt in answering questions via airbnb prior to our arrival, and they were cordial and informative hosts - making several recommendations for places to eat and sights to see or activities to do. They gave us our space, and were readily available to assist us during our stay. Their location was perfect, as most of the things we did were all within a short driving distance. We would definitely consider staying with them again if we ever travel back to the Poconos. Ed and Aimee are great hosts, they welcomed us with nice warm banana cakes when we arrived. Also, they responded quickly with my questions or some requests. I highly recommend staying at their place. We had a fantastic stay at Aimee &# x27;s place.  The location is perfect!  A short and quick drive to many restaurants and area attractions.  The place was very clean and had everything we needed for a comfortable and enjoyable stay.    Communication was quick and easy.  Aimee is very responsive.   We couldn &# x27;t ask for a better host.  She even whipped up some brownies while we were there and we enjoyed them very much!  Looking forward to staying here again! Aimee is very hospitable  &  responsive to any questions or problems. The place is clean and is similar to hotel room accommodations.  However, the AC is a portable unit that does not reach the bedroom or bathroom. The rental is not separated from the house. To enter the private entrance you have to walk across the front of the main house. And her two young daughter &# x27;s are on and around the property. So if your seeking a private romantic get away, which is what I was hoping for, you might want to keep looking. We made the best of it. Aimee  &  her husband  &  her daughter &# x27;s are very nice. Ed and Aimee were incredibly welcoming and quick to respond to all of my questions. Aimee also baked us some delicious brownies the evening we arrived! The airbnb has a great location near many trails Wonderful stay at Nature &# x27;s paradise! My daughter absolutely loved feed the chipmunks and seeing the beautiful birds. Very clean and welcoming environment. Aimee and Ed were fantastic hosts and even made us freshly baked made to order muffins in the morning. Would definitely come back again!  The garden was very nice and relaxing. Aimee was very friendly too. Even though the place was right next to their house, it was still comfortable. Entire home/apt Guest suite 4 1 Mount Pocono, PA, United States She makes amazing brownies! 10/10 would recommend Ed and Aimee are wonderful as hosts and treated us like family  &  friends from the moment we met them.  Their property is most charming and we were blessed to found such a place of peace to stay.  Thanks so much, Ed and Aimee! We were thrilled to come back to Wd &# x27;s and Aimee &# x27;s place. We felt like coming back home. The owners are pleasant, helpful and overall nice people who would do anything in their power to make sure your stay is as comfortable as possible. We were lucky that the ski conditions were pretty good, so we had an awesome stay. Cannot wait to be back on Friday.  Great coffee. quiet rustic spot Our hosts are amazing. Since we booked for every weekend until end of March they let us leave our entire ski gear at the loft. Awesome family, great house and great location! Highly recommended. It must be beautiful here in summer. This attic apartment is lovely, spacious, clean, and accurate to the listing description. Aimee was communicative and helpful, providing us with spoons, mugs, and a knife so my family could have dessert in the apartment. Ed and Aimee were also helpful in searching for restaurants in the area that would be open on Thanksgiving.  Another memorable weekend and home away from home. Great weather and still decent skiing conditions. Next weekend is just three days away. Cannot wait to go back to the great loft and see our dear hosts.  Exactly as advertised.  Zero problems.  Would stay again. Entire home/apt Guest suite 3 1 Mount Pocono, PA, United States Very comfortable and homey,  everything as described and Chris was very prompt with responses prior to our stay Chris &# x27; place was very accurate to its listing. The space is chic and tasteful, has updated amenities, and plenty of space for a big group (we slept 8 people there). Chris was readily available over Airbnb and quick to respond to texts. There was plenty of parking for what we needed and Chris &# x27; instructions were clear. The Poconos are beautiful and this house did not disappoint. Definitely a nice, quite place to stay, not far from town. Plenty of restaurants, shopping, and recreation activities close by.  We had an amazing stay in Chris &# x27;s home. Eight people comfortably stayed in his clean and cozy home and we didn &# x27;t have one complaint our whole time there. We will definitely be staying here again.  I stayed here for a late snowboarding trip at Camelback Resort. The place was really close to Camelback, maybe less than a 5 min drive.     Chris always responded immediately whenever I had any questions prior to booking.     The place was very very lovely and all the toiletries, towels, bedsheets were prepared and laid out for us to see. The house looked new and very well-kept. There was more than enough space for us. There were only five of us but the place had enough space for ten people.    Overall, this would be a top option again for next season. Great location, very close to the resort! Very clean and beautiful home. Would stay again! House is a good value. Great chill and relaxing house to stay in Poconos Entire home/apt Townhouse 8 3 Tannersville, PA, United States JJ and Shelly were more than accommodating and wonderful hosts! They have a beautiful home in a peaceful, secluded neighborhood. Sad we only got to stay one night but would definitely stay again! Another fantastic time with JJ and Shelly. Highly recommended once again.  As our first experience doing airbnb, I must say it was a pleasure to stay at JJ and Shelly &# x27;s beautiful home. We got a little lost in the beginning but JJ was very helpful with the directions upon arriving. Once we arrived we received the grand tour of their beautiful home where he provided us with all the amenities that we had available for our stay. On our second night, he even turned on the fire pit for us to make some s &# x27;mores. They were always available, whenever we needed something, very easy communication and a very comfortable environment. Their dogs are the sweetest, so well behaved and Cesar was our guard dog for the stay lol. JJ and Shelly did whatever possible to make us feel at home, even provided us with some delicious breakfast on our last day. They can count on seeing us there again! If you &# x27;re ever missing anything, they &# x27;ll be there to provide it for you, that includes shampoo lol. Thank you so much for allowing us to stay in your home! My friend’s and I had an absolutely spectacular time at JJ  &  Shelly’s home. From sitting by the fire-pit at night admiring the stars, to relaxing in the loft space upstairs. The home was beautiful and accurate to it’s listing photos.   The surrounding area is incredibly scenic and there’s plenty to do, like kayaking, hiking, etc. JJ  &  Shelly gave us great tips on local spots for hiking. They also hosted breakfast on Sunday, which was a great touch. Finally, there big friendly dog, Caesar, made our trip. He was such a blast to play fetch with outside.   Had an amazing stay and would strongly recommend JJ  &  Shelly’s place. Hopefully my friends  &  I can make a trip back sometime soon. Great place to stay while visiting the Poconos! Thank you for another great Airbnb stay. This was easily one of my best Airbnb experiences! It was such a pleasure to stay with JJ and Shelly. Their beautiful home is very contemporary with a touch of country, set on eight wooded acres convenient to all Poconos activities and less than 20 minutes from East Stroudsburg University. JJ and his two dogs Caesar and Shiva greeted my son and me.  Caesar is a super-friendly large white shepherd who is getting on in years and Shiva is equally sweet--her tail never stops wagging! JJ &# x27;s friendly tour ended in the third-floor loft where we stayed. The loft is extremely tasteful included wi-fi and a large-screen television with Roku and many pay channels like HBO and Showtime. On Sunday morning, Shelly prepared an absolutely fantastic breakfast for us. Everyone was such a pleasure to chat with when we were arriving or leaving. Super, super friendly people and an awesome stay. Thank you! JJ and Shelly were nothing short of amazing! The place was exactly as described and they were extremely kind and hospitable. I would refer anyone to stay with this amazing family. They have two dogs but they were extremely well behaved and not in any personal spaces. Beautiful home and location! JJ and Shelly are super easy to work with and always answered my questions quickly. They were gracious about our late arrival and took time to give a full tour of the property. I wish the clouds had cleared so we could have enjoyed star-gazing on one of the decks. As it was, the room was comfortable, and we had everything we needed right there. They even put out a lovely breakfast the last morning we were there. If I &# x27;m fortunate enough to go back to the area, I would definitely stay here again!  Private room House 4 1 Tannersville , PA, United States The house was lovely, and Herman was very easy to communicate with. Great place, clean n enough space . Good location . The house was Very nice and clean. It was located near everything you would need.. Peaceful!! Our host was very nice and the family had a great time!! Expect a huge house with plenty of room for all guests.  Very comfortable beds (which is unusual) and a host that will respond incredibly fast to any concerns you have. great place！！！ The house was perfect for our weekend ski trip to Camelback.  Lots of space to enjoy yet cozy at the same time. Herman was very responsive to our needs up to our departure. Easy check in/check out process, clean and close to a 24-hour grocery store (just minutes away).  I &# x27;d definitely stay there again. Herman &# x27;s place is awesome with sufficient space and excellent common area for family or social gatherings. It is in a great location, close to everything. Herman thoughtfully laid our instructions to all that we have to know when coming from long distance. Would highly recommend the space to anyone who has kids as well. The house’s location is one of the best in the poconos. It is so close to the outlets, restaurants, and camelback. It’s private with a yard but still close enough to neighbors that you don’t feel very secluded. The house itself was so large and could’ve accommodated so many more people than I had in my trip. There was a lot of living space for entertaining and the house was well equipped with towels, sheets, and toilet paper even though we brought just in case. The house was well designed with modern furniture and a lot of light. Although not used much because of the cold, the covered decks were beautiful and could accommodate large groups. Herman responded fast to questions and inquiries and check in was easy and quick with the use of a lockbox. I would definitely stay in this house again. It was the perfect house for our weekend ski trip in the poconos. 100% recommend! Entire home/apt House 14 4 Tannersville, PA, United States Entire home/apt Cabin 8 3 Reeders, PA, United States Georgi is the nicest and sweetest host ever. As many guests reviewed about his place already, I don &# x27;t think I really have to repeat all the great things about his place any more. His place is very clean and well equipped (They have everything!!!), great locations, and etc., etc.,...  In addition to all those good things, I really want to say Georgi and his family are the best host ever!!!!  Our family had to go through a difficult time just right before the trip. So we came all the way to Georgi &# x27;s place brokenhearted.  Georgi and his family left a thoughtful note for us and our family was speechless. They gave us the warmest welcome ever!! I &# x27;ve never met a host like Georgi. He and his family is one of a kind! And I am truly appreciated and grateful what he and his family did for us. Thank you Georgi, Zlatka, Maya and Harvey for sharing your place with us!!! Georgi was a very thoughtful host. Everything was provided. Really went out their way to keep my family comfortable. Awesome house in a great location. Great House!!! This home is beautiful and super clean. Our host was amazing, thoughtful, and responsive to any question asked. She went above and beyond to make sure our stay was as pleasurable as possible. Will definitely be coming back. Georgi &# x27;s place is amazing, much better than the photos, it is nice and clean and spacious with a lot of small charming details. He is very friendly and let us to check in early and check out late which was very helpful. So recommended. Georgi’s place was fantastic. It was fully stocked with all of the basic amenities we needed in addition to a bunch of personal touches to help us celebrate our anniversary that we discussed when I was booking. The beds were incredibly comfortable, including the linens! There was soooo much space. Our first night at the house we played pool late into the night which was super fun! There were tons of games, towels, shampoo, toothpaste, coffee, olive oil and spices, pots and pans, tons of utensils/plates/cutlery etc etc. the list could go on and on. Felt like everywhere we turned we found more amenities and more rooms to hang out in and things to do. There were great books and games for the kids and cute touches for adults and kids alike. The basement was like it’s own paradise. I was lucky enough to get the master bedroom since I booked for my family for my anniversary and I thoroughly enjoyed the privacy of it. But it almost doesn’t matter because there were spaces spread out everywhere and nobody was on top of one another. There were also great touches out in the yard like sidewalk chalk and the swing set. We stayed for 3 nights and we didn’t even do everything the house had to offer. Close drive to family activities as well like the Crayola experience. We’d definitely consider booking again and we’d be intrigued to book in the winter! Georgi is very communicative and that help d make our stay even easier.  This was a great place for a family vacation.  Everything was neat and clean, the decor tasteful and tons of amenities.  Georgi is a wonderful host; her communication was excellent and gracious.  We feel as if we made a new friend (who happens to have a really nice house)! I can &# x27;t say enough good things about the host and the wonderful house! We had an amazing experience. Entire home/apt House 15 5 Pocono Township, PA, United States He’s great It &# x27;s such a nice place for a brief getaway, I definitely recommend! I googled the address and was led to homeowner’s entrance which threw me off. Fortunately Warren met me and helped guide me to security. I wish there was a dehumidifier and clearer instructions in regards to how to get in and where everything is located. Also, the home was 20% off which caught my attention but was changed after I asked to book. After talking to the homeowner, it appeared to be a mistake on air bnb’s end but I’ve never had that happen before.  Had a great experience at Warrens place. Went to enjoy the water park and it was fully equipped, clean, quiet and in a great location. I had a couple of questions for Warren and he was easy to get in touch with and a big help. I highly recommend this house it &# x27;s the best value in the area.  Excellent host, excellent place, excellent location Entire home/apt Townhouse 6 3 Tannersville, PA, United States The location is generally clean and quiet. It &# x27;s also close to the outlet stores, supermarket, nice restaurants and the waterpark, which we fully enjoyed! I would book again.  Awesome little cabin.  The neighborhood was very quiet. It was close to lots of things.  I &# x27;d definitely stay there again! Jim was very accommodating and very helpful. His quick response and very nice customer service was definitely a lasting experience that will make me return. This place was great! It was very clean and it included all of the necessary amenities plus more. The location is perfect, with a beautiful mountainside view. If you &# x27;re looking for a quiet and cozy type of atmosphere then I would definitely recommend staying here!!! Jim was a good host and he responds fast to any questions you might have . Would definitely recommend Jim &# x27;s place is in a really great location on the mountain. The place itself was super clean and we had a very enjoyable stay. Jim was incredibly responsive and offered great recommendations. Thanks for a wonderful stay, Jim! Great location, there so many places to go! Jim was a great host.  Anytime I reached out to him, he was very responsive and attentive.  Would recommend. Entire home/apt Townhouse 8 3 Tannersville, PA, United States amazing views, beds, and couches tons of room. easy check-in. never had to call Jim for anything. If you are looking for breathtaking scenery and beautiful mountain views, this is the place to be! Great price, very spacious house, well furnished and great host. Overall great value. Great view and very relaxing. Jim’s home was the perfect place to stay for my bridal party for our wedding in the Poconos. Everything was clean. The views were amazing. Jim was easy to contact. Would definitely recommend. A great spot up in the mountains close to NYC away from it all ! The most breathtaking view ... The house is amazing (and the views!) It’s floor after floor after floor. There is plenty of space, kitchen supplies, a bbq to use, plenty of furniture and bathrooms, too. It is at the highest point so it felt more private and secluded with a beautiful walking path through the woods just behind the house. The house was clean, as was the entire community and area. We felt very safe the entire time, also. It was close enough to nearby supermarkets and stores for whatever you may need during your stay, and even with access to the pool. I’d definitely stay here again on a trip to the Poconos. Jim happened to be there for a little bit and was nothing but the nicest host for my friends and I. He made sure we had everything we needed and that the house was clean, also gave us some good places to check out in the area. The house is absolutely gorgeous! Completely worth the trip. The view is breathtaking, the house is clean, everything was wonderful. We’ll definitely be back! Beautiful winter getaway! Felt like home in the mountains! Entire home/apt Townhouse 12 3 Tannersville, PA, United States Benjamin’s cabin in the Poconos was a relaxing getaway from the city. Definitely recommend for a weekend. Entire home/apt Cabin 6 2 Reeders, PA, United States Amazing stay with a view and great things to do nearby Jim place is the perfect space to have a great an unforgettable time. The house is sparkling clean, organize, spacious and much more!! Jim is great as host.  Don &# x27;t think twice to reserve it The house is very spacious, and comfortable. The beds are all quite comfortable. They have basic bedding, and sleeping beds, but it is comfortable. The view off the back decks is fabulous. Super gorgeous. The living room and kitchen connect, so hanging out and cooking can be done all at once. Watch out for the thermostats. We accidentally set the thermostats downstairs up to 80 for a bit, and it made the place unbearable until we figured out what had happened. It is close to a bunch of outdoor activities if you are there in the off season, and close to skiing if it is winter. The Barley Creek brewery nearby is very good if you are looking for a bite out. All in all, a great place to stay. Oh! And the hiking nearby is also great.  The house is very comfortable and accommodates a family of 10 quite well. There are plenty of bathrooms so that you do not get pinched in the morning when everyone is getting ready for daily adventures. This property is just a few minutes from some hikes, the outlet shopping and some good local mountain restaurants. Our trip was just after Labor Day, so we were not able to use the water park but that is very close as well. If we find ourselves out this way again, we hope this house will be available. The unit is as described in the listing. The views are incredible. The host was quick to respond and provided excellent service. He made sure we had everything we needed in advance of our arrival. We hope to stay here again if we get to return to this part of the world.  My family and I had an incredible holiday experience in Jim’s home! The accommodation was everything that we were looking for  &  more!!! Jim was extremely kind, helpful, and very responsible to all of our questions and needs throughout our stay! He truly provided us with a wonderful experience that we will forever cherish! I hope to stay with Jim again in the future!!! A really good place. The view is much more than what the pictures show. Ample space that made it comfortable for us. This place was the perfect size for my group of 12 adults. Please note that if you have more than 2 vehicles, you will have to park by the security gate, which is quite a walk from the house. The beds were all very comfortable and my group enjoyed their stay. Entire home/apt Townhouse 13 4 Tannersville, PA, United States Adorable cabin in the woods. Peaceful and secluded, however, close to everything the Poconos has to offer! The space was perfect. Only downside was that the wifi didn &# x27;t work during my stay, however, I needed a digital detox. Would definitely stay again! Great place.  Really cool layout with lots of room.  Amazing it &# x27;s right near everything you want to be at, yet it &# x27;s in the middle of the woods.  Great wildlife too.  Deer, skunk, fox and 2 bears in all in the same weekend. A great escape, the cabin was secluded and relaxing. The host canceled this reservation 9 days before arrival. This is an automated posting. Entire home/apt Cabin 3 3 Stroudsburg, PA, United States Entire home/apt Cabin 6 3 Henryville, PA, United States Great location right down the road from camelback mountain.  Spacious and clean interior.  Plenty to do within close driving distance while also getting a nice rural feel. Had a great stay the house was very beautiful and had enough space for 6 people. If your looking for a nice comfortable private getaway with family and/or friends this will be the perfect choice for you... This property is basically in the middle of all the main attractions. Just seconds away from both the shopping commons and Camelback beach and resorts. Minutes from Kalahari. Walmart and other supermarkets are also very close by. The home is relaxing and spacious and even offers some entertainment downstairs with a foosball table, pool table and pingpong table. My family and I enjoyed our stay and are already planning to visit this property again in the winter to hit the slopes. I highly recommend this property to anyone looking for a nice getaway in the Poconos area. Michael is a wonderful host who always keeps in touch with his guests! Even when I never texted him, he would always contact me to make sure everything was going well. His home is very cozy and comfortable with great amenities including the pool table and foosball. The bedrooms were nice and clean, the kitchen appliances were easy to use, and everything about the house was wonderful. He recomended great places to visit and he was an overall great help on our vacation. I would definitely rent his house again!! Thank you for being a wonderful host! :) great place. Super clean and the host was  always ready to help. The location is also good for ski resort. Great place to stay Our group of 6 had a great stay in the heart of the Poconos. There was plenty of space, everything was clean and we had fun playing ping pong and pool. The house is beautifully decorated and close to shops, eateries, and activities. Would definitely recommend. Convenient location for a getaway in the Poconos! Entire home/apt House 8 3 Tannersville, PA, United States We very much needed a get away from our city life and Marina’s place gave us just that! She has a beautiful home on an amazing piece of land. We enjoyed coffee on her deck as the leaves fell and deer wandered past. The room and bathroom were clean and very cozy.   Marina herself is a pleasure. She was able to give us recommendations for local food places and activities around. She was there if we needed her but ultimately gave us our space.   I would stay here again! Cozy room in a beautiful home. She was an amazing host and the home was clean and beautiful. I worked over night and slept during the day and it was very quiet and peaceful. I really enjoyed my stay and enjoy her basement gym. Will definitely book again in the future! Private room House 2 1 Henryville, PA, United States What an awesome place to stay! Kevin made this house super comfortable and ready for our group. The house is spacious and unique in the best way. It is absolutely perfect for a quiet get away or great for a spot to hang and enjoy your time in the area. From the outrageous view from the patio to the decor throughout the house, this place is truly perfect. Everyone in the group had nothing but great things to say... they didn’t want to leave! If ever in need of an airbnb in this area again, I’ll definitely be staying here! It was bigger than we expected compared to the photos. The house had great location, stylish looks, and a reasonable price! Kevin’s place is amazing, and the views of the mountain in the morning are amazing. You have every create comfort of home if needed. Will definitely look forward to staying here again in the future. Kevin’s place is beautiful and very cozy!My friends  &  I had a blast! Beds were comfortable, pillows comfortable couches etc! The fireplace is amazing! Thank you so much for letting us rent out your home we will be returning soon! Awesome views of the mountain!  Great location.  And the house had really unique features. The cutest air bnb I’ve stayed at. Loved the decor - very cozy. Candles everywhere, fireplace, plush throws... the backyard situation was also divine! Couches (multiple), a bbq and fire pit! Def staying here again. Entire home/apt Townhouse 7 3 Tannersville, PA, United States 