Phagun Till Oil, Sesame Oil | Lashkar, Gwalior | Krishnakishore Agrotech Private Limited | ID: 8709165355 is a Verified member of IndiaMART Following details of the company have been verified IndiaMART InterMESH Ltd. 7th Floor, Advant-Navis Business Park, Plot No-7, Sector-142, Noida, UP Find answers to your queries Join Now Secure  &  hassle-free payments  Quantity From our extensive array of products, we are indulged in the business of presenting a wide spectrum of  Phagun  Till Oil . Widely known for its usage in the food industry for cooking, these offered oils are pure, effective and fresh. More to this, these can be availed from us in multiple sized bottles. Benefits of Till Phagun Till Oil: In the year  1962 , with the sole objective of offering quality products at industry leading prices we kept the mile stone in the name of  BHOGARAM  &  SONS AND DAULATRAM SANJAY KUMAR . Since last 50 years we have been dealing in loose oil. Now with the motive of serving the public worldwide, we converted ourselves to Company in  2012 .  Krishnakishore Agrotech Pvt. Ltd.  is a leading entity devotedly immersed in manufacturing, supplying and trading of an exceptional quality range of  Edible Oil  including  Kachchi Ghani Mustard Oil, Sesame Oil, Soyabean Oil, Ground Nut Oil, Sesame Oil, Flaxseed (Alsi) Oil.  Widely known for their usage in different residential and industrial purposes in kitchen for the preparation of food, these offered oils are highly demanded. Composited with perfection, these offered oils are widely applauded and recommended amongst our customers owing to their exactness, efficacy, taste and numerous health benefits. More to this, these offered products are examined on a variety of norms before finally shipping at the end of our customers. We are authorized dealer of  Amrit Gold  brand . 1st Floor, Old Fruit Mandi, Chhatri Bazar Lashkar  Gwalior - 474001, Madhya Pradesh, India  Rs 290 / Litre By: MR Agencies Contact Supplier Rs 240 / Litre By: Jayakrishna Oil Contact Supplier By: Yoga Enterprises Contact Supplier Rs 250 / Litre By: VEE GREEN ORGANIC LIFE CA... Contact Supplier Rs 255 / Litre By: Subin Traders Contact Supplier Rs 250 / Bottle By: Tiptip Oils Private Limit... Contact Supplier Rs 80 / Kilogram By: Vihan Herbal And Food Ing... Contact Supplier Rs 400 / Litre By: AKM Processed Foods Contact Supplier By: Sanjay Vegoil Products (P... Contact Supplier Rs 180 / Kilogram By: Pooja Trading Company Contact Supplier Til Sesame Oil Packaging Size Available : 500 ml Packaging Type Available : Plastic Bottle Black Til Oil Packaging Type : Plastic Bottle Type : Mono Saturated Cold Pressed Sesame Oil Packaging Size Available : 1 Litre (Also available in 500 ml and 5 litre) Packaging Type Available : Plastic Bottle Sesame Oil Brand : Kanakdhara Form : Liquid Sesame Carrier Oil Brand : Gardens Of Aroma Packaging Type : Plastic Bottle Pure Sesame Seed Oil Brand : Organoveda Sesame Oil Packaging Type : Plastic Bottle,Plastic Container We are engaged in providing a wide range of  Sesame Oil  to our clients.  Quantity Have a requirement? Get Best Price 