Latest Red Dead Redemption 2 'Leak' Can't Be Real | Player.One Red Dead Redemption 2  still doesn’t have a release date, but fans are looking everywhere to try and find one. The latest “leak” comes from   Amazon Mexico , where a posting for   Red Dead Redemption  2  lists a July 12, 2018 date. As of writing,   the listing  still has a July 12 release date listed. That’s about a month after E3, and initially sounds plausible. However, it doesn’t line up with anything Rockstar has said, or typical business procedure. First off, July 12 is a Thursday. Video games are released on Tuesdays, and occasionally Fridays. They aren’t released on Thursdays. I suppose Rockstar is big enough to break all the rules like that, but that’s a stretch. A Friday release would make more sense, as this is a blockbuster title with tons of hype. Also, Rockstar’s official   Red Dead Redemption 2  website  still lists a Spring 2018 release. Going by the calendar, Spring 2018 ends June 20. July 12 is firmly in Summer 2018. “But what if there’s another delay?” you might ask. If there is, Amazon Mexico isn’t going to have the inside scoop before Rockstar makes an announcement. That said, Spring 2018 is coming in March, which means Rockstar better give out some concrete information soon. The two most logical scenarios I can see are either a mid-May release or a mid-June release. This March, especially late March, is filled with some big-name releases gamers will be playing into April. By May, there will be a craving for the next game, which is where   Red Dead  could step in. A mid-June release would allow Rockstar, and parent company Take-Two, to dominate E3 with advertising. E3 is the biggest gaming show of the year, with millions watching coverage worldwide. Having every shot of the convention center include the   Red Dead  logo, followed by a release a week later, would be a smart move. If we’re confining my mid-June theory to the Spring 2018 release date, that would only leave Tuesday, June 19 as a post-E3-pre-Summer date. Rockstar could get a pass with a Friday, June 22 date (on the second day of Summer), but that’s splitting hairs at this point. Anyway, the point is don’t believe this Amazon Mexico listing. So what do you think? When will Rockstar start releasing more info on   Red Dead Redemption 2 ? Do you think my May or June theories make sense, or do you have a better one? Let us know your thoughts in the comments section below. 