The Prevention Podcast The goal of this podcast is to educate the global community on sexual violence  prevention which includes education, research, and global prevention efforts and initiatives. Note: The opinions of those interviewed do not reflect the programs associated with this podcast. Visit  http://www.theglobalpreventionproject.org to learn about The Global Prevention Project . Jan 29, 2018 In this episode, Co-Host Meg Martinez-Dettamanti interviews"Bruce", an anti-contact pedophile in his late 20s who shares hisjourney of understanding his attraction to children. They discusshis religious and value system related to his sexual orientationand the inner turmoil with having pedophilia, the harm that... Jan 15, 2018 This interview with anti-contact pedophile "Ender" (with a voiceover to protect his confidentiality) explains the recent uneducatedSun article surrounding anti-contact pedophilia and the suspensionof his and other anti-contact pedophiles twitter accountssurrounding the time the article was published. Remember to... Jan 1, 2018 Welcome to our first podcast! Our host Candice Christiansenintroduces The Prevention Podcast including her reason and passionfor prevention. Our first interview is with “Emma” who shares herexperience of being an anti-contact female pedophile, including thedistinction between anti-contact and non-offending... The Prevention Podcast is dedicated to addressing controversial topics related to sexual violence prevention, education, and outreach. With this podcast hosted by Candice Christiansen, you will learn from leading experts in the field of juvenile and adult sex offender research and treatment, explore dicey topics including the biology of pedophilia, and the truth about anti-contact pedophiles, and hear about various sexual violence prevention programs around the world. We believe that prevention IS the intervention and that accurate assessments and treatment interventions are key to a safe society. Join us!  To learn more about The Global Prevention Project™ visit http://www.theglobalpreventionproject.org Having trouble logging in?  ©2018 The Prevention Podcast™ '+ item.release_date +' '+ item.item_body_short +' '+item.release_date+' '+item.item_body_short+' 