Residential Reiki Healing Treatments in Rishikesh, India Mahatma Yoga Ashram offers 1  &  3 Days residential high quality Reiki healing treatments. Our treatment package includes 1 session of Reiki healing, 1 Marma massage and 1 Sound healing session in a day. During your healing treatments you will stay at Mahatma Yoga Ashram in Rishikesh. Our beautiful Rishikesh Ashram is located right on the banks of the holy river Ganges. After the nurturing treatments you can walk along the beach, meditate or take a dip in the rejuvenating waters to make your healing process even more powerful. Reiki healing at Mahatma Yoga is combined with Sound healing and Ayurvedic Marma Massage as supportive treatments for Reiki healing. Reiki Healing is a powerful yet gentle natural healing method, which has been effective in helping virtually every known illness and disorder, and always creates a beneficial effect. It also works in conjunction with other medical or therapeutic techniques as it relieves side effects and promotes recovery. The wonderful benefits of Reiki include relaxation, stress reduction and help for any emotional or psychic disorder. Reiki is also balancing chakras (energy channels) and strengthens the immune system. Reiki heals by flowing the healing energy through the Reiki healer so that it will affect the energy field and will charge the positive energy into the recipient. It raises the vibratory level of the energy field in and around the physical body where the negative thoughts and feelings are attached. This causes the negative energy to break apart and fall away. In that way Reiki clears, straightens and heals the energy pathways, thus allowing the life force to flow in a healthy and natural way. Reiki, Sound healing and Marma massage together will work their magic to balance and purify your whole being (body, mind and spirit). It will clean the blockages from your energy channels, thus helping the prana (energy) to flow. The combinations of treatments are especially powerful in helping to release old emotions and blocked energies and preparing your whole body for self-healing. You will feel increased levels of energy long after the treatments. Whatsapp Us Mail Us Follow Us  Affordable yoga retreats, yoga courses for beginners, ayurveda retreats, reiki courses  &  healing, panchakarma treatments and 200 hour residential yoga teacher training in India at Mahatma Yoga Ashram, Rishikesh – Rys 200 (Yoga Alliance). Submit All Rights Reserved.   2019  Mahatma yoga Ashram 