Happy Vishu 2018 Wishes, HD Images, Messages, Quotes Happy Vishu Festival:  Vishu is the Hindu new year festival celebrated in the Indian state of Kerala and nearby Tulunadu region of Coastal Karnataka. Vishu festival is similar to New Year festivals observed by Hindus elsewhere such as  Baisakhi  (north and central India), Bihu (Assam), Pohela Boishakh (Bengal),  Pana Sankranti  (Orissa) and  Puthandu  (Tamil Nadu). This Year, It is celebrated on  Friday, April 14,  and this year it coincides with  Good Friday  observed by Christians. On this day, people send  Happy Vishu Wishes, Greetings, Quotes, SMS / Text Messages  and update Facebook Status, WhatsApp Status to greet their friends and families. So we have searched for the best  Happy Vishu (Kerala New Year) 2018 Messages, Pictures, Quotes, Wishes, Greetings, Facebook Status, WhatsApp Status  and more. Finally, we have collected the best data and presenting to you in the below article. You Might Also Like: Happy Vishu Festival Greetings / Wishes: Here is the best collection of  Happy Vishu 2018 Wishes and Greetings in English  &  in Malayalam. Let this Vishu give you the strength to do all that you dreamed of doing during last year but didn t dare to do. Happy Vishu! Let this be a delightful year, filled with delightful things in each of its days. HAPPY VISHU I know its early but I have hundreds of handsome groovers  &  exotic ladies to wish So I thought to finish off uncles  &  aunties first. Kandu njan kannane kayambuvarnane  guruvayoorambalanadayil  rajeevalojanan ente kanan  ambadipoonilavente kanan  manimuralikyoothimunnil vannu nee  ente munnil vannu nee.  ente sneham niraja vishu ashamsakal Excitement all the way happiness is here to stay It s a new beginning to enjoy may your life fill with love, peace, and joy Take a vow to bring goodness and joy in the lives of those who are close to us. Wish you a very happy Vishu! Here is the best collection of  Happy Vishu SMS / Text Messages in English  &  in Malayalam May Lord Vinayagar shower his divine blessings on you and fill your life with new hopes and endless celebrations! Vishu stands for new and fresh Life is always new and fresh Let us strive to make all days Vishu. rupidi konnapoovum  Vishu kaniyum  Vishu kaineetavumayi  Veendum Meda masam pularunu  Samrithiyudeyum santhoshathinteyum  snehathinteyum pradekamaya  oru vishu koodim.  ellavarkkum ente vishu 2017 ashamsakal Hope this Vishu brings in your life the happiness you have always wished for and make all your dreams come true. Vishu promises of a new beginning and a fresh start. May this Vishu also bring new hopes to your life! Here is the best collection of  Happy Vishu (Malayalam New year) 2018 Quotes. This simple SMS Travelled through My room, the Roads, Buildings, Towers, Clouds, Satellites  &  finally reached your mobile Just to say HAPPY VISHU 2018! Bhadra Deepathinu munnil ninnu, Bhagavane kanikanumbol Manassil, Nanmayude kanikonna poothnilkum,varsham muzhuvan ath vaadathirikate. Happy Vishu 2018 Vishu snehatenteyum,iswaryathenteyum agoshm ee vishukkalam namukke orupade nalla ormakal smanikkatte mansil namayude konnapoo viriyatte The God created the world on this day for his followers. May on this day you find new hope and happiness at your heart to make your life beautiful! Happy Vishu Kani! Let s welcome Vishu with new hope at heart and with great enthusiasm, anticipation, and eagerness. Here is the best and latest collection of  Happy Vishu (Kerala New Year) Images / Photos / Pics / Wallpapers / DP s. With the help of these above methods (SMS / Text Messages, Images, Wishes, Greetings, and Quotes) you can convey your  Happy Vishu 2017   Wishes / Greetings  to your loved ones and make their 2017 Kerala New Year in a very happy manner. Latest Updates: Check Out the Latest Updates by clicking the below links and Update Yourself. Your email address will not be published.  Required fields are marked  * Comment Name  * Email  * Website This site uses Akismet to reduce spam.  Learn how your comment data is processed . VIVO IPL 2018 Schedule | Match List | Time Table PDF Free Download Filmfare Awards 2019 Full Show HD Watch Online  &  Winners List Samantha 50+ Latest HD Hot Photos, Images, Wallpapers Download Kajal Aggarwal 50+ Latest HD Hot Photos, Images, Wallpapers Download Happy Kerala Piravi Day 2019 Greetings, Pictures, Messages, Quotes Champ One C1 Smart Phone Features, Booking and Buy Online KCR KIT Scheme Registration | Application Status  &  Full Details 25 Latest Rashi Khanna Hot Sexy Navel HD Photos in Bikini Copyright © 2018, All Rights Reserved. About  |  Contact Us  |  Disclaimer  | Privacy Policy 