Android Archives - Android PS Mar 10, 2019  |  Android StateofTech 66K subscribers Subscribe Android Can FaceTime with iPhone - Google Duo Info Shopping Tap to unmute Your browser does not currently recognize any of the video formats available.  Click here to visit our frequently asked questions about HTML5 video. More videos on YouTube More videos Share Include playlist An error occurred while retrieving sharing information. Please try again later. Watch later Share Copy link Switch camera 0:00 0:00  /  Live An error occurred. Try watching this video on www.youtube.com , or enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser. FaceTime for Android is finally here. Android users can easily video chat with each other and with iPhone users using Google Duo. It s pretty exciting. The app is  source Mar 5, 2019  |  Android Get Free 3G without a Service Plan Also See Updated Video and also a thorough setup tutorial on Openvpn. source Mar 5, 2019  |  Android Steps to Build Your Own Android Application If you are reading this tutorial, it means you are probably new to the Android app development services. Don t worry, we will divide this tutorial into different parts to make it easy for you. The guide offers easy and useful information regarding android app development for beginners. Let s get started by following these steps: Before you start, there are three important things that you should know, such as: Android OS is created using Java, so knowledge about Java is always a benefit if you want to develop an app for Android. Then, you will need to get Android SDK, which is Android s basic app writing program like Android Studio or Eclipse, the Java Software Development Kit (JDK). The built-in features of Android SDK provide the base needed to build some great mobile applications and providing a great opportunity for developers and entrepreneurs. Now, you are all set to start! Step 1: Start with Android Studio The most common IDE for Android development is Android Studio, which comes directly from Google itself. The amazing thing about Android Studio is that it is designed specifically for Android app development services. Step 2: Installation of Java Development Kit (JDK) After the installation of Android Studio, it s time for some more positive action! You also need to install Java on your machine to use Android Studio. The JDK is able to interpret and compile your code for the application development. Step 3: Start Your Project Choose  Start a new Android Studio Project  option. Enter the name you want for your application and your  company domain . All these elements will be used to create your package name in a format like: com.companyname.appname This APK ( Android Package File ) that you ll in the end upload to the Google Play Store. Step 4: Select Activity Moreover, you ll be given the option to pick the way you want the app to look at the beginning. This will be the look of your main  Activity Module  which is basically the main page of your app. There are various fields available which you have to choose according to your app needs, such as templates, title, access to Google maps, full-screen activity, blank activity etc. As per my view, it s better to go for  Basic Activity  to keep things as simple as possible and for all intents and purposes. Step 5: Selecting the Layout Now, you have to choose a layout name for the selected activity. This will define that where elements like images and menus go and what fonts you ll use. Choose a name for the menu and title as well. Pick something attractive for the title, as your users will be able to see this at some points. Step 6: Edit the Welcome Message Go to the activity_main.xml tab if it is not open. Click and drag the  Hello, world!  from the upper left corner of the phone display to the center of the screen. Then go to the values folder, and double-click the strings.xml file. In this file, find the line  Hello world!  and add  Welcome to my App! Step 7: Adding Button to your Activity In the Palette menu to the left of display, find Button. Click and drag Button to be positioned beneath welcome message. Afterward, go to properties and find the field for text. Change the text from  New Button  to  Next Page . Now go back to your content_main.xml and click on the button. In the right corner, where you have your parameters for the button, you will catch an option called  onClick . Click on this and then select the  onClick . By doing this, you have told Android Studio that you want to associate the section of code with the button created. Step 8: Test your App Finally, all that s missing to do is run the app you just made. Simple go to  run  along the top and then select  run app  from the drop-down menu. Follow the steps to launch the emulator running your app. I hope the above information will surely help in android app development for beginners. Besides, there are numerous ways to develop Android apps. With a lot of information and services at your disposal, you have the opportunity to make your  dream app  a realism! Source  by  Priti Singh Feb 28, 2019  |  Android Your Android device is a pocket-size container of important information that you don t want to fall into the wrong hands. Imagine your emails, SMS messages,  source Feb 23, 2019  |  Android Improve your smart tv box performance by 100%. Reduce buffering, freezing, etc My Twitter:  http://bit.ly/TwitterSoloMan  My Facebook:  source Feb 18, 2019  |  Android Check Out Squarespace ▻  http://squarespace.com/thiojoe  (Offer code THIOJOE) More Top Lists  source 