CAPRA 27 AL - BLACK PEARL / TEAL BLUE | YT Industries Europe EN US You need Javascript enabled to view this page.  Bikes  New bike in perfect condition usually:  2,499.00 2,299.00 Your discount: 200.00 incl. VAT plus  shipping costs Throughout all CAPRA bikes sizes we offer a low seatpost height in combination with seatposts, that are specifically matched to each of the bike sizes. Therefore riders can now choose between 2 to a maximum of 3 different frame sizes for their body height. This allows you to get exactly the reach, you would like to ride. Not matter whether you are you are opting for reach that's more moderate or extra long. It's like your bike is tailormade for you. By opting for the longer reach, experienced riders can adjust the weight distribution more precisely to each riding condition. However you need to be experienced in order to make the correct choice: in case your are unsure we recommend to stick to the perfect medium of the size references given in the size finder. Once again the CAPRA is setting new standards. Confidence, creativity, endurance: this G.O.A.T. will get you and it will turn you into the rider you have always aspired to be. And true to our core, we keep pushing boundaries: the all-new CAPRA is a full-on downhill machine crossed with the uphill performance of a trail bike. The modern geometry with short chainstays and a slack headtube angle perfectly unites the best of two worlds. The new CAPRA delivers the most advanced combination of trail bike agility and traction at downhill standard. The metric 250mm shock delivers the solid suspension travel of the CAPRA with a low leverage ratio and fully convinces with a performance that's hardly ever seen away from downhill courses. The 170mm RockShox Lyrik RC and the RockShox Super Deluxe R is a powerful combination for demanding enduro riders, offering excellent traction for any terrain.  The new 1x11 e*thirteen TRS+ cassette boasting a 511% gear range, outperforms traditional 12-speed transmissions by 11%, is much easier to adjust and distinctly more durable. With its 9-46 teeth sprockets it’s the first choice when it comes to aggressive trail riding and rough race runs.  The e*thirteen TRS+ dropper post with a remote lever shaped like a shifter offers four pre-set seatpost height positions with super smooth adjustment. We use a short seatpost for the S sized frames to ensure sufficient standover height for smaller riders. The SRAM Code R brake delivers power and good modulation, while the lever offers adjustable reach - excellent performance not matter what's ahead of you on the trail. Manual Manual Manual Manual Manual Manual Manual Manual Manual Our focus in the development process has always been to create the perfect weight distribution and optimum rider position. So for 2018, YT Tailor Made is taking things a step further.  Throughout all CAPRA bikes sizes we offer a low seatpost height in combination with seatposts, that are specifically matched to each of the bike sizes. Therefore riders can now choose between 2 to a maximum of 3 different frame sizes for their body height. Whether you prefer a moderate or long reach - you now have true freedom of choice. It's like your frame has been tailormade for you. By opting for the longer reach, experienced riders can adjust the weight distribution more precisely while the standard reach will give you a bike with a little more pop out of corners.  The seat angle of the new CAPRA is perfectly adjusted to a well-balanced pedaling position, allowing for maximum riding efficiency and pedaling prowess. The slack headtube angle and short chainstays, which again are adapted for each frame size, deliver the most advanced combination of trail bike agility and traction at downhill standard. Our focus in the development process has always been to create the perfect weight distribution and optimum rider position. So for 2018, YT Tailor Made is taking things a step further.  Throughout all CAPRA bikes sizes we offer a low seatpost height in combination with seatposts, that are specifically matched to each of the bike sizes. Therefore riders can now choose between 2 to a maximum of 3 different frame sizes for their body height. Whether you prefer a moderate or long reach - you now have true freedom of choice. It's like your frame has been tailormade for you. By opting for the longer reach, experienced riders can adjust the weight distribution more precisely while the standard reach will give you a bike with a little more pop out of corners.  The seat angle of the new CAPRA is perfectly adjusted to a well-balanced pedaling position, allowing for maximum riding efficiency and pedaling prowess. The slack headtube angle and short chainstays, which again are adapted for each frame size, deliver the most advanced combination of trail bike agility and traction at downhill standard. Unpack it, put it together and go hit the trails! Our bikes are pre-assembled and it only takes a few steps to get them ready for action. Install the wheels and the handlebar, adjust the suspension and you’re ready to send it! Bikes Gear Rolling Circus Service World of YT Company X Like all webshops we use cookies. If you stay, you’re ok with cookies. If you want to disable or learn more about them, click  HERE . '+vickyJuhuu+' Be in the know with our family talk and the first to get the word about: Your personal data will be treated as strictly confidential and won’t be shared with any third or even fourth party (in accord with the YT handshake policy). You can opt out from the email list at any time. Be in the know with our family talk and the first to get the word about: Your personal data will be treated as strictly confidential and won’t be shared with any third or even fourth party (in accord with the YT handshake policy). You can opt out from the email list at any time. 