Lamcello Perfectly Posh Perry 250ml | Bestway Wholesale Information about scanners and software download Create your own shelf edge labels and stack cards Technical assistance and Service Helpdesk 0   items £0.00 All prices shown exclude VAT 250ml × 24 × 1 Log in to buy Contains a source of phenylalanine Lightly sparkling  Lamcello® is a deliciously tasting Perferctly Posh Perry™ with the refreshing bite of juicy pears. Packed full of taste, Lamcello® is sure to get the party started.  Corinthian Brands (CBL) Ltd, Harrogate, HG2 8PB. 1.9 Units per can UK Chief Medical Officers recommend Adults do not regularly exceed: Men 3-4 units daily Women 2-3 units daily drinkaware.co.uk Not to be sold to persons under 18 The image and product information have been prepared for illustration and information purposes only and may differ from that shown. Whilst Bestway/Batleys use reasonable endeavors to ensure that the product information presented is accurate and up to date it does not accept any liability for any information which may not be accurate, it is not a substitute for reading the product packaging or label prior to use. You should note that products and their ingredients are subject to change. If you do require precise ingredients or nutritional information you should consult the manufacturer, whose contact details will appear on the packaging or label. Where there is a link to a third party ' s website for further information on the product, please note that Bestway/Batleys have no control over and no liability for the contents of that website. Bestway/Batleys accept no liability or responsibility whatsoever for any other web sites which may be accessed through the Bestway/Batleys websites. Bestway and Batleys are reliant upon third parties for much of the information provided and reserve the right to change data, references and product specifications at any time. This data is supplied for personal use only. It may not be reproduced in any way whatsoever without Bestways/Batleys prior consent, nor without due acknowledgement. We’ve noticed we don’t have your Tobacco Track  &  Trace codes. Please click below to go to the Tobacco Track  &  Trace page where you can enter your codes, or apply for them if need be. Don’t worry though... you can still buy all non-Tobacco Track  &  Trace stock without your codes. Continue shopping Enter/Obtain my codes © Bestway (Holdings) Ltd 2011-2019. Abbey Road, Park Royal, London NW10 7BW 