Top Residential Cleaning Services in Avadi - Best Home Cleaning Services Chennai - Justdial Get Best Deal on Residential Cleaning Services! Everyone enjoys a clean home and as the old saying goes, a clean home is a happy home. Leaving a house untidy only invites germs, pest and insects and the possibility of infection, infestation and illness. You need to constantly make sure that every corner of your house is kept clean, at least on a majority of the days. For these reasons and so many more, mothers and maids are known to be particular about having the house kept clean. Much like a body, there are places in the house that are more sensitive to unwanted pests and diseases, than others. The kitchen and the bathing room are two of the most sensitive rooms in the house. However, with almost every person in the house trying to keep up with their careers, making time for the home can understandably difficult. But this in no ways means that your home should be left in the state that it is. Here is where housekeeping services come into play. Having a cleaning company come over and tidy up your home can be beneficial in so many ways. 1. Professional equipment and products The residential cleaning services Avadi, Chennai has are experienced and being in the business for a while, they have been able to get their hands on the latest and most advanced products and equipment to clean your home. The equipment and products they use do not damage the material of the cushions, sofas, carpet or furniture. Using local or homemade tricks of cleaning home may be easy and fun, but you will never be sure if it will destroy the material or not. Even something as simple as using water on wood is disastrous for the furniture. 2. Deep Cleaning A number of times heavy side cabinets become difficult to shift or move around. And when dust and dirt begin to accumulate, it becomes difficult to get in there and clean it up. But the equipment brought in by these cleaning agencies are designed to slip into the smallest of spaces and clean out each and every dirt partical. When you need to deep clean your house, you need to clean every single corner. The thought of this alone is quite tiring. Therefore hiring these professionals will do you good as they will clean every single corner of the house perfectly. Deep cleaning includes cleaning of windows, electrical appliances, doors, grills, curtains and carpets. 3. Sofa set shampoo Some homes have cotton cushioned sheets and others have leather couches and velvet sofas. Each material is different from the other and therefore the products you use to clean them as well as your method of cleaning them will differ. You need to make sure the equipment you use for leather won't tear it apart or the one used for velvet won't make the material rough. It is impossible for you alone to handle and have all of these things. In Avadi, Chennai residential cleaning services offered by renowned companies are the best to get in touch with when you want to enjoy living in a clean house. Other than the above mentioned points, having housekeeping services take care of the cleaning for you saves you a lot of time and energy. They will also save you from the hassle of handling sofas and curtains which cannot be cleaned very easily either. This is a great service not just for family but for those who are living on their own. There are numerous other responsibilities to take care of and with this service, one such chore can be taken off the shoulders. Please note that all the prices are estimates and that they may change at the time of inquiry The time taken to clean an entire house depends on the type of service you choose as well as the size of your house or apartment. To clean a 1 BHK it would take approximately 4-5 hours. To clean a 2 BHK it would take approximately 5-6 hours. To clean a 3 BHK it would take approximately 6-7 hours. To clean a 4 BHK it would take approximately 7-8 hours. To clean a villa it would take approximately 1-2 days. In Avadi, Chennai residential cleaning services can be easily found right here on Justdial. Find the best rated company and contact them to have your home cleaned just the way you like it. It is advised that you get in touch with these establishments in advance so that you can have your booking made conveniently. At the basic level, cleaning of bathrooms, kitchen, living room, furniture, shelves and cupboards. While the time depends on the type of cleaning and your home, the approximate time taken to clean a 1-BHK home in Chennai is 4-5 hours. Yes, it is. Contrary to regular cleaning, deep cleaning aims to get rid of germs and pests from all corners of the home, even the difficult to reach ones. Most residential cleaning services in Chennai send 1-3 people to your home. However, depending on your home’s size, the number may increase or decrease. Residential cleaning firms in Chennai levy a service charge starting approximately at Rs. 3,500 for deep cleaning a 1-BHK apartment. 