Padstow is famous for Obby Oss, a May Day festival! – Zamsoe Padstow is famous for Obby Oss, a May Day festival steeped in tradition and thought to be of Celtic origin. It is maybe the biggest day in Padstow’s year, with tens of thousands of people crammed into the town’s narrow streets and harbour, which are decorated with bunting and flags. The festival starts at midnight on May Eve when townspeople gather outside the Golden Lion Inn to sing the "Night Song." By morning, the town has been dressed with greenery and flowers placed around the maypole. The excitement begins with the appearance of one of the 'Obby 'Osses. Male dancers cavort through the town dressed as one of two 'Obby 'Osses, the "Old" and the "Blue Ribbon" 'Obby 'Osses; as the name suggests, they are stylised kinds of horses. Prodded on by acolytes known as "Teasers," each wears a mask and black frame-hung cape under which they try to catch young maidens as they pass through the town. Throughout the day, the two parades, led by the "MC" in his top hat and decorated stick, followed by a band of accordions and drums, then the 'Oss and the Teaser, with a host of people, the "Mayers" - all singing the "Morning Song." - pass along the streets of the town. Finally, late in the evening, the two 'osses meet, at the maypole, before returning to their respective stables where the crowd sings of the 'Obby 'Oss death, until its resurrection the following May Eve. Its always a great day with lots of atmosphere.  Can you spot us?   Facebook Twitter Email App Pinterest AddThis Celebrating the new season. Spring is here!!! Posted on March 25, 2019 Check out our new men's bracelet designs for Fathers Day. Posted on April 30, 2018 Something for your husband or boyfriend - 15% discount! Posted on April 10, 2018 Get a Free Pair of Earrings for Mothers Day. Posted on March 01, 2018 Did you see us in Cornwall Life Magazine Posted on February 14, 2018 Give your heart this Valentines Day. Posted on February 08, 2018 Karen Wanless from Zamsoe invited to No 10 Downing Street. Posted on January 10, 2017 Zamsoe a Padstow jewellery design business named in Small Business Saturday UK’s ‘Small Biz 100’ for 2016 Posted on October 31, 2016 The Great British Bake Off Final Tonight Posted on October 26, 2016 The Zamsoe Halloween Photo Competition So Far - its not too late to enter. Posted on October 25, 2016 Copyright   2019 Zamsoe | Porthcothan Bay Jewellery Ltd Reg Number 11908875  Thank you for contacting us. Your enquiry has been submitted and we will be in touch with you as soon as possible. 