Easy Oven Baked Beef Ribs Recipe (VIDEO) - West Via Midwest West Via Midwest Restaurant Quality Meals and Appetizers easily made at home June 8, 2018  by  Michele 46 Comments  This site uses affiliate links, such as Amazon which pays this site a small commission if you purchase at no additional cost to you. As an Amazon Associate I earn from qualifying purchases. Read full info   here .  This  Oven Baked Beef Ribs recipe  is so easy. Dry rubbed with delicious seasoning, low temp baked slowly yield fall off the bone tender, juicy  meaty ribs that will be the hit of any BBQ party all in less than 15 minutes of work! Although we BBQ all year long there is something about when summer is finally here and BBQ season officially begins.  While I m normally a HUGE grilling fan, today s Beef Rib Recipe is actually baked in the oven.  While the recipe can be made on the grill I found it to be even easier in the oven. Beef Ribs always remind me of the Flintstones.  Fred would eat the HUGE bone of ribs and have all the sauces all over him after eating.  Beef ribs are so meaty its hard to not go all in and end up with sauce all over you when eating them.  (yes, some people might use a fork for ribs but we are way to casual for that at our house!) There are basically two kinds of beef ribs Full Slab ribs and short ribs.  The best explanation about the  ABC s of Rib cuts  here! For BBQ Ribs the full slab ribs work best.  Short Ribs are primarily cooked by braising like in this recipe for Braised Boneless Shortribs (omg, seriously melt in your mouth ribs with a wine/chocolate sauce) Beef Back Ribs are not nearly as prominent as pork ribs are but if you can t find them ask the butcher or anyone in the meat department at your local grocery store.  They can easily cut some for you. TIME SAVING TIP :  You do want the whole slab of beef ribs and if at all possible ask them to remove the silver skin membrane for you.  While its easy to do ( here is a video on how to do it ) it will save you time if you have them do it for you! The secret to fall of the bone ribs is slow cooking them at low temperature heat.  Low temperature as in 250°   275° oven temp. To start you will make a dry rub of simple seasonings (chili powder, paprika, dry mustard, brown sugar and salts) and slather it on with some liquid smoke and mustard with your fingers making sure to get in all the crevices. You ll place the ribs bone side down on some foil and seal it. Then all you have to do is place it in a foil packet the oven and let them bake.  You ll take them out of the foil after a couple of hours and let them finish. If you choose to put on additional bbq sauce, you would put the sauce on in this last open baking. The ribs are seasoned so nicely they don t need sauce, but I have some family members that don t think ribs are ribs if you don t have them all saucy! By cooking the ribs in foil first, you guarantee you will have juicy ribs and they wont be dried out. Rib meat is cooked long before they are tender enough to fall off of the bone. They start to give way at 200° but I usually let them go a little bit longer than that for complete tenderness.  It can be difficult to get the thermometer in to check, but its easy to tell if they are ready just by lifting a rib (use a towel to not burn yourself). If the meat is falling off you know you are done! MORE BBQ meal favorites to try! Pin this  to your BBQ Party Board on Pinterest! Lets Be Friends  .  follow me on Pinterest for more ideas for stress free entertaining with confidence!  ~ Instagram ~ Pinterest ~ Twitter ~ Facebook ~ This Oven Baked Beef Ribs recipe is so easy. Dry rubbed with delicious seasoning, low temp baked slowly yield fall off the bone tender, juicy  meaty ribs that will be the hit of any BBQ party all in less than 15 minutes of work! Preheat oven to 275° Line two baking sheets or roasting pans with foil. Remove beef ribs from their packaging.  If the silver skin/membrane is still on the back take a sharp object to get it started and them remove completely.  (I have a link to a video in the post for visual examples) In a small bowl mix the liquid smoke and mustard.  Slather that over both sides of the ribs. In another small bowl mix all of the dry spices and seasonings and stir to combine. Sprinkle dry mix over all sides of ribs, rubbing in with your fingers to cover all meat on the bones. Onto another sheet of foil you will place one slab of rib onto the top and then close to seal in a pocket.  Do this for both slabs (you will have two packages. Place rib packet onto foil lined tray and bake for 3 hours.  Remove from foil and put back on baking sheet the ribs for the last hour.  You will cook the ribs until they are 200° for fall off the bone, about 1 more hour. If you choose to put on bbq sauce,  put the sauce on in this last open out of the foil baking.  The ribs are seasoned so nicely they don"t need sauce, but I have some family members that don't think ribs are ribs if you don't have them all saucy!  Remove from oven.  Let rest for 20 minutes, then cut into one bone sections and serve immediately.  Note:  Video shows the wet method of applying the spices.  Same spices just a little more intense flavor.  Both ways work equally well.   we won't EVER sell or share your info! Filed Under:  BBQ ,  beef ,  Easy meal for entertaining ,  MAIN COURSE DadIsTheCookOfTheFamily says September 30, 2019 at 10:22 am I made a slightly amended version of this yesterday (using this recipe as the basis).  I used a yellow mustard (not Dijon) and Liquid Smoke first, then a rub of brown sugar, cayenne (not chili powder), cumin, garlic powder, onion powder, black pepper, salt, and paprika. For finishing I used a southern style whiskey barbecue sauce.  I cooked in the foil at closer to 275°, but dropped it to 250° when the packets were opened, and the sauce added.  My wife   who is a beef ribs fanatic   loved them, and had seconds. My son   who isn t keen on anything  on the bone  also had seconds. The meat was tender, smoky, juicy, and delicious.  Great recipe. I will do this again, and again. Michele says October 6, 2019 at 4:12 pm You sure made my day! Thank you so much for letting me know you enjoyed it! 🙂 ~m Julie Menghini says September 1, 2019 at 6:55 pm Ribs are my favorite meat and these babies look amazing! I can t wait to give your recipe a try! Lori Barnes says June 8, 2019 at 12:12 pm Can I do this with pork ribs? Michele says June 9, 2019 at 8:14 am Lori! yes- this recipe works exactly the same with pork ribs I would cook them until the temp is at 200° so they are completely cooked and literally fall off of the bone! ~m michaela says May 21, 2019 at 9:07 pm These came out absolutely fabulous!! Making again this weekend!! Jennifer A Stewart says May 20, 2019 at 7:42 pm Brooks and I were literally fighting over the last rib! He even grabbed a few of the bones off my plate and was looking for any piece of meat that I had left on there! I can t wait to make these again:) Daniela says February 24, 2019 at 7:05 pm Yum! Don t eat ribs too often but I do love me some good ones! And these look very delicious :). Nicole says February 24, 2019 at 6:45 pm Oven Baked Ribs are one of my favorite things to eat. I don t think people realize how tender they are when they are cooked in the oven. Anne Murphy says February 24, 2019 at 6:36 pm I just cooked pork ribs for the first time last summer   and now I obviously must move on to beef ribs! (Which I don t remember seeing much back in New York City, but I certainly have here in North Carolina!) Those look so good   and really easy, as well! Dominique says February 24, 2019 at 4:22 pm Oh My God!! These look SOO good. I am a huge fan of ribs and love the idea of cooking them in the oven like this. They look so juicy! Kari Heron says February 24, 2019 at 12:03 pm I love to make ribs in the oven (less cleanup) and yours look absolutely delicious and your marinade looks like a great one ! Karyl says February 24, 2019 at 7:07 am These ribs look absolutely amazing! I have a friend who does her ribs overnight in the crock pot, then finishes them in the oven with a glaze. I like this idea too, so it’s one less thing to clean 🙂 great recipe Markus Mueller says February 24, 2019 at 3:24 am Awesome! Love the details instructions here. I also dry rub my ribs whenever I bake them. I am actually doing short ribs in the ovem right now! They make a great meal prep item and re heat beautifully! Brandi Burgess says February 23, 2019 at 6:57 pm One of the BEST meals on earth!!!!! Veena Azmanov says February 22, 2019 at 4:26 am My family is crazy about beef ribs and we make it really often. I appreciate how beautifully you ve given so much detailing to this recipe. Thanks for sharing !! Definitely trying it out this weekend Alisha Rodrigues says February 22, 2019 at 3:33 am I m drooling over how delicious this looks. That bright color with a juicy texture is so irresistible, have to try it out this weekend Jacque says February 21, 2019 at 1:00 pm I have never had ribs baked in the oven before. They literally fell off the bone. Can t wait to make them again. Linda says February 21, 2019 at 9:32 am I love to BBQ all year long as well but cooking the ribs in the oven, to get them fall off the bone delicious, sounds like a no-brainer! These look awesome and I have to admit I would probably add the sauce to them and look just like Fred Flintstone when I was done. Can t wait to try them. Patricia Peist says February 11, 2019 at 11:48 pm I am making these tonite. I love beef ribs and this recipe sounds delicious! I will use yellow mustard instead of Dijon. Just my own taste. I use yellow mustard on pork ribs to help hold my seasoning on. I will throw them on the grill to finish them. Michele says February 12, 2019 at 9:18 am The yellow mustard will be fine! My husband loves a good yellow mustard in place of dijon too! ~M. Take a pic if you make them I d love to see them! 🙂 !~m Patricia Peist says February 12, 2019 at 4:54 pm Made these tonite and they were delicious! Hubby ate them and loved them. Will make again.🥰🥰🥰 amita says February 2, 2019 at 8:58 am I am with you on barbequing all year long but with Chicago winter this oven baked recipe is the best for my collection. Thanks for sharing. Jamie says November 1, 2018 at 1:12 am This recipe sounds great. I do have one question though  After 3 hours in the oven, I d like to finish off on the grill, so should I cook unwrapped for another 1/2 to 3/4 hour in oven and then finish off on the grill? Or skip the 1/2 to 3/4 hour and just place on grill right after the 3 hour time limit is up? Michele says November 4, 2018 at 12:52 pm Id just finish them on the grill without the extra time in the oven. The heat on the grill will do what the oven would do! ~Let me know how it goes! ~m Brittany Rose says September 16, 2018 at 8:51 pm I made these ribs tonight for my other half. They were amazing! I love how the Dijon pairs with the liquid smoke, and the rub has the perfect sweet/Smokey balance. The ribs were succulent and delicious. I used my own home made barbecue sauce on broil the last five minutes. ( my significant other is a huge bbq fan). Thank you so much for this recipe. This will definitely be a staple dinner in my home! Michele says September 25, 2018 at 5:29 pm Im so glad you enjoyed them! Im not usually a huge mustard fan, but I loved it on the ribs too! ~. Thanks for letting me know you enjoyed it! That made my whole day! ~m Kathy says June 13, 2018 at 6:48 pm These ribs look fantastic! I love baking ribs in the oven. The process is so easy and simple. A must make for me. Anna says June 13, 2018 at 7:59 am These ribs look incredible! I am so intimidated to make beef ribs at home because I always worry they won t be perfect and fall of the bone! Your oven method sounds easy and I can t wait to try the recipe! Sean says June 12, 2018 at 10:25 am This looks soooooo good   and it honestly has me wondering why I don t cook beef ribs. I do pork ribs often enough, and I LOVE beef short ribs   so honestly, I need to dive right into this. Thanks for all the wonderful tips and tricks for taking care of the prep! That makes a world of difference. Leslie says June 11, 2018 at 5:52 pm They are so flinstones, right!?! I love a good beef rib, but rarely do them at home   thanks for all the tips. And you re so right about asking for the membrane to be removed, it can be such a pain to remove at home. Donna says June 11, 2018 at 11:00 am Hahaha I am definitely the girl that uses a fork for her ribs, I hate getting messy during dinner and avoided ribs for years because of it. Until I married the biggest meat eater alive and now I am a gun at getting all the meat off with a fork 🙂 These sound delicious, and I am actually glad they are made in the oven because it means I can do them and not have to wait for hubby to fire up the grill (that thing takes forever) Sandra Shaffer says June 11, 2018 at 10:53 am These ribs are making my mouth water! I usually make a big meal for Father s Day and this is the dish that my husband will love! Great tip on preparing the ribs and removing the membrane. I always winged-it, so now I know the proper way! Marisa Franca says June 11, 2018 at 10:13 am If you were to ask my Hubby what is my favorite meat he would immediately answer RIBS!  But the ribs we usually eat are of the pork variety. Your ribs sound just the way I like them. We ll have to try out your recipe on a slab of beef ribs. Dana says June 11, 2018 at 7:39 am The BBQ-happy South would slap me for this, but I m team  oven-baked  all the way! Whenever my Mom made ribs, she d boil them, marinade them overnight, then bake them the next day and they would just fall off the bone. It was magical. I m loving the sounds of this finger-lickin  sauce, too! Jennifer Bigler says June 10, 2018 at 7:42 pm We love ribs. I haven t tried to bake them though, so I am really excited to try this. My mom used to bake them and I loved how they fell off the bone. I know my entire family will love this, thank you! Carmy says June 10, 2018 at 1:16 pm Aha! This would have been soooo helpful when my friend and I spent HOURS trying to get the smoker working to smoke ribs! I looooove tender fall off the bone ribs and I m here for this recipe! I can t wait to get some ribs in my oven next weekend. Michele says June 10, 2018 at 5:23 pm My brother is the kind of smoking . I need to work on a recipe for smoked ribs! Great idea! Thanks! ~m Susie says June 10, 2018 at 6:28 am I definitely need to try beef ribs! I have only had pork ribs. But you definitely taught me something because I did not realize that short ribs are a part of the beef rib. And I absolutely love short ribs!!! This is going on my a list of things to make this summer Sarah says June 9, 2018 at 6:20 pm My poor husband hasn t eaten ribs in SO LONG, and I ve always been pretty clueless about how to make them. You make it sound so easy!! I need to print this out and go make it for him 😀 Michele says June 10, 2018 at 5:25 pm Right? How easy is season and bake! I hope he enjoys them! ~m Wilhelmina Wessel says June 9, 2018 at 1:43 pm These ribs look amazing! Amanda Finks says June 9, 2018 at 10:26 am These ribs are tender, juicy, and perfectly seasoned! Great rib recipe! Michele says June 10, 2018 at 5:26 pm 😉 😊 Stephanie Simmons says June 9, 2018 at 7:23 am I love these ribs! So easy and delicious! They re incredible! Jeff says June 8, 2018 at 3:28 pm These ribs are delicious. I would have never guessed that they re that easy to make. Your email address will not be published.  Required fields are marked  * Recipe Rating Comment Name  * Email  * This site uses Akismet to reduce spam.  Learn how your comment data is processed . Email email Facebook facebook Instagram instagram Pinterest pinterest Hi! I m Michele.   I believe no matter how busy you are you can entertain without stress while making great tasting food that people will rave about.   Read more here Copyright   2014 - 2019 WestViaMidwest.com Help spread the word. You're awesome for doing it! 