Cinnaminson and Mount Laurel NJ Homes and Real Estate - Weichert REALTORS MOORESTOWN Patricia Pomeranz M:   848-469-6691  Get a positive, helpful partner for buying or selling a home: What do past clients say about Pat "I have dealt with Pat over the last 12 years and 4 houses!  She is great to work with and I would highly recommend her to everyone.  She is knowledgeable, experienced, helpful, honest and will do whatever is needed to get the job done . The last move included the selling of mine and my mother s and me purchasing a home all on the same day!  I was having my mother move in with me and we had a list of specific things we needed.  Pat went above and beyond to help us find our perfect home.  Then, 3 days prior to settlement, my buyer tried backing out for unfit reasons.  With my approval (don t know if you need that in there), Pat contacted a lawyer and had the situation was resolved the next day.  I couldn t have done it without her".....Cindy Mt. Holly "Pat was a pleasure to work with. Honest, professional, and full of knowledge. I highly recommend her"..... Eric from Cinnaminson "Pat is an excellent partner when you are looking to make such a huge change in your life! She is knowledgable about the process of both buying and selling your home. She was also very patient with me while I was looking at house after house looking for that perfect place to call home. After 20 years in my home, I have never regretted my decision. I will definitely call Pat when it's time to downsize!".....Baraba Maple Shade, NJ Communities I have dealt with Pat over the last 12 years and 4 houses! She is great to work with and I would highly recommend her to everyone. She is knowledgeable, experienced, helpful, honest and will do whatever is needed to get the job done .The last move included the selling of mine and my mother s and me purchasing a home all on the same day! I was having my mother move   -Cindy Sights, Client "Call Pat.....For Your Real Estate Chat"  848-469-6691 