NIOS 3rd D El Ed Exam 2018: Last Day Today to Pay Admission Fee for 2nd Year Admission at dled.nios.ac.in - News18 Please check above checkbox. Contributor Content NIOS 3rd D El Ed Exam 2018 last date to pay admission fee is Monday i.e. 15 October 2018. Untrained teachers who have enrolled themselves for the NIOS Diploma in Elementary Education (D.El.Ed) programme can pay the admission fee of Rs.6000 on Monday on the official website of National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) -  dled.nios.ac.in. Interested candidates can follow the instructions below and pay IInd year Admission Fee now: How to pay application fee for NIOS 3rd D El Ed Exam 2018? Step 1  – Visit the official webpage for NIOS D.El.Ed -  http://dled.nios.ac.in/ Step 2  – Click on  Online Submission of II Year Admission Fees (Last Chance - Deposit Fee upto 15 October, 2018) Step 3  – Enter your Enroll Number and follow further instructions Step 4  – Download the confirmation page and take a printout for further reference Direct Link  -  http://dled.nios.ac.in/attendanceLogin/IIyearfee.aspx  NIOS 3rd D El Ed 2018 Exam Schedule: NIOS is scheduled to organize the examinations for 506 and 507 modules in December 2018, while for modules 508, 509, 510 the examinations will be organized in February- March 2019. About NIOS-D.El.Ed Programme: The NIOS Diploma in Elementary Education (D.El.Ed) programme is a two-year course specifically designed for in-service untrained teachers working in primary/ upper primary schools of different states across the country and aims at enabling the in-service teachers to develop skills, competencies, attitudes and understanding, and make teaching more valuable at the elementary stage of learning. This programme came in effect after an amendment in Right to Education (RTE) act was passed in the parliament. Get the best of News18 delivered to your inbox -  subscribe to News18 Daybreak . Follow News18.com on  Twitter ,  Instagram ,  Facebook ,   Telegram ,  TikTok  and on  YouTube , and stay in the know with what's happening in the world around you – in real time. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. 