Nanostructured merwinite bioceramic coating on Mg alloy deposited by electrophoretic deposition - ScienceDirect ScienceDirect Magnesium (Mg) alloys have recently attracted much attention as degradable metallic implants for bone fracture healing. A biodegradable osteosynthetic implant material will remove the need for the implant removal surgery after the bone healing process. However, the high corrosion rate of the Mg alloys in the body fluid has prevented their clinical application as implants. In the present study, a nanostructured merwinite (Ca 3 MgSi 2 O 8 ) bioceramic coating was prepared on AZ91 Mg alloy in order to improve its corrosion resistance, bioactivity, mechanical stability and cytocompatibility. The coating was deposited by electrophoretic deposition assisted micro arc oxidation. The phase composition and the surface morphology of the samples were characterized by X-ray diffraction and electron microscopy. The corrosion, bioactivity and mechanical behavior of the samples were investigated by electrochemical measurements, immersion into simulated body fluid (SBF) and compression tests. The cytocompatibility of the samples was evaluated by a cell culture test. The results showed that the nanostructured merwinite coating not only improved the corrosion resistance, but also enhanced the bioactivity, mechanical stability and cytocompatibility of the AZ91 Mg alloy. Metallic biomaterials such as titanium alloys, stainless steel, and cobalt–chromium alloys are being commonly used for load-bearing orthopedic implants  [1] ,  [2] . Although these biomaterials can support the loads during the healing process, the stability of the implants will decrease over time due to the stress shielding phenomenon  [3] ,  [4] . The corrosion and wear of these implants can also result in the release of toxic ions, with subsequent inflammation and tissue loss  [5] . These implants are only required for a period of time and should be removed after the bone healing process, specially in case of patients with allergic responses. The post-healing surgeries are usually unfavorable, inconvenient and costly for patients  [3] ,  [6] . To avoid this issue, development of biomedical implants and scaffolds made of degradable biomaterials is desirable  [7] ,  [8] ,  [9] . Currently, polymers and ceramics are among the most important biodegradable materials  [10] ,  [11] ,  [12] ,  [13] . However, these polymer or ceramics based devices for bone treatment commonly have insufficient mechanical strength  [14] ,  [15] . The main advantage of magnesium over biodegradable polymers or ceramics is its mechanical strength. Normally, the strength of magnesium alloys is about two times greater than that of the biodegradable polymers  [16] . Recently, Mg alloys have been proposed as a new class of biodegradable implant material  [1] ,  [3] . Some of the benefits of Mg-based orthopedic implants include their low elastic modulus, which is closer to that of the natural bone compared to stainless steel and titanium; biocompatibility and osseoactive properties; and elimination of surgery for implant removal  [5] ,  [6] . Moreover, the metabolism of Mg and excretion via the kidneys is a natural physiological process that is well understood  [1] ,  [3] . However, some key issues remain to be solved before Mg becomes the new paradigm for orthopedic biomaterials. These problems include its rapid, and localized or unpredictable corrosion rate and the fact that hydrogen gas is one of the corrosion products, which may accumulate adjacent to the implant in the body  [6] ,  [17] . Thus, controlling the corrosion rate of these alloys is vital to minimize the production of undesirable by-products  [3] ,  [18] . Other concerns include the implant׳s mechanical stability after corrosion, cytocompatibility, and its ability to influence the rate of precipitation of osteoconductive minerals (bioactivity) with sufficiently high rate  [19] . Surface modification has been found to be one of the main methods to enhance the interface biocompatibility of titanium alloys, cobalt alloys and stainless steel implants  [17] ,  [19] ,  [20] ,  [21] . In addition, the corrosion resistance and in vitro bioactivity of substrates is improved by using a bioactive coating such as hydroxyapatite and bioglass  [22] ,  [23] ,  [24] . Biodegradable magnesium alloy has been coated with a number of polymers and bioceramic materials to improve its properties. Reports include the use of such coatings as polycaprolactone coating  [25] , calcium phosphate coating  [26] , hydroxyapatite coating  [27] , and fluoridated hydroxyapatite coating  [28] . Bioactive silicate-based ceramics are known to be very useful materials for bone tissue engineering applications  [29] ,  [30] . Chang et al.  [30]  reported that silicate ceramics have better biodegradation and in vivo bone regeneration as compared to β-tricalcium phosphate and that they can be good candidates for bone tissue engineering applications. Among silicate bioceramics, merwinite (Ca 3 MgSi 2 O 8 ) has been suggested as a new bioactive ceramic with suitable mechanical properties, which holds the potential for bone repair  [31] . Also, it was found that merwinite is biocompatible in segmental defects of animal models during in vivo examinations  [32] . Considering these benefits, in this contribution we chose to employ the merwinite coating on AZ91 Mg substrate. AZ91 is known as a biomedical grade Mg alloy with high corrosion resistance  [33] . Bone is composed of nanostructured hydroxyapatite in collagen matrix. Bioactivity and osteoconductivity of coating could be further improved if coating materials were closer to bone mineral in crystal size (nano size)  [34] ,  [35] ,  [36] . Thus, we aimed to make a nanostructured configuration of merwinite coating in our study. Regarding the coating technique, we employed micro arc oxidation (MAO) and electrophoretic deposition (EPD). Ducheyne et al.  [37]  introduced electrophoretic deposition (EPD) for coating of hydroxyapatite on the surface of metallic implants and now this method has received a great deal of interest. The advantages of EPD technique include simplicity, control of coating thickness, uniformity, low temperature process, low cost of equipment, coating of substrate with complex shape, ability to produce thick film in composite form, high purity of deposits, no phase transformation during coating, and applicability in medical applications  [38] ,  [39] . EPD coatings usually yield better results on porous substrates. An important route to form porous layers on Mg materials is anodization above the breakdown voltage, often called micro arc oxidation (MAO)  [40] . Recently, MAO has become the preferred commercially applied protection method for Mg alloys. Overall, MAO layers are stable, hard and resistant to abrasion and corrosion. For orthopedic implants, such layers could be of interest to slow down the corrosion rate as well as to act as a pre-treatment for the next coatings. Hence, MAO layers, which we used as the primary coating film on our AZ91 substrates, can protect the samples in combination with subsequent coating layers to promote coating adhesion  [17] ,  [40] . In this paper, we modified the corrosion, bioactivity, mechanical stability and cytocompatibility behavior of biodegradable AZ91 Mg alloy by EPD of nanostructured merwinite powder on top of the MAO layer. The AZ91 Mg alloy sample (20×15×5 mm 3 ) surfaces were ground with 600 grit SiC paper to ensure consistent surface roughness and were ultrasonically cleaned by acetone before being used. Merwinite powders were synthesized by the sol–gel method. For this purpose, Ca(NO 3 ) 2 ·4H 2 O (Merck), tetraethyl orthosilicate (TEOS; Merck) and Mg(NO 3 ) 2 ·6H 2 O (Merck) were used as received. The starting sol was prepared by hydrolysis of TEOS under magnetic stirring in the presence of 0.1 M HNO 3  (Merck) solution for 1 h while the molar ratio of (HNO 3 +H 2 O)/TEOS was fixed (TEOS:HNO 3 :H 2 O=1:4:16). Solutions of Mg(NO 3 ) 2 ·6H 2 O and Ca(NO 3 ) 2 .4H 2 O were added into the mixture with the molar ratio of TEOS:Mg(NO 3 ) 2 ·6H 2 O:Ca(NO 3 ) 2 ·4H 2 O=1:1.44:0.85. The sol was stirred for 5 h and then kept at 60 °C overnight to allow gel formation. After 2 days, the resultant gel was dried at 120 °C. The dried gel was heated for 24 h in an electrical box furnace at 700 °C using the heating rate of 5 °C min −1  to eliminate residual nitrates. Subsequently, powders were heated at 1300 °C in the furnace for 2 h  [32] . The prepared merwinite powder was ball milled to convert to nanostructured powder. Planetary high energy ball milling using zirconia vial and zirconia balls was employed. The parameters of ball milling were ball/powder ratio: 10/1, time: 10 h and rotational speed: 250 rpm. MAO process was performed in a 100 mL solution containing 20 g NaOH and 20 g Na 2 SiO 3  with the balance distilled water. The AZ91 sample and a stainless steel plate were used as the anode and the cathode electrode, respectively. The distance between two electrodes was 2 cm and the MAO process was carried out at a constant voltage of 60 V on the AZ91 samples for 30 min. For the EPD process, a merwinite suspension with 10 g of merwinite powder in 100 mL of methanol was prepared. The suspension was dispersed ultrasonically for 1 h, and then stirred for 0.5 h. An electrophoretic cell using MAO samples as the cathode and graphite as the anode were connected to electrodes 20 mm apart applying 100 V for 3 min. The morphologies and compositions of samples were studied by scanning electron microscopy (Philips XL 30: Eindhoven) with an energy-dispersive spectroscopy (EDS) system. The phase compositions of AZ91, MAO AZ91, merwinite powder and merwinite coated samples were identified by an X-ray diffractometer (XRD, Philips Xpert) and the grain size of prepared merwinite powders was estimated using the X-Pert software by the Williamson–Hall equation  [41] . A transmission electron microscope, TEM (JEOL JEM-2100) was utilized to study the morphology and to determine the size of merwinite nanoparticles after ball milling. The electrochemical corrosion behavior of samples in simulated body fluid (SBF) was investigated using an Ametek potentiostat (model PARSTAT 2273). The standard SBF solution was prepared according to Kokubo׳s protocol  [42] . A three-electrode cell with saturated calomel electrode (SCE) as the reference electrode, platinum electrode as the counter electrode, and the samples as the working electrode was used. The electrochemical impedance spectra were measured over a frequency range from 100 kHz to 0.01 Hz. The samples were immersed in the SBF for 0, 72, 168, 336, 504 and 672 h to evaluate the bioactivity and corrosion morphology of the samples. After the immersion the samples were cleaned with chromic acid (180 g/L Cr 2 O 3 ) to remove the corrosion products  [43] . The release of magnesium ions from the samples was measured using an inductively coupled plasma spectrometry (ICP: PERKIN-ELMER 2380). The pH values of samples were also measured with a pH-Meter (pH  &  ION meter GLP 22, Crison, Spain). The functional groups of precipitated layer on the surface of samples in SBF solution were analyzed by Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR, Agilent 680 IR). The uniaxial compression tests were carried out using an INSTRON 8562 universal tensile testing machine at a cross head displacement rate of 0.5 mm/min. The standard samples were prepared according to ASTM E9  [44]  and immersed in the SBF for 4 weeks. L-929 fibroblast cells were used for a cell proliferation test. They were cultured in 89% Dulbecco׳s modified Eagle׳s medium (DMEM, Gibco), 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS, Gibco) and 1% penicillin streptomycin. The cells were incubated at 37 °C in humidified 5% CO 2  atmosphere for 5 days in T-75 plates at a density of 3000 cells/mL. Cell viability was evaluated after 48, 120 and 168 h incubation time at 37 °C and 5% CO 2  where three samples were examined at each time point. DMEM medium was used as negative control and finally 400 μl MTT solution (3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol)-2, 5-diphenyltetrazoliumbromide) was added. Then the samples were incubated for 4 h at 37 °C followed by replacement of the medium with 4 mL DMSO. A microplate reader (Hiperion MPR4+) at 570 nm was used to measure the spectrophotometrical absorbance of samples. The cell viabilities were expressed as OD sample /OD negative control ×100%, where OD sample  and OD negative control  are the optical density of the sample and the negative control, respectively. For the cell attachment evaluation by SEM, the cells on the samples were fixed by 2.5% glutaraldehyde solution and rinsed three times with phosphate buffer solution (PBS, pH 7.4). Finally, the samples were dehydrated in 30, 50, 70, 90, 95 and 100 vol% alcohol solutions, successively. Statistical analysis was performed to evaluate the difference in cell viability by the analysis of variance (ANOVA). The statistical significance was defined as  p  value  < 0.05. The data are presented in mean±SD values. According to  Fig. 1 a, for the AZ91 substrate, the peaks of Mg appeared in the pattern. For the MAO layer, Mg, MgO and Mg 2 SiO 4  peaks were observed. MgO as an anodized layer was formed by the dissolving Mg 2+  (present in the substrate) and the O 2−  (present in the electrolyte) by reaction  (1) . At high temperature, both SiO 2  and MgO are present in the fused state  [40] . Fig. 1 . XRD pattern of AZ91, and MAO (a), SEM morphology of the MAO (b), XRD pattern of merwinite powder (c), TEM image of merwinite powder (d), XRD pattern of merwinite coating (e), and SEM image of merwinite coating (f). According to  Fig. 1 a, the MAO chemical structure was mainly composed of a mixture of MgO and Mg 2 SiO 4 . Mg 2 SiO 4  (forsterite) formed according to a reaction of MgO and SiO 2  (reaction  (2) ). (1) Mg 2+ +O 2− →MgO (2) SiO 2 +2MgO→Mg 2 SiO 4 Thus, MgO as an anodized layer can be a protective layer for the substrate and an intermediate layer for the next coating  [45] , and also Mg 2 SiO 4  can act as a bioactive filler in the MgO layer  [46] . The surface of MAO showed the rough and porous structure according to  Fig. 1 b. This structure was formed by the molten oxide and gas bubbles during the MAO process. At the sparking areas, a localized high-temperature part can be produced. The temperature at the sparking location is estimated to be over 1000 °C. The temperature can be much higher at the center of a sparking flame. Under such high temperature, compounds deposited on the sample surface such as MgO can be molten  [47] . The expected peaks of crystalline merwinite can be seen in the XRD pattern of the prepared merwinite powder ( Fig. 1 c). According to the Williamson–Hall method  [41] , the grain size of merwinite was 25 nm, which confirmed that the prepared merwinite powder was nanostructural in size. Fig. 1 d shows the TEM image of merwinite nanoparticles. The merwinite nanoparticles are in the range of 50–100 nm and exhibit agglomerative morphologies with irregular shapes. In the pattern of merwinite coating, besides the diffraction peaks from the MAO that were Mg, MgO and Mg 2 SiO 4 , the diffraction peaks of merwinite were also detected by XRD ( Fig. 1 e). The surface morphology of the merwinite coating is presented in  Fig. 1 f. The surface of the merwinite coating retained the rough and porous surface structure. The porous coating is helpful for the bone cells to penetrate into the implants and make a good interface area between the implant and the surrounding tissue  [48] . Fig. 2  shows the EDS analysis of the surface of the MAO sample. It clearly indicates the presence of O, Mg, and Si. The existence of O can help to recognize the formation of MgO and the presence of Si can confirm the formation of Mg 2 SiO 4  which was previously mentioned in the XRD patterns. Fig. 2 . EDS analysis from the surface of MAO sample showing the presence of O, Mg, and Si. Fig. 3  shows the EIS spectra containing Nyquist (a), Bode (b) and phase (c) plots for the AZ91, MAO surfaces and merwinite coated samples in the SBF. An equivalent circuit using the ZSimpDemo 3.30d software was proposed to model the sample/solution system ( Fig. 3 d). Fig. 3 . EIS spectra containing Nyquist (a), Bode (b), and phase (c) plots for the AZ91, MAO and merwinite coated samples in the SBF and Equivalent circuits used for modeling EIS spectra of AZ91, MAO and merwinite coated samples (d). The electrochemical corrosion parameters are presented in  Table 1 . Table 1 . Electrochemical corrosion parameters of the AZ91, MAO and merwinite coated samples. According to  Fig. 3 a, MAO and merwinite coated samples show larger capacitive loops compared to the AZ91 sample. Since a larger diameter loop represents better corrosion resistance we conclude that the MAO and merwinite coating can improve the corrosion resistance of the AZ91 Mg alloys, and also the corrosion resistance of merwinite coating is better than MAO. According to EIS spectra in  Fig. 3 , three loops can be seen including (1) a capacitive loop in the high frequency region, (2) a capacitive loop in the middle frequency region, and (3) a pseudoinductive loop in the low frequency region. The diameter of the loop in the high frequency region is related to the transfer resistance ( R t ). Higher transfer resistance indicates better corrosion resistance. Also, the diameters of loops in the middle frequency and pseudoinductive loop are representing mass transportation and absorption processes, respectively  [49] . According to  Table 1 , the  R t  of AZ91 samples increased from 137.6 Ω cm 2  to 439.7 Ω cm 2  and 5270.2 Ω cm 2  for MAO and merwinite coated samples, respectively, suggesting that the merwinite coating has higher corrosion resistance than AZ91, which is in good agreement with the results of polarization measurements. Polarization resistance ( R p ) is related to the pore or ionic conducting defect resistance. The merwinite coated sample with larger  R p  implies better corrosion resistance on the surface. According to  Table 1 , the  R p  value increased from 305.5 Ω for the AZ91 sample to 957.2 Ω for the MAO sample and to 11070.3 Ω for the merwinite coated sample. R s  is the solution resistance between the reference electrode and working electrodes and is placed in series with the other elements in the circuit. Its value depends on the conductivity of the test medium as well as the geometry of the cell  [50] . C f  is one of the constant phase element (CPE) components that indicates the capacitance of the intact coating on the surface. The electrolyte diffusion caused by the chemical dissolution enhances the dielectric constant of the surface coating and hence the  C f  increases. Thus, according to  Table 1 , the MAO and merwinite coated samples have higher corrosion resistance compared to the uncoated AZ91 sample. C dl , another CPE component, denotes the capacitance of the interface electric double layer in the vulnerable regions exposed to electrolyte penetration. The variation in  C dl  is attributed to the deterioration of the surface coating resulting in a larger area fraction of the vulnerable regions. Smaller value of  C f  and  C dl  also correspond to the larger value of  R p  and  R t . In addition,  L  expresses the inductance and  R l  is the low frequency loop resistance. Also, m and n are indices of the dispersion effects of  C f  and  C dl  respectively, representing their deviations from the ideal capacitance due to the inhomogeneity and roughness of the electrode on the micro scale  [51] . The values of  m  and  n  are always 0 < m ,  n < 1. The obtained values of  m  and  n  in current experiments are all in this range. The results above confirm the effective protection effect by the MAO and merwinite coating, i.e. the MAO and merwinite coating can reduce the corrosion rate of the AZ91 sample. Immersion test was performed to observe the in vitro bioactivity and corrosion behavior in order to investigate the protective effect of the coating during longer time periods. Bioactivity is the ability of the implant that induces biological integration of living soft and hard tissues. The core mechanism of bioactivity is surface bio mineralization of apatite precipitates on the implant  [52] .  Fig. 4  shows the SEM morphology of the AZ91 substrate before immersion test (a), AZ91 substrate (b), MAO (c) and merwinite coated (d) samples after 672 h immersion in the SBF. According to  Fig. 4 b, numerous large and deep network-like cracks can be observed on the surface of the AZ91 sample due to the corrosion, and a few brighter particles were found deposited on the surface of AZ91 sample when compared with the AZ91 substrate before immersion ( Fig. 4 a). The MAO sample has been corroded and some pits appeared on the surface as shown in  Fig. 4 c. As can be seen in  Fig. 4 c there are a few brighter particles deposited on the MAO layer. However, the number and density of these particles are much less than that of the merwinite coated samples ( Fig. 4 d). Also the formed particles on the surfaces of the merwinite coated samples are in cauliflower-like structure. It could be observed that the MAO and merwinite coated samples were subjected to milder and more uniform corrosion attack than the AZ91 sample indicating the degree of corrosion damage was significantly reduced for the MAO and merwinite coated samples compared with the AZ91 substrate. Moreover, the density of precipitated brighter particles on the surface of merwinite coated samples is higher than that of the MAO and AZ91 samples. The cauliflower-like structure resembling the appearance of bioactive minerals on the surface  [2] ,  [42] . Fig. 4 . SEM morphology of the AZ91 substrate before immersion test (a), AZ91 substrate (b), MAO (c) and merwinite coated (d) samples after 672 h immersion in the SBF. Mg is a very active metallic element. Corrosion reactions can happen in the SBF solution at pH 7.4. The electrochemical corrosion mechanism of Mg in the neutral corrosive mediums is  [1] ,  [33] : (3) Anodic reaction: Mg→Mg 2+ +2e − (4) Cathodic reaction: 2H 2 O+2e − →H 2 +2OH − (5) Total reaction: Mg  (s) +2H 2 O  (aq) →Mg(OH) 2 (s) +H 2 (g) The Mg metal is transformed into a Mg(OH) 2  film according to reaction  (5) . In the SBF solution, the Mg(OH) 2  connects to some H 2 O molecule to make the hydrate form of Mg(OH) 2 · n H 2 O. When the samples are dried in the air, the film shrinks due to dehydration and cracks form on the surface of the film ( Fig. 4 b). Fig. 5  shows EDS analysis of precipitated white particles in cauliflower-like structure on the surface of merwinite coated samples after 672 h immersion in the SBF. EDS results indicate that the layer was mainly composed of Ca, P, Mg and Si. Also  Fig. 5  shows the FTIR spectrum of the precipitated brighter particles in cauliflower-like structure on the surface of merwinite coated samples after 672 h immersion in the SBF. According to this Fig., the layer which was precipitated on the surface contained CO 3 2−  groups in PO 4 3−  sites. This kind of phosphate and its cauliflower-like structure may refer to the bioactive minerals that could be suitable for bone implant materials  [23] . The osteoconductivity behavior of an implant will be improved if precipitates similar to the bone tissue composition can be formed on the surface  [26] ,  [53] . Fig. 5 . EDS analysis and FTIR spectrum of precipitated brighter particles in cauliflower-like structure on the surface of merwinite coated samples after 672 h immersion in the SBF showing the composition of precipitated brighter particles. A stable form and a favorable bone–implant interface are especially important during the period of bone remolding using orthopedic implants. As degradable implants, Mg alloys degrade too quickly during the bone remolding period, leaving gaps around the implants  [54] . Improving the bioactivity of these implants is one of the major concerns in this regard. These results demonstrated that merwinite coating enhances the bioactivity and osteoconductivity and can more effectively promote the early stage of bone growth and tissue healing. Fig. 6 a shows the weight loss of AZ91, MAO and merwinite coated samples in the SBF solution versus immersion time. The weight loss of the merwinite coated samples is less than that of the MAO and AZ91 samples. After 672 h, the weight loss of AZ91, MAO and merwinite coated samples are about 67, 42 and 16 mg, respectively. Fig. 6 . Weight loss (a), pH value (b) and Mg ion concentration (c) of the AZ91, MAO and merwinite coated samples versus immersion time in the SBF showing the corrosion behavior of samples. pH monitoring can provide qualitative conclusions in Mg alloy immersion experiments  [55] . The pH value of all samples enhanced significantly from 0 to 72 h immersion, decreased gradually from 72 to 168 h and reached a stable value until the end of the immersion time ( Fig. 6 b). The MAO and merwinite coating can protect the substrate from direct contact with corrosive media as well as block the diffusion of electrolyte ions specially at the initial stage of immersion. The pH value of all samples increases rapidly in the initial immersion stage due to the formation of OH −  ion according to reaction  (5) . The slow increase of pH value for the samples with MAO and merwinite coating during the first 72 h shows a relatively slow chemical dissolution and an improvement of the corrosion resistance for the MAO and merwinite coating samples. The pH value of all solutions decreased between 72 and 168 h, which can be due to the formation of corrosion products which may include magnesium hydroxide and apatite precipitates on the surface that consumes OH −  in the SBF solution  [56] . Since the formation of corrosion products on the surface of AZ91 sample is less than other samples ( Fig. 4 ), the pH decrease of the SBF for the AZ91 sample is slower than that of the MAO and merwinite coated ones. ICP was used to determine ionic concentration of Mg in the SBF collected in order to further evaluate the corrosion resistance of AZ91 substrates when coated with the MAO and merwinite coating ( Fig. 6 c). The release in the first 72 h was the highest, followed by a decrease between 72 and 168 h to reach a quasi-steady state until the end of the experiment. The highest concentration was found for the uncoated AZ91 sample, indicating the highest corrosion rate among the tested samples. All the MAO and merwinite coated samples presented a significantly lower release of Mg ion during the immersion test. At the beginning, the Mg ion concentration was accelerated because of the breakage of the surface (first 72 h). Subsequently, the corrosion process slowed down due to the deposition of thick and loose corrosion products (72–168 h). With further increase in immersion time, corrosion products detached from the surface and the Mg ion concentration increased again. Removal of the corrosion layer by chipping off might cause quasi-steady state of Mg ion concentration of the samples at 168–672 h. The surface corrosion morphologies of the AZ91 (a), MAO (b) and merwinite coated (c) samples immersed for 672 h in the SBF after elimination of the corrosion products are presented in  Fig. 7 . Fig. 7 . Surface morphology of the AZ91 (a), MAO (b) and merwinite coated (c) samples immersed for 672 h in the SBF after removal of the corrosion products showing the corrosion morphology of samples during the immersion test. The surface of the AZ91 sample was full of web-like cracks and deep pits, resulting in the noticeable weight loss of the AZ91 substrate, implying that severe localized corrosion had occurred. In addition, the presence of chloride ions in the SBF will damage the surface oxide film of Mg to induce random pits. When a pit is formed, it can propagate rapidly due to the presence of chloride ions. According to  Fig. 7 , less pits appeared on the surface of the MAO and merwinite coated samples and the depth of pits is lower than that of the AZ91 alloy. Generally, the MAO and merwinite coated samples were subjected to a milder and more uniform corrosion compared to the AZ91 sample. In other words, the residual area of sample with the MAO and merwinite coating was larger than that of the substrate. This is likely due to the penetration of water and electrolyte into the underlying Mg substrate through the micropores existing in the MAO and merwinite coating, resulting in the corrosion attack. However, this decreased corrosion reaction reveals that the MAO and merwinite coating on Mg alloy could efficiently protect the substrate during the immersion examinations. Compression testing was performed to evaluate the mechanical stability of the samples. For this purpose, the stress–strain curves of the AZ91, MAO and merwinite coated samples before and after 4 weeks immersion in the SBF are presented in  Fig. 8  and their compressive properties are summarized in  Table 2 . Fig. 8 . Stress–strain curves for the AZ91, MAO and merwinite coated samples before and after 4 weeks immersion in the SBF showing the mechanical stability of samples after 4 weeks immersion in the SBF. Table 2 . Compressive properties of the AZ91, MAO and merwinite coated samples. The stress–strain curves of AZ91, MAO and merwinite coated samples were similar before immersion (i.e. time point 0) and varied after immersion due to the different corrosion rates. The compressive yield strength after 4 weeks immersion in the SBF for the MAO sample is higher than the AZ91 sample and is highest for the merwinite coated sample. Yield strength is the stress required for dislocation movement and quantifies the obstacles against the motion of dislocations in the substrate  [57] . Thus, the lower yield strength of the AZ91 sample after 4 weeks immersion compared to others may be attributed to the formation of more pores and defects caused by a higher corrosion rate in the SBF  [58] . Moreover, the AZ91 sample indicates a significant decrease in elastic modulus compared to the other samples due to the presence of pores and cracks that were formed by the severe corrosion. The elastic modulus of MAO was higher than AZ91, and merwinite coated samples displayed the highest elastic modulus due to the lowest corrosion rate. The compressive strength of the AZ91 sample has dropped from160 MPa before immersion to 75 MPa after 4 weeks immersion. However, for the MAO and merwinite coated samples this value decreased to 90 and 140 MPa, respectively after 4 weeks immersion. This indicated that the merwinite coating delayed the loss of the mechanical property of the substrate. Since the compressive strength of human bones is 100–230 MPa in cortical bone and 2–12 MPa in cancellous bone  [58] , the compressive strength of merwinite coated samples after 4 weeks can be considered in the range of cortical bone. Ductility of the AZ91, MAO and merwinite coated samples decreased from 23% before immersion to 12, 13, and 19% respectively, after 4 weeks immersion. The presence of pores and cracks due to the corrosion attack may limit the ductility of samples. These defects will restrict the dislocation movement. Note that efficiency of restriction to the ductility of samples is related to the amount of these defects  [58] . Since the number of defects made on MAO and merwinite coated samples are less than the ones formed on the AZ91 samples, the ductility of MAO and merwinite coated samples is higher compared to AZ91 samples. Fig. 9  shows the relative cell viability (% of control) of L-929 cells after 48, 120, and 168 h of incubation on the AZ91, MAO and merwinite coated samples. According to the cell viability results, cells can attach to all three kinds of samples. However, the amount of cells initially attached to the merwinite coated samples was significantly higher than for other samples. Fig. 9 . Relative cell viability (% of control) of L-929 cells after 48, 120, and 168 h of incubation on the AZ91, MAO and merwinite coated samples showing a comparison between the cytocompatibility of samples. For the uncoated AZ91 substrate, there is no significant increase in the cell viability during the entire incubation period. It changed from 50% in 48 h of incubation to 58% in 168 h of incubation, indicating that the uncoated AZ91 sample does not promote cell growth well. However, the cell viability on the MAO changes from 70% in 48 h of incubation to 85% in 7 days of incubation and for merwinite coated samples changes from 118% in 48 h of incubation to 135% in 168 h of incubation. This means that the MAO and merwinite coated samples have a significantly improved cytocompatibility compared to the uncoated sample. Fig. 10  illustrates the SEM morphology of the cells cultured for 168 h on the surfaces of the uncoated AZ91 (a), MAO (b) and merwinite coated (c) samples which clearly shows the differences in the response of the cells to the different surfaces. We observed only a few and less-spread cells on the uncoated AZ91 samples. More cells were observed on the MAO samples, and the area occupied by the cells was significantly increased for the merwinite coated samples with confluent and well-spread cells. The spherical granules on the cell surfaces suggest good mineralization. Fig. 10 . SEM morphology of the cells cultured for 168 h on the surfaces of the AZ91 (a), MAO (b) and merwinite coated (c) samples showing the differences in the response of the cells to the different surfaces. An important factor for evaluation of the material׳s biocompatibility is cellular behavior and response to biomaterials  [59]  Attachment of cells is the first step in the process of cell–material surface interactions, which in turn can affect subsequent cellular and tissue responses  [60] . The results of this study clearly demonstrated that the merwinite coating provided the better environment for growth of well-spread cells. During the Mg degradation, the media contain a very high concentration of Mg ions, and the hydrogen gas releases in the media. During immersion, the corrosion products that were formed on the surface gradually fall out due to the release of the hydrogen gas  [61] . The formed corrosion products and departure process and formation of hydrogen gas make it difficult for cells to attach on the surface. Improved corrosion resistance in the MAO and merwinite coated samples directly influence the cytocompatibility of these substrates  [62] ,  [63] . Furthermore, calcium is an essential factor for chemical signaling in cells  [64] . It is known that the cell growth on the calcium containing titanium surface is better than the titanium surface without calcium  [56] . Thus, we may conclude the Ca 2+  sites in merwinite coating samples may favor the cell-cell interactions too. Moreover, such sites are good for protein absorption, such as fibronectin and vitronectin, important cell attachment-promoting proteins which enhance the healthy cell spreading on the surface  [56] . According to these results, the fast corrosion of Mg adversely affects the cell viability and attachment. Controlling the corrosion rate by MAO and merwinite coatings not only creates mechanically stable implants, but also improves the biocompatibity of these implants. In order to improve the corrosion resistance of the AZ91 Mg alloy, a nanostructured merwinite film was coated on the micro arc oxidized alloy by electrophoretic deposition method. The samples were characterized in terms of their corrosion, bioactivity, cytocompatibility and mechanical behavior. The results showed that the nanostructured merwinite coating not only improved the corrosion resistance, but also enhanced the surface bioactivity, mechanical integrity and cytocompatibility of the biodegradable AZ91 Mg alloy. The authors are thankful for the contributions of  Isfahan University of Technology, Torabinejad Dental Research Center, Oklahoma Center for Advancement of Science and Technology  (Grant no.  AR131-054 8161 ),  AFOSR  (Grant no.  FA9550-10-1-0010 ) and the  National Science Foundation  (NSF, Grant no.  0933763 ). Tel.: +1 9188417078. Tel.: +1 9185948634. Elsevier We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content and ads. By continuing you agree to the  use of cookies . Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. or its licensors or contributors. ScienceDirect ® is a registered trademark of Elsevier B.V. 