Shangri-La’s Rasa Sayang Resort and Spa, Penang (Batu Ferringhi, Penang Island) | Jetsetter Jetsetter Holiday Gift Guide Expert picks for everyone on your list Use our insider connections to know where to go and what to do. Use our insider connections to know where to go and what to do. By proceeding, you agree to our  Privacy Policy  and  Terms of Use . close Jetsetter Holiday Gift Guide Expert picks for everyone on your list jetsetter_logo arrow-right search hamburger search calendar arrow-right jetsetter_logo Explore the best of the world. Access insider tips and hotel recommendations from our travel tastemakers By proceeding, you agree to our  Privacy Policy  and  Terms of Use . mail twitter facebook pinterest mail twitter facebook pinterest mail twitter facebook pinterest mail twitter facebook pinterest mail twitter facebook pinterest mail twitter facebook pinterest mail twitter facebook pinterest mail twitter facebook pinterest mail twitter facebook pinterest mail twitter facebook pinterest mail twitter facebook pinterest mail twitter facebook pinterest mail twitter facebook pinterest mail twitter facebook pinterest mail twitter facebook pinterest mail twitter facebook pinterest mail twitter facebook pinterest calendar owleyes bubble_full bubble_full bubble_full bubble_full bubble_half jetsetter-badge-verified babysitting connection golf gym wheelchair kidsclub parking pool restaurant spa calendar bed triangle-down guest triangle-down When you stay at Shangri-La’s Rasa Sayang Resort and Spa, Penang in Penang, you ll be on the beach and minutes from East Wind Watersports and Eden Parade Shopping Centre.  This 5-star resort is within close proximity of Tropical Spice Garden and PKSA Penang Water Sports Centre. Make yourself at home in one of the 304 air-conditioned rooms featuring refrigerators and LCD televisions. Complimentary wireless Internet access keeps you connected, and satellite programming is available for your entertainment. Private bathrooms with separate bathtubs and showers feature deep soaking bathtubs and complimentary toiletries. Conveniences include phones, as well as safes and desks. Relax at the full-service spa, where you can enjoy massages, body treatments, and facials. After practicing your swing on the golf course, you can dip into one of the 2 outdoor swimming pools. This resort also features complimentary wireless Internet access, concierge services, and babysitting/childcare (surcharge). Guests can get around on the complimentary shuttle, which operates within 15.00 km. Grab a bite to eat at one of the resort s 5 restaurants and 3 coffee shops/cafés, or stay in and take advantage of 24-hour room service. Relax with a refreshing drink at a beach bar, a poolside bar, or one of 3 bars/lounges. Featured amenities include limo/town car service, express check-in, and express check-out. This resort has 15 meeting rooms available for events. Free self parking is available onsite. hotel hotel hotel hotel hotel Cures Marines Trouville Mgallery By Sofitel magazine The Most Affordable Places to Escape to for the Holidays magazine Gorgeous Desert Hideaways Worth Braving the Heat For hotel Ocean Two Resort  &  Residences bubble_full bubble_full bubble_full bubble_full bubble_empty This is my 3rd trip back to Shangri La Rasa Sayang Penang.  I enjoyed my stay mostly.  The local staff are very attentive and always has a smile on their face.  Only thing that bothered me was the foreign waiter at the Spice Garden cafe during our breakfast which I dreaded each morning.  Not accommodating at all.  He did not even make any effort and just gave excuses on our request for a simple thing as a chair cushion.  Collected our plates without even asking if we even finished which left us speechless. For a 5 star resort, I would have appreciated to see local faces rather than foreign ones who are rude. Special thanks to Local staff at the Spice Garden and Rasa Lounge who are friendly and accommodating throughout our stay. bubble_full bubble_full bubble_full bubble_full bubble_full We stayed in a garden room in the Rasa wing. It was a beautiful room with a gorgeous garden. The Rasa lounge cocktail hour was very nice too, really nice wine choices and tasty nibbles. It’s just a shame they don’t let it run for 2 hours until 7-30pm. Best thing about the rasa wing is the quiet adults only pool! Staff there are amazing bringing food and drinks and clean towels. We were tired one night and ordered Penang specialities from room service. They were really good and excellent price. Hainanese chicken was especially good! Great choice for breakfast. We loved our stay and could not fault it. Staff make your stay special, every person we were served by was so friendly and helpful. Penang is a beautiful island with lots to see and do. We will be back for sure and will definitely stay at the Shangri-La again  bubble_full bubble_full bubble_full bubble_full bubble_empty The staff are lovely and can't be faulted. However we didn't have a trouble free stay... The plumbing in the Rasa Wing was decidely odd and one night we could only flush the toilet with a bucket of water, handily provided by the housekeeping staff. There were extensive renovations taking place on the third floor and the stench was unbelievable.  This did restrict the use of our balcony to some extent. When sat around the Rasa Wing pool there was a fair amount of noise from the renovations taking place at the Spa too. The buffet in the Spice Market Cafe was ok but not particularly good for the price. One evening we walked to the Golden Sands next door and were caught in a thunderstorm. We asked their reception if we could borrow an umberella. The concierge was very surly and made us sign a loan agreement! we thought they were both Shangri La Hotels? Overall standards have slipped a little. jetsetter_logo pinterest facebook twitter instagram 