Centrifugal Evaporators  &  Sample Concentrators - SP Scientific View recent webinars on " Techniques for Enhancing Visualization of Lyophilization Cakes "; the three-part series on " Lyophilization Validation: Operational Qualification and Process Validation "; learn the " Basic Theory of Freeze Drying " and much more...   SP Scientific service professionals  offer your organization a depth of expertise that is truly unique to our selected industries and markets. We are recognized experts in applications, methodologies, lab processes and many other areas that directly impact your day-to-day operations. With SP Scientific your solution is just a call or an e-mail away. SP Scientific service professionals  are highly knowledgeable and are qualified to support every instrument, software and application product that SP Scientific has brought to the market. SP Scientific… scientific equipment you have come to know and trust -  FTS Systems,  Genevac,  Hotpack ,  Hull, PennTech and  and Virtis . It's *Your Time, Your Investment, and Your Results* - Let our technical sales application specialists help you select the correct lyophilization and scientific equipment configuration for your application. SP Scientific specializes in freeze drying/lyophilization, centrifugal evaporation and concentration, temperature control/thermal management, glassware washers, controlled environments, aseptic vial handling, and tray loading machines. Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Pinterest AddThis World leaders in Centrifugal Evaporator and Sample Concentrator technology. Whenever there is a requirement for evaporation or concentration, Genevac has the solution. Genevac has remained an industry leader by partnering with customers to understand the obstacles involved in using centrifugal evaporation/concentration systems. This partnership has led to the development of a range of products to meet your evaporation/concentration requirements. Genevac – Evaporation pure and simple. Whenever there is a requirement for evaporation or concentration, Genevac has the solution. Genevac has remained an industry leader by partnering with customers to understand the obstacles involved in using centrifugal evaporation/concentration systems. This partnership has led to the development of a range of products to meet your evaporation/concentration requirements. Genevac – Evaporation pure and simple.    Registered office:  Genevac Ltd, Farthing Road, Ipswich, Suffolk, IP1 5AP    Company registration number:  2456835    Registered in England and Wales New LyoTool to  modela freeze-drying cycle   Request a Quote Interested in learning more about our products?   Our Lyo Tools include the  Dictionary , the  Conversion Calculator  and the  Vapor Pressure Chart. Basic Lyophilizer Maintenance Freeze Drying Basics "Smart" Freeze Drying "The technical information on your website, and the free lyo seminars you offer are a testament to your expertise.  The resources are truly invaluable and appreciated." Actual Client Testimonial    2012 - 2019 SP Scientific SP Scientific is the synergistic collection of well-known and highly regarded scientific equipment brands, including VirTis, FTS Systems, Hull, Genevac, Hotpack, and most recently  PennTech . The joining of these well-established brands as SP Scientific has created one of the largest and most experienced companies in freeze drying (lyophilization), centrifugal evaporation and concentration, temperature control/thermal management, glassware washers, controlled environments, vial washing and tray loading machines.      More than a scientific equipment supplier, SP Scientific represents brands that distinguish themselves by being able to more thoroughly assist customers in matching equipment to particular application needs . Fortune 500, pharmaceutical, aerospace, automotive, medical device, diagnostic kit and biotechnology companies — as well as government facilities, universities and colleges are among the organizations served on a daily basis.   SP Scientific is constantly striving for superior service and quality.  We want to ensure that our customers become part of our “family” and that we serve each customer to the best of our abilities. Each manufacturing facility is an ISO 9001:2008 rated facility. Industries such as pharmaceutical manufacturing have required that the associates at SP Scientific are well versed in current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP), Good Automated Manufacturing Practices (GAMP5), 21CFR, Part 11, electronic signatures and ASME standards.   SP Scientific is a global company  with manufacturing facilities in Gardiner and Stone Ridge, New York; Warminster, Pennsylvania; and Ipswich, United Kingdom. Regional sales associates, Distributors and service technicians are located throughout the world. SP Scientific associates and distributors look forward to helping you reach your goals.    SP Scientific  is part of    SP Industries, Inc.   , a leading designer and manufacturer of state-of-the-art laboratory equipment, pharmaceutical manufacturing solutions, laboratory supplies and instruments, and specialty glassware. SP's products support research and production across divers end user markets including pharmaceutical, scientific research, industrial, aeronautic, semiconductor and healthcare. SP's three flagship brands -- SP Scientific,  SP Scienceware , and  SP Ableware  -- represent over 400 combined years of experience, quality, and innovation.  In December, 2015, SP Industries was acquired by  Harbour Group , a private investment firm founded in 1976. Harbour Group is a privately owned, operations focused company based in St. Louis, Missouri. Headquartered in Warminster, Pennsylvania, SP Industries has production facilities in the USA and Europe and offers a world-wide sales and service network with full product support including training and technical assistance.      