Hike to Seven Falls from Sabino Canyon Visitor Center - Review of Sabino Canyon, Tucson, AZ - TripAdvisor This is a National Park area with multiple canyons to explore.It has a tram (fee) if you want... read more First, the volunteers are wonderful at warning visitors about hazard trails or portions of... read more We drove from downtown Tucson to the Sabino Canyon Visitor Center and Bookstore, a 20-30 minute drive. A day pass to enter the area and park is $5 per vehicle. Inside the visitor center, we received a free map of the area and talked to a very kind woman who worked there about the hikes available. We chose to hike up to Seven Falls via Bear Canyon.  >The first half of the hike is from the visitor center to Bear Canyon, about 1.5 miles on mostly dirt or paved ground. From Bear Canyon on, we were much more immersed in nature - a huge range of beautiful, diverse flora. From Bear Canyon up to Seven Falls is a 2.5 mile-long, mostly basic hike along Bear Canyon Trail #29. <br >The trail is clear, nearly flat, and well-marked for the most part, although we did lose our way once down a smaller alternate trail; we lost about 10 minutes getting back to the main trail. The trail crosses the creek a total of 7 times. While there are no bridges, there is also no shortage of large, sturdy rocks to walk across for safe passage. We loved that crossing along the rocks added a sense of fun adventure. >The Seven Falls themselves are breathtakingly beautiful, but the journey up (and back) is more than half the fun!<br >We were out and back to the visitor center in 3.5 hours, but we do walk quickly and didn't stop much. A more leisurely passage up and more time spent at the top would have likely taken 4 to 4.5 hours. Wonderful area to hike, picnic, or ride the tram to the top of the canyon.  The tram is easy on and off at variety of stops so you can walk or ride as much as you wish.  The stream that runs thru the canyon has water a lot of the year, especially during the summer rainy season and during the winter.  Truly a Tucson Treasure!  Moonlight rides are available part of the season. A great way to see the variety of vegetation in the Sonoran desert. There are many hiking trails for all ages as well as a tram for those who may wish to ride and listen to the commentary. This is part of the Coronado National Forest so if you have a park pass you're all set. Nominal $5 day use fee. Guided walks and talks too. Weather you hike or take the tram, Sabino Canyon is a wonder. Residents and visitors alike should visit Sabino Canyon whenever possible.. This is a place not to miss if you're visiting from out of town. Lots of desert scenic beauty, great view alerts of valley vistas and a choice of hard or easy walks and hikes. For the physically challenged - the shuttle is a great option to still enjoy the gifts and peace of the canyon. We had the first driver out with our parents and have been here many times and its always been great. This male driver was awful he had a very monotone voice and didn't give us half the information it was awful so disappointed ......the walk back down was nice and we passed the lady on the tram and she was giving all the information .....my parents really missed out......they need to take this driver off and have him sell tickets he is not a people person !!! 