Custom Welding Fabrication Specialists: R-V Industries, Inc. Welding Equipment Our fleet of weld equipment boasts the latest equipment and technology from Miller, Lincoln, and Tip Tig. We pride ourselves on investing in welding process technology advancements that put us on the leading edge of custom welding. Our range of welding capabilities includes manual, semi-automatic and fully automated welding processes. Watch  the Video Materials We maintain over 300+ qualified welding procedures in a broad range of materials of construction. With our rich history of projects, experienced craftsmen and with the support of our Welding Engineering team we understand the challenges of each material and will supply you the highest quality welding possible to make certain your materials perform in service. Those materials include:  Corrosion Resistant Overlay (CRO) and Hard Facing Overlay (HFO) With our extensive history working in the  Chemical ,  Oil  &  Gas , and  Power  Industries we have a broad base of experience in applying CRO and HFO utilizing ASME Section IX qualified welders and qualified procedures. With the use of our robotic and mechanized welding with ensure your overlay meets your quality and performance needs in service. Those materials include: Qualified Codes of Construction With the fabrication market turning into a global supply chain and contract requirements becoming more complicated we pride ourselves in maintaining a welding program that is qualified to various codes of construction to meet your contract needs. With our catalogue of 300+ qualified welding procedures and our team of skilled welders having 900+ qualifications we reduce cost for your project by maintaining these qualifications. Codes of construction we are qualified to: Located in the Philadelphia, PA area, R-V Industries is a leading industrial process equipment manufacturer, specializing in engineering and fabricating jacketed vessels, ASME pressure vessels, and a full range of equipment for customers in a variety of demanding industries throughout the United States and worldwide.  584 Poplar Road  Honey Brook,PA19344 Phone :  (610) 273-2457 Fax : (610) 273-3361 Copyright   2019 R-V Industries, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 