Yocan Evolve Plus Dual Quartz Coil (5-Pack)  SMOKEA® {{productTitle}} {{productTitle}} Save 25% on last minute gift ideas through Dec. 23rd -  Shop Now Welcome to SMOKEA®! Continue Shopping Welcome to SMOKEA®! The Yocan Evolve Plus features dual coils made from quartz, as opposed to traditional fiber wicks, offering the cleanest and smoothest vaping experience. Don't ever be caught without a replacement coil ready to go, grab a coil 5-pack so you're always vape-ready. SMOKEA® proudly offers free shipping on all USA orders. All packages are shipped via the United States Postal Service. We have found USPS to be the most economical and fastest delivery for our customers. Our average shipping time is only 2-3 business days!  Click here  to read our full Shipping Policy. Low Price Guarantees. While most company's have long lists of things you need to qualify to have a price matched, SMOKEA® makes it easy. Oh yeah, and we don't "match" prices we BEAT prices! Simply contact us with the information including the competitor's product listing and we'll create a coupon code for you to use to get a BETTER price. The Guarantee doesn't end when you receive a better price. If any of your ordered products drop in price within the return/exchange period,  you will be given the difference in store credit upon request . The Low Price Guarantee is just another way that SMOKEA provides it's customers with the ease and convenience of getting all of your smoking supplies in one place at the best prices!  Click here  to read more about our low price guarantee or click the "Start Here" button below to get started. We hope that you will be delighted with your items however, if you would like to return your items for any reason at all, you may do so within 30 days of receiving your order. Items returned must be in a new and unused condition and are the responsibility of the customer until they are received by SMOKEA. Click Here to Read Our Full Return Policy Start a Return I ordered yocan evolve plus dual quartz coils. I recieved ceramic donut cloils instead. They keep burning up. Please rectify the situation as soon as possible they are almost gone. Thank you for having replacement coils in stock. Items from the order will be added to your shopping cart, but you already have some items in your cart now. Would you like to keep or remove your current shopping cart items before the order items are added? Items from the order will be added to your shopping cart, but you already have some items in your cart now. Would you like to keep or remove your current shopping cart items before the order items are added? 