Silipos - Gel Foot Covers - Antonio Pacelli Reviews Sign in to add your review Returns  &  Exchanges We are happy to exchange or refund any purchase within 30 days as long as the item has not been worn or soiled (please note that this excludes show shoes and any products made to your bespoke requirements - in these instances we strongly recommend that you are confident about the sizing before ordering). We do extend our returns period over the Christmas period to cover early purchases which then need to be exchanged or refunded. We recommend that you test the fit of any pumps or jig shoes on carpet to avoid marking the soles. Please note that we cannot refund or exchange pumps or shoes that have been worn at a dance class unless faulty. If you need to return an item please  click here to print off a returns form to complete and return with the parcel Returns address: Antonio Pacelli Returns Department 14 Hallmark Trading Estate Fourth Way Wembley HA9 0LB England Please include a copy of the delivery note or invoice which came with the parcel and note on it what action you would like us to take. The customer is responsible for the cost of return unless the item was sent out incorrectly or is faulty. When returning incorrect or faulty items please note we will only refund return postage up to the value of the original postage paid for the order. Please, therefore, do not return items using a postage service such as an express courier service which costs more than the original outbound postage from us. We do recommend that you send any return on a recorded delivery service as we are unable to exchange or refund until it is received by our returns department. If you originally paid via Paypal then we will email you a payment link once we receive the return with the amount due for you to make the required payment online. Once this has been received we will process and despatch your exchange. If the original item was sent out incorrectly or is faulty then the replacement item will be sent out postage free and the cost of returning it to us refunded to your card. Top Tip: If you are in a hurry for the replacement item then we recommend that you reorder the correct item(s) from our website and then send the incorrect item back for a refund! £14.99 $19.81 / €17.78 (estimated) Sign in to add this to your favourites The Gel Foot Cover is ideal for use with activities that place stress on the toes and metatarsals. Foot covers are ideal for cushioning the ball of the foot and helping dancers who are finding steps such as toe walking painful to undertake. The gel covers the toes to offer complete toe protection. It is washable and can be used with jig shoes or pumps. Small - 9.5cm (3.75 inches) x 12.5cm (4.9 inches) Medium - 10cm (4 inches) x 13.5cm (5.3 inches) Large - 11cm (4.3 inches) x 15cm (5.9 inches) Bunheads Ouch Pouch Digital Caps Hullachan Pro H4 - Medium Width Ezeefit Skins ' Delivery time is excellent.' © 2000–2019 Antonio Pacelli, 14 Hallmark Trading Estate, Fourth Way, Wembley HA9 0LB, England.   Telephone: 020 8902 0150.   Email:  sales@antoniopacelli.com Sign up for the newsletter 