Hamsa Damayanthi - Raja Ravi Varma Paintings at Rs 220 /square feet | भारतीय चित्र - PAPER SURF SoLaStudio, Bengaluru | ID: 15864148855 is a Verified member of IndiaMART Following details of the company have been verified IndiaMART InterMESH Ltd. 7th Floor, Advant-Navis Business Park, Plot No-7, Sector-142, Noida, UP Find answers to your queries Join Now Secure  &  hassle-free payments About the artist: Raja Ravi Varma was a celebrated Indian painter and artist. Raja Ravi Varma is considered among the greatest painters in the history of Indian art for a number of aesthetic and broader social reasons. Raja Ravi Varma''s works are held to be among the best  Quantity About the artist: Raja Ravi Varma  was a celebrated Indian painter and artist.  Raja Ravi Varma  is considered among the greatest painters in the history of Indian art for a number of aesthetic and broader social reasons. Raja Ravi Varma''s  works are held to be among the best examples of the fusion of European techniques with a purely Indian sensibility.  Raja Ravi Varma''s  paintings employed the latest European academic art techniques of the day while continuing the tradition and aesthetics of Indian art. Raja Ravi Varma  was notable for making affordable lithographs of his paintings available to the public, which greatly enhanced his reach and influence as a painter and public figure.  Raja Ravi Varma''s  lithographs increased the involvement of common people with fine arts and defined artistic tastes among common people for several decades. Raja Ravi Varma''s  depictions of Hindu deities and episodes from the epics and Puranas have received profound acceptance from the public and are found, often as objects of worship, across the length and breadth of India. Material/Medium:  Imported canvas with protective coating using imported ink with special protective layer to ensure longevity of the art print. Process of printing:  The digital printing on canvas is done using German technology to match the colours of the original paintings. Details:  Unframed canvas print. Packing:  Packed in a sturdy cardboard roll/tube that is industrial line/factory quality to ensure that the print reaches the customer in perfect condition. Paper Surf is an Art and Design House into customized designing and printing of gift wrapping paper, retail packaging, printing art for art galleries, souvenir paper bags,merchandise bags, luxury brands shopping bags,brown paper bags and personalized product printing, envelopes, letterheads, notebooks, brochures, catalogs, labels, flyers, pamphlets, personalized and company office stationery and promotional and corporate gift items and display graphics and advertising boards. Besides being a leader in selling designer gift wrapping paper, Paper Surf is also an exclusive Printing and Publishing House of books for first time authors, art books, children's books, drawing books, photography books, lifestyle books, religious books, regional language books, magazines and fiction and non-fiction books. 95/3, 6th Main Road, 15th Cross Malleshwaram West  Bengaluru - 560003, Karnataka, India  Rs 15000 / Piece By: Mangal Sudha Concrete Cra... Contact Supplier Rs 2500 / 1nos By: Fun Gift Contact Supplier Rs 400 / Piece By: Krishna Creation Contact Supplier Rs 18000 / Piece By: Shreenath Art Gallery Contact Supplier Rs 38450 / Piece(s) By: I '  Crafts Contact Supplier By: Kaladalan Art Gallery Contact Supplier Rs 350 / Foot By: NS Kumbar Art Contact Supplier By: Hindu Alliance Matrimony Contact Supplier Rs 14400 / Piece(s) By: The Tamilnadu Handicrafts... Contact Supplier By: The Trinket Shop Contact Supplier Modern Art Relief Painting Material : Polyvinyl Chloride Size : 2ft/3ft Indian Painting Size : 24 inch width x 24 inch height Type of Frame : Unframed Colour Of Oasis Painting Finish : yes Size : 18x24 " Balaji Padmavathi Tanjore Painting Size : as per customer need  Type of Frame : Wooden and fiber  Madubani Paintings Size : 16x16 Madubani painting on febric color handmade paper  Vinayaka Tanjore Painting Size : 12 X 15 Coffee Painting Size : 2x2 feet  Quantity Have a requirement? Get Best Price 