Reasons To Consider Security At Your Wedding | MA Services Group We serve and specialise in many industries and market sectors. This keeps us agile in developing best of breed practices and systems across varying client environments and commercial needs. Contact us today By  MA Security Group Your wedding day is one of the most important days of your life and should create happy memories that you can look back on in years to come. It takes a great deal of time, effort, and money in the months spent planning your wedding, and as result security is probably the last thing on your mind. Weddings and parties rely on various arrangements and activities to be successful but you also need to consider the safety of your friends and family and factor in security. By hiring a wedding security team, you can enjoy being the  star of the show  knowing that your loved ones are safe on what is such a special day. So what is the role of a wedding security guard? Essentially a wedding security guard is there to keep the bride and groom, the wedding party, and all of their guests safe throughout the event. That said, this is a time of celebration so it s important that a security guard blends into the background enabling guests to relax and enjoy themselves. You never know who might want to gate-crash your wedding, so it s a good idea to let the security guard have a list of all the attendees before the day, in order that he or she can monitor them as they arrive at the reception. As well as helping with crowd control, security guards can also keep a watchful eye on guests to make sure they are not drinking too much. Nobody wants a person who has been drinking to get behind the wheel of their car, so security guards can help prevent this. They can also deal with anyone who has had too much to drink and whose behavior is getting out of control. Security guards are highly trained in dealing with potential threats of any kind, and can handle a situation before it escalates. They are physically fit and have the skills to handle the most troublesome of people, and keep the situation calm. Naturally there will be a lot of cars parked at the wedding venue and it s in cases like these that unscrupulous thieves may take advantage and break into cars to steal valuables. Security guards will patrol the car park at regular intervals to make sure this does not happen. A security guard can also monitor wedding presents by ensuring they are kept in a safe place away from prying eyes in order they can be safely delivered to the couple after the wedding. Just by having a uniformed security guard in attendance at your wedding can successfully deter any potential wrong doings. Any risky action that a guest might have been considering before the wedding is likely to be reconsidered once they see the presence of a security guard. With guests ranging in age from young children to the elderly, it s even more important to secure the healthy and safety of your guests. Private security can report any problems to the person in charge of the wedding, intervene where necessary to maintain a safe environment and/or report any major issues to the police if the need arises. If you d like to find out more about how we can help at your wedding then why not get in touch. Call MA Security on 1300 020 406 and let us ensure your wedding day is full of happy memories. Contact us Suite 3  &  4, 15/21 Butler Way, Tullamarine, Victoria, 3043 Freecall: 1300 020 406 Phone: 03 9339 3500 NSW License No.: 000 101 065 VIC License No.: 820 886 70S ACT License No.: 175 022 79 SA License No.: ISL 247 543 QLD License No.: 370 653 5 WA License No.: SA52398 TAS License No.: 21212 NT License No.: 351 NZ license.: 629618622 © Copyright MA Services Group Security Guard Login 