15 Best Kid s Sandboxes Reviewed (2019) | Heavy.com Finding the right sandbox for the right price isn’t easy. That’s why here at  Heavy  we’ve found 15 of the best kid s sandboxes to suit your needs. The  KidKraft Caban Sandbox  is without question one of the best kid s sandboxes out there. One of the most important choices anyone needs to make when picking a sandbox is deciding how big it needs to be. The more spacious a sandbox is, the more room kids have to play, and the less the parent needs to worry about them hitting their heads off the ceiling. This sandbox is particular is very roomy. With dimensions of 57.25-inches by 48.25-inches by 50.5-inches, that s 50-inches between the floor and roof. Plenty of space for a child to climb in and stand up. On the storage side of things, there are three storage bins for any sandcastle-building accessories your child may own. Although let s face it, those bins are almost certainly going to be filled with toys. In terms of durability, another important factor when selecting sandboxes, this sandbox is built from Sanmu weather-resistant outdoor wood, so not only is it sturdy, you won t need to worry about rain damaging the wood. Recommended Ages: 36 months   15 years If there s one thing better than a sandbox, it s a sandbox with an activity center. The  Step2 Clubhouse Climber  has everything your child needs to get active. Steps on the far side lead into a sheltered area. Cross the walkway, speed down the slide, then maybe spend some time climbing through the underneath. The sandbox, as well, is pretty neat; featuring a natural stone-and-brick look with a cover to match. Granted the price may make your eyes water, this set is a behemoth that s sure to keep kids busy during time off from school or days where you just want some peace and quiet. Recommended Ages: 36 Months to 12 Years Okay. This might just be one of the best kid s sandboxes out there. This  KidKraft Backyard Sandbox  is 59-inches by 59-inches. In short, it s massive. You ll easily be able to fit several children in here and still have room for play. What most impressive here is the cost. The general rule with sandboxes is the larger something is, the more it costs. But for whatever reason, this set is large, while still retaining quality, but doesn t break the bank. It s the best of both worlds. If that wasn t enough there s also four small seating areas in each of the corners (to avoid kids coming back in the house with sand-ridden butts), as well as a cover which can be tied into small holes in the wooden walls so it doesn t blow away when the wind picks up. It s also worth keeping in mind, as this is made by KidKraft,  safety is integral to the design , and is inspected by accredited independent labs and by KidKraft s own Dallas inspection teams. Recommended Ages: 3 and Up This  Activity Sandbox  is proof  affordable  and  freaking huge  can go together. The interior dimensions stand at a whopping 46 1/2-inches by 43 1/2-inches. So yeah, it s big. On top is a simple striped canopy to help keep the sun off the little ones, and at the front, are two plastic bins for sand and water. The wooden panels are reinforced to help prevent warping and weathering, too, so it should last a long while. Is this one of the best kid s sandboxes? We ll let you decide. Recommended Ages: Not Stated Not all sandboxes need to follow the same design. The  Badger Basket Bamboo Beach Sandbox  is something that s strikingly noticeable, and the risky design pays off for those looking for something a little different. While a sandbox built from bamboo isn t going to be as durable as something built from cedar wood, it still holds around 800 pounds of sand. And those corner posts? They can support up to 150 pounds, which is more than enough given the age range who ll be using it. Another great thing about this sandbox is it s really easy to convert into a garden box once the kids have outgrown it. Just replace the sand with high-quality dirt, plant seeds, and let nature take care of the rest. Anything that has a future outside of its intended purpose is always worth considering. Recommended Ages: Not Stated While the  Outing Play and SwingSets with Sandbox  isn t for everyone due to the high buy-in price, it s too good not to mention. While sandboxes are fun, figuring out how to get your child into exercise is also important. As any fitness expert will tell you, the best way to get a child active is through play. If it s fun, they won t even notice how tiring it is. That s where the Outdoor Play Sandbox comes in. Not only is there a sandbox with a solid amount of headroom, you ve also got two swings, a slide, a climbing rope, and a trapeze. Should you be worried about durability, this set is made from cedar wood, which naturally resists rot, decay, and insect damage. The only downside here is the roof section isn t going to keep the whole thing dry. So if the heavens do open up, kids won t be able to play. Admittedly that s not the biggest downside in the world, but it s worth keeping in mind. Recommended Ages: 3 and Up What s better than a hexagonal sandbox? Easy. An octagonal sandbox. This  Wooden Backyard Sandbox  has a width of 78-inches, this thing is huge, and can hold a total of 1000 pounds of sand. Enough to fill a beach, practically. As with all good sandboxes, this Wooden Backyard Sandbox Outdoor Octagon is made from three-quart-inch cedar timber, meaning it s designed to last several years. What s more, and I m quoting this here,  The Wooden Backyard Sandbox has a no hassle 100% guarantee refund policy. If you use this product and don t love it, simply return it for a full refund. In short, if it s not to your liking, you can get your money back, which automatically makes it one of the best kid s sandboxes money can buy. It also comes with a free cover to keep away excess moisture and unwanted animals. After all, nobody wants to come home and find a bear playing in their sandpit. Recommended Ages: 3 and Up Find more  information and reviews here. Want that  at the beach  feeling from the comfort of your own backyard? Then you re in luck. The  NanaPluz 40-inch Fir Wood Kids Beach Cabana Sandbox  is the best of both worlds. A UV-protective sheet covers the top should you need to get out the sun, while the underneath pulls out to reveal a modest-sized sandpit. Although this isn t the largest sandbox on this list, the option of being able to quickly pack it away is sure to please a fair few parents. Likewise, the fact this set is on wheels means it can be maneuvered to wherever the child desires without needing to deconstruct the whole thing. It s time-saving and practical. Recommended Ages: 3 Months and Up The  Costzon Kids Foldable Cabana Sandbox  has a really neat feature every other sandbox should steal. Fold back the wooden lid, angle them upward, and you ve got two benches. Sandboxes need something to cover the sand, so it doesn t get wet when it rains, so why not have the cover turn into something useful, like seats? It s ingenious. What s more, this sandbox is made from heavy-duty fir wood and is coated in non-toxic paint in order to ensure children s safety. Recommended Ages: 3 and Up This is probably the most obvious statement you ll read today, but the  Step2 Naturally Playful Sand  &  Water Activity Center  comes with both a sandbox and a waterbox. Why is this important? Well, the vast majority of sandboxes don t include a water play area. If you think back to what bath time was like when you were younger, hopefully you ll remember the sheer joy of being able to dunk toys and splash about without a care in the world. This set is most likely the closest you get to going to the beach without ever needing to leave the house. Not only does this set come with an umbrella to keep out the sun, but there is also a plastic lid that can be placed over the sandbox and water areas to create a small table. So even though this is primarily a sandbox, it also doubles up as a table that s perfect for playing or drawing on. Recommended Ages: 36 Months to 12 Years In a nice twist, the  Little Tikes Turtle Round Sandbox  is in the  not going to bankrupt you  category. There isn t really much to pick fault with here. It s affordable, looks nice, and does the job it s meant to. Yeah, okay, it s not the most eye-catching or exciting sandbox you ve ever laid eyes on, but I m certain kids will love it nonetheless. Just be warned, it weighs around 16 pounds. When there s sand in it, it will be much heavier, but if you don t clean every last grain of sand out, there s a high chance a child could knock it over and you ll need to vacuum up sand for the remainder of your life. It s not a deal-breaker, but something that s worth keeping in mind. Recommended Ages: 2 and Up There s nothing wrong with opting for a cheaper alternative to the Goliath-sized sandboxes. If you re after something more compact that ll stay mostly inside, there s always the Step2 Naturally Playful Sand Table. This set in particular has a few neat features going for it. First up, the top that covers the sand when it s not in use has a racetrack built in for tiny cars. This isn t revolutionary by any means, but it s still a nice idea that s sure to keep the kids entertained. Next, we have the actual design of the sandpit, which is plastic but has a wood design embossed into it. If you take a look at the legs, you ll notice that they re rounded, which means they re better for absorbing impact should a child bump into it.  Lastly, it comes with two shovels, two rakes, and a bucket, so there s no need to buy anything extra (apart from sand, of course). Recommended Ages: 2 to 5 Years Not all sandboxes need to be elaborate or expensive. Sometimes a good idea can go a long way. The  Costzon Pirate Boat Wood Sandbox  is a good idea done well. Who doesn t want to build sandcastles from inside a pirate ship? If you re after something more compact but still fun for kids, this sandbox is definitely worth your consideration. Included is a black sheet of fabric, which sits under the ship. When it s time to tidy the sand away, all you need to do is move the ship then fold the fabric and drip the sand back into its container. Handy! In an interesting twist, this design features a bottomless box. Should you decide there isn t enough sand in the box, you could choose to dig up a trench under the sandbox and fill that with sand to help with drainage. Of course, not everyone is going to want to excavate their backyard just for a sandbox, but the option s there should you want it. Much like the Costzon Kids Foldable Cabana Sandbox, this pirate ship sandbox is also made from heavy-duty fir and coated in environmentally friendly, non-toxic paint. Recommended Ages: Not Stated This  Plum Store-it Wooden Sand Box with Storage Bench and Seating  is another good option if you re looking for something a little cheaper. What s also great about this is how much more compact it is when compared with other sandboxes. That said, if you re looking for a more robust sized sandbox that s capable of housing multiple children, this ain t it, chief. In case you didn t spot it, this sandbox also comes with a neat little storage area. Again, this isn t going to be huge, but if you re storing a bucket  &  spade or watering can, it shouldn t be a problem at all. It s also recommended for any child over 18 months, so if you re after something for a toddler, this is the one to go with. The  Naomi Home Kids Canopy Cedar Sandbox with Benches  is one of the more simple sandboxes on this list, but if you re after a more affordable sandbox, you can t go wrong with this one. Despite the lower price-point, this thing holds up thanks to the heat-treated, stained cedar wood and rust-resistant hardware.  As with a few of the sandboxes on this list, it also comes with two benches which fold over to cover the sandpit. It should be noted, the benches only support up to 150 pounds each. That s fine for kids, not so much for adults looking to get out of the sun. This may not be the largest sandbox ever, but if you re after something for a younger child that won t break the bank, this is definitely worth considering. I would recommend thinking about replacing the canopy, however. There are a fair few customers who have had issues with it becoming frayed, and generally not staying where it should. Recommended Ages: Not Stated Whenever purchasing a sandbox, there are several factors you need to consider. First, always pick a strong wood. Cedar timber is popular with sandbox manufacturers because of its durability. Likewise, fir wood also has its place. Just keep in mind, the higher the quality, the more it’ll cost. You can get cheaper sandboxes, but there’s a high chance they won’t last as long. It all comes down to how long you plan on using it for. The more expensive sets are best for when they’re really young, while the midrange as the best option for if they’re approaching double-digits. If you’re wondering why sandboxes are increasing in popularity, there’s one simple reason: Exercise. Kids are full of energy and love running around, and  getting them into exercise  early helps reduce the risk of type two diabetes in later life, and is also said to help a child’s self-confidence and belief, teaches them how to play with others, and generally leads to more positive behavior. Another area of importance to keep in mind when selecting a sandbox is UV Radiation. As your child or children will most likely be playing with this outside, you have to factor in sun damage. Not just to the skin, but to the eyes. Prolonged  exposure to the sun causes eye damage , including cataracts, macular degeneration, pinguecula, pterygia, and photokeratitis. So when we say it’s worth spending a little extra to get a canopy included to block out the sun’s harmful UV rays, we really mean it. With all that said, let’s take a look at some of the best sandboxes out there. Disclaimer: Heavy Inc. is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program and other affiliate advertising programs and may receive a commission if you purchase a product via a link on this page.  Stay Connected 