Aaryn Doyle - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia Share on Facebook Tweet on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Share on Reddit Aaryn Élan Doyle  (born January 4, 1993) is a Canadian actress, singer, rapper, songwriter, dancer, model, and voice actress. She is best known for her role as Lola Scott in the Disney Channel Original Movie  Camp Rock . In 2008, Doyle was signed to the Ford Modeling Agency, but is currently represented by IBIS Talent Management. Doyle has represented brand lines such as Diesel and Nike, as seen in  Camp Rock  red carpet shots. According to media insiders, Doyle is to embark upon a new Marketing endeavour in business as well as in entertainment in 2015 with a full music media campaign in the works in order to take advantage of Doyle's vocal talents and songwriting capabilities. Doyle is also the voice of Pansy in  Miss Spider's Sunny Patch Friends  and Foo in  The Save-Ums . Doyle is of Irish/Jewish and West Indian heritage, from Ontario, Canada. She started her career at the age of six while attending St. John Catholic School in Lincoln, following a win at Model Search America (MSA). Doyle has appeared in films, television shows, and commercials, and has also voiced many animation/voice-over projects. She was the lead female vocalist for a 12-piece Toronto band for 3 years from age 12 to 15, but later performed with other TO bands, and was a member of CTV’s  Canadian Idol  choir ensemble in 2005. In the fall of 2007, Doyle joined the cast of Disney Channel original movie  Camp Rock , with the Jonas Brothers and Demi Lovato and was released on June 20, 2008. Doyle was featured in the  Camp Rock  song "What It Takes", in addition to contributing vocals for the tracks "Our Time Is Here" and "We Rock" as the character Lola Scott. However, Doyle did not reprise her role in  Camp Rock 2: The Final Jam . Doyle appeared in the films  Sins of the Father  with Ving Rhames and Colm Feore, and  Jasper, Texas  with Louis Gossett, Jr. and Jon Voigt. She is a cast member of the animated television series  Miss Spider's Sunny Patch Kids  with Brooke Shields, and Rick Moranis, before starring in  Miss Spider's Sunny Patch Friends  with Kristin Davis as Miss Spider. She also stars in the Emmy and Grammy award-winning and nominated animated series  The Save-Ums , as well as  Friends and Heroes  and the animated short film/TV movie  Tomboy . Past years have seen Doyle recording with her youth trio for a CCC production company; their tracks can be heard on CTS. Between the ages of 10 and 12, she has recorded over 70 pop/gospel songs and has starred in CBC radio dramas. In 2007, she appeared on an episode of  Little Mosque on the Prairie  as a teenage Muslim girl, followed by a guest starring role as a model on  The Latest Buzz  (season 3). In 2010, Doyle's vocal styling was used in the pilot episode of  Life Unexpected , singing solo on the reproduced cover soundtrack of  I Will Always Love You . 