Mizon: Snail Repair Review   ELROY RAMANTAN Snail secretion filtrate is extremely lightweight in texture and allows for deep hydration  (perfect for Dry Skin types)  without any heaviness or greasiness.  Great for Oily Skin. It s also known to have antimicrobial properties to minimize breakouts and regenerative properties, which help with acne scarring.  Perfect for Ance Prone Skin types In this blog post there 3 Mizon snail product review: High concentrate of Snail secretion filtrate  &  E.G.F (Epideral Growth Factor) that helps skin regeneration and improve skin elasticity while moisturizing skin  Mizon Direction: Thoughts: “The All-In-One Snail Repair Cream hydrates, helps improve the appearance of fine lines, and helps reduce the appearance of acne scarring and blemishes. Try it to see what all the buzz is about. Ideal for oily and acne-prone to combination skin types. Appropriate for dry skin if used under a heavier cream.”       Mizon Directions:  Apply proper amount of it to over face and let it be absorbed into deep skin. Thoughts: 80% of Snail secretion filtrate and E.G.F (Epideral Growth Factor) contained in the formula are effective in brighthing the eyes and caring for wrinkles  Mizon Directions: Thoughts: This sunscreen with snails secretion filtrate protects the skin from UV rays and simultaneously soothes and moisturizes. This lightweight cream is a refreshing moisturizing sun block and can easily be used as a base makeup to even out the skin tone. Directions:  Thoughts: TWITTER:  ElroyJustSaid INSTAGRAM:  ElroyRamantan S NAPCHAT: ElroyRamantan ASK fm:  ElroyRamantan EMAIL: ElroyRamantan@Gmail.com When I introduced the Korean 10-step skin care routine for the very first time last year on the blog, I wasn’t sure if others would be as into it as I was (thankfully, you guy were and still are!). Since then, a lot’s changed for me and my face. I’ve… In  " skincare " If there is a morning skincare routine then there is no doubt there would be a night skincare routine. Koreans mean business when it comes to skin care, and their 10-step skin care routine is no exception. Before adopting their skincare routine i started slow with the basic 3 steps:… In  " skincare " Face sheet masks are perfectly used after you ' ve done your cleansing and soothing your skin with toner first. About 15~20 minutes of using the mask, take off and pat your face lightly. Face masks are to be used 2-3 times a week and it took me quite awhile to use… In  " skincare " Your email address will not be published.  Required fields are marked  * Comment Name  * Email  * Website Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email. 