Among Norse Gods, Would You Have Been an Aesir or Vanir? | The Tollkeeper When researching  The Tollkeeper , I inevitably wound up spending a lot of time reading through the origin myths of the Norse gods. Most of the myths never made it into the book, but I did become especially interested in the fact that the gods were originally from two separate places: inside and outside Asgard. There are words for this:  innangard and utangard . Here’s how  Norse Mythology for Smart People  puts it:  That which is innangard (“inside the fence”) is orderly, law-abiding, and civilized, while that which is utangard (“beyond the fence”) is chaotic, anarchic, and wild…. This psychogeography found its natural expression in agrarian land-use patterns, where the fence (the  -gard  or, in Old Norse,  -garðr  of the above terms) separated pastures and fields of crops from the wilderness beyond them. The seminal war in Norse mythology was the one between the groups representing this psychogeography: the Aesir and the Vanir. They were the original Red and Blue states. Ultimately, they became a single unit: the Norse god pantheon. But that unity came at a cost, as unity so often does. The land of Asgard was conservative and “inside the fence,” or innangard. The land of  Vanaheim  the original home of the Vanir   was outside the original fence, or utanguard. We can view the Vanir as a bunch of Blue State hippie eggheads.  The Aesir were all about cherishing family values (or, as it was known back then, kin loyality), being orderly and lawful, and zealously distrusting outsiders. They would have embraced the idea of a U.S.-Mexican wall and defended it with their lives.  The Vanir were, by comparison, rule-breaking wild folk who valued nature and the cabalistic mysteries of runes and magic. We can practically see them selling crystals, incense and goddess garb in the 21st century. Or maybe ruminating on cryptic equations and algorithms, trying to figure out wacky, Silicon-Valley type innovations such as how to build large sailing ships that can be  folded  into hipster breast pockets. Elon Musk would make a great Vanir. These days, I imagine the Vanir dancing madly at  Burning Man . In short, the Aesir were orthodox cultural conservatives while the Vanir were outre, counter-culture types. Inevitably, they would come to blows, but that’s a story for another time. 