Metro Paint Auto Body Supplies in Green Bay, WI with Reviews - YP.com What are you looking for? YP - The Real Yellow Pages SM  - helps you find the right local businesses to meet your specific needs. Search results are sorted by a combination of factors to give you a set of choices in response to your search criteria. These factors are similar to those you might use to determine which business to select from a local Yellow Pages directory, including proximity to where you are searching, expertise in the specific services or products you need, and comprehensive business information to help evaluate a business's suitability for you. “Preferred” listings, or those with featured website buttons, indicate YP advertisers who directly provide information about their businesses to help consumers make more informed buying decisions. YP advertisers receive higher placement in the default ordering of search results and may appear in sponsored listings on the top, side, or bottom of the search results page. Very satisfied with the work done on my car! Barry fixed the bad paint job that I had done somewhere else that had my car have different colors and… From Business: Phase III Service Center is a total service auto repair company serving the Green Bay, WI area. Owned and operated by Dick Fay, we fix autos, vans, and pickups… Bought a cruze from Broadway and Jason F what a great experience. top place to buy a car and go to Jason for your next vehicle. I recently bought a mini-van at Gandrud.  The salespeople were easy to deal with; I never felt pushed.  I've been back for routine service and with… From Business: Affordable Auto Credit is one of the programs of the Dorsch Ford Kia, and automobile dealership located in Green Bay, Wis. It provides financial solutions and… quality work, nice clean place. manager Doug was helpful. From Business: Auto Parts Store belonging to the Auto Value and Bumper to Bumper group(AAPA) offering retail and wholesale customer exceptional parts, service and prices in MI,… I need some scratches on my rear bumper fixed.  It was completed to perfection within one day.  I would definitely use Williams Auto Body again and… DON'T GO TO AUTO ACES!You will be greeted extremely kindly and offered coffee and other drinks, don't let it fool you!  I was told that it was… From Business: Fitzy's Garage serving the Greenbay, WI area for 41 years. Come see us for all you auto service needs. We specialize auto service  &  repair, auto body repair,  & … Never do business with them!!! I purchased a transmission from them and was very specific on what I needed.   PIcked it up and when my mechanic… John and his staff at Ashwaubenon Auto were very thorough in diagnosing and fixing the problem with my car John went out of his way to make sure I… DePere Auto Center Rocks!!! They rebuilt my carburetor on my 77 Buick, they did the work, the guy drove the car, felt a  " hiccup "  and… From Business: Fox Valley Truck  &  Body is a family run business for over 30 years. We take pride in our work and have a great reputation for doing the highest quality work. We… We found 62 results Didn't find what you were looking for?  Please help others by helping us do better. Serving the Green Bay area. 705 George St, De Pere, WI 54115  2019 Thryv, Inc. All rights reserved. YP, the YP logo and all other YP marks contained herein are trademarks of YP LLC and/or YP affiliated companies. All other marks contained herein are the property of their respective owners. 