Solution Focused Brief Therapy | MyMind Janine July 15, 2016 Blog posts With an ever expanding catalogue of therapeutic approaches to consider, it can often be troublesome to choose which type of therapy you would feel most comfortable with. MyMind will help make this process as easy as possible   this week, we are focusing on Solution Focused Brief Therapy. To book with MyMind today, simply click the button below. Solution Focused Brief Therapy promotes positive change by encouraging clients to focus positively on what they do well and to set goals and work out how to achieve them. As few as three or four sessions may be beneficial. With Solution Focused Brief Therapy, the conversation is directed toward developing and achieving the client’s vision of solutions.  This  method of therapy is future-focused, goal-directed and focuses on solutions rather than on the problems that brought clients to seek therapy. The “Miracle Question” is often embraced when using this form of therapy. It involves envisioning what your life would be like if the problem that brought you to therapy would be gone. It is used as a building block at first, with small achievable goals set in place to help motivate the client to produce  solution states. The next step is to identify the most recent times when  the client has had small pieces of miracles (called exceptions) and get them to repeat these forgotten experiences. SBFT does not use confrontation or interpretation, given its equivalent effectiveness, shorter duration, and more benign approach. SFBT is considered to be an excellent first-choice evidenced-based psychotherapy approach for most psychological, behavioural, and relational problems. It can be used to address a wide spectrum of issues, ranging from couples counselling to family therapy to youth intervention who are experiencing behavioural concerns. It has been proven to benefit individuals from diverse cultures, backgrounds and age groups. Tags: approaches ,  client ,  questions ,  SFBT ,  Simone Rauhut ,  Solution-Focused Brief Therapy ,  solutions MyMind is a registered trademark of MyMind CLG.Copyright © 2019  MyMind  All rights reserved. Registered Office: 137 Rathmines Road Lower, Dublin 6, Republic of Ireland / CRO 434008, CHY 17600, CRA 20065812 Between 2013 and 2015 the stock of peer-to-peer loans grew ninefold in the Americas, to $29bn  https://econ.st/2sSatpq Save our coastline and scrap HS2 | Letters  https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2019/dec/08/antise... 