This touchdown pass shows why Aaron Rodgers is the most talented QB in NFL history | For The Win Aaron Rodgers is ridiculous. Arm strength, accuracy, athleticism. He has it all and used every ounce of his prodigious skill-set to get the Green Bay Packers a lead over the New York Giants late in the first half of the NFC Wildcard Round. Aaron Rodgers  just UNFAIR.   pic.twitter.com/D9gVdVyS1a  NFL Update (@MySportsUpdate)  January 8, 2017 There is one quarterback in the league who makes this play. Maybe the only quarterback in league history who makes that play. Sure, we ve seen scramblers like Fran Tarkenton and Russell Wilson go all Houdini on opposing defenses but those guys do their work  outside  of the pocket. Rodgers manages to make multiple defenders miss  inside  the pocket, which forces the defense to defend the entire field. Rolling out to one side cuts off half the field. He ' s a Jedi  pic.twitter.com/WyXgO3Tk04  Aaron Nagler (@AaronNagler)  January 8, 2017 Here Rodgers only escapes the pocket when he has already identifiedhis target. And he manages to do so with a 300-pound defensive lineman in his grill. Instead of panicking or just getting rid of the ball, like others would have in that situation, Rodgers slides laterally and rips off an awkward throw that hits his target in stride. Look at his feet. Look at the arm angle. Nothing about that throw is ordinary and Rodgers makes it look so darn easy. Sign up for the For The Win newsletter to get our top stories in your inbox every morning There are three certainties in life: death, taxes and Stephen A. Smith trolling the Dallas Cowboys and their fans when they lose. After a crushing loss to the Chicago Bears on Thursday night, it was no different for the ESPN personality. Only this time, instead of lighting a cigar, he put on some Al Green singing Let's Stay Together and waxed poetic in a video about how tough it must be for die-hards before breaking into a dance and a lot of laughter. First Take also played a remix of their DJ Steve Porter "Accident Waiting to Happen" song... To the surprise of no one, Jerry Jones isn't taking kindly to the Dallas Cowboys' third straight loss. Well, he chose a Friday radio interview to voice that frustration. The station, 105.3 The Fan in Dallas, just wouldn't let Jones continue after he cursed on the air. The Cowboys owner joined Friday's edition of K & C Masterpiece for a live interview, and the appearance immediately got off to a rocky start. When Jones was asked if he was embarrassed with how the Cowboys had performed as of late, Jones snapped back at the hosts, "Get your damn act together, yourself, OK? We're gonna... When you think back to the past decade, the greatest highlights -- as they inevitably do -- will be trips in a time machine. You'll be taken back to some incredible athleticism. The Odell Beckham Jr. falling backwards one-handed catch. The Beast Quake from Marshawn Lynch in 2010? Blake Griffin practically jumping over Timothy Mozgov. Mario Gotze's perfect handling of a pass and the kick that would win the World Cup in extra time for Germany in 2014. You'll remember the emotions you felt watching Derek Jeter hit a walk-off single in his final Major League at-bat, or when...  Copyright For The Win 2019 For The Win is proudly owned and operated by Powered by WordPress.com VIP Please enter an email address. Thanks for signing up. Please check your email for a confirmation. Something went wrong. 