How Straight is Adam Lambert? | Bully Bloggers Adam Lambert (r) and galpal Drake leaving an LA club recently By Tavia Nyong o A dirty little secret about  American Idol  finalist Adam Lambert: a lot of gay men dislike him too. The    shrill,  campy, theatrical, vegas act  epithets thrown at him as he advanced to finals on the recent   Idol  season were also hurled by many queers who found him equally grating. Now that the show is over, many would be thrilled to have him disappear back under the glitter-encrusted rock he crawled out of. When Andy Warhol prophesied that in the future everyone would be famous for 15 minutes, he failed to mention that 14 and a half of those might consist of pure backlash, and that seems to be where we re at today (see: Susan Boyle). So where does that leave pop s Great Glam Hope? As a performer, some of Lambert s most  articulate defenders  have been women, who also make up the majority of his fan base. Jo-Ann Wypijewski, in  a pitch-perfect analysis  in  The Nation  of this phenomena, writes There is a reason people have always needed troubadours. Years ago a close girlfriend told me,  I want a man who makes me feel like music.  What a beautifully simple evocation of eros. The twist, for a straight girl, was that much of the music was imagined, written, performed or inspired by gay men. The double twist, today, is that gay politics, which once made eros a central concern, is focused on something closer to thanatos: hate crime, enhanced penalties, military service, marriage contracts. The erotic thrill of Lambert s  Idol  performances, for those who permitted themselves to be vibrated by them, solicit fandom on non-identitarian lines. So the debate over whether his female fans would be turned off if he came out seem to ignore the palpably obvious: possibility that his success with them could come not in spite of but  because  of his ambivalent persona. Lambert s blurring of the desire/identification boundary places him in a well recognized lineage of pop chameleons, but its also why he strikes a particular chord today. His on-stage ability to transform an otherwise awkward and ungainly body into a sleazy simulacra of heterosexuality is part of this appeal. Girls who like guyliner seem to do so because it distributes the pains and pleasures of self-fashioning more equitably between the sexes. And like a drag king, Lambert openly queered heterosexuality. Who but he could have snuck the Led Zeppelin line  I m gonna give you every inch of my love  past the family values censors on live  Idol ? Or growl  I m gonna be your backdoor man  on the extended studio recording? These hilarious phallic promises may be strap-on, but that s precisely the point. Much of the chatter by  tween  girls — or those impersonating them online —  centers on the possibility of Lambert being at least  bi.  Hope springs eternal, no doubt. But this particular fantasy reflects a certain truth of eros, that it is indeed always criss-crossing and undermining distinctions of sexuality and gender. What if, rather than taking   bi  as code for  straight enough,  we read it as expressing a  preference  for bisexual guys over straight ones? If all the YouTube videos taken by girls of  emo boys kissing  are any indication, contemporary sexual identities, practices, and desires do line up much less neatly than often imagine. Nevertheless, gay bloggers like  Perez Hilton ,  Michael K , and Richard Lawson of  Gawker  have stayed more or less fixated on why, how, and whether Lambert will officially  come out.  Given that he has already shown up in online photos in drag, making out with guys, and, now, gadding about in public with his current beau, the question of his outness might seem, well, academic. But it is precisely the obviousness of the matter that drives so many crazy. By not discussing it directly, they believe, he makes sexuality a bigger deal than it would otherwise be. In refusing to be a positive role model for the gays — and thus skirting our thanatopic preoccupation-du-jour: gay marriage — he is being a  negative  role model, holding us back, both by acting outrageously flamboyant  and  by refusing to cop to it on  Oprah  or  Ellen . Maybe so. But Lambert, who is nothing if not a showbiz pro, may simply be timing his public  reveal  for maximum career impact. He has to get through a demoralizing summer of group touring under the  Idol  thumb. Perhaps this is his way of guaranteeing an August magazine cover   timed perhaps with an album release? If this seems cynical, it shouldn t. Weddings, childbirths, and weight loss are all routinely commodified events in celebrity culture. Why shouldn t gay celebs get to cash-in on their non-news as well? And there seems to be another gambit going on, beyond his female fans and gay male naysayers. Unless I m very much mistaken, Lambert is making a play for a straight male audience as well. Don t laugh. Lambert is, among many other things, a first-rate rock belter who, in another age could well have hit it big in hair metal. Once having the won over the emo kids with  Mad World,  the songs he chose in the lead up to the American Idol finale —  Led Zeppelin ,  Aerosmith ,  Queen , and  Kiss  — were all rockers that filled stadiums in decades past with ecstatic dudes waving lighters. What is more, reports that Lambert is holding out for the cover of  Rolling Stone  (compare his predecessor in American Idol outings, Clay Aiken, who gave the big  reveal  to  People ), if true, would confirm a canny attempt to see if a rock audience is ready for him, not just a readership eager for celebrity news. Its an uphill climb of course, but so is anything in the music business these days. I have no idea if this play for straight male attention is actually intended, or whether it will succeed if it is. But it does seem that, in an age when the rapper Eminem — often pilloried in the past for his homophobia —  launches a comeback by arranging to have a gay Austrian fashion journalist descend from the ceiling at the MTV Movie Awards wearing Icarus wings and land his naked ass on Eminem s face  — straight masculinity just isn t what it used to be. The sweet, married Christian winner of Idol, Kris Allen, has also apparently decided if you can t beat them join as well, going out of his way to publicly express his  bromance  with Lambert through hugs and a dip in the shared nail polish bottle. Gay masculinity, the swishier the better, is apparently the latest form of supplementarity propping up whatever is left of straight macho. If Lambert succeeds in winning over a segment of this audience — by touring with Queen, recording with Slash, or any of the other rock projects he s dangled in front of the media — the question may turn into whether he ll become just another prop — like Howard Stern s gay intern or the awful  Queer Eye  guys — or whether  his shriek will shatter the vestiges of straight male privilege in popular music today . Adam’s Return In  " Pop Culture " Guyliner and Glass Closets In  " Pop Culture " WHITE MEN BEHAVING SADLY by Jack Halberstam In  " Film " Your email address will not be published.  Required fields are marked  * Comment Name  * Email  * Website Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email. I ve already posted on some of  my preliminary thoughts on how Adam Lambert troubles the simple straightness of rock , so I ll leave that aside for now. What does interest me is the contrast between  Clay Aiken s Rolling Stone in July 2003  and a likely Adam Lambert cover in July 2009.  I find it fascinating that the Aiken cover/story was an essential gesture in the  in-ing  of Aiken for mass consumption (locating him in the ambivalent place of girl-friendly boy bands), while the anticipated Lambert cover/story is expected to be part of Lambert s coming out.  I m not sure what it says about the distance of the recent past (2003) but suspect it says much about corporate media s ability to maintain the  open secret  in the internet era. Great piece, Tavia. I think some of these dynamics were in play, obviously in different contexts, around Freddie Mercury and David Bowie. The straight line on someone like Bowie is always that he was  just  playing with the image of his sexuality in the 70s  for publicity,  and in his humdrum late middle age he hasn t done much to counter this line of thinking. But really, what is the difference between manipulating one s sexuality and *having* one s sexuality? Why are they opposites? Especially if we re going beyond the simplistic closet model. Mercury for me is a different phenomenon because in the hypermasculinity of his body he seems to have tapped into some residual 19th-century blurring of the male homosocial/sexual continuum. But Lambert with Queen, OMG that s brilliant. and you called it.  The Liberation of Adam Lambert http://www.rollingstone.com/rockdaily/index.php/2009/06/09/the-new-issue-of-rolling-stone-the-liberation-of-adam-lambert/ View Full Site Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com. 