Funeral service for Sara Baillie, five-year-old daughter Taliyah Marsman by  The Canadian Press Posted Jul 21, 2016 4:00 am EST Last Updated Jul 21, 2016 at 12:41 pm EST Twitter Facebook Reddit Email CALGARY   A funeral service will be held today for Sara Baillie and her five-year-old daughter, Taliyah Marsman. Baillie, who was 34, was found dead in her northwest Calgary home on July 11th and Taliyah was missing. The little girl s body was found about three days later in a rural area east of the city. An obituary says the pair were inseparable and describes Sara as a dedicated mother who had an unflinching love for her daughter. It says Taliyah, who recently finished Kindergarten and had just learned to ride a bike, was a funny girl who never left home without her sparkly purse filled with lotions and lipsticks. In lieu of flowers, the family asks that donations be made to the Missing Children s Society of Canada. Immediately prior to today s funeral, a family member will make a brief statement to the media. Edward Downey faces two counts of first degree murder. Police have said he knew both Baillie and Taliyah, but it s not clear how. His next court appearance is set for August 3rd. We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed. Subscribe to 570 NEWS newsletters I understand that I can withdraw my consent at any time {* public_profileBlurb *} You have activated your account, please feel free to browse our exclusive contests, videos and content. You have activated your account, please feel free to browse our exclusive contests, videos and content. An error has occurred while trying to update your details. Please  contact us . Subscribe to 570 NEWS newsletters I understand that I can withdraw my consent at any time Please confirm the information below before signing up. Subscribe to 570 NEWS newsletters I understand that I can withdraw my consent at any time By checking this box, I agree to the  terms of service  and  privacy policy  of Rogers Media. We didn't recognize that password reset code. Enter your email address to get a new one. Sorry we could not verify that email address. Enter your email below and we'll send you another email. 