Risking the Future - NCBI Bookshelf The chapters of this volume contain the background papers that informed the deliberations of the Panel on Adolescent Pregnancy and Childbearing and support many of its conclusions concerning the current state of knowledge. Chapters 1 through 4 present detailed reviews of the research on factors affecting adolescent sexual decision making, including the initiation of sexual activity, contraceptive use, and pregnancy resolution. Chapters 5 through 8 review the scientific evidence on the short-term and long-term social, economic, and health consequences of early sexual activity, pregnancy, childbearing, and parenting. Chapters 9 and 10 review evidence concerning the costs, effects, and effectiveness of alternative programs. The tables referred to in Chapters 1 &# x02013;10 are found in the statistical appendix. This project was sponsored by the Ford Foundation, the Rockefeller Foundation, the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, and the Charles Stewart Mott Foundation. The interpretations and conclusions contained in this publication represent the views of the panel and not necessarily those of the sponsoring foundations, their trustees, or officers. NOTICE: The project that is the subject of this publication was approved by the Governing Board of the National Research Council, whose members are drawn from the councils of the National Academy of Sciences, the National Academy of Engineering, and the Institute of Medicine. The National Research Council was established by the National Academy of Sciences in 1916 to associate the broad community of science and technology with the Academy's purposes of furthering knowledge and of advising the federal government. The Council operates in accordance with general policies determined by the Academy under the authority of its congressional charter of 1863, which established the Academy as a private, nonprofit, self-governing membership corporation. The Council has become the principal operating agency of both the National Academy of Sciences and the National Academy of Engineering in the conduct of their services to the government, the public, and the scientific and engineering communities. It is administered jointly by both Academies and the Institute of Medicine. The National Academy of Engineering and the Institute of Medicine were established in 1964 and 1970, respectively, under the charter of the National Academy of Sciences. 