Richard Bettina - Director - Fresenius Medical Care North America | LinkedIn Experienced senior level executive with domestic and international experience in Corporate Real Estate across all aspects of portfolio management. Demonstrated success with managing corporate portfolio and site expansions and consolidations, lease transactions, project management and facilities services.  Additional high tech career experience managing sales, tactical marketing, procurement, operations, engineering support organizations, contracts and alliances. Liked by  Richard Bettina Liked by  Richard Bettina Liked by  Richard Bettina 2 years Jun 2018   –  Present 1 year 7 months Jan 2018   –  Present 2 years Greater Boston Area Meeting patients' needs and company P  objectives by directing the company's Real Estate Renewals Group, comprised of both direct and contracted partner teams, responsible for executive strategy alignment with alternatives and timely execution of  > 400 lease renewal negotiations per year across the North America portfolio. Meeting patients' needs and company P  objectives by directing the company's Real Estate Renewals Group, comprised of both direct and contracted partner teams, responsible for executive strategy alignment with alternatives and timely execution of  > 400 lease renewal negotiations per year across the North America portfolio. Jan 2018   –  Present 2 years Lexington, Massachusetts •Management of 400 North America lease renewals per year, with internal staff of Portfolio Transaction Managers, Project Coordinators and highly valued outsourced service providers. •Developed Lease Renewals governance process converting from a site by lease site expiration window to be a “tops down” approach, engaged with 8 General Managers and 40 Regional Vice Presidents responsible for P  impacts using monthly portfolio strategy/direction discussions.    •Worked with HQ, HR and compensation to re-asses and improve job descriptions and pay ranges to attract and retain “A” players.  Currently recruiting experienced, highly skilled candidates capable of evolving with our business models and processes.    •Continually study portfolios and determine potential long-term site potentials for optimal business terms working with that area’s General Manager and team.  •Develop process efficiencies and streamlining, to ensure timely execution, adequate BU awareness of LED lead times and portfolio business implications for new location strategies. •Ensure due diligence work (property condition assessments) are performed align with company investment opportunities.  •Integrate and collaborate with the Real Estate and Construction division, Project Management, Finance, IT and other groups as needed to assure seamless information flow, support and execution. •Management of 400 North America lease renewals per year, with internal staff of Portfolio Transaction Managers, Project Coordinators and highly valued outsourced service providers. •Developed Lease Renewals governance process converting from a site by lease site expiration window to be a “tops down” approach, engaged with 8 General Managers and 40 Regional Vice Presidents responsible for P  impacts using monthly portfolio strategy/direction discussions.    •Worked with HQ, HR and... •Management of 400 North America lease renewals per year, with internal staff of Portfolio Transaction Managers, Project Coordinators and highly valued outsourced service providers. •Developed Lease Renewals governance process converting from a site by lease site expiration window to be a “tops down” approach, engaged with 8 General Managers and 40 Regional Vice Presidents responsible for P  impacts using monthly portfolio strategy/direction discussions.    •Worked with HQ, HR and compensation to re-asses and improve job descriptions and pay ranges to attract and retain “A” players.  Currently recruiting experienced, highly skilled candidates capable of evolving with our business models and processes.    •Continually study portfolios and determine potential long-term site potentials for optimal business terms working with that area’s General Manager and team.  •Develop process efficiencies and streamlining, to ensure timely execution, adequate BU awareness of LED lead times and portfolio business implications for new location strategies. •Ensure due diligence work (property condition assessments) are performed align with company investment opportunities.  •Integrate and collaborate with the Real Estate and Construction division, Project Management, Finance, IT and other groups as needed to assure seamless information flow, support and execution. 2009   –   Feb 2017 8 years Hopkinton MA As a Director within EMC’s Global Real Estate and Facilities function, developed and maintained workforce infrastructure of 100 contractors and management; $20 million of annual capital spending and $5 million in annual operating expenses. Directed and managed office acquisition, construction, expansions, lease, disposition and operations in the U.S., Mexico and eight Latin American countries. Led governance and process projects to improve space and services for field offices, labs and R  center.  •Developed detailed Opex and capital depreciation impact statements. •Implemented top down governance processes to prioritize capital spend. •Drove site consolidations considering capacity, utilization, desk share ratios and lease costs.  Proven success at corporate management of portfolio through business and stakeholder discovery discussions, leadership team development, assessment and contracting with third parties for services related to lease transactions, project management and facilities management. Initiated new governance processes and capital prioritization models and managed total life cycle from property surveys and selection to capital modeling, forecasted Opex costs and growth curves, managing new office build outs, expansions, restructures, subleases, refurbs and closures. As a Director within EMC’s Global Real Estate and Facilities function, developed and maintained workforce infrastructure of 100 contractors and management; $20 million of annual capital spending and $5 million in annual operating expenses. Directed and managed office acquisition, construction, expansions, lease, disposition and operations in the U.S., Mexico and eight Latin American countries. Led governance and process projects to improve space and services for field offices, labs and R As a Director within EMC’s Global Real Estate and Facilities function, developed and maintained workforce infrastructure of 100 contractors and management; $20 million of annual capital spending and $5 million in annual operating expenses. Directed and managed office acquisition, construction, expansions, lease, disposition and operations in the U.S., Mexico and eight Latin American countries. Led governance and process projects to improve space and services for field offices, labs and R  center.  •Developed detailed Opex and capital depreciation impact statements. •Implemented top down governance processes to prioritize capital spend. •Drove site consolidations considering capacity, utilization, desk share ratios and lease costs.  Proven success at corporate management of portfolio through business and stakeholder discovery discussions, leadership team development, assessment and contracting with third parties for services related to lease transactions, project management and facilities management. Initiated new governance processes and capital prioritization models and managed total life cycle from property surveys and selection to capital modeling, forecasted Opex costs and growth curves, managing new office build outs, expansions, restructures, subleases, refurbs and closures. 1999   –   2009 10 years Boston MA Managed Enabling Technology Group, a semiconductor engineering support organization. Tasks included organizational development, recruitment of key leads and direct line management of $MM budget and ~135 HC with seven senior managers responsible for PCB design and test, digital ASIC post RTL design, design verification, IT support, Product Data Management, implementation and roll-out of new Product Development Management (PDM) process, IC strategic sourcing, and Off shore software design.  Other accomplishments included:   Previously revitalized a function to control a $200 million company spend across 1,000 suppliers.  Recruited logistics managers in critical locations including Singapore, China and the U.S. and achieved $14 million in cost savings/avoidance by outsourcing/out-tasking across indirect procurement spend areas. Developed and drove world-wide 3PL strategy to support system shipments of +$600 million product revenue shipments to China.   Implemented Corporate WW Travel program and provider to improve support and program management.   Developed critical technology supply business model with three leading edge technology major IC chip fabricators.   Managed the India outsource relationship with HCL for software sustainability Managed Enabling Technology Group, a semiconductor engineering support organization. Tasks included organizational development, recruitment of key leads and direct line management of $MM budget and ~135 HC with seven senior managers responsible for PCB design and test, digital ASIC post RTL design, design verification, IT support, Product Data Management, implementation and roll-out of new Product Development Management (PDM) process, IC strategic sourcing, and Off shore software design.... Managed Enabling Technology Group, a semiconductor engineering support organization. Tasks included organizational development, recruitment of key leads and direct line management of $MM budget and ~135 HC with seven senior managers responsible for PCB design and test, digital ASIC post RTL design, design verification, IT support, Product Data Management, implementation and roll-out of new Product Development Management (PDM) process, IC strategic sourcing, and Off shore software design.  Other accomplishments included:   Previously revitalized a function to control a $200 million company spend across 1,000 suppliers.  Recruited logistics managers in critical locations including Singapore, China and the U.S. and achieved $14 million in cost savings/avoidance by outsourcing/out-tasking across indirect procurement spend areas. Developed and drove world-wide 3PL strategy to support system shipments of +$600 million product revenue shipments to China.   Implemented Corporate WW Travel program and provider to improve support and program management.   Developed critical technology supply business model with three leading edge technology major IC chip fabricators.   Managed the India outsource relationship with HCL for software sustainability 1990   –   1999 9 years Waltham MA; Hudson Valley NY Project managed the launch of IBM Microelectronics Division APJ sales infrastructure with Country Mgrs and teams, distributors and reps covering Japan, Taiwan, Singapore, Hong Kong, Korea and Australia. Met with all major customer execs (Acer, Sony, LG, etc) as required. Also Developed revenue plans and held staff meetings in APJ to measure performance.  Also managed a WW Tactical Marketing group working with all RSMs for WW Sales Forecasts, Revenue Plan variance and to issue Field advice and Call to Action plans. Developed new pricing models, managed war room activity and managed WW Memory allocation to customers. Earlier roles held were OEM Alliances, Product Sales in US accounts, Corporate contracts and Procurement, Cost Engineering and Manufacturing (testing multi-layer ceramic substrates). Project managed the launch of IBM Microelectronics Division APJ sales infrastructure with Country Mgrs and teams, distributors and reps covering Japan, Taiwan, Singapore, Hong Kong, Korea and Australia. Met with all major customer execs (Acer, Sony, LG, etc) as required. Also Developed revenue plans and held staff meetings in APJ to measure performance.  Also managed a WW Tactical Marketing group working with all RSMs for WW Sales Forecasts, Revenue Plan variance and to issue Field... Project managed the launch of IBM Microelectronics Division APJ sales infrastructure with Country Mgrs and teams, distributors and reps covering Japan, Taiwan, Singapore, Hong Kong, Korea and Australia. Met with all major customer execs (Acer, Sony, LG, etc) as required. Also Developed revenue plans and held staff meetings in APJ to measure performance.  Also managed a WW Tactical Marketing group working with all RSMs for WW Sales Forecasts, Revenue Plan variance and to issue Field advice and Call to Action plans. Developed new pricing models, managed war room activity and managed WW Memory allocation to customers. Earlier roles held were OEM Alliances, Product Sales in US accounts, Corporate contracts and Procurement, Cost Engineering and Manufacturing (testing multi-layer ceramic substrates). Jan 2014   –   Jan 2017 3 years 1 month Children Visited my "little brother" in school and took him out on weekends for breakfast and fun outings to help provide him guidelines for proper behavior, discuss any concerns he had and most importantly let him know how much I and others care about him.  Although this program terminated as he progressed in grade school, I continued to stay in touch with him and remind him I am always available for him to reach out. Visited my "little brother" in school and took him out on weekends for breakfast and fun outings to help provide him guidelines for proper behavior, discuss any concerns he had and most importantly let him know how much I and others care about him.  Although this program terminated as he progressed in grade school, I continued to stay in touch with him and remind him I am always available for him to reach out. Jan 2015   –  Present 5 years Education CoreNet Global is a non-profit association, headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia (US), representing more than 11,000 executives in 50 countries with strategic responsibility for the real estate assets of large corporations. The organization’s mission is to advance the practice of corporate real estate through professional development opportunities, publications, research, conferences, designations and networking in 46 local chapters and networking groups globally. CoreNet Global is a non-profit association, headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia (US), representing more than 11,000 executives in 50 countries with strategic responsibility for the real estate assets of large corporations. The organization’s mission is to advance the practice of corporate real estate through professional development opportunities, publications, research, conferences, designations and networking in 46 local chapters and networking groups globally. A preview of what LinkedIn members have to say about Richard: I’ve had the opportunity to work with Rich in a couple of different capacities he held at EMC.  In both roles, he worked closely with Corporate HQ as well as with various stakeholders from the Americas, EMEA and APJ.  Rich demonstrated the ability to grasp business challenges and apply priorities by implementing a (phase gate) governance process working with Directors and VPs worldwide to gain alignment on resources and initiatives.  This process worked as an integration tool between the WW theatres as much as an alignment tool.  Rich has a keen interest to understand the cause of sub-optimal processes, and after discussions with various teams internationally, including here in Cork, Ireland, he understood and communicated process deficiencies so corrective measures could be applied globally. Separately, Rich effectively developed a management team and new support infrastructure across all countries in Latin America.  This demonstrates his ability to understand stakeholder challenges and methodically address business needs.  Rich is a team player with good people skills and high confidence.  I highly recommend Rich to lead challenging initiatives. I’ve had the opportunity to work with Rich in a couple of different capacities he held at EMC.  In both roles, he worked closely with Corporate HQ as well as with various stakeholders from the Americas, EMEA and APJ.  Rich demonstrated the ability to grasp business challenges and apply priorities by implementing a (phase gate) governance process working with Directors and VPs worldwide to gain alignment on resources and initiatives.  This process worked as an integration tool between the WW... I’ve had the opportunity to work with Rich in a couple of different capacities he held at EMC.  In both roles, he worked closely with Corporate HQ as well as with various stakeholders from the Americas, EMEA and APJ.  Rich demonstrated the ability to grasp business challenges and apply priorities by implementing a (phase gate) governance process working with Directors and VPs worldwide to gain alignment on resources and initiatives.  This process worked as an integration tool between the WW theatres as much as an alignment tool.  Rich has a keen interest to understand the cause of sub-optimal processes, and after discussions with various teams internationally, including here in Cork, Ireland, he understood and communicated process deficiencies so corrective measures could be applied globally. Separately, Rich effectively developed a management team and new support infrastructure across all countries in Latin America.  This demonstrates his ability to understand stakeholder challenges and methodically address business needs.  Rich is a team player with good people skills and high confidence.  I highly recommend Rich to lead challenging initiatives. Rich has been instrumental in enabling our company to improve its governance, process and workplace solutions across 22 office locations in Latin America.  His partnering with external parties and his support to the Division VP and each of his country managers fostered a close and collaborative working relationship.  These efforts helped us optimize capital investment decisions to take our sales offices in this region to new levels.  Rich is a strong team player I high recommend. Rich has been instrumental in enabling our company to improve its governance, process and workplace solutions across 22 office locations in Latin America.  His partnering with external parties and his support to the Division VP and each of his country managers fostered a close and collaborative working relationship.  These efforts helped us optimize capital investment decisions to take our sales offices in this region to new levels.  Rich is a strong team player I high recommend. 5 people have recommended Richard Join now to view Join to view Richard’s full profile Greater Boston Area United States 2 others named Richard Bettina are on LinkedIn 