The 30 best hotels close to Union Square in Sibiu, Romania Loading Choose your preferred language. We speak English and 42 other languages. Anna Central Studio offers accommodation in Sibiu, 300 metres from Great Square. Anna Central Studio is 500 metres from The Council Tower of Sibiu. Free WiFi is available throughout the property.  Located in Sibiu, Casa Hermanni is 300 metres from The Stairs Passage. Great Square is 400 metres from the property. Free WiFi is featured . All units have a flat-screen TV with satellite channels.  Arhivelor Apartment offers accommodation in Sibiu, next to the Great Square. Free WiFi is featured throughout the property, and During your stay, complimentary coffee and tea are offered.  Xenopol Central Apartment is located in Sibiu, 700 metres from The Stairs Passage, and provides a patio, garden, and free WiFi. With garden views, this accommodation offers a balcony.  Located in Sibiu, For You Apartments Gold  &  Silver is 400 metres from Great Square. The accommodation features a spa bath. The Stairs Passage is 400 metres from the property.  Located in Sibiu, 200 metres from the Great Square, Cetatea Medievala boasts air-conditioned rooms with free WiFi throughout the property.  This hotel in Sibiu has been booked 588 times This hotel in Sibiu has been booked 109 times This hotel in Sibiu has been booked 243 times This hotel in Sibiu has been booked 308 times This hotel in Sibiu has been booked 184 times This hotel in Sibiu has been booked 110 times This hotel in Sibiu has been booked 133 times This hotel in Sibiu has been booked 109 times Dating back to the 16th century, Imparatul Romanilor impresses with its sophisticated architecture and elegant interiors.  Great location, parking, nice room( spacious and nice decorated), helpful staff, very clean, good... The Ibis Centru is situated on the main boulevard, at 2 minutes '  walking distance from the Radu Stanca National Theatre. It offers soundproofed and air conditioned rooms with free WiFi internet... Great location, walking distance to the old town, great breakfast spread. Located in the centre of Sibiu, within a 5-minute walk from the city centre, the Brukenthal Museum and the Great Square, Hotel Rin features an on-site restaurant and classically decorated rooms with... Excellent price  /  quality ratio Big screen tv Friendly staff 24 hours front desk Offering free WiFi, Lumiere House Sibiu is set in Sibiu, 500 metres from The Council Tower of Sibiu and less than 1 km from Albert Huet Square.  Lovely design, large rooms, clean, they also have a common cellar where you cand enjoy your coffee,... Error: Please enter a valid email address Error: Sorry. An error has occurred. You ' re subscribed! Your welcome email will arrive in your inbox soon. Invite hosts List your property Booking.com is part of Booking Holdings Inc., the world leader in online travel and related services. We have more than 70 million property reviews, and they're all from  real, verified guests. 1 The only way to leave a review is to first make a booking. That's how we know our reviews come from real guests who have stayed at the property. 2 When guests stay at the property they check out how quiet the room is, how friendly the staff are and more. 3 After their trip, guests tell us about their stay. We check for naughty words and verify the authenticity of all guest reviews before adding them to our site. If you booked through us and want to leave a review, please sign in first. Check-in date Check-out date 