BEST TIME TO VISIT IS APRIL - Review of Emirgan Park, Istanbul, Turkey - TripAdvisor Amazing and tasty food, marvelous sights, picnics with beautiful views, and a worthwhile visit. I... read more worth a visit to see a great place green blue color full of peace of mind you can evaluate your... read more I love this park on April at Tulip festival, ><br >Full of colours,feeling alive,pece,freash air with nice view of the Bosphorus and Marmara sea, ><br >refreshing mind My family and I were lucky to be there on a cloudy day; it was magical! Everything seems to be designed to help you relax and enjoy Mother Nature. >We spotted few newlyweds taking their photoshoots there, it was delightful to share their happiness with them and witness the birth of new love stories.<br >I think there are some old mansions turned into restaurants but unfortunately I didn't get to try the food, but I did see a pink one and white one while I was walking around with my brother. >Masjid (mosque) and toilets were clean, we had fun at the play ground.<br >If you like beautiful nature and taking pictures of it, going on long peaceful walks without any disturbance; then Emirgan park is where you need to be.  ><br > I visit this park through the hop on hop off boats ... you need to walk a bit to reach it and you will also climb a small hill....but it worth it....the place it self is amazing. dont miss it. If you go there at summer you may avoid reach it at mid day time specially in sunny days. >< p> Date of experience:  August 2015 Ask Kudamah A about Emirgan Park 1  Thank Kudamah A  This review is the subjective opinion of a TripAdvisor member and not of TripAdvisor LLC. ΒΑΦΕΙΑΔΗΣ Θ 3 1 Reviewed July 27, 2016  Fantastic Park It is a fantastic park with great view to the Vosporos,very organised.You can eat with your own if you want,at the tables who has,but also has a great restaurant at the top of the park. It is a quite large and almost perfectly clean park. Breeze of the Bosphorus can be felt during walking. In April, the festival of Tulips starts and it is really amazing to walk in between these all types and colors of tulips. Food is clean and not expensive. And you can buy plants for your own garden/balcony as well. You can reach there buy a private car and busses. If you like, you can have a picnic there too. There are playgrounds for children. When you are out of the park from main entrance, you find yourself at the Bosphorus with loads of cafe,restaurant. Nice place to spend few hours on a sunny day. This is our third stop in the tour. No entrance fees. It is an open park where everyone gather to spend nice time. Flowers of all types and colors. Many nice crown shaped cages surrounded by flowers. Artificial waterfall and a little Cinderella shoes. One day is not enough. Because of weekends, many bride and grooms were taking pictures.  