" World ' s Largest Orgy "  no longer hosted at Las Vegas Embassy Suites, but it ' s still on, now with more science / Boing Boing Menage Life's  world's biggest orgy on June 2  will move from an Embassy Suites hotel in Las Vegas to the Erotic Heritage Museum. Menage Life said the change is due to “increased interest in the event." Embassy Suites management told the Las Vegas Weekly that "while Sin City 8 room guests are welcome to stay there, the previously scheduled events outside of the orgy—including the seminars and parties—are no longer permitted at the hotel." No matter who made the decision to relocate the orgy and other events, Menage Life says that the new location for the sex party makes it possible to do some science among the carnal chaos! From the  Las Vegas Weekly : According to today's news release, Erotic Heritage Museum Executive Director Dr. Victoria Hartmann will conduct a qualitative research project during the orgy to help fill holes in the study of the evolution of group sex. And a museum documenting the history of sex is a natural to exhibit a history-making sex event—provided, of course, the participants bring their own sex toys and leave the ancient Chinese ones in their glass case. “We are excited to be working with the Erotic Heritage Museum on this historic opportunity!” Menage Life founder Sante Suffoletta said in a statement. “We are both aligned in our view that consenting adults should be able to fully express their sexuality without fear or shame." PayPal on Thursday says it has halted payment support for models with PornHub, the online adult site, after Paypal says it found that Pornhub made certain payments without PayPal s permission. China's state disinformation campaigns against the Hong Kong protesters are unwelcome on Youtube, Twitter and Facebook, with the mainstream platforms shutting down accounts that spread propaganda videos; but increasingly these blocked videos are available on Pornhub, something that has been jubilantly announced by mainland Chinese social media influencers on Wechat. Teen Vogue has emerged as one of the most progressive mass-media forums in an age of Trumpism and its official misogyny and racism -- it's a Conde Naste magazine aimed at teen girls with a labor reporter who regularly dissects capitalism's failings and writes explainers on the need for a general strike. Once you ve cut steak or poultry with some actual quality knives, it s really tough to go back to those budget blades you bought at the department store a couple of decades ago. Consider that a fair warning about this 5-Piece Professional Damascus Chef s Kitchen Set. The holiday discount makes it easy to buy for a [ ] Concerned about your eyesight? You probably should be. And we re not just talking about seniors here. Young or old, we re all at risk of coming down with vision issues Most of us might get a vision test only once every couple of years or so when we get a new pair of glasses   if [ ] We love our smartphones and tablets, but we also love to write. For a while now, there hasn t been a workable solution. Either hook it up to a keyboard (which defeats the purpose of a portable gadget) or resign ourselves to typing on tiny, unresponsive glass icons. Looks like technology has finally caught up to [ ] Read the rules you agree to by using this website in our  Terms of Service . We are a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites. Boing Boing uses cookies and analytics trackers, and is supported by advertising, merchandise sales and affiliate links. Read about what we do with the data we gather in our  Privacy Policy . Who will be eaten first? Our forum rules are detailed in the  Community Guidelines . Boing Boing is published under  a Creative Commons license  except where otherwise noted. Mark Frauenfelder Cory Doctorow David Pescovitz Xeni Jardin Rob Beschizza Carla Sinclair Editors Jason Weisberger Publisher Ken Snider Sysadmin About Us Contact Us Advertise Forums Shop Report a Bad Ad Shop Support 