PUSH (about) | Push Me “Our vision is audaciously ambitious. We want to use The Space to amplify the impact of  the artists. This has the power to change the way in which disability and creativity are viewed throughout the cultural sector. So go on. PUSH  ME .” PUSH  ME  was one of the first 53 digital arts commissions for  The Space . A collaboration led by  Watershed , it provided an invitation into the journey of 12 artists working as part of  Unlimited , the  Cultural Olympiad  programme focusing on disability. PUSH ME profiled the journey of 12 artists creating the Unlimited commissions: Susan Austin, Rachel Gadsden, Claire Cunningham, Jez Colborne and Mind the Gap, Ramesh Meyyappan, Bobby Baker, Mish Weaver and Stumble, Caroline Bowditch, Graeae, Laurence Clark, Simon McKeown and Janice Parker. We called the project PUSH ME as we were interested in the whole idea of the artists going beyond something they had done before   pushing past what they had previously achieved. So PUSH ME was about the artists pushing themselves, but it was also about more than that.  We were interested in how the work that they created is challenging and changing the arts sector   as the artists grow and develop, how do others have to grow and develop too? The team behind PUSH ME was part of the push too   pushing each other to look at things differently and gain new skills. So what exactly have we done? We have created a series of 90 second films  PUSH  ME  for 90 seconds   that have been dropped into The Space from June 2012, supported here by a blog to keep people up to date with information about their inspirations, the commissions themselves and the impact they are having out in the wide, wide world. In September 2012, we filmed a 30 minute documentary looking at the work that was showcased at the Unlimited Festival at the Southbank, part of the London 2012 Festival, and this too was placed into The Space as a 30 minute documentary   Total Permission. It has also had the following live screening: BBC Big Screens  showed Push Me Collection nationally as featured content and link to film on The Space September to December 2012 Push Me Collection + Q & A   Encounters International Short Film Festival Watershed Bristol 20 September 2012 Total Permission + Q & A   International Day of People with Disability Watershed Bristol and National Media Museum Bradford 3 December 2012 Total Permission + Q & A on Unlimited Festival and impact   Southbank Centre, London 6 February 2013 Several private/delegate screenings including: Hong Kong, Sydney, Edinburgh and Southbank PUSH ME has won the Education Award at the  Picture This  Film Festival  in Canada. This site archives all the PUSH ME films and the Total Permission documentary, and the blogs created during 2012, focusing on the development of the project, the artists and the context in which they were created and held. Background details The London 2012 Festival was a 12 week nationwide celebration running from June 21st 2012 until the final day of the Paralympic Games on 9th September 2012. The London 2012 Festival celebrated the huge range, quality and accessibility of the UK’s world-class culture, giving the opportunity for people across the UK to celebrate the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games. For more details visit  www.london2012.com/festival . The Unlimited programme was part of the London 2012 Cultural Olympiad. Unlimited encouraged collaborations and partnerships between disability arts organisations, disabled and deaf artists, producers and mainstream organisations to celebrate the inspiration of the Olympic and Paralympic Games and to create original and exciting works. Twenty-nine Unlimited Commissions have been awarded. Unlimited is principally funded by the National Lottery through the Olympic Lottery Distributor and is delivered in partnership between London 2012, Arts Council England, Creative Scotland, Arts Council of Wales, Arts Council of Northern Ireland and the British Council. The Co-Curators Jo Verrent and Sarah Pickthall founded  Sync , looking at the interplay between disability and leadership based on the idea of syncopation – placing an emphasis on a usually un-emphasised beat. Focusing on aesthetic rather than deficit, their work is about curiosity rather than voyeurism with a focus on deepening engagement and subverting stereotypes. John Durrant is the Creative Director of multi award winning production company  BDH . John created the overall visual concept for the project and produced/directed/oversaw the video content.   Watershed  held the journey together. PUSH  ME  was a commission from Arts Council England and had additional investment from Creative Scotland. The Space  The Space is a multi-platform initiative, which showcases some of the best digital art works in the UK and aims to build the digital skills and capability of the arts sector in the run-up to the Olympics. Launched in May 2012, it aims to encourage arts organisations to experiment and engage with new audiences. The initiative has created hundreds of hours of original commissions for broadcast via computers, mobiles, tablet computers and internet-connected TVs. Go and have a look for yourself -  thespace.org Our first films are 90 seconds long. In 90 seconds it’s hard to describe everything   especially the credits (to be honest, its hard to even read them in the time available!) We thought we’d create a space here where you can get to the full credits easily so everyone can access them at their leisure if they wish. Credits for Sue Austin s first 90 second film Credits for Laurence Clark s first 90 second film Credits for Rachel Gadsden s first 90 second film Credits for Jez Colborne s first 90 second film Credits for Stumble danceCircus s first 90 second film Credits for Caroline Bowditch s first 90 second film Credits for Janice Parker s first 90 second film Credits for Bobby Baker s first 90 second film Credits for Simon Mckeown s first 90 second film Credits for Graeae’s first 90 second film Credits for Claire Cunningham’s first 90 second film Credits for Ramesh Meyyappan’s first 90 second film PUSH  ME  is a collaborative project curated by  Jo Verrent  and  Sarah Pickthall , with films produced by  Burrell Durrant Hifle Design  &  Direction Limited , featuring 12 artworks commissioned by the Unlimited programme, as part of the London 2012 Cultural Olympiad. A  Watershed  Production   2012 Supported by: 