The 10 best Faith No More songs that may have passed you by | Louder By Paul Brannigan February 03, 2016 The best of everything, every day on TeamRock.com Faith No More s return with the brilliant  Sol Invictus  album was one of the most pleasant surprises of 2015, a potent reminder that the San Francisco band remain one of the most inventive, singular talents in our world. Few bands have so successfully transitioned from the alt. rock underground to festival headliner status with their integrity intact, and the Californian quintet s ongoing success is a welcome reminder that it s entirely possible to retain a subversive, maverick spirit while operating at the forefront of the music business. That Faith No More are arguably best known to casual music fans for their straight-faced cover of the Commodores  R & B classic  Easy  must only serve to reinforce their cheerfully misanthropic view of humanity, but even committed fans might not be aware of some of the excellent curios tucked away in their rich, rewarding back catalogue. Here s 10 choice cuts from the mavericks  vaults NEW IMPROVED SONG (1988) Faith No More s final recording with mercurial frontman Chuck Mosley,  New Improved Song  was originally released on  Sounds Waves 2 , a free vinyl seven-inch EP (also featuring The Jesus and Mary Chain, Head Of David and The Godfathers) given away by the now defunct UK music paper Sounds in 1988. An out-take from the  Introduce Yourself  sessions, recorded by Matt Wallace, the song is an embryonic version of what became the superior  The Morning After  on 1989 s  The Real Thing  album. THE PERFECT CRIME (1991) Bridging the gap between 1989 s  The Real Thing  album and 1992 s  Angel Dust , The Perfect Crime   released on the soundtrack to  Bill And Ted s Bogus Journey  in 1991   served as an early indicator that Faith No More s assimilation into the mainstream rock world would not soften their abrasive, twisted aesthetic.  Boy hears teacher s words so he closed his eyes and stepped in front of a train,  sings Mike Patton, tagging a cheery  Woo!  onto the end of this dark visual, just for shits and giggles. SWEET EMOTION (1989) If you ve checked out  The Perfect Crime  above, this FNM rarity might sound naggingly familiar. First released in demo form on a free seven inch flexi-disc (also featuring  It Goes On  by cult Scottish rockers Balaam and the Angel) given away by Kerrang! magazine in September 1989,  Sweet Emotion  is an out-take from the studio sessions for  The Real Thing , later re-moulded into  The Perfect Crime . Patton s lyrics here ( The bitterness inside your heart, it shows through in your eyes and you can t win in the end ) are no less bleak than on the remake, you ll doubtless be pleased to hear. **AS THE WORM TURNS (1985) **One of the stand-out tracks on Faith No More s debut album  We Care A Lot ,  As The Worm Turns  was re-recorded with Mike Patton on vocals during the studio sessions for  Angel Dust , and was first released as a bonus track on the Japanese version of the album. Both versions of the song are excellent, but Patton s version manages to be simultaneously more commercial and more aggressive. A SMALL VICTORY R-EVOLUTION 23 FULL MOON MIX (1992) A relic of a by-gone age, back in the 1990s, record companies were fond of farming out rock singles to dance producers to remix in the hope of securing  crossover  plays in clubs and on radio. Most dance artists treated the commissions as money for old rope, but Killing Joke bassist Martin  Youth  Glover s hypnotic re-interpretation of this  Angel Dust -era classic actually brings something fresh and appealing to the original. LET S LYNCH THE LANDLORD (1992) Recorded for the Alternative Tentacles label compilation  Virus 100  (which also featured contributions from Napalm Death, Sepultura, L7 and more) this cover of the Dead Kennedys  classic features a gloriously sleazy, Elvis pastiche vocal from Mike Patton and an irritatingly jaunty accordion riff from Roddy Bottum.  Let s Lynch The Landlord  was recorded in my bedroom,  bassist Bill Gould told Billboard magazine in 1993.  We got the worst drum set I could find, I have a stand up bass and an accordion and we used the worst microphone.  Nice attention to detail there gentlemen. DAS SCH TZENFEST (1993) Even by Faith No More s warped standards, this is a particularly bizarre and peculiar entry in their back catalogue. Recorded as a polka, with lyrics sung entirely in German,  Das Sch tzenfest  is the sweetly romantic tale of a man who seduces a young lady at a Bavarian shooting party and proceeds to make love with her in a pig barn. That the track appeared, alongside  Easy , on a 1993 EP titled  Songs To Make Love To  makes it all the more special, obviously. EVIDENCE (Spanish Version) (1995) One of the highlights of the  King For A Day  Fool For A Lifetime  album, the jazzy, finger-clicking, cabaret-lounge schmaltz of  Evidence  was pretty damn sexy in the first place, but when re-recorded in London with Mike Patton singing in Spanish (for an Argentinian edition of the album), it s a whole new level of scorchio. Patton has also been known to sing the song live with Italian and Portugese lyrics too, the smooth, sickeningly-talented bastard. SPANISH EYES (1995) As with many of the cover versions tackled by FNM (see also  Easy ,  War Pigs , Deep Purple s  Highway Star ) it s not immediately obvious whether this faithful take on the easy listening standard made famous by  60s crooner Al Martino (and later performed by Elvis, Engelbert Humperdinck and Willie Nelson, among others) is a piss-take or a loving homage. Whatever the intentions, released on the B-side of the 1995 single  Ricochet , its sure to raise a smile, as Patton affects his best smarmy lounge singer intonation over a lush strings and brass arrangement. SOMETHING FOR THE GIRL WITH EVERYTHING (1997) Faith No More s collaboration with oddball New Wave/art pop duo Sparks on a re-make of the LA band s 1974 hit  This Town Ain t Big Enough For Both Of Us  made the UK Top 40 in December 1997, but Sparks  seventeenth studio album  Plagiarism  also featured the two California bands (who were connected via guitarist Dean Menta serving time in both acts) teaming up for a less celebrated re-tooling of the deliciously demented  Something For The Girl With Everything  from 1974 s Propaganda album. Interestingly, Roddy Bottum told Time Out New York that FNM actually recorded a third song with the Mael brothers in 1997, but that rarity has yet to see the light of day. Most Popular By  Scott Munro November 19, 2019 By  Scott Munro November 19, 2019 By  Scott Munro November 19, 2019 By  Geoff Barton, Malcolm Dome, Lee Dorrian, Ian Fortnam, Paul Henderson, Dave Ling, Sian Llewellyn, Scott Rowley, Jonathan Selzer, Henry Yates, Fraser Lewry November 19, 2019 By  Briony Edwards November 19, 2019 By  Scott Munro November 19, 2019 By  Emma Johnston November 19, 2019 By  Scott Munro November 19, 2019 By  Scott Munro November 19, 2019 By  Scott Munro November 19, 2019 By  Scott Munro November 19, 2019 By  Scott Munro November 19, 2019 By  Scott Munro November 18, 2019 Sign up below to get the latest from Louder, plus exclusive special offers, direct to your inbox! Louder is part of Future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher.  Visit our corporate site . Future Publishing Limited Quay House, The Ambury,BathBA1 1UA. All rights reserved. England and Wales company registration number 2008885.  