Incredibles 2 end credits: Is there a post-credits scene will there be an Incredibles 3? | Films | Entertainment | Express.co.uk Don ' t have an account?  Register Register with email Already have an account?  Sign in By registering I understand and agree to the  Terms of use & Privacy policy By registering I understand and agree to the  Terms of use & Privacy policy Please provide your site password to link to your existing account or  click here  to create a new account Please enter your email address to reset your password Sign in with a different account The email should arrive straight away, it may be in your spam. The link will expire after 24 hours.  We value your privacy   We and our partners use technologies, such as cookies, and process personal data, such as IP addresses and cookie identifiers, to personalise ads and content based on your interests, measure the performance of ads and content, and derive insights about the audiences who saw ads and content. Click below to consent to the use of this technology and the processing of your personal data for these purposes. You can change your mind and change your consent choices at any time by returning to this site.   Powered by  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. The Pixar superhero flick will return to cinemas more than a decade after its original film was released, much to the delight of die-hard Incredibles fans. Although the film won t air in the UK for another few weeks, rumours have already began that a third instalment could be on the cards. And Brad Bird, the Incredibles auteur, hasn't ruled out another Incredibles instalment. Strictly speaking, there is not a post-credit scene at the end of Incredibles 2. INCREDIBLES 2 RUNTIME: HOW LONG IS INCREDIBLES 2? CAN YOU TAKE SMALL CHILDREN TO SEE IT? However, Incredibles 2 moviegoers with keen eyes may have spotted the 2D animated hint which played right before the credits rolled. The 2D animated reenactment of the Incredibles sequel plot shows the Underminer's drill driving across the screen. This quick teaser before the credits roll is a reminder to moviegoers and Incredibles fans: the Underminer is still free. And the short 2D teaser has sent Incredibles fans rampant with speculation. INCREDIBLES 2 REVIEW: WHY IS EVERYONE UPSET OVER THIS ANTHONY LANE REVIEW? This teaser could imply the Parr family may return to their superhero roles of Elastigirl, Mr Incredible, Violet, Dash and Jack-Jack for Incredibles 3. The Underminer's escape was never resolved during the latest Incredibles film. The Parrs had their hands full in Incredibles 2 trying to defeat Screenslaver, restoring legal rights to supers, and dealing with their new baby's powers. So the Underminer's return and eventual capture would be a nice bow to end the Incredibles franchise. INCREDIBLES 2: RELEASE DATE, TRAILER AND WHO IS JOINING THE CAST OF THE SEQUEL However, Pixar is reported to be scaling back in its sequels despite their box office success. Despite the demand, an Incredibles 3 may not come to fruition, and the teaser is just a tease. But fans can still be cautiously optimistic. Bird told Entertainment Weekly he had several characters and plots which didn't make it into Incredibles 2. It makes sense, then, fans are wondering if this adds credence to a third movie theory where these characters will make their way to the big screen. INCREDIBLES 2 RUNTIME: HOW LONG IS INCREDIBLES 2? The characters and storyboards which didn't make it into Incredibles 2 haven't been completely deserted. Another Incredibles sequel also has support from Incredibles star Samuel L Jackson, who said he'd like to see a Mr Incredible/Frozone origin movie. Despite the support and fervour for a sequel, fans shouldn't hold their breath. After all, it took 14 years for the Incredibles 2 movie to land in US cinemas, and UK fans still have another few weeks to wait. Incredibles 2 is in UK cinemas Friday, July 13, 2018. Sunday, 15th December 2019  See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper,order back issues and use the historic Daily Expressnewspaper archive. 