Coupons, coupons, coupons! Don’t you just love coupons!   Here are a few illustrations about serious couponing.   Keep your coupons close… Keep your couponing friends even closer.   While everyone’s making plan for the New Year, I’m just waiting for next month’s coupons to post.   You can measure success by Coupons, coupons, coupons! Don’t you just love coupons!   Here are a few illustrations about serious couponing.   Keep your coupons close… Keep your couponing friends even closer.   While everyone’s making plan for the New Year, I’m just waiting for next month’s coupons to post.   You can measure success by Funny Coupon Jokes Coupons, coupons, coupons! Don’t you just love coupons! Here are a few illustrations about serious couponing. Keep your coupons close… Keep your couponing friends even closer. While everyone’s making plan for the New Year, I’m just waiting for next month’s coupons to post. You can measure success by the number of free chicken sandwich coupons you horde in your desk. When someone tells me they don’t want to use coupons….. I’m all like…. “Soooo you like paying more for things?” That’s just cray cray. The feeling you get when you see your new total after all your coupons have been scanned. There is nothing better than a sale on lotion…..except for a sale on lotion with coupons! “When I am stressed out, I take my coupons and go shopping. … That is what relaxes me!” Honey, don’t forget to get 2 copies of the Sunday newspaper, FOR THE COUPONS! Smart people read the newspaper front to back. Really smart people get two copies, take out the coupons, and throw the rest away. Remember, coupons are the only money you can print at home without the Feds getting involved. Saving tons of money by switching to coupons! Player access is granted with a minimum deposit of $50 made during the promotion timeframe.  Any bonuses you receive at Miami Club will be added to a bonus balance ('Bonus Account') that is maintained separately from any cash or real funds ('Real Account') that you may have.• You can see both accounts listed in the bottom left-hand corner of the casino at all times• Any bets you place will be taken from your bonus balance, if there are sufficient funds. If you win the bet, your stake will be returned to your bonus balance and winnings over and above the bet amount will be paid into your real chip balance as cash.• As a result, the Bonus Account is for wagering only. Bonus funds cannot be withdrawn from the casino.Restrictions• All bonuses at Miami Club have a minimum play-through requirement associated with them. Referred to as the 'Wagering Requirement' this is the minimum that you will need to wager after receiving a bonus before you will be permitted to withdraw any winnings from the casino.• You can review the Wagering Requirement associated with any bonus in the cashier before you accept it. The Wagering Requirement is a multiple of the Bonus amount plus any associated deposit. Welcome bonus Latest bonus codes to your inbox 