How do I remove the center dash speaker on a 06 CLK 350? Mercedes Have Legal Questions? Ask a Lawyer Now. Connect  one-on-one  with a mechanic who will answer your question Hi, click  here  for the workshop instructions to replace the loudspeaker. Let me know if you have any questions. Please remember to click Accept so I receive credit for my help. Hi there, so i got the center grille out but i am stuck on removing the center speaker. It is held by two clips or pins and i cannot remove them? You have to carefully bend the catch lugs away to unclip the speaker. where do i force them to? left right? i just dont want to breake them as i dont think there is replacement parts for it.. I understand what you mean. My recollection it that they just hook over the lip of the speaker and just pry away. hm ok ill try that Carefully! ill try  lol not sure on what tool to use but i am being patient I just looked at one I have in the shop. It looks very simple. Just use your finger to pry one tab away at a time. And lift the speaker out. Finger? maybe the one you see there is different Yes there are just 4 tabs clipping the speaker to the cover. Can you send a picture of what you have? yup just a min ok Click on the paper clip to insert a picture. Then click on the little icon at the end of the image url field in the pop up box. Then click on browse in the next pop up box. Then select the picture off your computer and click Ok then wait for it to fill the image url field in the first box then click insert. It didn't come through. Did you see my instructions? ok got it srry just at work now Ok, yours is different. The two lock washers need to come off. You need to be very careful and try walking them up the peg little by little with a side to side rocking motion from under the washer. If you can pry the center of the washer away from the peg it will help. I have to leave soon to drive home. Let me know if you need more help with it. By the way, it is better to destroy the washer rather than break the peg. If you can bend the center open enough to loosen the washer or cut the washer with a cutting pliers that would be fine. You can always get replacement washers. The Mercedes part number is 000 994 96 45. Marty is online now How JustAnswer works : I would (and have) recommend your site to others I was quite satisfied with the quality of the information received, the professional with whom I interacted, and the quick response time.  Thanks, and be sure that I ' ll be back whenever I need a question answered in a hurry. used your service this weekend with  " Trecers "  help. thank you ,thank you, thank you. replaced an A/C fan motor. Local Auto Zone had part. $15.00  " tracer "  fee and $40.00 for parts, I saved several hundreds of dollers at a shop. i will recommend you and use you in the future. 9 dollars, 2 hours of my time, and I drove away. Your diagnosis was right on the mark. Thank you so much.  Lurch. Thank you very much. I had real doubts about this website but your promptness of response, quick followup and to the point answer with picture was incredible. As a single woman, I really appreciate an excellent and affordable opinion.   Thank you Geordie, I will not hesitate to contact justanswer in the future! Another great insight to what may be the problem. I willhave my mechanic take a look at it tomorrow. Thanks again, Frank...you do indeed know your stuff.  Wonderful service, prompt, efficient, and accurate. Couldn ' t have asked for more. I cannot thank you enough for your help.  < Previous  |  Next > MB Paul Mercedes Technician 3,567 satisfied customers Qualified Mercedes Benz Diagnostic Technician - 20+ years experience - Workshop Foreman for Mercedes Marty Mercedes Technician 57,124 satisfied customers Bosch Certified Master Tech. Over 35 years experience. Lou Palomino Mercedes Technician 5,799 satisfied customers 20 years Master Certified excellent fix rate and have access to factory wiring, and instructions. Michael Warfield Factory Mercedes-Benz Technician 3,132 satisfied customers Mercedes-Benz Master Certified technician Matt Engineer 716 satisfied customers Mechanical Engineer with 23 years experience in the auto industry, 8 yrs in formula 1 engine testing promerc mercedes diagnostic technician 553 satisfied customers Qualified mercedes diagnostic technician  &  service team manager , ATA registered Master tech Hipo64 Mercedes Technician 444 satisfied customers Work and diagnose electronics on daily basis. < Previous  |  Next > Disclaimer: Information in questions answers, and other posts on this site ( " Posts " ) comes from individual users, not JustAnswer; JustAnswer is not responsible for Posts. Posts are for general information, are not intended to substitute for informed professional advice (medical, legal, veterinary, financial, etc.), or to establish a professional-client relationship. The site and services are provided  " as is "  with no warranty or representations by JustAnswer regarding the qualifications of Experts. To see what credentials have been verified by a third-party service, please click on the  " Verified "  symbol in some Experts '  profiles. JustAnswer is not intended or designed for EMERGENCY questions which should be directed immediately by telephone or in-person to qualified professionals.   2003-2019 JustAnswer LLC 