About Us - Bandweaver | Global Fiber Optic Sensing Solutions Greater than 15,000 Km Installed More than 1,500 systems installed Greater than 15,000 Km Installed More than 1,500 systems installed Bandweaver has been providing advanced  fiber optic monitoring sensors  and integrated technologies for our customers since 2002. Our technology portfolio covers a wide range of sensors including distributed Temperature Sensors ( DTS ) and Distributed Acoustic Sensors ( DAS ) and integrated smart intelligent software solutions. Our systems are used to monitor, secure and keep personnel and critical assets safe in the following industries: Bandweaver’s vision is to be the first choice for integrated distributed fiber optic sensing solutions, by delivering reliable, innovative, client-centric and value added products and services, via our dedicated and talented team of people. Bandweaver has more than 300 employees and facilities in 4 global hubs and 450 projects across 6 continents. In addition we have a network of global partners to manage and support large scale projects wherever you may be. Our production and manufacturing facility is a state of the art, 10,000 square meter facility situated over four floors complete with a class 100 clean room. In order to closely manage quality and reliability and to drive forward innovation, Bandweaver is a vertically integrated manufacturer with complete control over all component manufacturing. Our production capabilities span from the individual optical component manufacture (high precision lasers and filters) through to instrumentation assembly and system integration. Bandweaver is ISO 9001 certified and undergoes a vigorous continuous improvement program and tests all of its products to leading international standards. In addition to our industrial monitoring customers, Bandweaver is also a leading international supplier to the telecoms industry which has some of the most stringent quality and reliability requirements. Bandweaver has extensive in-house environmental testing facilities but also utilizes leading 3rd party testing houses for independent verification and approvals. Bandweaver strives to continuously innovate and develop solutions to improve safety and efficiency for our customer s assets and personnel. We have more than 30 dedicated R & D engineers worldwide, with extensive experience from both prestigious blue-chip companies and dynamic start-ups. Our teams are centered in two main hubs in Shanghai and Ottawa and form global partnerships with key customers, partner companies and academic institutions to push the boundaries of monitoring solutions. Bandweaver has commissioned and installed more than 450 systems across 6 continents.  We have a dedicated global team of cross disciplinary experts who ensure that we can design and integrate our systems to your specifications. Our teams combine a wealth of experience in engineering, admin and logistical support to ensure the success throughout all stages of your project. China Website: www.bandweaver.cn Email: info@bandweaver.com © 2018 Bandweaver | Made by  Austin Marketing . 