Cyber Operations – Bridging from Concept to Cyber Superiority by Jan Kallberg :: SSRN Joint Forces Quarterly no. 68. January 2013. 6 Pages Posted: 19 Aug 2012 Last revised: 22 Aug 2014 University of Texas at Dallas - Erik Jonsson School of Engineering and Computer Science Date Written: June 1, 2012 Key to success in cyber warfare is the ability to transpose innovative strategic theories to methodologies, tools, and implementation. Drawing on the analogy with the dawn of armored warfare, with reflection over the French and English military disaster of France 1940, where the Allied had the best ideas but Germans utilized the ideas, a comparison is made with the contemporary DOD pursuit of cyber superiority.  The United States has world-leading creativity for cutting-edge cyber concepts and new strategies, but those who should transfer these ideas to cyber weapons, cyber tactics, and workforce training are over-emphasizing passive information assurance that is similar to positional warfare. A survey presents a misalignment between and what is researched and educated in the nation’s cyber security research centers and the DOD overarching goals and doctrine. Unless corrected, the misalignment creates a national security risk when these innovative ideas instead can be put to use by our adversaries.  Keywords:  cyber operations, cyber warfare, cyberdefense JEL Classification:  H56 Suggested Citation: Suggested Citation Richardson, TX United States Plum Print visual indicator of research metrics Plum Print visual indicator of research metrics National Security  &  Foreign Relations Law eJournal Subscribe to this fee journal for more curated articles on this topic Innovation Law  &  Policy eJournal Subscribe to this fee journal for more curated articles on this topic Innovation  &  Geography eJournal Subscribe to this fee journal for more curated articles on this topic Cybersecurity, Data Privacy  &  eDiscovery Law  &  Policy eJournal Subscribe to this fee journal for more curated articles on this topic eBusiness  &  eCommerce eJournal Subscribe to this fee journal for more curated articles on this topic We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content. >By continuing, you agree to the use of cookies. To learn more, visit <a href="https: /www.ssrn.com/index.cfm/en/ssrn-faq/#cookies">our Cookies page . This page was processed by aws-apollo4 in    0.156  seconds  