Upcoming Feature - Deck Ranks! : CardsandCastlesCCG We are excited to announce an upcoming revamp of the game &# x27;s ranking systems with the new DECK RANKS feature! Deck ranks will allow players much more flexibility in approaching the ranking system in ways they see fit, and mitigate may of the confusing aspects of the current star collection system. Here &# x27;s how it works: Players no longer have a single rank. Instead, each of their decks has its own rank, with the goal being to advance any deck to the highest rank possible. Each time a player creates a deck, it must go through placement matches. Matchmaking algorithms will pit the player against skill-appropriate opponents to test the new decks &# x27; potential. After 10 placement matches, the deck will be assigned a rank and star count between 1 and 3000. Players can modify individual decks at any time without altering their rank. As they play matches, the decks &# x27; rank will increase or decrease based on how the ranking of opponents they are able to defeat. To avoid many exploits, players will no longer receive rewards when earning a new rank. End of season rewards have been improved and are now the core reward focus for the system. END OF SEASON Seasons will end every month, except for the first season of deck ranks which will extend through October. When a season ends, players receive a reward pack of shiny cards and CP that scales based on the HIGHEST deck rank they achieved during that season. Also when the season ends, all currently ranked decks will be reset to require 5 placement matches to earn a rank again. We &# x27;re very excited about this new system and all the new options it will open up for players! Players can now feel free to experiment with fun new decks, quest decks or strategy tweaks without worrying about impacting what they consider their primary ranking. We hope everyone is excited about this feature as we are, and we hope to launch the update very soon! Please feel free to post any questions or feedback here! Will a deck &# x27;s rank in the previous season have any influence on its starting rank in the following season or will it solely be based on the 5 placement matches? Placement matches alone are not enough data for an accurate rank, they work by combining data with deck and player history for an accurate placement. Hello, man I don &# x27;t like this option, the thing you guys should do it &# x27;s a normal and ranked options, so we can try new decks or practice in normals, I can &# x27;t see the point of ranked decks, it &# x27;s a waste of time, bc if you made another good deck, you need to start from the beginning, I hope you change this asap, it &# x27;s frustrating. Very interesting! On one hand, it will suck having to  " restart "  rank if you want to use another deck (though you can switch back at any time). On the other hand, we can now freely experiment with new decks without fear of backlash. This is the first time I &# x27;ve seen something like this in a card game. I &# x27;m excited to see how it works! Will deck ranks be implemented next season or is that still unknown as of now? Wow potentially 2 awesome things! This sounds great!  I have some questions and concerns, but am overall quite excited about this update. Removal Edit A mere ten matches can get a player between 1 and 3000 stars?  Won &# x27;t some players remake their decks to attempt getting a perfect ten? I hope this season is a little short so we can see these changes soon.  Thanks for the improvements. You have a point... Maybe it should put it between 1 and 2500 or something... Osaka mentioned how there could be number 1 players for different factions. So, would it be possible to see the top 100 players for each faction combination in addition to the overall top 100? I think it would be a neat addition and would motivate players such as myself to try different faction combos to see how far we can take it. cool. LOVE IT. Well hopefully I love experimenting with decks and now won &# x27;t be penalized and can climb with good decks when u want. It would also be nice if you tracked wins and losses on the decks too but that might be asking too much right now love that one less F2P but meh, that &# x27;s the direction since some months totally not payed mods. It &# x27;s up! Do you have a higher or lower level, does it make any difference? Is there any benefit in having level? At the end of the month do you have any awards regarding the level? after the update I lost my castle / arena, what happened? Seems like a double edge sword Ironic. I opened 7 legendaries from the Black Market pack set given to you as a purchasable option after obtaining the starter bundle of 10 packs and getting 1x Winds of Ajord from those 10, and in the Black Market 10 packs, not including the one legendary it gives you I GOT 7, ONE WAS SHINY AND 3 OF THEM WERE FROM THE SAME PACK FHASJFHIASGFHAGSHJF Been playing card games for so many years, Hearthstone, YuGiOh, you named it I played it, never had such an insane string of luck in my life I had to share it! I plan to continue to support such a fun game and I hope it booms with success especially considering my dumb luck haha! https://imgur.com/gallery/kejLs5P 769 Members 6 Online Jul 12, 2016 Cake Day 