Bang for buck - top soil - Gardening discussion Is it still cheaper to get a dump of top soil from local garden shop or buy the  ½ bag  from Woolworths  @  $3 per bag? PotatoCouch writes... Is it still cheaper to get a dump of top soil from local garden shop or buy the ½ bag from Woolworths  @  $3 per bag? Clearly the 'truckload' will be cheaper by volume. The question is how much do you need? Those $3 bags are for potting and serve that purpose well and suit people who are only doing that, but if you are potting 100 pots or something else that needs a lot of soil, it's silly at $300 for something you can have delivered for a lot less then that. note: We generally pick up a   metre trailer load of good top soil for about $25 or less depending on soil type. PotatoCouch writes... Is it still cheaper to get a dump of top soil from local garden shop or buy the ½ bag from Woolworths  @  $3 per bag? Never use potting mix for top soil or garden beds. It's not designed for that. If you get a bag of top soil, or soil dressing mix, plus a bad of seedling, propagating mix and potting mix, it will become abundantly clear why you don't use potting mix. Potting mix is made for drainage in mind. Works very well in pots , where the soil can't escape. But thrown on garden beds or lawns and it will dissipate in no time, wasting your money. Zero bang for buck. If going the bags, you are better off with garden soil, not potting mix for garden beds. https://www.bunnings.com.au/ richgro-25l-all-purpose-garden-soil-mix_p2961503 And top soil dressing for lawns: https://www.bunnings.com.au/ hortico-25l-lawn-top-dress-mix_p2961505 PotatoCouch writes... Is it still cheaper to get a dump of top soil from local garden shop or buy the ½ bag from Woolworths As others have said, depends upon how you intend using the soil/bag. If it's for the lawn, I'd be buying a garden fork and opening up the current soil and perhaps burrying your garden waste. Give the soil a drink before and after applying the garden fork. Most soil will come good in a few weeks. Ok .. thanks everyone .. Let's get the fundamental clear first ... for Garden Beds: only use All purpose soil .. for Pot: only use Potting mix for Lawn: only use top soil Correct? PotatoCouch writes... Let's get the fundamental clear first ... for Garden Beds: only use All purpose soil .. you can use  a whole range of different soils depending on what plants you are putting in   different plants like different soils   but don't use products labeled as potting mix, they are, as said by others, a mix designed for pots only. for Pot: only use Potting mix or use normal soil and add the other things that make it potting mix for Lawn: only use top soil and or sand, it depends on if you have a drainage issue for instance. Basicly going back to what people did many years ago   ideally you have an workarea somewhere where you have a large amount of top soil, a bit of sand, or a bit clay perhaps if in a sandy area, some compost and other organic matter, which you add together to make a mix for whatever activity you are doing. these days people just buy a bag of whatever mix they need for what they are doing, which is ok on a small scale but not good if your doing some serious planting. tall tales writes... Give the soil a drink before and after applying the garden fork. Thanks  @ Ex ISDN now ... I want to quote tall tales ..... giving soil a drink is easy .. .but do I really need to do the garden fork bit? Can I not just scattered a good top soil evenly and water well ? PotatoCouch writes... for Garden Beds: only use All purpose soil . For this I agree with ex ISDN  you can use a whole range of different soils depending on what plants you are putting in Although, i wouldnt probbly dig soil straight from your backyard and throw it in without adding anything organic to it. Ive made some garden beds before out of nothing but materials from my yard and perhaps a few bags of $2 horse poo to get the microbial action happening. So Ive built it up with some clay soil, mixed in a heap of mulch, some stuff from the compost, some horse poo and mix it all in and away you go.  If it's an existing garden bed, throw mulch on often to prevent weeds and stimulate worms and add organic matter to the garden bed. Add a few bags of garden bed soil if you want a top up. I wanted to maximize the potential to get nutrients into the yard at low cost, so I got a compost bin and made a worm farm also. Nothing organic goes into the bins in my place. They are precious nutrients waiting to compliment your garden, or feed the worms and make free fertilizer. Nothing greenwaste ever goes to the tip either, unless it's some massive branch. It all gets shredded and thrown on the gardens or in the compost bin. for Pot: only use Potting mix Yes, plus what ISDN said  or use normal soil and add the other things that make it potting mix  . Ive made my own potting mix also, by just some decent garden soil, throw in some compost and maybe a bit of bark and some all purpose slow release fertilizer. But generally, I have had best results from pre made potting mix out of the bag. for Lawn: only use top soil Yep and as suggested some sand. Potting mix or garden mix will just wash away or disperse very quickly. PotatoCouch writes... .but do I really need to do the garden fork bit? I used to be of this camp, until I decided i wanted better lawns. The problem is, if your ground is compacted, water , air and nutrients don't penetrate well. Personally I find it a major PITA, but it's well worth it. I concentrate on just the compacted areas , as i couldnt be stuffed doing 700M2 of it. One day I'll hire a lawn aerator and do it properly. How do you identify whether your soil is compacted? You can barely get the pitchfork into it, whereas uncompacted soil, you will pierce the soil easy. Gypsum also helps in clay soil types. I've called landscaping supplies and most of them will only deliver 2 cubic metre at minimum ..  that is freakishly 80 bags (25L). We wouldn't be needing that much, suffice to say. Apology for the question, but can I use  Brunnings Potting Mix  for my garden bed? The garden bed is filled with: Apology in advance if you folks have already answered it but I couldn't seem to find the straight answer to this. The half price of Brunnings Potting Mix ends today at Woolworths :) PotatoCouch writes... Apology for the question, but can I use Brunnings Potting Mix for my garden bed? The garden bed is filled with: Roses Spring Onions Lemon Grass Herbs Ginger It definitely wont hurt the plants, but it will dissipate quick and the nutrients will go quick also, see here: http://www.hgtv.com/outdoors /gardens/planting-and-mainte nance/can-i-reuse-old-pottin g-soil http://www.gardengu ides.com/118398-garden-potting-soil.html I have done it in the past plenty of times when i didn't know any better. Personally, I'd use the Brunnings potting mix in pots only. If i had no pots or no other use for it, then I'd mix the potting mix with soil and compost and throw it on the garden. Because potting mix is not soil. You will need to add soil to it. Mobius2011 writes... Because potting mix is not soil. You will need to add soil to it. Thanks! so can i chuck in  this soil  and mix with the Brunnings Potting mix? As you can tell am so bad at this and just want to pick the cheapest soil to mix with the Brunnings Potting Mix. PotatoCouch writes... so can i chuck in this soil and mix with the Brunnings Potting mix? Perfect PotatoCouch writes... 2 cubic metre at minimum Its amazing just how much soil you can go through if you get into serious gardening. If you have a space to put it somewhere, Its worth it to have a plie of good dirt handy.  put some in compost bin to get better soil over a year or so goes through a bit / put some with potting mix in bigger pots etc etc having a trailer is the best thing though, get a   cubic ~1/2 cubic metre at a time Ex ISDN now writes... having a trailer is the best thing though, get a ¼ cubic ~1/2 cubic metre at a time Something i am going to invest in this year is a wheel barrow. They take up a bit of space, but damn they are handy for shifting soil around the place. 