Kyokwijuka Alexander   The leader without a title The leader without a title Simply put, the history of Uganda is one that is characterized by both peace and conflict. This history is so unique that we ought never to ignore it. The times of total absence of peace can be vividly narrated by those who have experienced them right from the time of Independence. There is little doubt that the foundation for Uganda to gain independence was a little shaky and rather lacking strategic direction. The Military take over on the Ugandan Government in late 60s and early 70s coup de tats are a clear manifestation of this assertion. The merry making that came with the NRA take over in 1986 was short-lived given the fact that the quality of governance in Uganda is just still on a growth path. The constitution as promulgated in 1995 has for sometime ushered in some fair good governance practices despite the challenges to date as we all shall agree. The current struggle for good governance and national peaceful transition of power has ushered in yet another period of national uncertainty given the ugly scenes in our national media and the kindly of conversation in the national arena. A constitutional amendment bill has been tabled in parliament to the effect of lifting age limit in our constitution. This bill seeks to among other things delete article 102 (b) from the constitution which bars anyone who is above 75 years of age from contesting for the position of the President. This is another step towards burying the future of this country to something similar or even worse than what befell the country in the few years after independence. To inform the direction of the country, there is need for 21 st  century approaches to redirect the three arms of government to think and act in a manner that respects national sovereignty as a nation, in accordance with national interest if we are to avert the kind of misfortune that is about to befall this country. The country is in such a critical period. The levels of trust in one another are surely dwindling. Peace is definitely threatened and tomorrow is at the mercies of God. The country seems to have lost a sense of direction and we cannot know whether things are not falling apart. The NRM which boasts of majority in the national parliament has already shown vested interest in the said bill, and if things go as already shown, the bill will be passed and the country is likely to return to the dark past days of anarchy and bad governance. If we still had leaders of sense, I would have proposed a national dialogue which would be more relevant now than ever before to bring together the three arms of government, the clergy and civil society to guide on the way forward for the national peaceful transition of power. But from a few consultations from my trusted sources, this will still be a waste of time as our leaders no longer make good use of their ears. This definitely puts our sovereignty as a nation in a tricky state. And therefore, sometime in October, when the memories of our political independence are still clear, we should reflect on defending our national sovereignty and create way for the 21 st  century renaissance. Did you my fried know that Sovereignty is a prerequisite for definite law? That Sovereignty actually means a final authority on internal matters. I will tell you that a government might be sovereign and lawless, as is true in many dictatorships. But it is not possible to have definite law without sovereignty, (a set of norms that define who has the last word). Does this make sense to our law makers? Or are they going to pick a different sense from the one I intended to share with them. Well, the latter is most likely. But be mindful not to worsen our peace situation. National Sovereignty is also key in ensuring internal peace and security.  The notion that as citizens we agree to follow one direction (as should be expressed in our periodic elections and referenda) that as citizens we should independently determine what is actually good for us and the generations to come for us long as they are of our descent. That no any outsider or “Impostor” should impose anything of their interest and not our interest. That we (the people) must be careful therefore with the decisions that we make today because we are very well going to be held responsible for these actions. Do we ever mind about the responsibility of our actions as a nation? At the heart of national sovereignty is the notion that power and responsibility must be linked. We must not forget as we take decisions that there is time to account. If we get good laws, it will imply that we have good law makers. Without mentioning names here, some of our leaders need to actually reflect of accounting before they promise next time for this is a good virtue that would save us squandering of public resources and national shame. Did I mention that national shame is an insult not only to national sovereignty and the citizens themselves ( because what our leaders do is partly counted on our heads since any society gets the leaders they deserve )? It is important to know whom to blame or whom to address when seeking reform. Again, the idea of good legislation and good governance points in exactly the opposite direction in our case as Ugandans. Our laws and standards are apparently set by people who may know little about our country and/or intellectual dwarfs who definitely care less about the consequences of their actions. Do we still doubt the urgent need for us to focus on protecting our national sovereignty and the 21 st  renaissance? Well, The Bakiga say, “ Nyantahurira akarya eriisho rye ”  loosely explained as the one who was given custody of the eyes that were being cooked and cautioned not to eat until instructed to do so, but due to stubbornness, the gentleman went ahead and ate one eye. When time came for serving, an instruction was passed that the custodian would pick last, all the other people picked and one eye was missing. This gentleman had stolen his own eye and got embarrassed ” Our president usually narrates a story of “ Nduwulira ” a pest which feasts on maize in the garden and never thinks of leaving the maize for safety until the maize is cooked and “ Ndiwulira ” is cooked to death. Let those with eyes and ears read and listen. Let me now jump into my  Air force one  before  Magyezi  brings another bill for those still in office not to go home. The writer can be reached on  kyokwijuka.ug@gmail.com By: Kyokwijuka Alexander While I was growing up in the hills of Kigarama, I saw a lot around us that I certainly did not agree with but I was young and not sire I had the confidence to for instance challenge them. I would later grow up to realise that life is a double edged sword. And it can choose to use either side on you. Like any body else I would love to be at the top. And certainly be an icon on a thing or two. But this is usually dependent on the circumstances sorrounding you at the moment. I will share a small personal experience in this piece. While my late mother battled with sickness sometime back (after I had lost my father) I remember a time I was faced with a serious decision crisis. As a first born at 14 years of age, I certainly did not know what life meant for me and my siblings. On this fateful day, my mother needed to go to hospital. As the dictates of poverty, we had no money at hand, not even for buying drinking water on the way. A decision was taken by my grandmother that we should sell our only remaining one goat with its two kids so we raise money to take my mother to hospital. I loved this goat and hoped to get a bigger herd from it. But I lived my mother too and her health needed urgent attention. I realised this was way beyond my control. The goat was sold, I had only one hope left, to have my mother recover fully so I can be happy the goat saved my mother s life. After a month, I would lose my mother and now turned a double orphan. A few close people criticised me for having allowed our goat to be sold, yet I would see that my mother s health had already deteriorated. But wait a minute, what among all these things was I able to control? Is it my mother s life? Is it the future of our goat!?, is it even the thoughts of these people around me? The answer is none of these. But there was something I would control above all these, I had the power to chose how my future would be. To cut the story short, I went back to school and through education, I would be able to buy many goats, but would also be able to get what I needed from my parent (atleast basic provision). Today, I have the capacity to own even 100 goats, but I am actually thinking of a bigger value addition from goat rearing and the like. Why am I sharing this rather personal experience with you friends out there? In life, certain things are within our circle of influence and others are within our circle of concern. Do I draw this sense from Stephen Convey s 7 Habits of highly effective people book? YES. The things within your circle of concern are things you care about but you may not have the ability and power to do anything about them. For instance you really care about living longer but when death comes, you may not stand your ground. On the other hand, the thins within your circle of influence are those you care about and you can effectively influence them. The beauty is that these we can always see and determine what we can do. The question is, Must we spend time on things within our circle of concern? The answer is  NO  But it is rather wise to spend time and efforts on the things within our circle of influence because these we can influence them to suite our interests. It is thus wise that we always focus on what we can influence, to avoid wasting time, resources, and energy? Do I make sense here? If you find sense in this, share it with a friend and tell them its a simple note from your friend Kyokwijuka Alexander, the man from Kigarama to his friend in Rwakitura. Lastly, wisdom is key in whatever we do, and wisdom requires us that we mind about what we can influence rather than what we cannot influence. The writer is the Executive Director of Youth Aid Africa and can be reached on kyokwijuka.ug@gmal.com Simply put, if you asked me what social problem I am more concerned about, I would tell you that I am more concerned not with the number of uneducated people in my country and region, but rather the high level of civic ignorance. I am therefore working to solve the problem of law civic awareness among the young people. Young people account for at least 78% of Uganda s population and accordingly, Uganda boasts of the youngest population in the world. These young people are however civilly ignorant and lack touch with the civic realities around us. If it is His (God) will, I wish to see a mass of young people who take on social challenges including bad governance to create the change they desire. This courage and confidence is what i am laboring to create in my humble efforts to reach out to the less privileged and the ignored young people of this country. For instance, at Youth Aid Africa, we have  U-lead  clubs in Schools where we conduct leadership training to build basic leadership virtues like honesty, integrity, accountability and stewardship, innovation and creativity as well as discipline, we create platforms for young people to interact and trade their social related ideas, seek to learn, relearn and unlearn from one another, create synergies for personal and otherwise growth, among many things. We are also inaugurating a Leadership and Peace Building Academy this year to empower Young leaders to be Peace builders, we run youth livelihood training sessions at community level, to mention but a few. These are definitely not stand alone programs given the fact that we have people and organizations we work with, but what’s the point for me to share these realities? While i have grown up in not so pleasant conditions, and undoubtedly hail from a humble background, it is not enough that i excel alone in many aspects of my life. Throughout my work, i pride in creating networks for change and improving lives of other people. Whereas many of us dream of being leaders in many respects and at different levels, in the near future, i personally believe in leading an active citizenry and this should be our motivation as young people especially those in civil society space. Why? Through our works, we can create a lasting impact by creating many more social impact entities and initiatives. The young people in Katanga, Kisenyi, Kamwokya and other slums need our effort to get them to the same table of hope and build their confidence that they too are eligible for civic hygiene and thus have a duty to transform themselves and these communities they live in. Our current leaders may certainly not understand this because they belong to the highbred class. Of course me and you will know why Bobi Wine has been able to appeal to a reasonable number of “Wanainchi”, the famous Ntege Ssebagala (Seya) and a host of other populist politicians around. If you are wondering why they have been able to pull serious crowds, it is because majority of them have “pretend” to identify with the common person. We must empower young people to establish and run a multitude of social enterprises. We must create presence and our network should become more interactive than ever before. Our programs should expand to deeper grass root areas and our networking capacity has to supersede our capacity. There is undoubtedly a new global wave of innovation and creativity as part of social transformation and sustainable development. Our  next move as young people should be to  project to a wider mass of young change makers, who are equipped with new thinking and approach in solving social issues, creating new opportunities for future generations, mobilizing ourselves for development and not individual based political activities and the like. We need to seek to be more exposed to new methods of organizing and engaging communities for more sustainable results and well as civic activity. While I pondered on engaging in elective politics in 2016, I later decided to withdraw and rather focus on educating the masses to realize active citizenship. My  focus now is to empower many more young leaders and I invite all able – bodied young people to partake in this doing. I think we should inspire the young people to join the change making movement. Through our efforts (in  whichever  form it may be), move to connect with the lowest person so they see the possibility of getting involved. Me and you should inspire volunteerism among young people from all corners have a multitude of sharp and active citizens and from across the country with whom we share the need for us to get to work for a better tomorrow. The writer is a YALI-RLC fellow and the Executive Director Youth Aid Africa and can be reached on  kyokwijuka.ug@gmail.com The global trend on public sector management is one that has borrowed key practices from the business world to effect efficiency by cutting costs and increasing output. Many of these have proved to bear fruits in the shortest time possible. Uganda has only one option, to either follow suit, or keep swimming in misery and despair, a choice Ugandans must not take luxuriously. Such strategies borrowed from the business world, is  rightsizing.  This has been one of the key benchmarks by nations that have made strides in the direction of development. Simply put, the presidential directive in question is on point, timely, necessary and an asset to the future of this country. And in this article, I wish to put this directive into context. Uganda has 119 Authorities, Agencies and commissions with unique mandate to fulfill given desired needs of the citizens. However, some of these mandates are duplicated. Whether this is a result of incompetent technocrats or political mafias, is a question me and you may not answer now. This is just another dilemma similar to the too much districtization that has seen Uganda with 93,065 square miles harbor slightly more than 111 administrative districts. These come with costs related to operations, staffing, supervision, and many others. On the other hand, a thorough evaluation of the performance of these is likely to reveal appalling deficiencies and thus the purpose is not served. The government is better off downsizing therefore. We must however note that the decision to downsize comes with serious consequences among which are staff and cost reductions. Whereas the former may be precarious to human living, the latter is good for efficiency. The question here is  who will suffer the cost of this directive ? Had it been for a student of Public Sector Management like me, I would definitely take advantage of this to retire many public servants who have already attained retirement age but have clung to public service for fear of the wrath after retirement. Never mind the question of what happened to retirement planning. I would also ensure that instutions like NIRA, Face Technologies and the registration component at KCCA are merged. I would ensure that the NGO Registration at Ministry of Internal Affairs is transferred to the Registrar of Companies to streamline mandates and roles. I would also make sure that the senior Managers in Public service are retooled and placed in better position to implement transformation. What political commentators have been referring to as a  Mafia state is the reality in this dilemma.  For instance, the Uganda National Roads Authority (UNRA) runs on a 3 trillion budget compared to the 400 billion allocated to the mother Institution (Ministry of Works). When you have a National Development Plan Phase I and II, and phase two is totally disconnected from phase I, one wonders why we have a National Planning Authority running on an exorbitant budget. When you have Political Appointees that never perform but are recycled every other time Political appointments are made, when appointment to public Office is taken as a token of appreciation to those who have appeased the regime in a way or two no matter the capacity to perform, then the likes of Tamale Mirundi have no option but to label us a  mafia state  for lack of a better word to describe the status quo. The executive must therefore hold onto this idea, and not just implement it for political strategy but rather in the totality of its intent. This is when we shall also need to remerge the very many districts that have been created over time to the current 112. This is very necessary if we are to talk about better approaches to advancing development and probably reaching middle status income by 2020. The parliament must partner with the Executive in this and politics must be divorced from this process. A serious technocracy must look into effecting this directive and deliver results to Ugandans for majority must be happy with such an idea, unless this is just another political statement to excite Ugandans. This is my opinion. The writer is a Ugandan citizen from Kigarama village and is the Executive Director of Youth Aid Africa and can be reached on  kyokwijuka.ug@gmail.com By:   Kyokwijuka Alexander In this article, I would like to talk about why I think that lifting age limit is evil, archaic, obscene, and a gruesome mistake of our time. Why we seem to be in hurry to amend the constitution specifically to remove term limit is something that bets my understanding and leaves me without an answer. May be we could all answer it differently but certainly it would still have some similarities since our orientation around the same for the last 30 years could be the same. Recently I shared on social media how I was going to write a piece about lifting the age limit and some people cautioned that I would hurt a section of the citizenry who are set to benefit from the same amendment. I died in awe. The village where I was born ( Kigarama ) is one where not many people had gone to school especially looking at 30 years ago. Having some members of my family accessing education gave chance to my father to study at least up to a level of a Grade three teacher. What this meant was that he was a primary teacher. You may not know what it meant to be a primary teacher in a village like Kigarama, but it was one of the most prestigious professions at the time. I remember most of us ( me, my brother and cousin sisters and brothers ) really looked up to these gentlemen ( my father and Uncle Martin ) and somehow dreamt of being like them because then, you would be able to own a  Road Master Bicycle ( Don’t you think this was a symbol of achievement and inspiration to us the young ones?). It was clear that becoming a teacher was a great thing and the shortest way to earn respect. So as I curiously always tried to search my father’s school books ( of course admiring his handwriting in Pen since we were using pencils ) every time I had chance to. One of such books was his exercise book for “Civics” as one of the subjects. It is one that we as kids were very excited about because we were told that it was full of good things that included knowing one’s rights and obligations as a citizen. Somewhere somehow, the crime rate in our village was very low because even the Local Council one was very powerful and used to settle local disputes involving land disputes, domestic conflicts, and the like. The sense that a child belonged to the community and not the family was very clear and true (Unlike today where the sense of individualism is eating up our society) and you would fear to do wrong in the sight of any adult person in the community because you would be disciplined irrespective of whether this was your parent or not. What happened to this kind of child upbringing? Anyway, my focus today is age limit and the plot to lift the same through constitution amendment. Simply put, the scheme in question is one of those big generational mistakes that will ruin this country of our political dignity and sovereignty ( that is if we still have it ). The tendency by our leaders to fail to look beyond their nose is rather obscene and unfortunate for the future of this country. Out of 34 Million Ugandans, 98% of whom are 64 and below years, and 2% are 65 and above, the reality of Uganda having the youngest population in the world, an educated population where 71% are able to read and write (as of 2015), it is rather foolhardy to tend to believe and reason that we should lift age limit in the Constitution of the Republic of Uganda to allow some people (who belong to the 2% I earlier alluded to) to keep hold onto the leadership of this country. It is a shame that the leaders of this country can lower their intellectual capacity to that extent. It’s an absurdity and a mistake of our generation that we cannot think of prioritize key issues that would build continuity and national development. What happened to succession planning that we seem to be caught up between a hard rock and a hard place? As a firstborn of my late father, I am very aware of the traditional arrangement that our forefathers used to groom and nurture their first born to take on the mantle to head the family even before they ( Fathers ) died. From my Political Education Classes at St. Joseph’s Vocational School Mbarara also remind me that family is the small unit of a state, and what this means is that the same succession arrangements could be replicated at all levels of government including the office of the president. As a teacher of leadership and management, I am so familiar with the term succession planning. And may be those in the business world are very much aware that succession planning leads to effective running of the business since there is not any time when there is leadership vacuum. Do our leaders know this? Do they wish Uganda to run effectively and continuously? Who should groom their successors any way? Should our citizens not be asking those who have overstayed in power whether they have not groomed anyone to take up after them? I feel that should be the next big question to some of our  historicals ”.  In my opinion, it’s high time we focused on the 98% Ugandans who are 64 and below. Bearing in mind that our life expectancy is 54, we are committing suicide by surrendering the future of our country in the hands of those beyond 75 years of age. Recently our president told us that when you clock 75 years of age, you no longer have the vigor and energy to perform as the young Turks but we seem not to listen. The same my president usually tells the story of “ ndiwulira ”, the pest that feasts on maize, gets carried away by the desire to enjoy the maize and ends up in the saucepan and definitely dies. Ugandans, especially our leaders at all levels can do better than “ ndiwulira ” The writer is a citizen of Uganda from Kigarama C in Kabale district and is the Executive Director, Youth Aid Africa and can be reached on  kyokwijuka.ug@gmail.com By: Kyokwijuka Alexander. While growing up, I saw some people in society who were admired and loved by others. There were those who were respected and those who were feared (especially local leaders who used to aid in the tax collection by Sub-county chiefs/leaders from the locals. Mr. Bateekye and Mr. Xavier were heavily respected in my village. The former was an experienced maker of baskets, winnowing trays, bee hives and many other items that he would make from local materials to facilitate home chores. The latter, had been to Oxford University, spoke good English and we as children admired him. This was not what made me admire Mr. Xavier though. On the fateful day I would discover my hero, I and my father were to spend a better part of the day at home working on our Kitchen ( which was almost losing shape ). Around 2 Pm, Mr. Xavier came home and as peers. He (Xavier) and my dad would bury themselves into a lengthy conversation. I stood eagerly waiting for an opportunity to ask Mr. Xavier about how it felt to “ Buraaya”  ( a Rukiga word used in my village to mean abroad ) and later on at Oxford University. As things could turn out, these guys had spent long without talking and they would not finish in time for me to fire this guy with my questions. I started dosing off and I would find my shortest route to the living house. Because I was already tired, I could not go to bed because my dad would wake me up to resume work once they finished talking. I chose to sleep behind the one of the doors and no one could see me. These guys would finish their conversation only to realize I was missing. They searched the whole house and around but I was nowhere to be seen. The two of them searched for me practically in the whole village and everyone had not seen me. In the evening, my dad and Mr. Xavier came back home only to find me home, only to discover that I had slept in the living house behind the door. They laughed at themselves but also breathed a sigh of relief. Having learnt of how the two middle aged men traversed the whole village looking for me made me love them. I loved my dad for this but I loved Mr. Xavier more because the man who we all respected for having studied at Oxford University had participated in the search for the lost boy. This was so humbling and I always looked up to him. To date I still have fond dreams from my father (RIP) and this great graduate of Oxford University. But,  do we still have genuine icons in our leadership, business and religious circles?  When I got exposed to wider reading, I discovered a lot of more people who had done great things that the world respected them for. Among these, were Nelson Mandela, Mahatma Gandhi, Mother Theresa and many others. I realized that there were many more other people to inspire me apart from my fallen heroes ( My father and his friend Xavier ). This was way much due to the impact they had caused on the world and not just a single little boy from Kigarama or any other village. While at St. Joseph’s Vocational school, I would learn of a man called Barack Obama who had been nominated to run for the office of the President of the United States of America. This man was black and would later win the unprecedented election to become President, even when he was black, fathered by a Kenyan senior governmental economist, but this is not why I admired him. I would later learn of a one Martin Luther King Jr. who had fought hard for the civil rights of the Negroes in America then. In fact, the Literature teacher at St. Charles Lwanga SS. Kasasa, the late  Mr. Ssebuliba J.C  would tell the class ( which class I belonged to ) that the assumption of the Office of the President by  Barack Obama , was a sort of fulfillment of the “ I have a dream ” speech by Martin Luther King Jr. in which he ( Martin L. K. Jr.)  would foretell that at some point the negroes would not be judged by the color of their skin but by the quality of their brain. As a way of creating a lasting impact, Obama would champion a big project to create a network of young African Leaders who think differently and approach social challenges differently. The Young African Leaders Initiative (YALI) has so far empowered a multitude of young African leaders in the civic leadership, Entrepreneurship and Business management and Public Management tracks. This more reason for Obama to be remembered as a hero, an icon and a role model. In my opinion, we no longer have such leaders especially in Africa. The spirit of selflessness and service above self are more of an ideal dream than and reality. The opposition leader in Kenya is asking people not to go to work over an election he claims to have worn and was rigged. Last year, the opposition leader in Uganda was asking the  Wanainchi  not to go to work over the same claims. The only difference between these guys and my role models including Obama, Martin, my Father and Xavier, is that the current leaders are ready to sacrifice people for them to be glorified as influential change makers and the like. I think this is wrong and we may have to craft a different leadership narrative on which the future generations will pick role models and heroes to reckon with. The writer aspires to impact the world and is the Executive Director, Youth Africa and can reached on  kyokwijuka.ug@gmail.com By: Kyokwijuka Alexander Why I was growing up, I always heard this notion that men don t cry even when they are hurt. This would be a serious thing and in school, whenever we received lushes of a cane, it was okay for the girls to cry but as a boy you would struggle not to cry, at least not in front of the others.  But do we understand the concept of crying? Crying is the shedding of tears (or welling of tears in the eyes) in response to an emotional state. This includes anger, happiness, or sadness. So how would we want men to express these? I remember one scenario, some time in Primary 3, at Kigarama Primary School, my classmate Mucunguzi was a little bit older than us, one day he was beaten for coming late, never mind the fact that he had to always first vend a few things in the morning to earn a living and buy books too. He was supposed to cry but couldn t, I remember Mucunguzi dedicated on himself after being beaten, I imagine it would have been better for him to cry and respond to the pain. In my opinion therefore, men should be taken as human and allowed to respond to emotions of anger and happiness. Crying is a rather natural and normal act. I encourage men to sometimes cry when necessary. The writer is the Executive Director, Youth Aid Africa and can be reached on kyokwijuka.ug@gmail.com 