Home - SND Hospital Ropar Entrust your health our doctors Entrust your health our doctors Top Doctors We have the Top Specialists across departments at SND Hospital.  Facilitates Available  T.M.T|LAB Services|Holter Monitoring|Color Doppler Ecocardiography Opening Hours Monday   Sat  8.00   19.00 Sunday  Close Dr.Ajay Jindal ,is the Director of the SND Foundation and hospital,Rupnagar founded in 2006.Prior to this Dr.Jindal worked as  a medical specialist in Govt hospital,Rupnagar  and was trained in Non invasive cardiac work up at  Madras Medical Mission ,Chennai.He worked as a Fellow in Echocardiography at University of Alabama ,USA under guidance of Dr.Navin Nanda.He had Board certification from National Board of Echocardiography (USA )and is Fellow of American Society of Echocardiography (FASE)and Indian Academy of Echocardiography(FIAE). Select Departments Laboratory Analysis Cardiac Clinic Medicine Select Doctors Dr. Ajay Jindal I have been to see Dr. Powers twice now and am very satisfied with the services provided. I have been dealing with pain for over a year now and Dr. Powers has given me great advice, new ideas for helping relieve my pain, and effective prescription pain management. The office staff is cheerful and helpful. They have always greeted me the second I walked in and I never have to wait to check out. Got a prescription here from Dr. Powers a week ago and I am very pleased. I thought it was take longer but wait time was low. My consultation went well and price was a lot lower than my old doctor who charges $200+ per visit! Dr. Powers is friendly and made me feel relaxed. I was honestly a bit anxious coming in for the first time. If you are looking for affordable high quality medical care this is a great option. I got my Recommendation today at this place, and I was amazed by their business. I was seen by Dr. Powers. He was very nice and especially very knowledgeable. I got many good advices from him from what I should take to what exercises I should do to help with my conditions/symptoms.   I would definitely recommend this place to everyone I know, who are in need of any type of medical treatments. 