Champagne  &  Wines – Welcome to Rosette Media England’s leading producer of sparkling wine and Singapore’s leading private members club have joined forces to launch The NyetimberSecret Garden at 1880. From Sunday, 1st December 2019 to Saturday, 29th February 2020, 1880’s... Winestone presents epicure lovers with an exclusive wine-pairing dinner evening on Thursday, 29th August 2019. This off-the-menu 4-course wine dinner is exquisitely prepared by Winestone’s newly appointed Head Chef, Chef Eugene Li, and... Margaret River On Tour returns to Singapore from 17 – 23 August for its fourth annual showcase of fine wines, gourmet food, and immersive travel experiences from Australia’s famed southwest region.More than 30 wineries, restaurants, and travel... Wine Fiesta goes indoors and offers a new way to explore wines From 19 to 20 October, Wine Fiesta 2018 will be held indoors at the Fullerton Bay Hotel and introduces an easy way to discover new wines. This year’s Wine Fiesta shines the spotlight...  Do not miss this rare event of indulgence! Our wine partner Fine Wines SG has carefully selected a line-up of extraordinary vintages from legendary wine makers. Bordeaux’s finest! No other event in Singapore has yet offered this kind of... Chateau Lagrange is a 3rd Growth high quality Grand Cru Classe from St Julien in Bordeaux. We had the pleasure of meeting the General Manager, Directeur General and Wine Maker, Matthieu Bordes who was in Singapore recently to showcase his latest... The Rosette Media Team had a lovely Champagne Gosset pairing dinner with renowned Master Chef Ku Keong of award winning Golden Peony restaurant in Conrad Centennial Singapore recently. Chef Ku curated a unique dining experience with unique... Julian Grounds, Head winemaker at Margaret River winery McHenry Hohnen, was awarded Dux of the 17th Len Evans Tutorial held recently in the Hunter Valley from 6th November to 10th November 2017. The Len Evans Tutorial is carried out over an... A UNIQUE AND IMMERSIVE WORLD-CLASS EXPERIENCE FOR LOVERS OF WINE AND SPIRITS MARCH 5, 2018, SINGAPORE – One of the most celebrated and revered events in the wine and spirits industry returns to Singapore this year, as DFS Group, the world’s...  Beautiful bottle with the pewter label lasered on the bottle. Nice bouquet of vanilla, oak, earth and redcurrant notes. Medium bodied and chocolate berries on the mid palate. Finish is just a tad short though. RM 88 points    At Rosette Media, we take pride in conducting in-depth interviews with our celebrities and personalities all across the globe. Today we have in our studio, Neil McGuigan, who is the CEO of Australian Vintage and Chief Winemaker of... Rosette Media © 2015 All Rights Reserved. Design by  SharkerTech 