LUNCH.SUPPER! Lunch or Supper! Our Urban Roost is one of the first modern eateries in historic Scott's Addition. Join us for our signature comfort food dishes and a local RVA brew. DUE TO THE CONSTRUCTION SURROUNDING OUR PREVIOUS PARKING LOT, PARKING WILL BE DIVERTED TO A LOT AT HIGHPOINT AND MARSHALL ST.  CLICK HERE FOR MAP. Additionally, Summit Ave is closed due to construction at Broad Street however the restaurant can still be accessed as normal via:  Roseneath, Highpoint, McTavish Ave, Altamont, or Sheppard from Broad, OR via Clay street from Boulevard. Lunch or Supper! Our Urban Roost is one of the first modern eateries in historic Scott's Addition. Join us for our signature comfort food dishes and a local RVA brew. Lunch.SUPPER! 1213 - 1215 Summit Ave Richmond, VA PHONE 804.353.0111 info@lunchorsupper.com LUNCH. | SUPPER! is a place where folks can come as they are for good food and gracious hospitality at a fair price. Since 2012, we've been well received by our community as one of the first modern eateries in historic Scott's Addition. Join us at our  Urban Roost with a drink and your favorites from our menu or daily specials. Cured, brined, and smoked in house, our signature dishes are a take on comfort foods perfect for any time of the day. A Classic Southern Smokehouse tucked away in RVA's latest up and coming neighborhood, surrounded by local breweries, local produce, and local farms. LUNCH.SUPPER! utilizes all that Richmond has to offer to bring you our version of a homegrown experience. "It doesn't matter when you get here, it's always the best experience of the day" We accept reservations for parties of  6-12 guests from 11am-2pm | 5pm-9pm, Monday thru Friday, and 5pm-9pm on Saturday and Sunday,  by phone only .  We do not accept brunch or patio reservations. To be added to our waitlist, you must have at least one person in your party in the building, we do not accept call ahead seating or same day reservations. If you wish to make a reservation, please call  (804) 353-0111 to do so.  For large groups or special events, please check out our catering info. We'll look forward to your visit! LOOKING FOR THE PERFECT VENUE FOR YOUR HOLIDAY PARTY?  THE LUNCH.SUPPER! CATERING TEAM IS NOW BOOKING BOTH THE URBAN ROOST EVENT SPACE AS WELL AS BRUNCH FOR CUSTOM HOLIDAY PARTIES.  EMAIL catering@lunchorsupper.com FOR AVAILABILITY.  Join the team at Lunch.Supper! to kick-off your good old fashioned Christmas vacation on December 21st from 7-11 PM.  All-you-can eat menu below, with wine pairings  &  signature drink ticket, plus a holiday cocktail menu from How the Pig Stole Christmas pop-up bar (available for purchase).  Bring your coworkers, out of town guests, or family and celebrate with us!  Get your tickets here:  https://www.eventbrite.com/e/a-christmas-vacation-kick-off-presented-by-lunchsupper-tickets-82509252395 Station 1: Aged Prime Rib Carving Station with Chimichurri, Demi Glaze,  &  Horsey  &  Red Wine Pairing Station 2: Grilled Seafood Station Station 3: Rappahannock Raw Oyster Bar  &  Shrimp Cocktail Passed Appetitzers from the Wood Fire Oven Festive Dessert Display We offer full service catering on site as well as off site/large order delivery. Our private space is complete with: tailored menu to your event and occasion flexible layout to fit your event open air garage doors with overflow area (weather permitting) double bar and custom farm tables wifi, sound equipment, and projection screen You can now join us, Thursday-Sunday for garden hangs and local craft beers. Heading to the  Diamond for a Flying Squirrels game or enjoying a  Scott's Addition Brewery Tour?  Start or end your visit with a stop off at The Urban Roost! Find a seat in our growing urban garden, no reservation required. Start a game of cornhole or super size jenga, and walk up draft bar; all with a backyard garden feel. Tag us  @lunchorsupper and  @lunchorsuppercater ! Beer Garden Bar Hours* 5-10pm Friday 10-9pm Saturday 10-3pm Sunday *seasonal hours subject to change and weather permitting Our beautiful Brunch hex sign! Share the love! In recent years, Virginia has gained more recognition for great food and great restaurants. Various localities around the state are fast becoming food and dining destinations, and many restaurants are being recognized on the national and international stage. “From the coast to the mountains, Virginia has some of the finest restaurants anywhere in America,” said Rita McClenny, President of the VTC. “Virginia is for Restaurant Lovers will remind all Virginians about the fantastic food options right in our backyard and how important they are to localities and their citizens.” Join us in celebrating RVA's dynamic restaurant scene!  Visit https://www.virginiaisforrestaurantlovers.com  for more info! COPYRIGHT LUNCH.SUPPER! 2019 