Blog Freelancing comes with a lot of perks. You have the freedom to make your own schedule, be your own boss and skip the morning commute. Read more ... Recreational marijuana is legal here in Colorado, along with a  few other states , including California, Alaska, Nevada, Oregon, Washington, Maine, and Massachusetts. Read more ... America s healthcare landscape is constantly changing. As such, it can be hard to un-derstand your rights when it comes to getting insurance. Read more ... It s no secret that Coloradans love dogs. As a matter fact,  Colorado ranks first  as the nation s top dog loving state. Read more ... Laws about immigration are always changing. And there are differences between state and federal immigration laws. Read more ... Colorado is well-known for its love of music. The Rocky Mountain state served as a muse for musical greats like John Denver, and hosts one of the world s most iconic venues: Red Rocks Amphitheatre. Read more ... According to a  recent report  by the Denver Post, marijuana-related deadly auto crashes have increased significantly in Colorado since pot was legalized in 2013. Read more ... Whether you use marijuana medicinally or recreationally in Colorado, you have important rights about marijuana use that you should know about. Read more ... An important aspect of owning an Individual Retirement Account (IRA) is knowing how to properly designate a primary and contingent beneficiary to your account. Plenty of people enlist professional help when drawing up a  will , but many choose to try and tackle the paperwork of assigning a beneficiary to their IRA on their own. Read more ... Investing in real estate with an IRA, 401(k) or other retirement plan can be a  powerful way  for you to diversify your retirement portfolio. With social security  dwindling , investors may look into hard assets so their retirement funds are not only reliant on the performance of publicly-traded securities. Read more ... Boulder has long been known for its breathtaking mountain views, obsession with the outdoors and support of the entrepreneurial spirit. Now, the Colorado mountain town is making a name for itself as the food-startup-hub. Read more ... You re interested in buying or investing in a business. Congrats! That s a big step. But, first thing s first: Do your homework before putting an offer on the table. And, the first step? Ask questions  lots  of them. Read more ... 28 states   plus the District of Columbia   have legalized marijuana. Full legalization is spreading, and it s not impossible for more states to get on the bandwagon and marijuana to become legalized federally. Read more ... This is probably one of the questions we are asked the most. If you ve been notified about a lawsuit, you can choose to respond to the summons/complaint, or choose to not respond. The right route for you really depends on the case. Read more ... You might wrongly consider that only old people have to deal with the rather unpleasant task of preparing a will. As gloomy as the perspective of passing away is for every living soul, death is an inherent part of life. Often, it comes unexpectedly, leaving your loved ones with all pragmatic matters unattended. In fact, the occurrence of dying intestate (without having a will) is a common problem among people around the world. The famous writer  Stieg Larsson , the author of The Girl with a Dragon Tattoo, for instance, has passed away with no will and all his estate went to his parents, not his partner. Read more ... You might be tempted to seal a deal with a simple handshake. After all, redacting business documents and going through all the legal procedures just slow things down. If there is one thing you can t afford to waste as a small business owner is time, right? Read more ... Death is a disturbing event no matter the circumstances. But when it comes to a death in the family, the grief and distress of losing a loved one comes with a certain amount of responsibility. The sadness you might feel when someone dies seems to be predominant. But in case you are in charge in the aftermath, then your focus has to move from your heart to your mind, at least for the first few days. Read more ... At any point in doing business, whether you re an established company, an entrepreneur or a start-up, you are bound to have to communicate ideas, confidential information and even trade secrets. But how can you be sure that what you share with another party allows you to further your business goal, instead of conflicting with or even killing it? Read more ... If you re an adult, you ve probably signed at least one contract during your lifetime. But what is a contract? People sign them all the time, but contract law can be surprisingly complex, and there are attorneys and legal firms that specialize in this branch of legal services. For almost anyone, it s a good idea to have a basic understanding of what a contract is, how it is legally defined, and what renders a contract valid or invalid. Read more ...  Page 1 of 4  Freelancer Rights: What Workplace Protections Do You Have? Know the Rules: Using Marijuana in a National Park Does My Employer Have to Offer Healthcare? Bitten at the Dog Park? Know Your Rights Here are 7 things to know about your DACA rights in Colorado in 2018. 1319 W. Baseline Ave., Suite 101C  Lafayette, CO 80026  Email:  jayme@rogersandmoss.com Freelancer Rights: What Workplace Protections Do You Have? Know the Rules: Using Marijuana in a National Park Does My Employer Have to Offer Healthcare? Bitten at the Dog Park? Know Your Rights Here are 7 things to know about your DACA rights in Colorado in 2018.  DUI Cases Domestic Violence Cases Drug Offenses Assaults Criminal Cases Civil Law Site Map © All Rights Reserved. Website Developed by  BKMedia Group. 