Photon energy absorption coefficients for nuclear track detectors using Geant4 Monte Carlo simulation - ScienceDirect ScienceDirect • Geant4 code is used to calculate mass energy-absorption coefficients for  elements, air and compounds. Mass energy-absorption coefficients for detectors are computed using Geant4 code. A very good agreement for simulated results and literature values is observed. Geant4 Monte Carlo code simulations were used to solve experimental and theoretical complications for calculation of mass energy-absorption coefficients of elements, air, and compounds. The mass energy-absorption coefficients for nuclear track detectors were computed first time using Geant4 Monte Carlo code for energy 1 keV–20 MeV. Very good agreements for simulated results of mass energy-absorption coefficients for carbon, nitrogen, silicon, sodium iodide and nuclear track detectors were observed on comparison with the values reported in the literatures. Kerma relative to air for energy 1 keV–20 MeV and energy absorption buildup factors for energy 50 keV–10 MeV up to 10 mfp penetration depths of the selected nuclear track detectors were also calculated to evaluate the absorption of the gamma photons. Geant4 simulation can be utilized for estimation of mass energy-absorption coefficients in elements and composite materials. The most important quantity characterizing the radiation interacting in extended media is the absorbed dose which represents the energy transferred to the matter. The dose quantity is one of the important parameter for radiation protection, dose measurement, radiation effect and defects in the material. The dose delivered to a medium is measured in terms of mass energy-absorption coefficient,  µ en / ρ , which is a an essential quantity used in medical physics, radiation physics, health physics, radiation biology, radiotherapy, irradiation technology, and other practical applications. It is not possible to calculate  µ en / ρ  directly, but it is necessary to use mass energy-transfer coefficient,  µ tr / ρ . The amount of photon energy transferred is dependent upon interaction process namely the photoelectric effect, compton scattering and pair production. These interaction processes are dependent upon atomic numbers of the elements of compound/mixture and photon energy. Mass energy-absorption coefficient (indirectly mass energy-transfer coefficeint) is a measure of average fraction of photon energy transferred to kinetic energy of the charged particle when photon interacts with a material. Photoelectric absorption, incoherent scattering and pair/triplet production exhibit these characterisitics, whereas coherent scattering transfers negligible photon energy. These events are playing a crucial role in the calculation of energy-absorption coefficients ( Hubbell, 1969 ,  Hubbell, 1977 ). The intreraction of gamma photon with the matter is a complex process where different types of events are occuring in the medium. It is found that there are various factors (average fraction of kinetic energy of secondary photon, incident photon energy, additive law for mixture, etc.) affecting the calculation of the energy absorption. Various researchers have calculated and measured the mass energy-absorption coefficietnts. The mass energy-absorption coefficients of the biological samples are parameterized in the photon energy range 200–1500 keV ( Manjunathguru and Umesh, 2009 ).  Rosemary (1961 ) has tabulated and discussed gamma photon energy absorption and transfer theoretically.  Hubbell and Berger (1968 ) have calculated absorption coefficients for air, water and 18 elements over the photon energy range of 10 keV≤ E ≤10 MeV.  Hubbell (1977 ) calculated the mass energy-absorption coefficients for H, C, N, O, Ar and seven mixtures for energies from 0.1 keV to 20 MeV.  Hubbell (1982 ) again has calculated energy-absorption coefficients theoretically for 40 elements ranging from hydrogen ( Z =1) to uranium ( Z =92) and for 45 mixtures and compounds of dosimetric interest from 1 keV to 20 MeV.  Hubbell (1982 ) has used the fraction-by-weight of the constituents of the compounds.  Higgins et al. (1992)  have calculated the the mass energy-absorption coefficients theoretically for 47 media from 1 keV to 100 MeV.  Gurler et al. (2000)  have calculated the absorption coefficients for aluminum and water.  Ban et al. (1993)  have obtained mass energy-absorption coefficients for nitrogen and argon experimentally at 30 keV gamma ray.  Bhandal et al. (1994)  have estimated the mass energy-absorption coefficients of fatty acids for gamma rays using 662 and 1115 keV energies.  Bradley et al. (1989)  have determined the mass energy-absorption coefficients for paraffin experimentally.  Singh et al. (1996)  have mesaured the mass energy-absorption coefficients for 10 compounds experimentally for 662 keV gamma ray.  Shakhreet et al. (2003 ) measured the mass energy-absorption coefficients of paraffin wax and gypsum at 662 keV experimentally.  Oz et al. (2006)  have calculated the mass energy-absorption coefficients for silicon, carbon, copper and sodium iodide theoretically.  Gurler et al. (2000)  have calculated mass energy-absorption coeifficients for nitrogen and mass energy-transfer coefficeints for silicon, carbon copper, nirogen and sodium iodide in photon energy of 0.4–10 MeV, and showed very good agreement with earlier literature values. Other attempt is made for calculation of mass energy-absorption coeifficients of optical fiber and thermoluminiscent dosimeter in photon energy of 0.2–20 MeV using Monte Carlo N-particle code version 5 ( Hossain and Wagiran, 2012) . The theoretical method for calculation of the mass energy-absoprtion coefficeint is a complicated process. The experimetal values of the mass energy-absoprtion coefficeints are found for some compounds for very limited energies. After review of the literature, it has been found that this area requires investigation for finding easy ways of estimation of the mass energy-absoprtion coefficeints. This encouraged us to utilize Geant4 Monte Carlo simulation method for calculation of the mass energy-absoprtion coefficeints. Therefore, this present work aims to calculate the mass energy-absoprtion coefficeints of elements (carbon, nitrogen, silicon), air, sodium iodide, and some nuclear track detectors. The Geant4 simulation results of elements and sodium iodide were found to be in very good agreement with earlier literature data. First of all the Geant4 code simulated results of mass energy-absorption coefficients of elements, air and sodium iodide were validated with available literature data for photon energy 0.4–10 MeV, and then Geant4 was utilized for simulation for photon energy 1 keV –20 MeV. Geant4 simulation was utilized for calculation of mass energy-absoprtion coefficeints for some nuclear track detectors. The air kerma and energy absorption buildup factors were also analyzed for the nuclear track detectors. Geant4 Monte carlo simulation was used for first time for calculation of the mass energy-absoprtion coefficeints. At present Geant4 Monte carlo simulation has been used for mass attenuation coefficients of composite materials and standarized the experimental set-up ( Medhat and Wang, 2013 ,  Singh et al., 2014a ,  Singh et al., 2014 ;). A few elements (nitrogen, carbon and silicon), air, sodium iodide and some soild state and plastic nuclear track detectors; quartz (SiO 2 ), sodalime glass (73SiO 2 :14Na 2 O:9CaO:4MgO:0.15Al 2 O 3 : 0.03K 2 O:0.02TiO 2 :0.1Fe 2 O 3 ), PC (C 16 H 14 O 3 : Makrofol, Lexan, Millar), PET (C 10 H 8 O 4 ), CN (C 6 H 8 O 9 N 2 :Daicell, LR-115) and CR-39 (C 12 H 18 O 7 ) have been considered for investigation of gamma photon energy absorption by mass energy-absorption coefficients and energy absorption buildup factors. The effective atomic numbers and electron densities of these nuclear track detectors are found in the literature ( Medhat, 2011) . The mass energy-absorption coefficient,  µ en / ρ , is a measure of the average fractional amount of incident photon energy transferred to kinetic energy of charged particles as a result of gamma- ray interaction. This imparted charged particle kinetic energy is valid approximation for the amount of energy made available for the production of chemical, biological and other effects associated with exposure due to ionizing radiation ( ICRU-33 ). The  µ en / ρ  is the product of mass energy-transfer coefficient,  µ tr / ρ  (cm 2 /g) and (1− g ), where  g  is the fraction of the energy of the secondary charged particle that is lost to bremsstrahlung in the material. The mass energy-absorption coefficient of a compound or composite is calculated using mixture rule ( ( μ e n / ρ ) c o m p o s i t e = ∑ i n w i ( μ e n / ρ ) i ( μ e n / ρ ) c o m p o s i t e = ∑ i n w i ( μ e n / ρ ) i ) where  w i w i  is the proportion by weight and ( µ en / ρ ) i  is the mass energy-absorption coefficient of the  i th elements. The mass energy-absorption coefficients of elements are avaialable using differernt methods. Monte Carlo simulation is found to be an effective tool to calculate radiation interaction parameters in different types of compounds/mixtures for shielding, energy deposition and dosimetry. Geant4 code is based on object-oriented programming and allows user to derive classes to describe the detector geometry, primary particle generator and physics processes models along electromagnetic, hadronic, and decay physics based on theory, materials and elements, experimental data or parameterizations. Most of the physics processes models include multiple scattering, ionization, Bremsstrahlung, positron annihilation, photo-electric effect, Compton and Rayleigh scattering, pair production, synchrotron and transition radiation, Cherenkov effect, refraction, reflection, absorption, scintillation, fluorescence, and Auger electrons emission ( Agostinelli et al., 2003 ,  CERN, 2007 ). The Geant4 simulation toolkit covers a wide energy range starting from 250 eV to TeV. The Geant4 simulation is the modeling of the photon interaction through materials in computer environment which gives flexibility and ease of use, instead of performing an experimental determination of mass energy-attenuation coefficient of different composite materials. Mass energy-attenuation of photons is calculated by simulating all relevant physical processes and interactions before and after inserting the materials under investigation ( Medhat and Wang, 2013 ). The kinetic energy per unit mass (Kerma) relative to air,  K a K a , of the detectors is derived by the following equation: (1) K a = K D o s i m e t e r K A i r = ( μ e n / ρ ) D o s i m e t e r ( μ e n / ρ ) A i r K a = K D o s i m e t e r K A i r = ( μ e n / ρ ) D o s i m e t e r ( μ e n / ρ ) A i r The mass energy-absorption coefficient,  µ en / ρ , of the nuclear track detectors and air is computed using the mixture rule explained above. The values of  μ en / ρ  of elements are taken from literature ( Hubbell and Seltzer, 1995 ). The energy absorption buildup factor (EABF) values of the selected nuclear track detectors are possible to compute using the Geometrical Progression (G-P) fitting method. The detailed description for computation of EABF can be found in the recent literatures ( Hubbell and Seltzer, 1995 ,  Singh and Badiger, 2013 ,  Singh and Badiger, 2014 ,  Singh et al., 2014a ,  Singh et al., 2014b ). The buildup factors are estimated by using G-P fitting parameters ( b ,  c ,  a ,  X k  and  d ) in the photon energy range 0.015–15 MeV up to 40 mfp using the equations ( Harima et al. 1986 ,  Harima, 1993)  given below: (2) B ( E , x ) = { 1 + ( b − 1 ) ( K x − 1 ) K − 1 for K ≠ 1 B ( E , x ) = { 1 + ( b − 1 ) ( K x − 1 ) K − 1 for K ≠ 1 (3) B ( E , x ) = { 1 + ( b − 1 ) x for K = 1 B ( E , x ) = { 1 + ( b − 1 ) x for K = 1 (4) K ( E , x ) = c x a + d tanh ( x / X K − 2 ) − tanh ( − 2 ) 1 − tanh ( − 2 ) , for penetration depth ( X ) ≤ 40 mfp K ( E , x ) = c x a + d tanh ( x / X K − 2 ) − tanh ( − 2 ) 1 − tanh ( − 2 ) , for penetration depth ( X ) ≤ 40 mfp where  x  is the distance from source (mfp) and  b , the value of the buildup factor at 1 mfp and  K ( E , x ) is the dose multiplicative factor. The variation of  K  ( E , x ) with penetration represents the change in the shape of the spectrum from that at 1 mfp which determines the value of  b . The mass energy-absorption coefficients computed using Geant4 simulation for carbon, nitrogen and silicon elements, and sodium iodide are given in  Table 1 (a) and (b). The variation of mass energy-absorption coefficients of the nuclear track detectors with photon energy is shown in  Fig. 1 ,  Fig. 2  using Geant4 simulation code and  Hubbell and Seltzer (1995) . The kerma relative to air using Geant4 is shown graphically in  Fig. 3  and the energy absorption buildup factors are given in  Table 2 . Table 1 . (a) Comparison of mass energy-absorption coefficients (cm 2 /g) of carbon, nitrogen for 0.4–10 MeV photon energy. Fig. 1 . Mass energy-absorption coefficient for nuclear track detectors and air using Geant4 simulation code. Fig. 2 . Mass energy-absorption coefficient for nuclear track detectors and air using the theoretical data by  Hubbell and Seltzer (1995) . Fig. 3 . Kerma relative to air for nuclear track detectors using Geant4 simulation code. Table 2 . Energy absorption buildup factors for nuclear track detectors. The mass energy-absorption coefficients,  μ en / ρ , of carbon, nitrogen, silicon and sodium iodide using Geant4 simulation are given in  Table 1 (a, b) for photon energy of 0.4–10 MeV. The  μ en / ρ  values of these elements and sodium iodide by different investigators ( Rosemary, 1961 ,  Hubbell and Berger, 1968 ,  Hubbell, 1982 ,  Higgins et al., 1992 ,  Oz et al., 2006 ,  Hubbell and Seltzer, 1995 ,  Gurler et al., 2009 ) are given in  Table 1 (a, b). It was found that the Geant4 simulation results for the selected elements (carbon, nitrogen and silicon) and sodium iodide are in very good agreement with the earlier reported data in the literatures. The variation of  μ en / ρ  values of the nuclear track detectors and air is shown in  Fig. 1 ,  Fig. 2  using Geant4 simulation and theoretical ( Hubbell and Seltzer, 1995 ) respectively.  Fig. 1 ,  Fig. 2  show that the Geant4 simulation provides the results similar to the theoretical calculation by  Hubbell and Seltzer (1995 ). The  μ en / ρ  values of medical, biological, tissue substitutes and composite materials can also be simulated using the present standard Geant4 code. The Geant4 code produces  μ en / ρ  values of the elements, mixtures and compounds in very good agreement with earlier reported data by solving experimental and theoretical complications. Using Geant4 code simulation for  μ en / ρ  results, the variation of Kerma of the nuclear track detectors relative to air with photon energy (1 keV–20 MeV) is shown in  Fig. 3 . In general the Kerma values of all the nuclear track detectors are in range of unity above 100 keV photon energy (i.e. beyond photoelectric effect). However, there is a variation in Kerma for composites containing slightly high-Z elements (quartz and soda lime). The reason for such variation in kerma is due to large photon energy transfer for high-Z elements as the photoelectric cross section is proportional to Z 4–5 . Similar behaviors are observed for alcohols and tissue substitutes ( Singh and Badiger, 2013 ,  Singh et al., 2014b ). It is easy to calculate the kerma relative to air using theoretical  μ en / ρ  by  Hubbell and Seltzer (1995 ) similar to Geant4 results. The energy absorption buildup factors of the nuclear track detectors for the selected photon energy (0.05, 0.1, 1 and 10 MeV) for penetration depths 0.5, 1, 5 and 10 mfps are given in  Table 2 .The energy absorption buildup factors of the nuclear track detectors are small for low-penetration depth whereas it is found bigger for large-penetration depths. In the present paper the mass energy-absorption coefficients of carbon, nitrogen, silicon, air, sodium iodide, and some nuclear track detectors were calculated using Geant4 simulation code. There was a very good agreement between Geant4 simulation code with the data tables published earlier ( Rosemary, 1961 ,  Hubbell and Berger, 1968 ,  Hubbell, 1982 ,  Higgins et al., 1992 ,  Oz et al., 2006 ,  Hubbell and Seltzer, 1995 ,  Gurler et al., 2009 ). The present simulation code should be considered as a standard for calculation of mass energy-absorption coefficients for any elements and composite/compound materials. Elsevier We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content and ads. By continuing you agree to the  use of cookies . Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. or its licensors or contributors. ScienceDirect ® is a registered trademark of Elsevier B.V. 