PHOTOS: The World of 'Boys' The World of 'Boys' A new LGBT anthology seeks to showcase the diverse lives of gay, queer and, trans men from all around the world. Boys,  a new anthology of essays showcasing prominent and emerging queer voices, seeks to highlight the diverse lives of gay, queer, and trans men from around the globe. The collection of essays, edited by Zach Stafford and Nico Lang, offers an intimate glimpse into the lives of writers from an array of backgrounds and locations to challenge the traditional concept of what it means to be a "boy" in today’s world. Stafford says the anthology was created  by those involved in the project out of a desire to help change the LGBT world for the better. "Nico and I both think the gay community has a lot of growing to do,” he says. “We're not fully realized yet." Boys  will be available to pre-order October 17 and will be available as an ebook on Halloween. Proceeds from  Boys  are being donated to the Lambda Literary Foundation, which supports LGBT literature and writers. On the following pages, get to know several of the writers included in this anthology and see a glimpse of their contributions as well. Each of these essays shows why there isn't one type of boy in the world, but lots of boys with all their own stories. For more information about  Boys,  visit  ThoughtCatalog.com .   Essay: "My Closet Is Better Than Yours" Joey Albanese has a twin, and that twin is also gay. Many people may think that sounds like a blessing, but to Albanese this just caused the usual sibling rivalry to increase in every aspect. In his essay "My Closet is Better Than Yours," we get an intimate look into the life of one gay twin trying to be more than the yin to someone else’s yang.   Essay: "Inside Man" Before R.J. was a vlogger, he worked for the Republicans in Florida. His essay "Inside Man" takes readers to the front lines of a party that has famously opposed LGBT people for quite some time, and shows that maybe we shouldn’t hate the people but rather the system. Essay: "For Colored Boys Who Love White Boys" Dating can be hard for many gay men, and dating while being black and gay can  be even harder. In his essay "For Colored Boys Who Love White Boys," moore gives us insight into ways queer people of color have to navigate the dating terrain. His essay, through its transparency and realness, allows a space to open up for us all to come together and begin to really talk about how race and love cannot be separated. Essay: "Testosterone Fueled Injections" When Buck Angel began transitioning from female to male and started taking testosterone, he expected a lot of things. But what he didn’t expect was to now begin feeling attracted to other boys. Angel, a highly acclaimed adult film performer and LGBT treasure, allows us to go with him to his first leather bar in this essay and meet the boys who showed him what it can be like being a boy who likes other boys. Essay: "I Outed Myself on AIM" Most people have come out as gay in person to someone else. It’s an intimate moment that many feel better to do face-to-face. But Shawn Binder isn’t one of those people. He came out on AOL Instant Messenger while in high school, sparking his official life as one of the few gay boys in high school. His essay "I Outed Myself on AIM" is a modern-day coming-out story that will have you laughing at one moment and cringing at the next as you read a story that we will probably hear several times in the years to come, as the Internet becomes even more intrinsic to our everyday lives. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. 