Specifying real-time bid settings Last updated on October 5, 2018 RTB Real-time bidding, auctioning online inventory within an ad exchange. Buyers bid for the impression based on the value of the user, whereas the seller sets pricing floors and awards the impression to the highest bidder. The auction process takes place in milliseconds, which is why the process is referred to as “real-time.”  endpoints are locations in your network that connect to the OpenX Ad Exchange and receive bid requests. You must set at least one endpoint before  creating traffic sets .  When setting endpoints, use the following best practices to reduce latency: To set an endpoint: In the UI, go to your  My Account .  Click the  Real-time Bid Settings  tab. Enter a unique name to identify the endpoint, such as "Japan" or "Mobile traffic". When creating traffic sets, you will select endpoints by name. Enter a unique endpoint URL, beginning with the protocol identifier: (http:// or https://). An automated test immediately validates that the URL can receive a  bid request When OpenX Ad Exchange receives an ad request, it sends a communication containing details about the impression to selected real-time bidders to solicit bids for it.  and respond to it. An error message appears if the test fails. Click  Save . Endpoints appear in the  Summary  panel on the right after you create them. When you create a  traffic set , you select an endpoint  and allocate  QPS Queries per second, a measurement of bid request traffic volume. Higher QPS corresponds to more bid requests. Demand Partners can set QPS limits for RTB endpoints and traffic sets, depending on endpoint server capacity and how much traffic they want to receive. . Any endpoint connected to one or more traffic sets is displayed with total QPS allocated for that endpoint. View these values to gauge load on endpoint servers. To view QPS distribution for an individual  traffic set A grouping of properties that controls the kind of traffic a Demand Partner wants to bid on and how they want to receive that traffic. Properties include buying models, spend cap, targeting criteria, maximum QPS, and routing endpoints. , click the value. You can also click on the name of a traffic set to view all of its settings. If you have  compression  enabled, you can set it for any individual endpoint to reduce bandwidth usage. OpenX currently supports GZIP compression.  To set compression: Note:  You can only delete endpoints that are not assigned to traffic sets. If an endpoint becomes inactive or it is no longer being used to receive traffic, you can delete it: 