Melanie Martinez Age, Album, Song, Wiki, Website, Youtube  &  Affairs Melanie Martinez  was born on April 28, 1995 in Astoria, Queens, New York, U.S.. Her present age 22 years. Her Father s Name is Unknown and mother s name isn t Available. Melanie went to Plaza Elementary School in Baldwin, New York. Afterward, she enlisted at the Baldwin High School where she learned guitar without anyone else s input by considering harmony charts of tunes that she delighted in, which she discovered on the web. She credited her grade teacher for showing her how to sing and keeping in mind that at kindergarten, she figured out how to compose verse that propelled her to compose melodies all alone. Melanie is dating music maker Michael Keenan from 2015. Their Instagram posts affirm that they are still in relationship. Beforehand, she dated her drummer, Miles Nasta, Vinnie DiCarlo, Jared Dylan, what s more, Edwin Zabala, a performer who depicted the sibling in Dollhouse. Melanie Martinez discharged her presentation Extended Play (EP), Dollhouse on nineteenth May 2014, which was propelled from toy sounds. She dropped her introduction studio collection, Cry Baby on fourteenth August 2015, which appeared at number 6 on the US Billboard 200. The collections  lead single  Pity Party  was discharged on first June 2015, which got gold accreditation by the RIAA. A large number of collection s tracks gotten basic praise. By December 2016, she discharged two music recordings of her singles  Mrs. Potato Head  and  Conciliate Her . Her introduction collection was ensured Platinum on 24th February 2017 by RIAA. In 2012, Melanie showed up as a challenger on the American singing reality rivalry The Voice, completing in top 6. She tried out there by singing Britney Spears Poisonous  melody. Melanie Martinez The Voice Melanie Martinez Website, Phone Number, House, Contact Details, Email Id, contact address details information. We are sharing all details related to her like, Contact Number of Melanie Martinez, Email Id of Melanie Martinez. Her official website, Fax Number, Telephone Number, Residence Address  &  more. Melanie Martinez  Instagram, Twitter Account, Facebook, Google+, YouTube Video  &  many information is available here. It was her grandmother who inspired her to singing. As a kid, she was very emotional and not social, so preferred to stay at home. She is afraid of dark from her childhood. Melanie drinks occasionally and smoke marijuana to calm down before shows. Melanie is crazy about tattoos, and she has quite a few tattoos on her body including two hearts – one pink and the other blue, and a slice of cheese within a red lacy heart on her arms. Her hair is naturally dark brown, and she started dying her hair with different colors since she was 16. Melanie is scared of bees In 2015, she teamed up with the cosmetic company, “Lime Crime” to launch two exclusive lipstick products. The blue shade is called ‘Cry Baby’ and the brown shade lipstick is named ‘Teddy Bear’. In October 2016, she launched her own line of fragrance called ‘Cry Baby Perfume Milk’ which was later distributed by her record label ‘Atlantic Records’, making it the first label to ever distribute a perfume. Melanie is currently working on a film that will go along with all of the songs from her second album. On December 4, 2017, Martinez has been accused of sexual assault and rape by her ex-friend, Timothy Heller via Twitter. The following day, Martinez tweeted a response to Heller’s accusations, saying Heller “never said no” to any actions. Some of her popular music videos on YouTube are Dollhouse, Pity party, Alphabet Boy, Carousel, Pacify Her, Cry Baby, to name a few. Melanie Martinez Merch Her Measurement of height is in Inches 5′ 2” | 157 cm and Weight is 46 Kgs | 101 lbs. Body Measurements is  33-24-32  inches, Bra size:  32A , Waist Size: 24 inches, Hip Size: 32 inches, Dress Size: 2 US, Feet/Shoe size: 7.5 US, Her Eye Color:  Dark Brown , Hair Color is  Black , Body Shape: Hourglass, Build  Slim . 