Chase Field Stadium Tours (with Photos): Top 20 Places to Stay for Chase Field Stadium Tours - Vacation Rentals, Vacation Homes - Airbnb in Phoenix Kendra’s place was perfect for my needs attending a conference downtown. It was only a 10-minute walk from the conference hotel, and much more affordable. But what really made it such a welcoming experience was Kendra’s hospitality. She went over and above, providing snacks and fruit, coffee, drinks etc., that were all available for me, as well as some great restaurant recommendations for when I was on my own for dinners. The room was spotless and had lots of nice touches. She thought of everything and made me feel very welcome yet not intruded on in the least. She also kindly accommodated an early arrival for me and had quick turnaround on all communication and questions. If I return to Phoenix for a conference I will definitely look to see if Kendra’s place is available. Kendra took great care to provide the best service. I visited the area to work and didn &# x27;t think to look around for restaurants and entertainment. Kendra knew what I needed before I did. She had a great list of places to eat that was exactly what I was looking for. She has been in the area long enough to advise me on what areas would be a great fit for my visit. Such a great hostess, she thinks of everything . Very nice atmosphere to come back to after days of conferences . Conference Center was very close walked to it every day great time with Kendra and friends. I was able to explore more of Phoenix  with Kendra! Simply amazing! Clean comfortable, outstanding hostess.  I would definitely return. Thank you! What a pleasant stay with such an accommodating host!  Large, comfortable, private master suite with full run of the main part of the house ( &  Kitchen!). Location is awesome for all folks wanting immediate access to downtown. Will stay here again for sure. But I think I was lucky to get this high demand reservation! A jewel of a place!!!! Best hostess EVER!   Everything was as describe. Private room Bed and breakfast 2 1 Phoenix, AZ, United States The house is exactly as described. You can see that everything was recently renovated. The neighborhood is really quiet but very close to the center of Phoenix and the airport at the same time. The inside is just perfect and really make you feel like you are home. Angelica was very easy to communicate with, gave me a lot of information and always very fast. I wouldn &# x27;t hesitate to come back here next time I am in Phoenix. We had a great time Cozy place within walking distance of downtown.  Location seemed very safe.  Plenty of kitchen pots/pans/utensils.  Comfy beds with lots of pillows.  Large TVs in living room and all bedrooms.  Good wi-fi.  Height clearance on carport is more than 7 feet.  There is a Safeway north on 7th  &  McDowell (less than 2 miles away) and a Circle K about 3 blocks away.  Communication with host was good. This place was awesome!  Everything was sparkling clean.  It was conveniently located and we were able to walk to locations in downtown Phoenix - including Talking Stick Resort.  Thank you Angelica! This was one of the nicest air b & bs that we &# x27;ve stayed in. it was conveniently located, had generous amenities and was spotlessly clean. Furniture was comfortable.We would highly recommend. Warm homey atmosphere, great ammenities, description and pictures spot on, clean and incredibly comfortable. This home was amazing and very conveniently located close to downtown! The appliances are updated and the interior is spacious and beautiful. There are large TVs in every room which was a nice bonus. The kitchen was perfect for me and my group of friends to cook in and was conveniently stocked with some food, spices, and coffee. Angelica was wonderful and very helpful throughout the entire stay. Would definitely recommend this place to anyone looking to stay in Phoenix! The location is great and close to downtown. The host provides everything you need and the room is very clean. I will definitely live here again on my travel next time. Entire home/apt House 6 3 Phoenix, AZ, United States W really enjoyed the home and nice location to get around downtown. Thank you! Big and roomy. Walk 2 blocks to the DUCE and stadiums along with downtown restaurants. Great spot and exactly as described. Krista has great check in and check out process. If come back for another conference I &# x27;d stay again.  Krista is an amazing host! Good communication and a very nice place. We were attending The Weeknd concert and the arena is super close to the loft! We also found an awesome taco place called Willie &# x27;s Taco Joint. I recommend trying it if you ever stay with Krista! Krista will be my go to anytime we see a concert so I am very excited for the future!  Krista &# x27;s space was wonderful! We had spent the past couple of nights camping in the rain and her condo was so lovely to come home to. The space is beautiful with nice decor, a comfy couch to relax on and a well appointed kitchen. The beds were super comfortable. Awesome location in downtown and we were grateful for the secure parking. I &# x27;d definitely look to stay at Krista &# x27;s during my next trip to Phoenix.  This place provides a wonderful experience of downtown Phoenix. It is the real deal and a cool place to stay. Krista was awesome! Great communication and super accomodating! She gave us great reccome stations for bars and restaurants in the area. Her place was clean and exactly what you expected from the description. Perfect location that is downtown and near the airport. I would definitely stay again in the future! Thanks so much! Perfect location in the warehouse district! Easy walk to many spots downtown and cheap Lyft/Uber. Great view from the balcony, perfect spot for coffee in the morning and happy hour in the evening. Had a blast starting 1st Friday from here and could trolley all around from about a block away. Super quiet and comfortable space and was surprised to have the 2 bathrooms. Will definitely return! Thanks Krista! Great place. Perfect for any adventure downtown. Entire home/apt Condominium 6 1 Phoenix, AZ, United States Our check in instructions were incredibly unclear, and confusing. Our thought was that the copy-and-paste style message got choppy, and was not proof read.   The bed is a memory foam style. If you are unfamiliar with these, there are extremely hard until broken in, and can be very warm in temperature... this can lead to restless sleep.   Phoenix is typically hot, so I can understand not wanting to take a hot shower. However, our visit had temperatures in the 50’s and 60’s, so a hot shower would have been excellent! Unfortunately, there is zero hot water available. We allowed the water to run for several minutes without any success.   -being a new place, I have suggested these changes to this host. Great location, easy walk to the convention center. Great place, very convenient location. I was in town for a conference and it &# x27;s walking distance to the convention center and good restaurants. Loved staying here! Everybody was super friendly and accommodating. Came to town for a couple of baseball games with my teenaged son. Great location, easy 10 minute walk to the stadium. Loved sitting out on the balcony in the evenings with a cold beverage.   Bed is firm. Overall apartment is very stylish. Big kitchen. Would definitely stay here again. Very clean apartment and just as described. It was a little confusing at first that the key to is located in a lock box in the parking next door, but the instructions are detailed, so that helped. : ) The apartment had everything needed to prepare a meal and relax watching television. Thank you. You will not be disappointed. The place is really close to downtown like Chase Field, Pizzeria Bianco, and the convention center. The apartment is clean, has good design choices and is easy to get into. I would recommend staying here. Huge and stylish apartment, love the decor and thoughtful touches inside, big balcony with seating outside, and easy access to building and parking. Would definitely stay again! Entire home/apt Apartment 3 1 Phoenix, AZ, United States Super clean, great communication and overall a great place to stay. We loved the clarity of directions for check in and check out, cleanliness, amenities, communication throughout our stay and friendliness. We highly recommend Domino and his place!! Efficient and a bit charmless experience This place was awesome for my family and I. Good location, beautiful space and they were really responsive. One of our favorite parts was the gym. It was accessible and clean and kept my wife and my routine going. We have stayed at about a dozen places using Airbnb and this has been right up there with one of our favorites because of how clean it was and the value we got. Thank you for being a great host. Very nice, very clean, nice area and secure parking. Could have used a few more towels for the length we stayed and amount of guests but all in all a very positive experience. If you want to watch TV, make sure you are willing to use your own devices.  Domio only provides a Smart TV, assuming everyone has subscriptions to Netflix, Hulu, etc.  They aren &# x27;t hooked up to Cable or Satellite TV.  We were very unhappy about this!    Make sure you don &# x27;t mind traffic noise.  Our unit was located right next to Washington Street, with constant traffic and trains.    The unit was pretty clean but the master bedroom toilet needed attention and there were black hairs left on the shower drain....gross!    Also, don &# x27;t be surprised if the code they give you for the front door doesn &# x27;t work...ours didn &# x27;t.  Thank goodness they provided a key too. Very modern and beautiful space! Easy walk to the convention center Domio’s was PERFECT! It was a very modern and stylish but it felt like home. Kitchen was well equipped. Great location! Would definitely stay again. If you &# x27;re in Phoenix for anything around the convention center or sports complex this place can &# x27;t be beat. Walking distance and super nice including a community BBQ and patio with a pool. The apartment itself is tasteful and comfortable and they bed was great! Entire home/apt Apartment 5 2 Phoenix, AZ, United States One really amazing place to stay. My folks loved their stay here and if ever given another opportunity to come to AZ, they would absolutely want to stay here again ☺️ I highly highly recommend this place for a good time with closed one in a cute space Great place! Fantastic hostesses! Neighborhood is trendy and fun but certainly  " in transition "  and still a bit rough around the edges. Recommended for street smart folks. Lise  &  Nina &# x27;s place was spotless and came with a fully equipped kitchen! The location was perfect for our conference at the Phoenix Convention Center and was a short walk or quick Uber/Lyft ride away from the downtown area. It is right next to the road and you can hear vehicle and foot traffic, but the area was mostly quiet overall. We would consider staying here again in the future while attending a conference! Very well decorated, cool loft, great location within walking distance of downtown, and very clean. There was easy parking available for one car, street parking for more. They had anything you might need during your stay such as coffee, snacks, and shower supplies. Lise  &  Nina were great at communicating with us leading up to our arrival and detailing where to park next to the house. Would definitely stay here again if ever in Phoenix again. Awesome location, less than 5 min away from downtown. Stylish decor made the stay feel homey. Parking was a breeze, street available right in front or specific spot at the back door. The fire station accross the street hardly notice and we stayed 5 days. If you taller than 5 &# x27;6 watch you head going up the stairs to the loft. Both beds were comfortable. AC worked great. Overall had a great stay and would definitely come back to The Polk Street Hideaway! Lisa  &  Nina were very helpful, quick to respond, and the space was great. I would definitely consider staying again if I &# x27;m in the Phoenix area. Beautiful loft in a perfect down town setting. Truly lovely hosts. Business or pleasure, this is a wonderful place to call home for travelers. I &# x27;ve stayed in Airbnbs in several countries around the world and across the USA. Lisa and Nina &# x27;s loft was among one of the best I &# x27;ve ever stayed in! Spectacularly clean, stylish (Will you please come and decorate my home?), cozy, a true home away from home. Too many special touches like a French press (which I use daily at home), shower supplies, coffee, tea and creamer, etc. They thought of everything! I only had a few minutes to spend outside cause I was busy at a conference most of the time, but they &# x27;ve created a serene oasis in the desert. I live in a residential neighborhood in the heart of a downtown area in South Florida, so I &# x27;m used to some noise from cars and the airport. If you have a sensitivity to that, just throw in some ear plugs in your bag. It it a super convenient location and I walked daily to downtownin under 10 minutes. You don &# x27;t want to miss this place! Entire home/apt Townhouse 4 2 Phoenix, AZ, United States Outstanding Hospitality it &# x27;s easy to see why these two are super house would highly recommend this location for a convention or anything occurring downtown Phoenix Great place to stay. An easy walk or short ride share to/from downtown area. Nice, roomy, and quiet place to relax during a busy conference week. Much more enjoyable than a hotel experience. Great house to stay, very clean and confortable is in downtown a few minutes of the stadium. Wonderful accommodations by downtown Phoenix.  Six people stayed comfortably and the extra perks of coffee and fruit were extremely nice.  Would stay again when coming back into town. We spent a week here for to visit family over Christmas.  Kimberly and Santiago responded quickly when we had questions before reserving the property, and they gave us clear, detailed  info for our self check-in.  The house location is amazing.  It &# x27;s in a small residential area right in the heart of downtown, which makes it a definite perk to have free, off-street parking in the driveway and garage.  The house is very clean, nicely decorated, and functional.  The thoughtful hosts welcomed us with a vase of fresh flowers and a generous supply of snacks and beverages. Our family of four had everything we needed for our long stay---plenty of towels, bedding, bath supplies, and kitchen equipment.  The rooms are all large, and the beds are comfortable.  Phoenix had a cold spell while we were there, and the heater worked well.  The house layout is great.  The master bedroom is on one side of the large living room area, with the second and third bedrooms are down a hallway on the other side.  The second bathroom is in between the two bedrooms.  Both bathrooms are surprisingly large and have double sinks.  We didn &# x27;t use the patio much, but the furniture looked comfortable and the backyard is huge and nicely kept, with a pretty view of downtown buildings.  Overall, it &# x27;s a great place to stay and even nicer than the pictures. We will definitely recommend it for friends and family coming to the area. Really great place to stay at! Their home was wonderful, and very clean. The beds were very comfortable and cozy. When we arrived, I was really thirsty, they had water and other cold beverages in the refrigerator which was really nice. They provided snacks, and bananas. Our family cooks, and they had spices and cooking oils, and fully stocked kitchen for people that cook. They had enough utensils, glasses, and plates. I liked how they equipped us with coffee and the creams as we are definitely coffee people. We had a wonderful time, and their home made it even better. We loved this place and will return next visit to Phoenix. Entire home/apt House 8 3 Phoenix, AZ, United States Good place, accurate value. Very nice space. Convenient to the downtown and the airport. Good find! 1 mile from downtown This is a great place to stay! Very close to downtown and easy to get in and out of. Perfect place to stay for a business trip! Nice little home tucked away. Close to the airport which was fantastic for getting our heads down after a long flight. There are local shops and everything else that you would really need. Nice place. Jack is very responsive.  Check in is easy. Very private.  Love the gas stove but no coffee maker, toaster or sharp knives (bought one and left it there).  About a mile walk into town but not walkable after dark.  No worries - Ubers and Lyfts are very accessible and affordable. Great location close to the airport and downtown. The space was private and quiet. I especially appreciated the small fenced yard in front of the bungalow. The place is nice enough and Jack is a good host. It is a ~20 minutes walk to downtown (convention center). Guests should be aware that, at the time of this writing, some of the listed amenities are not present (there is no iron nor washer/dryer). Entire home/apt Bungalow 4 1 Phoenix, AZ, United States Honestly this was the perfect place for my and my 11 closest friends! The space was awesome and so close to everything. My favorite part was the bathrooms because they were so spacious and nice. Just loved the whole experience. Would highly recommend! Angelica was super responsive to every message. The house was very clean. The location is convenient to all things downtown. However, there is a lock on the air conditioner. It &# x27;s Phoenix in the Summer, come on... I understand A/C bills can get expensive, that &# x27;s call the price of doing business. Raise the nightly rate by $10-15 dollars in the Summer, but don &# x27;t lock us out of the A/C and make us sweat while we sleep and find somewhere else to be in the evening because it &# x27;s too warm in the house you rented to hang out in it. Also, the refrigerator barely worked, it says 33 degrees on the outside but everything inside is room temperature to slightly cool. I have the exact same fridge, mine says 37 on the outside and everything inside is very cold. These two things pretty much ruined what could have been the very best AirBNB I &# x27;ve ever stayed in. This house has so much potential since it &# x27;s a really nice house. But without AC and a working fridge, it &# x27;s just a shell. Could &# x27;ve stayed at a motel 6 for half the cost. Angelica &# x27;s place was extremely convenient. Easy to find, easy to check in to, very close to downtown, well stocked with supplies. Excellent shower and bath set up! The morning sun in the backyard was a treat as well. Beautiful home, impeccably decorated, convenient to many attractions downtown, loved the keyless entry, perfect for business travelers and or families. Great atmosphere, home-like feel with a superb location with plenty of space to have a good time. You can expect peace and quiet here along with a short trip to some of the best places Phoenix has to offer. This is a gem of an AirBnB find! Tucked away in an unexpectedly quiet, calm neighborhood just blocks from downtown Phoenix, the location was outstanding for our concert at The Herberger Theater. From Angelica &# x27;s home we were able to walk (or take an inexpensive Uber ride) downtown for dinner, to our event, or out for coffee. Every aspect of this home is five-star: beautiful, spacious well-appointed kitchen, airy comfortable bedrooms with luxurious bedding and mattresses, attractive, ample bathroom space. The entire space was beautifully decorated, clean and extremely comfortable for our large group of seven. (We could &# x27;ve very comfortably accommodated more.) Angelica &# x27;s thought of everything and her communication is excellent. Highly recommend this lovely home! This place was great. Close to the convention center and had every needed amenity. Angelica was helpful, ensuring our time at her home, and in the Pheonix area was enjoyable.  Nice, clean, large property. Entire home/apt House 12 4 Phoenix, AZ, United States Clean, cozy house close to everything. Lovely one bedroom cottage within ten mins walk from downtown Phoenix, all the sports venues and entertainment. Ten mins drive from awesome restaurants and art gallery. Felt like a condo. We would highly recommend this place if Phoenix is your destination. Great place! I would stay again.  Super cute cottage with nice amenities. We enjoyed our stay here! Very clean, spacious, beautiful place. Confirm internet access before booking if that &# x27;s important to you. This wonderful spot was a true oasis during my stay in Phoenix while on a business trip. I especially enjoyed the beautifully appointed spaces and lovely courtyard that is shared by other Airbnb renters who I enjoyed meeting. This is definitely a spot I will recommend to any friend visiting the Phoenix area. It &# x27;s close to everything yet it is a little haven of loveliness tucked into the city. Thank you!! Great place close to the city.  Great community around the area.  Highly recommend the Welcome Diner in walking distance. Great Place with lots of fun restaurants nearby.  Safe neighborhood and cozy home.  Entire home/apt House 3 1 Phoenix, AZ, United States Beautiful unit with a wonderful pool. Close the convention center as well as all the good restaurant. Love the area! Short walk to the convention center. Parking garage is convenient and the balcony is nice for morning coffee or an evening drink. The location was great, it was within walking distance from all the downtown restaurants. Check-in/out was easy and Desert was quick to respond. The space is as pictured. Great Loft! Perfect Location for downtown. Very Clean. Had everything I need for my stay. Easy Check-In and Easy Check-Out. I will look for this space when staying in Downtown Phx. Great location near Phoenix convention center. Great location and comfortable, spacious place. This is a great place to stay if you want to be near the convention center. The location is convenient, there is an excellent coffee shop on the ground floor of the building, and the apartment is very comfortable. The host is very quick to reply to questions and very helpful as well. I would happily stay here again. Desert’s place is in the perfect location next to restaurants, Chase field, the Symphony etc. Entire home/apt Loft 4 1 Phoenix, AZ, United States A beautiful open condo with an amazing patio. Great views of downtown and of the mountains. Susan was very accommodating and we felt quite at home at her place. Easy access to the highway and a short drive to the airport. Highly recommended. This place is amazing. It is a beautiful loft and the pictures don &# x27;t do justice to how spacious it is. It was clean and well decorated and outfitted with every possible amenity. I stayed here while I was in town for a conference and the location could not have been better- a very short walk to the downtown Phoenix area with lots of restaurants, bars, and coffee shops. If you &# x27;re planning on visiting Phoenix you need to stay here! Fantastic EVERYTHING! This is an amazing loft and only a two block walk to The Duce! Love it and will certainly be back.  Lots of room, nice view, and close to all the sporting and conference area - an easy walk.  A nice place. Everything was nothing but excellent! The place is actually much better than it is in the photos. Could not have asked for a better experience. Susan was super accommodating and flexible. Communication was outstanding before my arrival and while I was there. She even blew up 2 air mattresses to accommodate Ll guests. I would absolutely stay there again and wouldn &# x27;t even waste time shopping around the next time I &# x27;m in Phoenix.  This is a beautiful loft in a great location downtown. My communication with Susan was great throughout the rental process. I thoroughly enjoyed my stay and would recommend to anyone looking for a place in Phoenix. Nice place.  Wonderful outdoor space with a nice view of both downtown and the mountains.  Entire home/apt Loft 4 2 Phoenix, AZ, United States Entire home/apt Apartment 5 2 Phoenix, AZ, United States Everything was great! The place was clean and had all the amenities I needed. And the host was very nice and responded quickly to any questions I had. I had a wonderful stay and would definitely do it again. Place was exactly as described, clean and very spacious for two people. The location in downtown Phoenix was perfect, close to all the major highways and minutes from the airport. As a bonus, there are some excellent little restaurants within walking distance. Host was communicative and made it very easy to check in and out. Would definitely stay again if returning to Phoenix area.  The pre-check in briefing notes were thorough, relevant and accurate.  The facilities closely match those described.  The complex grounds are pleasant and secure.  The pool and gardens add to the ambience.  The complex is situated close to down-town facilities including the museum and conference centre.  The neighbourhood is well lit at night adding to the feeling of security. Mary and I found the description of the listing quite accurate and Chris responded quickly and professionally to any of our queries. The condo was spacious, beds were comfortable and it came reasonably well equipped. We enjoyed the hot tub and pool after a long hike and we found the location safe. The central downtown location made it very easy to get around as well as providing access to major roadways. The condo itself could use an aesthetic makeover as we found the carpeting and kitchen cabinets very worn and looking quite dirty and old. One of my best Airbnb experiences to date. The condo was clean, spacious, and affordable. Best of all, it was so close to downtown that I could walk to many place. Christopher was great to communicate with and prepared me well for check in. I would highly recommend this location if you are spending time in Phoenix and need to be located near downtown.  Our stay was great! The instructions given were clear, easy to follow and the apartment was great for the family. We will definitely go through Christopher again in the future. We had a great stay at Christopher &# x27;s place. The condo is quite big, located in the back of a quiet complex. It is equipped with pretty much everything you can imagine: microwave, dishwasher, dryer, vacuum cleaner, iron - you name it. Nice neighbors. I was very positively surprised :) I would recommend it to everyone! The apartment is a perfect location. For conferences and the convention center. The pub across the street Is has great food.  The apartment is clean and well fitted out.   Entire home/apt Apartment 6 2 Phoenix, AZ, United States Entire home/apt Condominium 2 2 Phoenix, AZ, United States Entire home/apt Loft 4 1 Phoenix, AZ, United States Great location, Checkin was unique but the host was available and made it easy, we will def. check out this location next time we are staying downtown. I was in a bind, and this host came through. I needed 4 units at the last minute for a group of speakers I had in town. Not only were they able to host my group at the last minute, but they even worked with me on the price. Each of my guests had outstanding experiences and were overly pleased with the decor and cleanliness. I &# x27;ll add their personal notes below.   " Cold A/C, beautiful decor, and fully stocked kitchen " . Entire home/apt Apartment 4 1 Phoenix, AZ, United States Entire home/apt Loft 6 2 Phoenix, AZ, United States 