hypokalemia: Topics by Science.gov [Investigation of  hypokalemia ]. PubMed Lodin, Karin; Palmér, Mats 2015-12-15 Most causes of  hypokalemia  could be studied relatively easily by thorough medical history and basal sampling. Moreover, difficult cases of  hypokalemia  should be studied systematically to identify the underlying cause so that successful long-term treatments can be applied. Low Potassium ( Hypokalemia ) MedlinePlus Symptoms Low potassium ( hypokalemia ) By Mayo Clinic Staff Low potassium ( hypokalemia ) refers to a lower than normal potassium level ... 2 millimoles per liter (mmol/L). A very low potassium level (less than 2.5 mmol/L) ... [Bodybuilding:  hypokalemia  and hypophosphatemia]. PubMed Britschgi, F; Zünd, G 1991-08-17 In preparing for competitive body building, body builders--in addition to continuous and hard muscle training--engage in stringent dietetic manipulations: the first few months of hypercaloric nutrition, rich in proteins, are devoted to the build-up of muscle mass. A second phase of reduced caloric intake is designed reduce subcutaneous fat, while, during the last week of preparations, extreme carbohydrate intake aims at loading muscles with glycogen. Simultaneously, sodium and water restriction results in extracellular and therefore subcutaneous volume deficit and better "definition" of muscle contours and structure. In the course of these dietetic manipulations a young body builder develops  hypokalemia , hypophosphatemia, rhabdomyolysis and flaccid tetraparesis. The disturbances are pathophysiologically predictable. Chayote (Sechium edule) causing  hypokalemia  in pregnancy. PubMed Jensen, L P; Lai, A R 1986-11-01 A case of severe  hypokalemia  in pregnancy is presented. Chayote, a subtropical vegetable with potent diuretic action, is implicated, as the potassium level returned to normal, without recurrence of  hypokalemia , once the ingestion was stopped. Hypokalemia  and Pendrin Induction by Aldosterone. PubMed Xu, Ning; Hirohama, Daigoro; Ishizawa, Kenichi; Chang, Wen Xiu; Shimosawa, Tatsuo; Fujita, Toshiro; Uchida, Shunya; Shibata, Shigeru 2017-05-01 Aldosterone plays an important role in regulating Na-Cl reabsorption and blood pressure. Epithelial Na + channel, Na + -Cl - cotransporter, and Cl - /HCO 3 - exchanger pendrin are the major mediators of Na-Cl transport in the aldosterone-sensitive distal nephron. Existing evidence also suggests that plasma K + concentration affects renal Na-Cl handling. In this study, we posited that  hypokalemia  modulates the effects of aldosterone on pendrin in hyperaldosteronism. Chronic aldosterone infusion in mice increased pendrin levels at the plasma membrane, and correcting  hypokalemia  in this model almost completely blocked pendrin upregulation. However,  hypokalemia  induced by a low-K + diet resulted in pendrin downregulation along with reduced plasma aldosterone levels, indicating that both  hypokalemia  and aldosterone excess are necessary for pendrin induction. In contrast, decreased plasma K + levels were sufficient to increase Na + -Cl - cotransporter levels. We found that phosphorylation of mineralocorticoid receptor that prevents aldosterone binding in intercalated cells was suppressed by  hypokalemia , which resulted in enhanced pendrin response to aldosterone, explaining the coordinated action of aldosterone and  hypokalemia  in pendrin regulation. Finally, to address the physiological significance of our observations, we administered aldosterone to mice lacking pendrin. Notably, plasma K + levels were significantly lower in pendrin knockout mice (2.7±0.1 mmol/L) than in wild-type mice (3.0±0.1 mmol/L) after aldosterone infusion, demonstrating that pendrin alleviates  hypokalemia  in a state of aldosterone excess. These data indicate that the decreased plasma K + levels promote pendrin induction by aldosterone, which, in concert with Na + -Cl - cotransporter, counteracts the progression of  hypokalemia  but promotes hypertension in primary aldosterone excess. © 2017 American Heart Association, Inc. Hypokalemia  and agitation in acute psychotic patients. PubMed Hatta, K; Takahashi, T; Nakamura, H; Yamashiro, H; Asukai, N; Yonezawa, Y 1999-04-19 Hypokalemia  is caused partly by intensive exercise. Some evidence suggests that psychological distress may cause  hypokalemia . The relationship between the decline of serum potassium concentration and the level of symptoms of acute agitation, which was defined as a total score on a subset of six categories on the 18-item Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (anxiety, tension, mannerism and posturing, hostility, uncooperativeness, psychomotor excitement), was examined in 313 schizophrenic men, admitted on an emergency basis during a 24-month period. In addition, change in serum potassium concentration after sedation was investigated. Serum potassium concentration in the severely agitated group was lower than that in the mild group. There was a significant correlation between serum potassium concentration and the level of symptoms of acute agitation (r = -0.30, P  <  0.0001). Although the decline of serum potassium concentration in the patients who were sufficiently sedated improved within 8 h, that in the patients showing high scores on the acute agitation subset even 8 h after emergency admission was prolonged. Results indicate that sedation improves acute agitation-induced  hypokalemia . rights Hypokalemia  causing rhabdomyolysis in a patient with short bowel syndrome. PubMed Balhara, Kamna S; Highet, Bridget; Omron, Rodney 2015-04-01 Rhabdomyolysis, usually in the setting of trauma or drug use, is frequently seen in the emergency setting, and often leads to hyperkalemia at presentation.  Hypokalemia , however, is a potentially underrecognized cause of rhabdomyolysis. We present a case of rhabdomyolysis likely due to  hypokalemia  in the setting of short bowel syndrome. WHY SHOULD AN EMERGENCY PHYSICIAN BE AWARE OF THIS?: Although less common,  hypokalemia  can be a significant cause of rhabdomyolysis via its effects on muscle. This scenario should be considered in the differential diagnosis of patients at risk for  hypokalemia  who present with weakness. Rapid recognition of this relationship and rapid correction of  hypokalemia  may prove very important in preventing the deleterious effects of rhabdomyolysis. Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved. Hypokalemia -induced pseudoischemic electrocardiographic changes and quadriplegia. PubMed Mirijello, Antonio; Rinninella, Emanuele; De Leva, Francesca; Tosoni, Alberto; Vassallo, Gabriele; Antonelli, Mariangela; Addolorato, Giovanni; Landolfi, Raffaele 2014-03-01 Hypokalemia  is a common biochemical abnormality. Severe  hypokalemia  can produce cardiac rhythm alterations and neurologic manifestations. Early detection and treatment allow clinician to prevent morbidity and mortality from cardiac arrhythmias and respiratory failure. Here, we describe a case of severe  hypokalemia  inducing pseudoischemic electrocardiographic (ECG) alterations and quadriplegia, in a patient affected by chronic diarrhea. Electrocardiographic alterations and neurologic manifestations completely disappeared after potassium replacement; however, prolonged potassium supplementation was required to achieve the normalization of plasmatic potassium levels. Consecutive figures show ECG improvement until normalization of ECG findings. Pathogenesis of  hypokalemia  in autosomal dominant hypocalcemia type 1. PubMed Kamiyoshi, Naohiro; Nozu, Kandai; Urahama, Yoshimichi; Matsunoshita, Natsuki; Yamamura, Tomohiko; Minamikawa, Shogo; Ninchoji, Takeshi; Morisada, Naoya; Nakanishi, Koichi; Kaito, Hiroshi; Iijima, Kazumoto 2016-04-01 Autosomal dominant hypocalcemia type 1 (ADH1) is a relatively rare endocrine disorder characterized by hypocalcemia and inadequate parathyroid hormone secretion. ADH is caused by activating mutations in the calcium-sensing receptor (CaSR) gene, CASR. CaSR plays a crucial role in calcium and magnesium homeostasis in the kidney. ADH may be accompanied by  hypokalemia  and metabolic alkalosis when it is classified as type V Bartter syndrome. However, the mechanism underlying  hypokalemia  in this disease is unclear. We investigated a 33-year-old woman with hypocalcemia and hypoparathyroidism since childhood, whose mother also had hypocalcemia and hypoparathyroidism, but with no clinical symptoms. Blood examinations showed  hypokalemia  and metabolic alkalosis in the patient, but not her mother. We conducted mutation analysis and diuretic tests to clarify the patient's and her mother's diagnosis and to investigate the onset mechanism of  hypokalemia  in ADH1. We also determined the localization of CaSR in the kidney by immunohistochemistry. We detected a known gain-of-function mutation in CASR in both the patient and her mother. Diuretic tests revealed a response to furosemide and no reaction to thiazide in the patient, although the mother responded well to both diuretics. CaSR co-localized with the Na(+)-Cl(-) cotransporter (NCCT) on distal tubular epithelial cells. These results indicate that the NCCT in the distal convoluted tubule was secondarily affected in this patient. We conclude that the main pathogenesis of secondary  hypokalemia  in ADH1 in this patient was secondary NCCT dysfunction. [Severe metabolic alkalosis following  hypokalemia  from a paraneoplastic Cushing syndrome]. PubMed Dubé, L; Daenen, S; Kouatchet, A; Soltner, C; Alquier, P 2001-12-01 Metabolic alkalosis is frequently observed in critically ill patients. Etiologies are numerous but endocrinal causes are rare. We report a case of a patient with severe respiratory insufficiency, metabolic alkalosis and  hypokalemia . The evolution was fatal. Further explorations revealed an ectopic Adrenocorticotropine Hormone syndrome. The initial tumor was probably a small cell lung carcinoma. Life-threatening  hypokalemia  following rapid correction of respiratory acidosis. PubMed Hammond, Kendra; You, David; Collins, Eileen G; Leehey, David J; Laghi, Franco 2013-01-01 A 56-year-old woman with a history of paraplegia and chronic pain due to neuromyelitis optica (Devic's syndrome) was admitted to a spinal cord injury unit for management of a sacral decubitus ulcer. During the hospitalization, she required emergency transfer to the intensive care unit (ICU) because of progressive deterioration of respiratory muscle function, severe respiratory acidosis, obtundation and hypotension. Upon transfer to the ICU, arterial blood gas revealed severe acute-on-chronic respiratory acidosis (pH 7.00, PCO2 120 mm Hg, PO2 211 mm Hg). The patient was immediately intubated and mechanically ventilated. Intravenous fluid boluses of normal saline (10.5 L in about 24 h) and vasopressors were started with rapid correction of hypotension. In addition, she was given hydrocortisone. Within 40 min of initiation of mechanical ventilation, there was improvement in acute respiratory acidosis. Sixteen hours later, however, the patient developed life-threatening  hypokalemia  (K(+) of 2.1 mEq/L) and hypomagnesemia (Mg of 1.4 mg/dL). Despite aggressive potassium supplementation,  hypokalemia  continued to worsen over the next several hours (K(+) of 1.7 mEq/L). Urine studies revealed renal potassium wasting. We reason that the recalcitrant life-threatening  hypokalemia  was caused by several mechanisms including total body potassium depletion (chronic respiratory acidosis), a shift of potassium from the extracellular to intracellular space (rapid correction of respiratory acidosis with mechanical ventilation), increased sodium delivery to the distal nephron (normal saline resuscitation), hyperaldosteronism (secondary to hypotension plus administration of hydrocortisone) and hypomagnesemia. We conclude that rapid correction of respiratory acidosis, especially in the setting of hypotension, can lead to life-threatening  hypokalemia . Serum potassium levels must be monitored closely in these patients, as failure to do so can lead to potentially lethal consequences Intercalated cell-specific Rh B glycoprotein deletion diminishes renal ammonia excretion response to  hypokalemia PubMed Central Bishop, Jesse M.; Lee, Hyun-Wook; Handlogten, Mary E.; Han, Ki-Hwan; Verlander, Jill W. 2013-01-01 The ammonia transporter family member, Rh B Glycoprotein (Rhbg), is an ammonia-specific transporter heavily expressed in the kidney and is necessary for the normal increase in ammonia excretion in response to metabolic acidosis.  Hypokalemia  is a common clinical condition in which there is increased renal ammonia excretion despite the absence of metabolic acidosis. The purpose of this study was to examine Rhbg's role in this response through the use of mice with intercalated cell-specific Rhbg deletion (IC-Rhbg-KO).  Hypokalemia  induced by feeding a K+-free diet increased urinary ammonia excretion significantly. In mice with intact Rhbg expression,  hypokalemia  increased Rhbg protein expression in intercalated cells in the cortical collecting duct (CCD) and in the outer medullary collecting duct (OMCD). Deletion of Rhbg from intercalated cells inhibited  hypokalemia -induced changes in urinary total ammonia excretion significantly and completely prevented  hypokalemia -induced increases in urinary ammonia concentration, but did not alter urinary pH. We conclude that  hypokalemia  increases Rhbg expression in intercalated cells in the cortex and outer medulla and that intercalated cell Rhbg expression is necessary for the normal increase in renal ammonia excretion in response to  hypokalemia . PMID:23220726 Hyperkalemia and  Hypokalemia  in CKD: Prevalence, Risk Factors, and Clinical Outcomes. PubMed Gilligan, Sarah; Raphael, Kalani L 2017-09-01 Abnormalities of serum potassium are common in patients with CKD. Although hyperkalemia is a well-recognized complication of CKD, the prevalence rates of hyperkalemia (14%-20%) and  hypokalemia  (12%-18%) are similar. CKD severity, use of medications such as renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system inhibitors and diuretics, and dietary potassium intake are major determinants of serum potassium concentration in CKD. Demographic factors, acid-base status, blood glucose, and other comorbidities contribute as well. Both hyperkalemia and  hypokalemia  are associated with similarly increased risks of death, cardiovascular disease, and hospitalization. On the other hand, limited evidence suggests a link between  hypokalemia , but not hyperkalemia, and progression of CKD. This article reviews the prevalence rates and risk factors for hyperkalemia and  hypokalemia , and their associations with adverse outcomes in CKD. Published by Elsevier Inc. First WNK4- Hypokalemia  Animal Model Identified by Genome-Wide Association in Burmese Cats PubMed Central Gandolfi, Barbara; Gruffydd-Jones, Timothy J.; Malik, Richard; Cortes, Alejandro; Jones, Boyd R.; Helps, Chris R.; Prinzenberg, Eva M.; Erhardt, George; Lyons, Leslie A. 2012-01-01 Burmese is an old and popular cat breed, however, several health concerns, such as  hypokalemia  and a craniofacial defect, are prevalent, endangering the general health of the breed.  Hypokalemia , a subnormal serum potassium ion concentration ([K+]), most often occurs as a secondary problem but can occur as a primary problem, such as hypokalaemic periodic paralysis in humans, and as feline hypokalaemic periodic polymyopathy primarily in Burmese. The most characteristic clinical sign of  hypokalemia  in Burmese is a skeletal muscle weakness that is frequently episodic in nature, either generalized, or sometimes localized to the cervical and thoracic limb girdle muscles. Burmese  hypokalemia  is suspected to be a single locus autosomal recessive trait. A genome wide case-control study using the illumina Infinium Feline 63K iSelect DNA array was performed using 35 cases and 25 controls from the Burmese breed that identified a locus on chromosome E1 associated with  hypokalemia . Within approximately 1.2 Mb of the highest associated SNP, two candidate genes were identified, KCNH4 and WNK4. Direct sequencing of the genes revealed a nonsense mutation, producing a premature stop codon within WNK4 (c.2899C>T), leading to a truncated protein that lacks the C-terminal coiled-coil domain and the highly conserved Akt1/SGK phosphorylation site. All cases were homozygous for the mutation. Although the exact mechanism causing  hypokalemia  has not been determined, extrapolation from the homologous human and mouse genes suggests the mechanism may involve a potassium-losing nephropathy. A genetic test to screen for the genetic defect within the active breeding population has been developed, which should lead to eradication of the mutation and improved general health within the breed. Moreover, the identified mutation may help clarify the role of the protein in K+ regulation and the cat represents the first animal model for WNK4-associated  hypokalemia . PMID:23285264 High prevalence of  hypokalemia  after acute acetaminophen overdose: impact of psychiatric illness. PubMed Zyoud, Sa'ed H; Awang, Rahmat; Syed Sulaiman, Syed Azhar; Al-jabi, Samah W 2010-09-01 Hypokalemia  is not an isolated disease but an associated finding in a number of different diseases. It is also a commonly neglected condition among patients with acute acetaminophen overdose. This study intended to determine the prevalence of  hypokalemia  and its clinical correlates in acute psychiatric illness among hypokalemic and normokalemic patients after acetaminophen overdose. This is a retrospective cohort study of hospital admissions for acute acetaminophen overdose conducted over a period of 5 years from 1 January 2004 to 31 December 2008. Demographic data and different types of psychiatric illness were compared between hypokalemic and normokalemic patients.  Hypokalemia  was predefined by a serum concentration  < 3.5 mmol/L. Statistical Package for Social Sciences (SPSS) 15 was used for data analysis. Two hundred and eighty patients out of 305 admissions were studied.  Hypokalemia  was found in 63.6% of patients with a higher prevalence in the presence of psychiatric illness (67.7%). Hypokalemic patients were significantly associated with the presence of major depression (p = .04), adjustment disorder (p  <  .001), anxiety (p = .01), and suicidal attempts (p = .04).  Hypokalemia  was common among patients with psychiatric illness and acute acetaminophen overdose. Severe hypertension and  hypokalemia  as first clinical manifestations in ectopic Cushing's syndrome. PubMed Fernández-Rodríguez, Eva; Villar-Taibo, Rocío; Pinal-Osorio, Iria; Cabezas-Agrícola, José Manuel; Anido-Herranz, Urbano; Prieto, Alma; Casanueva, Felipe F; Araujo-Vilar, David 2008-08-01 Ectopic ACTH production occurs in about 10% of all cases of Cushing's syndrome, and about 25% of cases of ACTH-dependent Cushing's syndrome. Diverse tumor types are able to produce ACTH ectopically, including small cell lung carcinoma. Ectopic ACTH secretion by malignant neoplasm has been reported to have earlier and more aggressive metabolic effects. We report a 59-year-old male patient with severe hypertension, metabolic alkalosis and  hypokalemia  as the first clinical manifestations of an ACTH-secreting small cell lung carcinoma, although the typical phenotypic features of Cushing's syndrome were not present. Ectopic Cushing's syndrome should always be ruled out in patients with severe hypertension and  hypokalemia . Watery diarrhea,  hypokalemia  and achlorhydria syndrome due to an adrenal pheochromocytoma PubMed Central Ikuta, Shin-ichi; Yasui, Chiaki; Kawanaka, Masahiro; Aihara, Tsukasa; Yoshie, Hidenori; Yanagi, Hidenori; Mitsunobu, Masao; Sugihara, Ayako; Yamanaka, Naoki 2007-01-01 Watery diarrhea,  hypokalemia  and achlorhydria (WDHA) syndrome caused by vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) -producing tumor only rarely occurs in patients with nonpancreatic disease. A 49-year-old woman was referred for evaluation of a right adrenal tumor incidentally diagnosed by abdominal ultrasound during the investigation of chronic watery diarrhea. Laboratory findings showed  hypokalemia  and excessive production of VIP and catecholamines. After surgical resection of the tumor, diarrhea subsided and both electrolytes and affected hormone levels normalized. Immunohistochemical examination confirmed a diagnosis of pheochromocytoma, which contained VIP-positive ganglion-like cells. We herein present the clinical and histogenetic implications of this rare clinical entity, with literature review. PMID:17729424 Quadriplegia due to celiac crisis with  hypokalemia  as initial presentation of celiac disease: a case report. PubMed Bhattacharya, Malobika; Kapoor, Seema 2012-02-01 Celiac crisis is a rare, life-threatening complication of celiac disease characterized by worsening of clinical symptoms, multiple metabolic derangements and shock. We report an 8-year-old girl with previously undiagnosed celiac disease who presented with flaccid quadriparesis secondary to severe  hypokalemia  associated with celiac crisis. Diagnosis was expedited by an elevated anti-tissue transglutaminase antibody titer. The patient improved with correction of  hypokalemia , corticosteroids and gluten-free diet. In tropical countries such as India, where both acute flaccid paresis and diarrhea are usually of infective etiologies, this rare clinical condition should also be considered in the differential diagnosis of both. Hypophosphatemia, Hypomagnesemia, and  Hypokalemia  in Pediatric Patients Before and During Exclusive Individualized Parenteral Nutrition. PubMed Hortencio, Taís Daiene Russo; Nogueira, Roberto José Negrao; de Lima Marson, Fernando Augusto; Ribeiro, Antonio Fernando 2016-04-01 Hypophosphatemia, hypomagnesemia, and  hypokalemia  occur in patients receiving parenteral nutrition (PN), mainly when the body's stores are depleted due to fasting or inflammation. Although these disorders are potentially fatal, few studies have reported the incidence in the pediatric population. This study evaluated, in a historical cohort of pediatric patients, the prevalence of hypophosphatemia,  hypokalemia , and hypomagnesaemia until 48 hours before initiation of PN infusion (P1) and from days 1-4 (P2) and days 5-7 (P3) of PN infusion and investigated if malnutrition, calories, and protein infusion were correlated to these disorders. Malnutrition was present in 32.8% (n = 119) of the subjects; 66.4% of the patients were in the pediatric intensive care unit. Survival rate was 86.6%. P1 had the highest prevalence of mineral disorders, with 54 events (58.1%; P2, n = 35, 37.6%; P3, n = 4, 4.3%).  Hypokalemia  events were related to malnutrition (odds ratio, 2.79; 95% confidence interval, 1.09-7.14; P = .045). In the first 7 days, infused calories were below the amount recommended by current guidelines in up to 84.9% of patients, and protein infused was adequate in up to 75.7%. Protein infused above the recommendation in the first 4 days was related to hypomagnesaemia (odds ratio, 5.66; 95% confidence interval, 1.24-25.79; P = .033). Hypophosphatemia,  hypokalemia , and hypomagnesemia were frequent in hospitalized pediatric patients before and during the first 4 days of PN infusion. Patients with malnutrition had more chances of having  hypokalemia , and those who received high protein infusion had an increased chance of developing hypomagnesemia. © 2016 American Society for Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition. Community-acquired  hypokalemia  in elderly patients: related factors and clinical outcomes. PubMed Bardak, S; Turgutalp, K; Koyuncu, M B; Harı, H; Helvacı, I; Ovla, D; Horoz, M; Demir, S; Kıykım, A 2017-03-01 Electrolyte imbalance is a common problem affecting the elderly. Increased number of comorbidities and frequent use of drugs may contribute to increased risk of  hypokalemia  in the elderly. This study was performed to investigate the prevalence of community-acquired  hypokalemia  (CAH), risk factors for its development, related factors with  hypokalemia , and morbidities and all-cause mortality rates (MR) of CAH in the elderly patients. Total of 36,361 patients aged above 65 years were screened retrospectively. Group 1 consisted of 269 elderly patients with potassium level ≤3.5 mmol/L, and group 2 (control group) consisted of 182 subjects with potassium level between 3.6 and 5.5 mmol/L. Etiologic factors of CAH, presence of comorbidities, duration of hospital stay, hospital cost, and clinical outcomes were recorded. Prevalence of  hypokalemia  was found 3.24% in patients aged above 65 years. Duration of hospital stay, presence of ≥2 comorbid diseases, hospital cost, and MR were significantly higher in group 1 compared to group 2 (p  <  0.001 for all). Loop diuretics, hydrochlorothiazides, beta agonists, inadequate oral intake, and female gender were all independent risk factors for CAH in elderly patients. Patients with ≥2 comorbid diseases were found to have greater risk of  hypokalemia  than the patients with  < 2 comorbidities. Length of hospital stay, hospital cost, and MR were higher in elderly with CAH. Female gender, hydrochlorothiazides, loop diuretics, and ≥2 comorbid diseases are the leading risk factors associated with CAH in elderly. Hypokalemia  correlated with arterial stiffness but not microvascular endothelial function in patients with primary aldosteronism. PubMed Chang, Yi-Yao; Chen, Aaron; Chen, Ying-Hsien; Hung, Chi-Sheng; Wu, Vin-Cent; Wu, Xue-Ming; Lin, Yen-Hung; Ho, Yi-Lwun; Wu, Kwan-Dun 2015-06-01 Hypokalemia  in primary aldosteronism (PA) patients correlates with higher levels of cardiovascular events and altered left ventricular geometry. However, the influence of aldosterone on microvascular endothelial function and the effect of  hypokalemia  on the vascular structure still remain unclear. We investigated the peripheral arterial functions, including the endothelial function of microvasculature and arterial stiffness in PA and essential hypertension (EH) patients, and the correlation between  hypokalemia  and peripheral arterial function among PA patients. Twenty patients diagnosed as EH and 37 patients with PA were enrolled in this study. Reactive hyperemia index (RHI) and the augmentation index (AI) were obtained by non-invasive peripheral arterial tonometry. Twenty EH patients and a total of 37 PA patients, including 21 patients with normokalemia and 16 patients with  hypokalemia , were enrolled and divided into groups 1, 2 and 3 respectively. PA patients had significantly higher AI (p=0.024) but not RHI than EH patients. RHI showed no difference between groups 1, 2 and 3. Group 3 had higher AI than either group 1 or group 2. In the whole study population, serum potassium level, after multivariate regression analysis testing, was the only factor associated with AI (ß= -0.102; p=0.002). In PA patients, serum potassium level was the only significant factor correlated with AI. (r= -0.458; p=0.004) CONCLUSIONS: PA patients had higher arterial stiffness but comparable microvascular endothelial function to EH patients.  Hypokalemia  correlated with arterial stiffness but not microvascular endothelial function in PA patients. © The Author(s) 2014. Intracellular sodium concentration and transport in red cells in essential hypertension, hyperthyroidism, pregnancy and  hypokalemia . PubMed Gless, K H; Sütterlin, U; Schaz, K; Schütz, V; Hunstein, W 1986-01-01 Intracellular sodium content ([Nai]), ouabain-sensitive ('Na-K ATPase') and ouabain-insensitive ('passive permeability') sodium efflux, Na-K cotransport and Na-Li ('Na-Na') countertransport were estimated in erythrocytes in 39 control subjects, 20 patients with essential hypertension, 14 patients with  hypokalemia  of renal or unknown etiology, 13 hyperthyroid patients and 19 pregnant women. In normokalemic essential hypertension there was only a moderate, but significant elevation of the activity of the Na-Li countertransport system. In the group of patients with  hypokalemia , there was a significant increase of [Nai], ouabain-insensitive sodium efflux and Na-Li countertransport. In hyperthyroidism, a marked decrease of Na-Li countertransport was associated with a marked elevation of [Nai], in pregnancy an elevation of the Na-Li countertransport with a [Nai] 43% lower than the control values. The ouabain-sensitive sodium efflux was elevated in hyperthyroidism and  hypokalemia , in which [Nai] was increased. In the control subjects there was a positive linear correlation between ouabain-sensitive sodium efflux and [Nai]. The sodium component of the Na-K cotransport was decreased to about one third of the unchanged furosemide-sensitive potassium component during pregnancy. The changes of cellular sodium metabolism in essential hypertension are of minor degree as compared to those in the other conditions studied. Cellular sodium metabolism in blood cells is influenced by thyroid hormones and metabolic disorders. Na-Li countertransport, i.e. Na-Na countertransport, seems to be involved in the regulation of [Nai]: an increase of its activity diminishes [Nai] (pregnancy); a decrease elevates [Nai] (hyperthyroidism). Ouabain-sensitive sodium efflux, i.e. 'Na-K ATPase', is mainly regulated by its substrate, [Nai]. [Diuretic treatment in patients with acute pulmonary edema did not produces severe hyponatremia or  hypokalemia ]. PubMed Kalužay, Jozef; Pokorná, Veronika; Bodíková, Svetlana; Vahančíková, Natália; Ponťuch, Peter 2016-04-01 One of the risks of diuretic therapy for pulmonary edema is the development of hyponatremia and  hypokalemia  with pro-arrhythmic potential. The aim of our study was to analyze the incidence of hyponatremia and  hypokalemia  after the first day of treatment in a real clinical practice. We performed a retrospective analysis of data obtained from medical records. We included all patients with pulmonary edema admitted to the coronary care unit, only patients which died within the first day of treatment were excluded. Absolute dose of administered furosemide, total fluid intake and urine output, saline and pottasium intake were analyzed. Nonparametric paired Wilcoxon test was used to compare natrium and pottasium levels changes. 37 patients were included into analysis. The median dose of furosemide administered during the first day of treatment was 120 mg (IQR 20-300 mg). Median diuresis was 2 400 ml (IQR 1 425-3 225 ml). The median of difference between diuresis and total fluid intake was 315 ml (IQR 538-1 380 ml). Wilcoxon test confirmed a prevailing statistically significant trend of slight rise in serum sodium within the first day of treatment (serum sodium 138.0 IQR 132.8-139.6 vs 138.1 IQR 134,0-141,7 mmol/l, p = 0.0046). The difference in serum potassium was not statistically significant (serum potassium 4.2 IQR 3.9-4.8 vs 4.2, IQR 3.8-4.8 mmol/l). Results did not confirmed the need for a substitution of sodium and potassium losses during the first day of diuretic therapy to prevent hyponatriemia and  hypokalemia  in patients with pulmonary edema. Incidence and determinants of hyperkalemia and  hypokalemia  in a large healthcare system. PubMed Nilsson, Erik; Gasparini, Alessandro; Ärnlöv, Johan; Xu, Hairong; Henriksson, Karin M; Coresh, Josef; Grams, Morgan E; Carrero, Juan Jesus 2017-10-15 Hypo- and hyperkalemia in clinical settings are insufficiently characterized and large-scale data from Europe lacking. We studied incidence and determinants of these abnormalities in a large Swedish healthcare system. Observational study from the Stockholm CREAtinine Measurements project, including adult individuals from Stockholm accessing healthcare in 2009 (n=364,955). Over 3-years, we estimated the incidence of  hypokalemia , defined as potassium < 3.5mmol/L, hyperkalemia, defined as potassium>5mmol/L, and moderate/severe hyperkalemia, defined as potassium>5.5mmol/L. Kidney function was assessed by estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR). Of 364,955 participants, 69.4% had 1-2 potassium tests, 16.7% had 3-4 tests and the remaining 13.9% had >4potassiumtests/year.  Hypokalemia  occurred in 49,662 (13.6%) individuals, with 33% recurrence. Hyperkalemia occurred in 25,461 (7%) individuals, with 35.7% recurrence. Moderate/severe hyperkalemia occurred in 9059 (2.5%) with 28% recurrence. The frequency of potassium testing was an important determinant of dyskalemia risk. The incidence proportion of hyperkalemia was higher in the presence of diabetes, lower eGFR, myocardial infarction, heart failure (HF), or use of renin angiotensin-aldosterone system inhibitors (RAASi). In adjusted analyses, women and use of loop/thiazide diuretics were associated with lower hyperkalemia risk. Older age, lower eGFR, diabetes, HF and use of RAASi were associated with higher hyperkalemia risk. On the other hand, women, younger age, higher eGFR and baseline use of diuretics were associated with higher  hypokalemia  risk. Hypo- and hyperkalemia are common in healthcare. Optimal RAASi and diuretics use and careful potassium monitoring in the presence of certain comorbidities, especially lower eGFR, is advocated. Copyright © 2017 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. Impact of  Hypokalemia  on Electromechanical Window, Excitation Wavelength and Repolarization Gradients in Guinea-Pig and Rabbit Hearts PubMed Central Osadchii, Oleg E. 2014-01-01 Normal hearts exhibit a positive time difference between the end of ventricular contraction and the end of QT interval, which is referred to as the electromechanical (EM) window. Drug-induced prolongation of repolarization may lead to the negative EM window, which was proposed to be a novel proarrhythmic marker. This study examined whether abnormal changes in the EM window may account for arrhythmogenic effects produced by  hypokalemia . Left ventricular pressure, electrocardiogram, and epicardial monophasic action potentials were recorded in perfused hearts from guinea-pig and rabbit.  Hypokalemia  (2.5 mM K+) was found to prolong repolarization, reduce the EM window, and promote tachyarrhythmia. Nevertheless, during both regular pacing and extrasystolic excitation, the increased QT interval invariably remained shorter than the duration of mechanical systole, thus yielding positive EM window values.  Hypokalemia -induced arrhythmogenicity was associated with slowed ventricular conduction, and shortened effective refractory periods, which translated to a reduced excitation wavelength index.  Hypokalemia  also evoked non-uniform prolongation of action potential duration in distinct epicardial regions, which resulted in increased spatial variability in the repolarization time. These findings suggest that arrhythmogenic effects of  hypokalemia  are not accounted for by the negative EM window, and are rather attributed to abnormal changes in ventricular conduction times, refractoriness, excitation wavelength, and spatial repolarization gradients. PMID:25141124 Autophagic degradation of aquaporin-2 is an early event in  hypokalemia -induced nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. PubMed Khositseth, Sookkasem; Uawithya, Panapat; Somparn, Poorichaya; Charngkaew, Komgrid; Thippamom, Nattakan; Hoffert, Jason D; Saeed, Fahad; Michael Payne, D; Chen, Shu-Hui; Fenton, Robert A; Pisitkun, Trairak 2015-12-17 Hypokalemia  (low serum potassium level) is a common electrolyte imbalance that can cause a defect in urinary concentrating ability, i.e., nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (NDI), but the molecular mechanism is unknown. We employed proteomic analysis of inner medullary collecting ducts (IMCD) from rats fed with a potassium-free diet for 1 day. IMCD protein quantification was performed by mass spectrometry using a label-free methodology. A total of 131 proteins, including the water channel AQP2, exhibited significant changes in abundance, most of which were decreased. Bioinformatic analysis revealed that many of the down-regulated proteins were associated with the biological processes of generation of precursor metabolites and energy, actin cytoskeleton organization, and cell-cell adhesion. Targeted LC-MS/MS and immunoblotting studies further confirmed the down regulation of 18 selected proteins. Electron microscopy showed autophagosomes/autophagolysosomes in the IMCD cells of rats deprived of potassium for only 1 day. An increased number of autophagosomes was also confirmed by immunofluorescence, demonstrating co-localization of LC3 and Lamp1 with AQP2 and several other down-regulated proteins in IMCD cells. AQP2 was also detected in autophagosomes in IMCD cells of potassium-deprived rats by immunogold electron microscopy. Thus, enhanced autophagic degradation of proteins, most notably including AQP2, is an early event in  hypokalemia -induced NDI. Autophagic degradation of aquaporin-2 is an early event in  hypokalemia -induced nephrogenic diabetes insipidus PubMed Central Khositseth, Sookkasem; Uawithya, Panapat; Somparn, Poorichaya; Charngkaew, Komgrid; Thippamom, Nattakan; Hoffert, Jason D.; Saeed, Fahad; Michael Payne, D.; Chen, Shu-Hui; Fenton, Robert A.; Pisitkun, Trairak 2015-01-01 Hypokalemia  (low serum potassium level) is a common electrolyte imbalance that can cause a defect in urinary concentrating ability, i.e., nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (NDI), but the molecular mechanism is unknown. We employed proteomic analysis of inner medullary collecting ducts (IMCD) from rats fed with a potassium-free diet for 1 day. IMCD protein quantification was performed by mass spectrometry using a label-free methodology. A total of 131 proteins, including the water channel AQP2, exhibited significant changes in abundance, most of which were decreased. Bioinformatic analysis revealed that many of the down-regulated proteins were associated with the biological processes of generation of precursor metabolites and energy, actin cytoskeleton organization, and cell-cell adhesion. Targeted LC-MS/MS and immunoblotting studies further confirmed the down regulation of 18 selected proteins. Electron microscopy showed autophagosomes/autophagolysosomes in the IMCD cells of rats deprived of potassium for only 1 day. An increased number of autophagosomes was also confirmed by immunofluorescence, demonstrating co-localization of LC3 and Lamp1 with AQP2 and several other down-regulated proteins in IMCD cells. AQP2 was also detected in autophagosomes in IMCD cells of potassium-deprived rats by immunogold electron microscopy. Thus, enhanced autophagic degradation of proteins, most notably including AQP2, is an early event in  hypokalemia -induced NDI. PMID:26674602 Hypokalemia  during the early phase of refeeding in patients with cancer PubMed Central Grasso, Simona; Ferro, Yvelise; Migliaccio, Valeria; Mazza, Elisa; Rotundo, Stefania; Pujia, Arturo; Montalcini, Tiziana 2013-01-01 OBJECTIVE: Refeeding syndrome occurs in patients with severe malnutrition when refeeding begins after a long period of starvation. This syndrome increases the risk of clinical complications and mortality. Hypophosphatemia is considered the primary characteristic of the syndrome. The aim of our study was to investigate the presence of other electrolyte alterations in patients with cancer during the early stage of refeeding. METHODS: In this observational study, we enrolled 34 patients with cancer of the upper aerodigestive tract receiving upfront radiotherapy who were also enrolled in a nutrition program. A caloric intake assessment, anthropometric measurements and biochemical laboratory tests were performed. RESULTS: Significant weight loss (∼20%) was found in these patients. In the patients receiving artificial nutrition, we found lower levels of potassium and total protein compared with those who were fed orally (p = 0.03 for potassium and 0.02 for protein, respectively). Patients on enteral tube feeding had a higher caloric intake compared with those who were fed orally (25±5 kcal/kg/day vs. 10±2 kcal/kg/day). CONCLUSION:  Hypokalemia , like hypophosphatemia, could be a complication associated with refeeding in patients with cancer.  Hypokalemia  was present in the early stages of high-calorie refeeding. PMID:24270952 [Experimental research on individual-specific rapid potassium supplementation strategy for fatal severe  hypokalemia ]. PubMed Du, Yu; Mou, Yi; Liu, Jin 2018-05-01 To explore the effectiveness and safety of the individual-specific rapid potassium supplementation strategy, and to provide experimental basis for treating fatal severe  hypokalemia . An acute fatal severe  hypokalemia  model was reproduced in 20 healthy adult Japanese big ear white rabbits with half lethal dose (LD50) of barium chloride (BaCl 2 ) solution 168 mg×5 mL -1 ×kg -1 . The rabbits were divided into conventional potassium supplementation group and individual-specific rapid potassium supplementation group according to random number table method with 10 rabbits in each group. All the animals were injected with 3% KCl through the auricular marginal veins by a micro-injection pump, and the target plasma potassium concentration was 4 mmol/L. The rabbits in conventional potassium supplementation group were administered continuously potassium infusion at the standard infusion rate of 0.4 mmol×kg -1 ×h -1 . And those in the individual-specific rapid potassium supplementation group were treated in two steps: first, a loading dose of potassium was rapidly injected within 5 minutes, and this step was repeated until the plasma potassium concentration increased to 3.5 mmol/L; second, a sustaining dose of potassium infusion was continued at the rate of 0.4 mmol×kg -1 ×h -1 after the increase in plasma potassium concentration. The changes in electrocardiogram, blood pressure, respiratory rate (RR), plasma potassium concentration, urine potassium concentration, urine volume, potassium content in extracellular fluid (ECF) and other parameters were monitored. The potassium supplementation, potassium excretion and potassium cross cell status were recorded. Adverse reactions and 7-day death were observed. Since the BaCl 2 administration, the plasma potassium concentration of all experimental rabbits were significantly lower than baseline at 0.5 hour, which was decreased below 2.5 mmol/L at 2.0 hours when the ventricular arrhythmias appeared, indicating the reproduction of Protection against severe  hypokalemia  but impaired cardiac repolarization after intense rowing exercise in healthy humans receiving salbutamol. PubMed Atanasovska, Tania; Smith, Robert; Graff, Claus; Tran, Cao Thach; Melgaard, Jacob; Kanters, Jørgen K; Petersen, Aaron C; Tobin, Antony; Kjeldsen, Keld P; McKenna, Michael John 2018-05-10 Intense exercise induces pronounced hyperkalemia, followed by transient  hypokalemia  in recovery. We investigated whether the β 2 -agonist salbutamol attenuated the exercise-hyperkalemia, and exacerbated the post-exercise  hypokalemia , and whether  hypokalemia  was associated with impaired cardiac repolarization (QT hysteresis). Eleven healthy adults participated in a randomized, counterbalanced, double-blind trial receiving either 1000 µg salbutamol (SAL) or placebo (PLAC) by inhalation. Arterial plasma potassium concentration ([K + ] a ) was measured at rest, during 3 min intense rowing exercise and 60 min recovery. QT hysteresis was calculated from ECG (n=8). [K + ] a increased above baseline during exercise (rest, 3.72{plus minus}0.7 vs end-exercise, 6.81{plus minus}1.4 mM, P < 0.001, mean{plus minus}SD) and decreased rapidly during early recovery to below baseline; restoration was incomplete at 60 min post-exercise (P < 0.05). [K + ] a was less during SAL than PLAC (4.39{plus minus}0.13 vs. 4.73{plus minus}0.19 mM, pooled across all times, P=0.001, treatment main effect). [K + ] a was lower after SAL than PLAC, from 2 min pre-exercise until 2.5 min during exercise, and at 50 and 60 min post-exercise (P < 0.05). The post-exercise decline in [K + ] a was correlated with QT hysteresis (r=0.343, n=112, pooled data, P=0.001). Thus the decrease in [K + ] a from end-exercise by ~4 mM was associated with reduced QT hysteresis by ~75 ms. Whilst salbutamol lowered [K + ] a during exercise, no additive hypokalemic effects occurred in early recovery, suggesting there may be a protective mechanism against severe or prolonged  hypokalemia  after exercise when treated by salbutamol. This is important since post-exercise  hypokalemia  impaired cardiac repolarization, which could potentially trigger arrhythmias and sudden cardiac death in susceptible individuals with pre-existing  hypokalemia  and/or heart disease. Recurrent aborted sudden cardiac death with seizures and rhabdomyolysis due to bulimia-induced  hypokalemia : report of one case. PubMed Finsterer, Josef; Stöllberger, Claudia 2014-06-01 Recurrent vomiting due to bulimia associated with abuse of furosemide and laxatives causing severe  hypokalemia  may result in recurrent aborted sudden cardiac death (SCD) and seizures. We report a 25-year-old female with a history of bulimia associated with abuse of furosemide and laxatives since the age of 15 years, migraine since puberty, renal abscesses at age 20 y, and rhabdomyolysis of unknown cause at age 24 y. She experienced aborted SCD due to severe  hypokalemia  with symptomatic seizures at 21 and 25 years of age. Bulimia patients additionally taking laxatives or furosemide are at particular risk of SCD and rhabdomyolysis and require periodic determination of electrolytes, potassium substitution, and adequate psychiatric therapy and surveillance. Tumour genesis syndrome: severe hypophosphatemia and  hypokalemia  may be ominous presenting findings in childhood acute myeloid leukaemia. PubMed Chan, Winnie Ky; Chang, Kai On; Lau, Wing Hung 2017-08-01 We report a 16-year-old girl who was diagnosed with acute leukaemia and a marked leucocytosis >200 × 10 9 /L. She presented with marked hypophosphatemia,  hypokalemia , acute renal failure and acute respiratory failure. These electrolytes disturbances may indicate rapid tumour genesis. These ominous findings required urgent treatment to halt the crises of rapid leukemic cell proliferation. Mark hypophosphatemia and  hypokalemia  may be presenting electrolyte abnormalities in a patient with acute leukaemia, and these may be indicators of aggressive tumour genesis. What is known: • Mild electrolyte disturbances are common in oncology patients • Tumour lysis syndrome is well recognized by paediatriaticians What is new: • Life-threatening hypophosphatemia is an uncommon presentation • These electrolytes disorders may indicate an aggressive tumour genesis process even at presentation and require urgent treatment. Extremely preterm infants who are small for gestational age have a high risk of early hypophosphatemia and  hypokalemia . PubMed Boubred, F; Herlenius, E; Bartocci, M; Jonsson, B; Vanpée, M 2015-11-01 Electrolyte balances have not been sufficiently evaluated in extremely preterm infants after early parenteral nutrition. We investigated the risk of early hypophosphatemia and  hypokalemia  in extremely preterm infants born small for gestational age (SGA) who received nutrition as currently recommended. This prospective, observational cohort study included all consecutive extremely preterm infants born at 24-27 weeks who received high amino acids and lipid perfusion from birth. We evaluated the electrolyte levels of SGA infants and infants born appropriate for gestational age (AGA) during the first five days of life. The 12 SGA infants had lower plasma potassium levels from Day One compared to the 36 AGA infants and were more likely to have  hypokalemia  (58% vs 17%, p = 0.001) and hypophosphatemia (40% vs 9%, p  <  0.01) during the five-day observation period. After adjusting for perinatal factors, SGA remained significantly associated with hypophosphatemia (odds ratio 1.39, confidence intervals 1.07-1.81, p = 0.01). Extremely preterm infants born SGA who were managed with currently recommended early parenteral nutrition had a high risk of early  hypokalemia  and hypophosphatemia. Potassium and phosphorus intakes should be set at sufficient levels from birth onwards, especially in SGA infants. ©2015 Foundation Acta Paediatrica. Published by John Wiley  &  Sons Ltd. [Clinico-pathological conference report: sudden deterioration of general condition,  hypokalemia  and diabetes in an elderly man]. PubMed Metso, Saara; Arola, Johanna; Raade, Merja; Välimäki, Matti 2012-01-01 An elderly man had been treated for prostate cancer with radiation and neoadjuvant hormonal therapy. One year after the cessation of radiation therapy, the PSA value was found to be elevated. A non-steroidal antiandrogen bicalutamide was initiated to the patient. Due to poor treatment response the drug was changed for the GnRH agonist leuprorelin acetate, which upon injection caused a sudden deterioration of the patient's general condition. He was delirious and in pain, and was diagnosed with leukocytosis,  hypokalemia , hyperglycemia and metabolic alkalosis. The patient was referred to the endocrinological clinic for evaluation of the metabolic-endocrinological problems. He succumbed to disseminated prostate cancer. Gene-environment interaction between SCN5A-1103Y and  hypokalemia  influences QT interval prolongation in African Americans: the Jackson Heart Study. PubMed Akylbekova, Ermeg L; Payne, John P; Newton-Cheh, Christopher; May, Warren L; Fox, Ervin R; Wilson, James G; Sarpong, Daniel F; Taylor, Herman A; Maher, Joseph F 2014-01-01 African-American ancestry,  hypokalemia , and QT interval prolongation on the electrocardiogram are all risk factors for sudden cardiac death (SCD), but their interactions remain to be characterized. SCN5A-1103Y is a common missense variant, of African ancestry, of the cardiac sodium channel gene. SCN5A-1103Y is known to interact with QT-prolonging factors to promote ventricular arrhythmias in persons at high risk for SCD, but its clinical impact in the general African-American population has not been established. We genotyped SCN5A-S1103Y in 4,476 participants of the Jackson Heart Study, a population-based cohort of African Americans. We investigated the effect of SCN5A-1103Y, including interaction with  hypokalemia , on QT interval prolongation, a widely-used indicator of prolonged myocardial repolarization and predisposition to SCD. We then evaluated the two sub-components of the QT interval: QRS duration and JT interval. The carrier frequency for SCN5A-1103Y was 15.4%. SCN5A-1103Y was associated with QT interval prolongation (2.7 milliseconds; P  <  .001) and potentiated the effect of  hypokalemia  on QT interval prolongation (14.6 milliseconds; P = .02). SCN5A-1103Y had opposing effects on the two sub-components of the QT interval, with shortening of QRS duration (-1.5 milliseconds; P = .001) and prolongation of the JT interval (3.4 milliseconds; P  <  .001).  Hypokalemia  was associated with diuretic use (78%; P  <  .001). SCN5A-1103Y potentiates the effect of  hypokalemia  on prolonging myocardial repolarization in the general African-American population. These findings have clinical implications for modification of QT prolonging factors, such as  hypokalemia , in the 15% of African Americans who are carriers of SCN5A-1103Y. © 2014. Apparent mineralcorticoid excess syndrome, an often forgotten or unrecognized cause of  hypokalemia  and hypertension: case report and appraisal of the pathophysiology. PubMed Bisogni, Valeria; Rossi, Gian Paolo; Calò, Lorenzo A 2014-06-01 The glicyrrhizic acid, contained in licorice, has a mineralcorticoid-like effect. Chronic excess intake of licorice induces the rare syndrome of "apparent mineralcorticoid excess", due to the inhibitory effect of glicyrrhizic acid on 11 β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 determining clinical/biochemical manifestations as resistant hypertension, metabolic alkalosis and severe  hypokalemia . We report a typical clinical case of licorice abuse to emphasize the importance of a detailed anamnesis, which is essential for the diagnosis, avoid unnecessary and expensive investigations, and reduce the duration of hospitalization. We also provide an appraisal of the pathophysiology of "apparent mineralcorticoid excess" syndrome, still an often forgotten or unrecognized cause of  hypokalemia  and hypertension. Shakuyaku-kanzo-to induces pseudoaldosteronism characterized by  hypokalemia , rhabdomyolysis, metabolic alkalosis with respiratory compensation, and increased urinary cortisol levels. PubMed Kinoshita, Hiroyuki; Okabayashi, Misako; Kaneko, Masakazu; Yasuda, Mutsuko; Abe, Keisuke; Machida, Akira; Ohkubo, Takuya; Kamata, Tomoyuki; Yakushiji, Fumiatsu 2009-04-01 Licorice, the primary ingredient of the Japanese herbal medicine shakuyaku-kanzo-to, can cause pseudoaldosteronism. Thus, shakuyaku-kanzo-to can cause this condition. A 79-year-old woman was brought to the emergency room. She had been experiencing general fatigue, numbness in the hands, and weakness in the lower limbs and could not stand up without assistance. She presented with  hypokalemia  (potassium level, 1.7 mEq/L), increased urinary excretion of potassium (fractional excretion of K, 21.2%), abnormalities on an electrocardiogram (flat T waves in II, III, AVF, and V1-6), rhabdomyolysis (creatine kinase level, 28,376 U/L), myopathy, metabolic alkalosis with respiratory compensation (O(2) flow rate, 2 L/min; pH, 7.473; pco(2), 61.0 mm Hg; po(2), 78.0 mm Hg; HCO(3), 44.1 mmol/L), hypertension (174/93 mm Hg), hyperglycemia (blood glucose level, 200-300 mg/dL), frequent urination, suppressed plasma renin activity (0.1 ng/mL/hour), decreased aldosterone levels (2.6 ng/dL), and increased urinary cortisol levels (600.6 microg/day; reference range, 26.0-187.0 microg/day). In this case, the observed reduction in the urinary cortisol levels, from 600.6 to 37.8 microg/day, led to a definitive diagnosis of pseudoaldosteronism instead of the apparent mineralocorticoid excess syndrome. Discontinuing shakuyaku-kanzo-to treatment and administering spironolactone and potassium proved effective in improving the patient's condition. Medical practitioners prescribing shakuyaku-kanzo-to should take into account the association between licorice, which is its main ingredient, and pseudoaldosteronism. Favorable surgical outcomes of aldosterone-producing adenoma based on lateralization by CT imaging and  hypokalemia : a non-AVS-based strategy. PubMed Li, Hai; Liu, Jianbin; Feng, Xiujuan; Liu, Liehua; Wei, Guohong; Cao, Xiaopei; Li, Yanbing 2017-12-01 To test the efficacy of a strategy based on CT imaging and clinical characteristics on lateralizing origin of excess aldosterone secretion in primary aldosteronism. Consecutive patients with diagnosed primary hyperaldosteronism from June 2006 to July 2012 in our center underwent adrenal surgeries without pre-operational adrenal venous sampling (AVS) if all the three criteria were met: (1) round- or oval-shaped occupational lesion of low density after contrast enhancement with diameter >1 cm on CT scan was located in one adrenal gland; (2) unequivocally normal contralateral adrenal gland; (3) serum potassium level lower than 3.5 mmol/L. Subjects who had received operation were taken into analysis and follow-ups. One hundred and twenty-five patients fulfilled the criteria and were recruited into our research. One hundred and twenty-two operated patients (97.6%) experienced complete resolution of  hypokalemia  as well as resolution or improvement in hypertension with reduction in antihypertensive medication, while 3 patients (2.4%) failed to obtain normal kalemia and continued on spironolactone therapy. At a median of 65-month (range 21-93) follow-up of these 122 subjects, 27 patients dropped out (22.1%). The 95 responding patients reported no episodes of paralysis or confirmed  hypokalemia  or any supplementation of potassium. Multivariate linear correlation analysis showed that plasma potassium level was correlated inversely with tumor diameter (r = -0.258, 95% CI -0.076, -0.514, p = 0.037) and basal plasma aldosterone level (r = -0.251, 95% CI -0.040, -0.464, p = 0.042). Most patients with typical unilateral adrenal macroadenomas, normal contralateral glands and  hypokalemia  could attain favorable surgical therapeutic outcomes without pre-operational AVS lateralization. Diospyros rhodocalyx (Tako-Na), a Thai folk medicine, associated with  hypokalemia  and generalized muscle weakness: a case series. PubMed Othong, Rittirak; Trakulsrichai, Satariya; Wananukul, Winai 2017-11-01 Diospyros rhodocalyx (Tako-Na) is a Thai folk medicine purported to promote longevity, treat impotence, etc. We present patients with  hypokalemia , weakness and hypertension after consuming Tako-Na tea. Case 1: A 61-year-old man was brought in nine hours after drinking 400-500 mL of Tako-Na tea. One handful of Tako-Na bark was boiled in water to make tea. He had vomiting and watery diarrhea six hours after drinking it. He took no medications and had no history of hypertension. The only remarkable vital sign was BP 167/90 mmHg. Physical examination revealed generalized muscle weakness. Laboratory findings were potassium 2.7 mmol/L, bicarbonate 24 mmol/L, and transtubular potassium gradient (TTKG) 5.6. He was discharged the next day with a BP 140/90 mmHg and potassium 4.2 mmol/L. Case 2: A 78-year-old man, a friend of case 1, also drank Tako-Na tea from the same pot at the same time as case 1. He also had vomiting and diarrhea six hours later. He took no medications despite past history of hypertension (baseline SBP 140-160). Initial BP was 230/70 mmHg. He also had muscle weakness. Laboratory findings were potassium 3.3 mmol/L, bicarbonate 24 mmol/L, TTKG 7.37 and normal thyroid function. He was also discharged the next day with a BP 148/70 mmHg and potassium 4.2 mmol/L. Case 3-7: These were patients reported to a poison center and their potassium concentrations were 1.4, 1.4, 3.3, 1.3 and 1.2 mmol/L, respectively. Three of them were intubated and case 3 died. Tako-Na contains betulin, betulinic acid, taraxerone, lupeol, and lupenone. Their structures are similar to glycyrrhetic acid, the active metabolite of glycyrrhizic acid found in licorice which is well known to cause pseudoaldosteronism. Glycyrrhetic acid is potent in inhibiting 11-beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase, and causes pseudoaldosteronism. We hypothesize that the compounds in Tako-Na act in the same way as glycyrrhetic acid in producing pseudoaldosteronism. Double Knockout of the Na+-Driven Cl-/HCO3- Exchanger and Na+/Cl- Cotransporter Induces  Hypokalemia  and Volume Depletion. PubMed Sinning, Anne; Radionov, Nikita; Trepiccione, Francesco; López-Cayuqueo, Karen I; Jayat, Maximilien; Baron, Stéphanie; Cornière, Nicolas; Alexander, R Todd; Hadchouel, Juliette; Eladari, Dominique; Hübner, Christian A; Chambrey, Régine 2017-01-01 We recently described a novel thiazide-sensitive electroneutral NaCl transport mechanism resulting from the parallel operation of the Cl - /HCO 3 - exchanger pendrin and the Na + -driven Cl - /2HCO 3 - exchanger (NDCBE) in β-intercalated cells of the collecting duct. Although a role for pendrin in maintaining Na + balance, intravascular volume, and BP is well supported, there is no in vivo evidence for the role of NDCBE in maintaining Na + balance. Here, we show that deletion of NDCBE in mice caused only subtle perturbations of Na + homeostasis and provide evidence that the Na + /Cl - cotransporter (NCC) compensated for the inactivation of NDCBE. To unmask the role of NDCBE, we generated Ndcbe/Ncc double-knockout (dKO) mice. On a normal salt diet, dKO and single-knockout mice exhibited similar activation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, whereas only dKO mice displayed a lower blood K + concentration. Furthermore, dKO mice displayed upregulation of the epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) and the Ca 2+ -activated K + channel BKCa. During NaCl depletion, only dKO mice developed marked intravascular volume contraction, despite dramatically increased renin activity. Notably, the increase in aldosterone levels expected on NaCl depletion was attenuated in dKO mice, and single-knockout and dKO mice had similar blood K + concentrations under this condition. In conclusion, NDCBE is necessary for maintaining sodium balance and intravascular volume during salt depletion or NCC inactivation in mice. Furthermore, NDCBE has an important role in the prevention of  hypokalemia . Because NCC and NDCBE are both thiazide targets, the combined inhibition of NCC and the NDCBE/pendrin system may explain thiazide-induced  hypokalemia  in some patients. Copyright © 2016 by the American Society of Nephrology. Severe metabolic alkalosis,  hypokalemia , and respiratory acidosis induced by the Chinese herbal medicine yokukansan in an elderly patient with muscle weakness and drowsiness. PubMed Yamada, Shunsuke; Tokumoto, Masanori; Kansui, Yasuo; Wakisaka, Yoshinobu; Uchizono, Yuji; Tsuruya, Kazuhiko; Ooboshi, Hiroaki 2013-05-01 Yokukansan is a Chinese herbal medicine containing licorice that has been shown to alleviate the behavioral and psychological symptoms of Alzheimer's disease, with few adverse effects. Increasing numbers of patients with Alzheimer's disease in Japan are now being treated with this drug. However, yokukansan should be used with caution because of its potential to induce pseudoaldosteronism through the inhibition of 11-beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2, which metabolizes cortisol into cortisone. We present the case of an 88-year-old woman with a history of Alzheimer's disease who was transferred to our emergency department because of drowsiness, anorexia, and muscle weakness. Her blood pressure was 168/90 mmHg. Laboratory data showed serum potassium of 1.9 mmol/l, metabolic alkalosis (pH 7.54; HCO 3 - , 50.5 mmol/l; chloride, 81 mmol/l; sodium, 140 mmol/l), and respiratory disorders (pCO 2 , 60.5 mmHg; pO 2 , 63.8 mmHg). Plasma renin activity and aldosterone concentration were suppressed, and urinary potassium excretion was 22 mmol/l (calculated transtubular potassium gradient 12.9). An electrocardiogram showed flat T-waves and U-waves with ventricular premature contractions. Echocardiography denied volume depletion. Medical interview disclosed that she had been treated with a Chinese herbal medicine (yokukansan) containing licorice. The final diagnosis was pseudoaldosteronism and respiratory acidosis induced by licorice.  Hypokalemia , metabolic alkalosis, and respiratory acidosis all subsided shortly after the discontinuation of yokukansan and initiation of intravenous potassium replacement. This case highlights the need for nephrologists to consider the possible involvement of Chinese herbal medicines, including yokukansan, when they encounter  hypokalemia  in elderly patients. Double Knockout of the Na+-Driven Cl−/HCO3− Exchanger and Na+/Cl− Cotransporter Induces  Hypokalemia  and Volume Depletion PubMed Central Sinning, Anne; Radionov, Nikita; Trepiccione, Francesco; López-Cayuqueo, Karen I.; Jayat, Maximilien; Baron, Stéphanie; Cornière, Nicolas; Alexander, R. Todd; Hadchouel, Juliette; Eladari, Dominique; Hübner, Christian A. 2017-01-01 We recently described a novel thiazide–sensitive electroneutral NaCl transport mechanism resulting from the parallel operation of the Cl−/HCO3− exchanger pendrin and the Na+–driven Cl−/2HCO3− exchanger (NDCBE) in β-intercalated cells of the collecting duct. Although a role for pendrin in maintaining Na+ balance, intravascular volume, and BP is well supported, there is no in vivo evidence for the role of NDCBE in maintaining Na+ balance. Here, we show that deletion of NDCBE in mice caused only subtle perturbations of Na+ homeostasis and provide evidence that the Na+/Cl− cotransporter (NCC) compensated for the inactivation of NDCBE. To unmask the role of NDCBE, we generated Ndcbe/Ncc double–knockout (dKO) mice. On a normal salt diet, dKO and single-knockout mice exhibited similar activation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, whereas only dKO mice displayed a lower blood K+ concentration. Furthermore, dKO mice displayed upregulation of the epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) and the Ca2+–activated K+ channel BKCa. During NaCl depletion, only dKO mice developed marked intravascular volume contraction, despite dramatically increased renin activity. Notably, the increase in aldosterone levels expected on NaCl depletion was attenuated in dKO mice, and single-knockout and dKO mice had similar blood K+ concentrations under this condition. In conclusion, NDCBE is necessary for maintaining sodium balance and intravascular volume during salt depletion or NCC inactivation in mice. Furthermore, NDCBE has an important role in the prevention of  hypokalemia . Because NCC and NDCBE are both thiazide targets, the combined inhibition of NCC and the NDCBE/pendrin system may explain thiazide-induced  hypokalemia  in some patients. PMID:27151921 Hypokalemia  decreases testosterone production in male mice by altering luteinizing hormone secretion. PubMed Sánchez-Capelo, A; Castells, M T; Cremades, A; Peñafiel, R 1996-09-01 Potassium deficiency produced by feeding mice a low potassium diet caused a marked decrease in plasma and testicular testosterone concentrations and a concomitant fall in the weight of seminal vesicles and in renal ornithine decarboxylase activity. All of these parameters were rapidly restored when potassium supply was normalized. Immunocytochemical analysis of gonadotropes and plasma LH values suggested that the pulsatile liberation of LH by the pituitary was impaired in the potassium-deficient male mice. Because the synthesis of testosterone in the potassium-deficient mice was stimulated by exogenous LH, hCG, or GnRH, one can conclude that alteration of the transcellular potassium gradient could affect the regulation of the hypothalamo-hypophyseal-testicular axis by affecting the pulsatile release of GnRH. Our results showing that the stimulation of LH secretion after castration was similar in control and potassium-deficient male mice suggest that a testicular factor(s) different from testosterone could be implicated in the abnormal regulation of LH secretion in potassium-deficient mice. We conclude that plasma potassium concentration is an important factor in the regulation of gonadotropin secretion and testicular functions. Effect of chronic  hypokalemia  on H(+)-K(+)-ATPase expression in rat colon. PubMed Codina, J; Pressley, T A; DuBose, T D 1997-01-01 Although the kidney plays the major role in the regulation of systemic K+ homeostasis, the colon also participates substantively in K+ balance. The colon is capable of both K+ absorption and secretion, the magnitude of which can be modulated in response to dietary K+ intake. The H(+)-K(+)-adenosinetriphosphatase (H(+)-K(+)-ATPase) has been proposed as a possible mediator of K+ absorption in distal colon, but inhibitor profiles obtained in recent studies suggest that two, and perhaps more, distinct H(+)-K(+)-ATPase activities may be present in mammalian distal colon. We have developed highly specific probes for the catalytic alpha-subunits of colonic and gastric H(+)-K(+)-ATPase, alpha 1-Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase, and beta-actin, which were used in Northern analysis of total RNA from whole distal colon and stomach obtained from one of three experimental groups of rats: 1) controls, 2) chronic dietary K+ depletion, and 3) chronic metabolic acidosis. The probe for the colonic but not the gastric H(+)-K(+)-ATPase alpha-isoform hybridized to distal colon total RNA in all groups. A significant increase in colonic H(+)-K(+)-ATPase mRNA abundance was observed in response to chronic dietary K+ depletion but not to chronic metabolic acidosis. The alpha 1-isoform of Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase, which is also expressed in distal colon, did not respond consistently to either chronic dietary K+ depletion or chronic metabolic acidosis. The gastric probe did not hybridize to total RNA from distal colon but, as expected, hybridized to total stomach RNA. However, the abundance of gastric H(+)-K(+)-ATPase or Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase in stomach was not altered consistently by either chronic dietary K+ depletion or metabolic acidosis. Under the conditions of this study, it appears that the mRNA encoding the colonic alpha-isoform is upregulated by chronic dietary K+ restriction, a condition shown previously to increase K+ absorption in the distal colon. Reversible  Hypokalemia  and Bartter-Like Syndrome during Prolonged Systemic Therapy with Colistimethate Sodium in an Adult Patient. PubMed Kamal Eldin, Tarek; Tosone, Grazia; Capuano, Alfredo; Orlando, Raffaele 2017-12-01 We present the case of a 58-year-old woman who developed hypokalaemia and metabolic alkalosis 2 weeks after therapy with colistimethate sodium for the treatment of chronic lower limb ulcer infection by extensively drug-resistant (XDR) Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The metabolic changes observed resembled Bartter syndrome, a group of congenital disorders affecting the distal segments of the renal tubules. The metabolic abnormalities reversed spontaneously 6 days after drug discontinuation. Acquired forms of Bartter syndrome have been reported during courses of antibiotic therapy; however, to our knowledge, this is the first documented case associated with colistimethate therapy in an adult. Clinical characterization and diagnosis of cystic fibrosis through exome sequencing in Chinese infants with Bartter-syndrome-like  hypokalemia  alkalosis. PubMed Qiu, Liru; Yang, Fengjie; He, Yonghua; Yuan, Huiqing; Zhou, Jianhua 2018-03-09 Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a fatal autosomal-recessive disease caused by mutations in the CF transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene. CF is characterized by recurrent pulmonary infection with obstructive pulmonary disease. CF is common in the Caucasian population but is rare in the Chinese population. The symptoms of early-stage CF are often untypical and may sometimes manifest as Bartter syndrome (BS)-like hypokalemic alkalosis. Therefore, the ability of doctors to differentiate CF from BS-like hypokalemic alkalosis in Chinese infants is a great challenge in the timely and accurate diagnosis of CF. In China, sporadic CF has not been diagnosed in children younger than three years of age to date. Three infants, who were initially admitted to our hospital over the period of June 2013 to September 2014 with BS-like hypokalemic alkalosis, were diagnosed with CF through exome sequencing and sweat chloride measurement. The compound heterozygous mutations of the CFTR gene were detected in two infants, and a homozygous missense mutation was found in one infant. Among the six identified mutations, two are novel point mutations (c.1526G > C and c.3062C > T) that are possibly pathogenic. The three infants are the youngest Chinese patients to have been diagnosed with sporadic CF at a very early stage. Follow-up examination showed that all of the cases remained symptom-free after early intervention, indicating the potential benefit of very early diagnosis and timely intervention in children with CF. Our results demonstrate the necessity of distinguishing CF from BS in Chinese infants with hypokalemic alkalosis and the significant diagnostic value of powerful exome sequencing for rare genetic diseases. Furthermore, our findings expand the CFTR mutation spectrum associated with CF. Hypokalemic Paralysis Complicated by Concurrent Hyperthyroidism and Chronic Alcoholism: A Case Report. PubMed Tsai, Ming-Hsien; Lin, Shih-Hua; Leu, Jyh-Gang; Fang, Yu-Wei 2015-09-01 Thyrotoxic periodic paralysis (TPP) is characterized by the presence of muscle paralysis,  hypokalemia , and hyperthyroidism. We report the case of a young man with paralysis of the lower extremities, severe  hypokalemia , and concurrent hyperthyroidism. TPP was suspected; therefore, treatment consisting of judicious potassium (K+) repletion and β-blocker administration was initiated. However, urinary K+ excretion rate, as well as refractoriness to treatment, was inconsistent with TPP. Chronic alcoholism was considered as an alternative cause of  hypokalemia , and serum K+ was restored through vigorous K repletion and the addition of K+ -sparing diuretics. The presence of thyrotoxicosis and  hypokalemia  does not always indicate a diagnosis of TPP. Exclusion of TPP can be accomplished by immediate evaluation of urinary K+ excretion, acid-base status, and the amount of potassium chloride required to correct  hypokalemia  at presentation. Hypokalemic Paralysis Complicated by Concurrent Hyperthyroidism and Chronic Alcoholism PubMed Central Tsai, Ming-Hsien; Lin, Shih-Hua; Leu, Jyh-Gang; Fang, Yu-Wei 2015-01-01 Abstract Thyrotoxic periodic paralysis (TPP) is characterized by the presence of muscle paralysis,  hypokalemia , and hyperthyroidism. We report the case of a young man with paralysis of the lower extremities, severe  hypokalemia , and concurrent hyperthyroidism. TPP was suspected; therefore, treatment consisting of judicious potassium (K+) repletion and β-blocker administration was initiated. However, urinary K+ excretion rate, as well as refractoriness to treatment, was inconsistent with TPP. Chronic alcoholism was considered as an alternative cause of  hypokalemia , and serum K+ was restored through vigorous K+ repletion and the addition of K+-sparing diuretics. The presence of thyrotoxicosis and  hypokalemia  does not always indicate a diagnosis of TPP. Exclusion of TPP can be accomplished by immediate evaluation of urinary K+ excretion, acid-base status, and the amount of potassium chloride required to correct  hypokalemia  at presentation. PMID:26426670 [Clinical case of the month. Renovascular arterial hypertension complicated by diabetes insipidus: report of a case and review of the literature]. PubMed Feloni, S; Radermacher, L; Remy, C; Jousten, J; Corman, V 2013-01-01 Mrs. A, a 62 year old patient with a history of hypertension, polyuria and polydipsia is hospitalized after a malaise. A severe  hypokalemia , which is the cause of the polyuria and polydipsia, is discovered. The presence of hypertension and  hypokalemia  arises suspicion of a primary hyperaldosteronism and the plasma levels of renin and aldosterone are measured. Elevated aldosterone levels are combined with high plasma renin concentrations which permits to rule out primary hyperaldosteronism. Further explorations reveal a subocclusive ostial stenosis of the right renal artery. A treatment by sartan is instaured, which allows arterial pressure control and kalemia normalization. Chronic  hypokalemia  can be the cause of tubular nephropathy manifested by nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. Potassium in diet MedlinePlus ... the diet;  Hypokalemia  - potassium in the diet; Chronic kidney disease - potassium in diet; Kidney failure - potassium in diet ... are also excellent sources of potassium. People with kidney problems, especially those on dialysis, should not eat ... Can Diuretics Decrease Your Potassium Level? MedlinePlus ... of low potassium? Can diuretics decrease your potassium level? Answers from Sheldon G. Sheps, M.D. Yes, ... your urine. This can lead to low potassium levels in your blood ( hypokalemia ). Signs and symptoms of ... [Case of distal renal tubular acidosis complicated with renal diabetes insipidus, showing aggravation of symptoms with occurrence of diabetes mellitus]. PubMed Liu, Hexing; Tomoda, Fumihiro; Koike, Tsutomu; Ohara, Maiko; Nakagawa, Taizo; Kagitani, Satoshi; Inoue, Hiroshi 2011-01-01 We report herein a 27-year-old male case of inherited distal renal tubular acidosis complicated with renal diabetes insipidus, the symptoms of which were aggravated by the occurrence of diabetes mellitus. At 2 months after birth, he was diagnosed as having inherited distal renal tubular acidosis and thereafter supplementation of both potassium and alkali was started to treat his  hypokalemia  and metabolic acidosis. At the age of 4 years, calcification of the bilateral renal medulla was detected by computed tomography. Subsequently his urinary volume gradually increased and polyuria of approximately 4 L/day persisted. At the age of 27 years, he became fond of sugar-sweetened drinks and also often forgot to take the medicine. He was admitted to our hospital due to polyuria of more than 10 L day, muscle weakness and gait disturbance. Laboratory tests disclosed worsening of both  hypokalemia  and metabolic acidosis in addition to severe hyperglycemia. It seemed likely that occurrence of diabetes mellitus and cessation of medications can induce osmotic diuresis and aggravate  hypokalemia  and metabolic acidosis. Consequently, severe dehydration,  hypokalemia -induced damage of his urinary concentration ability and enhancement of the renin angiotensin system occurred and thereby possibly worsened his  hypokalemia  and metabolic acidosis. As normalization of hyperglycemia and metabolic acidosis might have exacerbated  hypokalemia  further, dehydration and  hypokalemia  were treated first. Following intensive treatment, these abnormalities were improved, but polyuria persisted. Elevated plasma antidiuretic hormone (12.0 pg/mL) and deficit of renal responses to antidiuretic hormone suggested that the polyuria was attributable to the preexisting renal diabetes insipidus possibly caused by bilateral renal medulla calcification. Thiazide diuretic or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs were not effective for the treatment of diabetes insipidus in the present case. Hypokalemic periodic paralysis as first sign of thyrotoxicosis. PubMed Trifanescu, R A; Danciulescu Miulescu, R; Carsote, M; Poiana, C 2013-03-15 periodic paralysis related to  hypokalemia  is seldom reported in thyrotoxicosis, and it usually occurs in Asian males. Two Romanian (Caucasian) young patients presented with hypokalemic paralysis. TSH, FT4, TT3 was measured by immunochemiluminescence. Case report 1. Patient O.R, aged 19, presented marked asthenia and lower limbs paralysis, following high carbohydrate meal. He declared 10 kg weight loss on hypocaloric diet and mild sweating. Biochemical data revealed moderate  hypokalemia  (K+=2.6 mmol/L) and thyrotoxicosis (TSH < 0.03 mIU/L, FT4=30 pmol/L, TT3=315 ng/dL). Case report 2. Patient T.A., aged 18, presented 2 episodes of weakness and flaccid paralysis, with  hypokalemia , precipitated by effort, without any sign of thyrotoxicosis. Biochemical data revealed severe  hypokalemia  (K+=1.8 mmol/L) and thyrotoxicosis (TSH < 0.03 mIU/L, FT4=24 pmol/L, TT3=190 ng/dL). Treatment with intravenous potassium, thereafter methimazole and propranolol were administered in both cases, with the maintenance of normal kalemia and thyrotoxicosis' control. these 2 cases of hypokalemic periodic paralysis occurring in young Caucasian teenagers with mild thyrotoxicosis underlined the importance of thyroid screening in patients with symptomatic  hypokalemia , even in the absence of symptoms and signs of thyrotoxicosis. Hypokalemic Paralysis Complicated by Concurrent Hyperthyroidism and Hyperaldosternoism: A Case Report. PubMed Hsiao, Yu-Hsin; Fang, Yu-Wei; Leu, Jyh-Gang; Tsai, Ming-Hsein 2017-01-04 BACKGROUND Thyrotoxic periodic paralysis (TPP) is commonly observed in patients with acute paralysis and hyperthyroidism. However, there is a possibility of secondary causes of  hypokalemia  in such a setting. CASE REPORT Herein, we present the case of a 38-year-old woman with untreated hypertension and hyperthyroidism. She presented with muscle weakness, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea since one week. The initial diagnosis was TPP. However, biochemistry tests showed  hypokalemia  with metabolic alkalosis and renal potassium wasting. Moreover, a suppressed plasma renin level and a high plasma aldosterone level were noted, which was suggestive of primary aldosteronism. Abdominal computed tomography confirmed this diagnosis. CONCLUSIONS Therefore, it is imperative to consider other causes of  hypokalemia  (apart from TPP) in a patient with hyperthyroidism but with renal potassium wasting and metabolic alkalosis. This can help avoid delay in diagnosis of the underlying disease. Hypokalemic muscular paralysis causing acute respiratory failure due to rhabdomyolysis with renal tubular acidosis in a chronic glue sniffer. PubMed Kao, K C; Tsai, Y H; Lin, M C; Huang, C C; Tsao, C Y; Chen, Y C 2000-01-01 A 34-year-old male was admitted to the emergency department with the development of quadriparesis and respiratory failure due to  hypokalemia  after prolonged glue sniffing. The patient was subsequently given mechanical ventilatory support for respiratory failure. He was weaned from the ventilator 4 days later after potassium replacement. Toluene is an aromatic hydrocarbon found in glues, cements, and solvents. It is known to be toxic to the nervous system, hematopoietic system, and causes acid-base and electrolyte disorders. Acute respiratory failure with  hypokalemia  and rhabdomyolysis with acute renal failure should be considered as potential events in a protracted glue sniffing. Co-secretion of aldosterone and cortisol by an adrenocortical carcinoma. PubMed Kurtulmus, Neslihan; Yarman, Sema; Azizlerli, Halil; Kapran, Yersu 2004-01-01 We report a rare case of adrenocortical carcinoma. A 26-year-old woman presented with  hypokalemia  and hypertension due to hyperaldosteronism. She had no signs of Cushing's syndrome. Endocrinological data showed excess of aldosterone production and nonsupressible cortisol production on 2 mg of dexamethasone. Magnetic resonance imaging showed left adrenal tumor. Transabdominal left adrenalectomy was performed and histopathological diagnosis was adrenocortical carcinoma. Her blood pressure and  hypokalemia  returned to normal after adrenalectomy. There is no recurrence after 36 months. We want to emphasis the importance of adrenal tests before the operation even if there are no signs of excess cortisol production. Thyrotoxic periodic paralysis: a case report and literature review. PubMed Barahona, M J; Vinagre, I; Sojo, L; Cubero, J M; Pérez, Antonio 2009-09-01 We describe a 37-year-old man with a 4-month history of episodic muscular weakness, involving mainly lower-limbs.  Hypokalemia  was documented in one episode and managed with intravenous potassium chloride. Hyperthyroidism was diagnosed 4 months after onset of attacks because of mild symptoms. The patient was subsequently diagnosed as having thyrotoxic periodic paralysis associated with Graves' disease. Treatment with propranolol and methimazol was initiated and one year later he remains euthyroid and symptom free. Thyrotoxic periodic paralysis is a rare disorder, especially among Caucasians, but it should always be considered in patients with acute paralysis and  hypokalemia , and thyroid function should be evaluated. Bartter syndrome: presentation in an extremely premature neonate. PubMed Flores, F X; Ojeda, F J; Calhoun, D A 2013-08-01 Reports of Bartter syndrome in premature neonates are rare. We describe the presentation and clinical course of a neonate born at 25.6 weeks estimated gestational age with polyuria, hyponatremia,  hypokalemia  and hypercalciuria ,who was diagnosed with neonatal Bartter syndrome. The evaluation, diagnosis and management of neonatal Bartter syndrome in this premature neonate are discussed. Reninoma presenting as cardiac syncope PubMed Central Tak, Shahid I; Wani, Mohd Lateef; Khan, Khursheed A; Alai, Mohd Sultan; Shera, Altaf Hussain; Ahangar, Abdul G; Khan, Yasir Bashir; Nayeem-ul-Hassan; Irshad, Ifat 2011-01-01 Reninoma, a renin-secreting tumor of the juxta-glomerular cells of the kidney, is a rare but surgically treatable cause of secondary hypertension in children. We report a case of reninoma presenting as cardiac syncope with long QTc on electrocardiogram due to  hypokalemia . PMID:21677812 Hypokalemic paralysis and megaloblastic anaemia in Laurence-Moon-Bardet-Biedl syndrome. PubMed Abbasi, Amanullah; Butt, Nazish; Sultan, Baseer; Munir, S M 2009-03-01 Laurence-Moon-Bardet-Biedl syndrome is a rare, genetically heterogeneous autosomal recessive disorder, characterized by progressive retinal dystrophy, polydactyly, obesity, hypogonadism, mental retardation, and renal dysfunction. Other manifestations include diabetes mellitus, heart disease, hepatic fibrosis and neurological features. Herein, 2 patients with Laurence-Moon-Bardet-Biedl syndrome are described, who had features of persistent  hypokalemia  and megaloblastic anemia. Life-Threatening Hypokalemic Paralysis in a Young Bodybuilder PubMed Central Cheung, Kitty K. T.; So, Wing-Yee; Kong, Alice P. S.; Ma, Ronald C. W.; Chow, Francis C. C. 2014-01-01 We report a case of life-threatening  hypokalemia  in a 28-year-old bodybuilder who presented with sudden onset bilateral lower limbs paralysis few days after his bodybuilding competition. His electrocardiogram (ECG) showed typical u-waves due to severe  hypokalemia  (serum potassium 1.6 mmol/L, reference range (RR) 3.5–5.0 mmol/L). He was admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) and was treated with potassium replacement. The patient later admitted that he had exposed himself to weight loss agents of unknown nature, purchased online, and large carbohydrate loads in preparation for the competition. He made a full recovery after a few days and discharged himself from the hospital against medical advice. The severe  hypokalemia  was thought to be caused by several mechanisms to be discussed in this report. With the ever rising number of new fitness centers recently, the ease of online purchasing of almost any drug, and the increasing numbers of youngsters getting into the bodybuilding arena, clinicians should be able to recognize the possible causes of sudden severe  hypokalemia  in these patients in order to revert the pathophysiology. PMID:24660073 Molecular cloning of ion channels in Felis catus that are related to periodic paralyses in man: a contribution to the understanding of the genetic susceptibility to feline neck ventroflexion and paralysis PubMed Central Zapata, Marlyn; Kunii, Ilda S.; Paninka, Rolf M.; Simões, Denise M. N.; Castillo, Víctor A.; Reche, Archivaldo; Maciel, Rui M. B.; Dias da Silva, Magnus R. 2014-01-01 ABSTRACT Neck ventroflexion in cats has different causes; however, the most common is the  hypokalemia  associated with flaccid paralysis secondary to chronic renal failure. In humans, the most common causes of acute flaccid paralysis are  hypokalemia  precipitated by thyrotoxicosis and familial forms linked to mutations in sodium, potassium, and calcium channel genes. Here, we describe the sequencing and analysis of skeletal muscle ion channels in Felis catus that could be related to periodic paralyses in humans, contributing to the understanding of the genetic susceptibility to feline neck ventroflexion and paralysis. We studied genomic DNA from eleven cats, including five animals that were hyperthyroid with  hypokalemia , although only one presented with muscle weakness, and six healthy control domestic cats. We identified the ion channel ortholog genes KCNJ2, KCNJ12, KCNJ14, CACNA1S and SCN4A in the Felis catus genome, together with several polymorphic variants. Upon comparative alignment with other genomes, we found that Felis catus provides evidence for a high genomic conservation of ion channel sequences. Although we hypothesized that neck ventroflexion in cats could be associated with a thyrotoxic or familial periodic paralysis channel mutation, we did not identify any previously detected human channel mutation in the hyperthyroid cat presenting  hypokalemia . However, based on the small number of affected cats in this study, we cannot yet rule out this molecular mechanism. Notwithstanding, hyperthyroidism should still be considered as a differential diagnosis in hypokalemic feline paralysis. PMID:25063199 Life-threatening hypokalemic paralysis in a young bodybuilder. PubMed Cheung, Kitty K T; So, Wing-Yee; Kong, Alice P S; Ma, Ronald C W; Chow, Francis C C 2014-01-01 We report a case of life-threatening  hypokalemia  in a 28-year-old bodybuilder who presented with sudden onset bilateral lower limbs paralysis few days after his bodybuilding competition. His electrocardiogram (ECG) showed typical u-waves due to severe  hypokalemia  (serum potassium 1.6 mmol/L, reference range (RR) 3.5-5.0 mmol/L). He was admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) and was treated with potassium replacement. The patient later admitted that he had exposed himself to weight loss agents of unknown nature, purchased online, and large carbohydrate loads in preparation for the competition. He made a full recovery after a few days and discharged himself from the hospital against medical advice. The severe  hypokalemia  was thought to be caused by several mechanisms to be discussed in this report. With the ever rising number of new fitness centers recently, the ease of online purchasing of almost any drug, and the increasing numbers of youngsters getting into the bodybuilding arena, clinicians should be able to recognize the possible causes of sudden severe  hypokalemia  in these patients in order to revert the pathophysiology. Refeeding syndrome in a small-for-dates micro-preemie receiving early parenteral nutrition. PubMed Mizumoto, Hiroshi; Mikami, Masamitsu; Oda, Hirotsugu; Hata, Daisuke 2012-10-01 This report describes a small-for-date extremely low birth weight infant who manifested bradycardic events, respiratory failure, and hemolytic jaundice during her first week of life. These complications were attributed to severe hypophosphatemia and  hypokalemia . Inadequate supply and refeeding syndrome triggered by early aggressive parenteral nutrition were responsible for electrolyte abnormalities. © 2012 The Authors. Pediatrics International © 2012 Japan Pediatric Society. Hyperkalemia is Associated with Increased 30-Day Mortality in Hip Fracture Patients. PubMed Norring-Agerskov, Debbie; Madsen, Christian Medom; Abrahamsen, Bo; Riis, Troels; Pedersen, Ole B; Jørgensen, Niklas Rye; Bathum, Lise; Lauritzen, Jes Bruun; Jørgensen, Henrik L 2017-07-01 Abnormal plasma concentrations of potassium in the form of hyper- and  hypokalemia  are frequent among hospitalized patients and have been linked to poor outcomes. In this study, we examined the prevalence of hypo- and hyperkalemia in patients admitted with a fractured hip as well as the association with 30-day mortality in these patients. A total of 7293 hip fracture patients (aged 60 years or above) with admission plasma potassium measurements were included. Data on comorbidity, medication, and death was retrieved from national registries. The association between plasma potassium and mortality was examined using Cox proportional hazards models adjusted for age, sex, and comorbidities. The prevalence of hypo- and hyperkalemia on admission was 19.8% and 6.6%, respectively. The 30-day mortality rates were increased for patients with hyperkalemia (21.0%, p  <  0.0001) compared to normokalemic patients (9.5%), whereas  hypokalemia  was not significantly associated with mortality. After adjustment for age, sex, and individual comorbidities, hyperkalemia was still associated with increased risk of death 30 days after admission (HR = 1.93 [1.55-2.40], p  <  0.0001). After the same adjustments,  hypokalemia  remained non-associated with increased risk of 30-day mortality (HR = 1.06 [0.87-1.29], p = 0.6). Hyperkalemia, but not  hypokalemia , at admission is associated with increased 30-day mortality after a hip fracture. Physiologic Aspects of Porcine Hemorrhage. V. Arterial Metabolite, Electrolyte, and Enzyme Alterations during Spontaneous Recovery from 30 and 50 Percent Blood Volume Loss in the Conscious Animal. DTIC Science  &  Technology 1982-02-01 reduced skeletal muscle glucose phosphorylation (13), phosphat- emia (13), hyperkalemia (17,19), and an increase in plasma acid hydrolase concentration...injections lead not only to hepatic glycogenolysis and hyperglycemia, but also to a brief transient hyperkalemia followed by prolonged  hypokalemia  (76-78 Fanconi syndrome and severe polyuria: an uncommon clinicobiological presentation of a Gitelman syndrome. PubMed Bouchireb, Karim; Boyer, Olivia; Mansour-Hendili, Lamisse; Garnier, Arnaud; Heidet, Laurence; Niaudet, Patrick; Salomon, Remi; Poussou, Rosa Vargas 2014-08-11 Gitelman syndrome is an autosomal recessive tubulopathy characterized by  hypokalemia , hypomagnesemia, metabolic alkalosis and hypocalciuria. The majority of patients do not present with symptoms until late childhood or adulthood, and the symptoms are generally mild. We report here the first case of Gitelman syndrome presenting with the biological features of Fanconi syndrome and an early polyuria since the neonatal period. We discuss in this article the atypical electrolytes losses found in our patient, as well as the possible mechanisms of severe polyuria. A 6-year-old Caucasian girl was admitted via the Emergency department for vomiting, and initial laboratory investigations found hyponatremia,  hypokalemia , metabolic acidosis with normal anion gap, hypophosphatemia, and hypouricemia. Urinalysis revealed Na, K, Ph and uric acid losses. Thus, the initial biological profile was in favor of a proximal tubular defect. However, etiological investigations were inconclusive and the patient was discharged with potassium chloride and phosphorus supplementation. Three weeks later, further laboratory analysis indicated persistent  hypokalemia , a metabolic alkalosis, hypomagnesemia, and hypocalciuria. We therefore sequenced the SLC12A3 gene and found a compound heterozygosity for 2 known missense mutations. Gitelman syndrome can have varying and sometimes atypical presentations, and should be suspected in case of hypokalemic tubular disorders that do not belong to any obvious syndromic entity. In this case, the proximal tubular dysfunction could be secondary to the severe  hypokalemia . This report emphasizes the need for clinicians to repeat laboratory tests in undiagnosed tubular disorders, especially not during decompensation episodes. Fanconi syndrome and severe polyuria: an uncommon clinicobiological presentation of a Gitelman syndrome PubMed Central 2014-01-01 Background Gitelman syndrome is an autosomal recessive tubulopathy characterized by  hypokalemia , hypomagnesemia, metabolic alkalosis and hypocalciuria. The majority of patients do not present with symptoms until late childhood or adulthood, and the symptoms are generally mild. We report here the first case of Gitelman syndrome presenting with the biological features of Fanconi syndrome and an early polyuria since the neonatal period. We discuss in this article the atypical electrolytes losses found in our patient, as well as the possible mechanisms of severe polyuria. Case presentation A 6-year-old Caucasian girl was admitted via the Emergency department for vomiting, and initial laboratory investigations found hyponatremia,  hypokalemia , metabolic acidosis with normal anion gap, hypophosphatemia, and hypouricemia. Urinalysis revealed Na, K, Ph and uric acid losses. Thus, the initial biological profile was in favor of a proximal tubular defect. However, etiological investigations were inconclusive and the patient was discharged with potassium chloride and phosphorus supplementation. Three weeks later, further laboratory analysis indicated persistent  hypokalemia , a metabolic alkalosis, hypomagnesemia, and hypocalciuria. We therefore sequenced the SLC12A3 gene and found a compound heterozygosity for 2 known missense mutations. Conclusions Gitelman syndrome can have varying and sometimes atypical presentations, and should be suspected in case of hypokalemic tubular disorders that do not belong to any obvious syndromic entity. In this case, the proximal tubular dysfunction could be secondary to the severe  hypokalemia . This report emphasizes the need for clinicians to repeat laboratory tests in undiagnosed tubular disorders, especially not during decompensation episodes. PMID:25112827 Hypokalemic paralysis in a middle-aged female with classic Bartter syndrome. PubMed Chiang, Wen-Fang; Lin, Shih-Hung; Chan, Jenq-Shyong; Lin, Shih-Hua 2014-02-01 Inherited classic Bartter syndrome (cBS) is an autosomal recessive renal tubular disorder resulting from inactivating mutations in the asolateral chloride channel (C1C-Kb) and usually presents in early infancy or childhood with mild to moderate  hypokalemia . Profound hypokalemic paralysis in patients with cBS is extremely rare, especially in middle age. A 45-year-old Chinese female patient was referred for evaluation of chronic severe  hypokalemia  despite regular K+ supplementation (1 mmol/kg/d). She had had two episodes of muscle paralysis due to severe  hypokalemia  (K+ 1.9 - 2.1 mmol/l) in the past 3 years. She denied vomiting, diarrhea, or the use of laxatives or diuretics. Her blood pressure was normal. Biochemical studies showed  hypokalemia  (K+ 2.5 mmol/l) with renal potassium wasting, metabolic alkalosis (HCO3- 32 mmol/l), normomagnesemia (Mg2+ 0.8 mmol/l), hypercalciuria (calcium to creatinine ratio 0.5 mmol/mmol; normal  <  0.22 mmol/mol), high plasma renin activity, but normal plasma aldosterone concentration. Abdominal sonography revealed neither renal stones nor nephrocalcinosis. Acquired causes of cBS such as autoimmune disease and drugs were all excluded. Molecular analysis of the CLCNKB gene, encoding ClC-Kb, and SLC12A3, encoding the thiazide-sensitive sodium chloride cotransporter (NCC), revealed compound heterozygous mutations in CLCNKB (L335P and G470E) inherited from her parents; her SLC12A3 was normal. These two mutations were not identified in 100 healthy subjects. Her plasma K+ concentration rose to 3 - 3.5 mmol/l after the addition of spironolactone. Inherited cBS may present with hypokalemic paralysis and should be considered in adult patients with  hypokalemia  and metabolic alkalosis. 20-Day Trend of Serum Potassium Changes in Bam Earthquake Victims with Crush Syndrome; a Cross-sectional Study. PubMed Safari, Saeed; Najafi, Iraj; Hosseini, Mostafa; Baratloo, Alireza; Yousefifard, Mahmoud; Mohammadi, Hamidreza 2017-01-01 Many of those who survive following an earthquake die in the next phase due to preventable and treatable medical conditions such as hyperkalemia. The present study aimed to evaluate the trend of potassium changes in crush syndrome patients of Bam earthquake. In this retrospective cross-sectional study, using the database of Bam earthquake victims, which were developed by Iranian Society of Nephrology following Bam earthquake, Iran, 2003, the 20-day trend of potassium changes in > 15 years old crush syndrome patients was evaluated. 135 crush syndrome patients with the mean age of 29.9 ± 9.91 years were evaluated (56.3% male). Mean potassium concentration during the first 3 days of admission was 5.6 ± 1.3 mEq/L. On the day of admission, 43.1% (95% CI: 34.0 - 52.2) had normal potassium concentration, 3.4% (95% CI: 0.1 - 6.8) had  hypokalemia , and 53.4% (44.3 - 62.6) had hyperkalemia. During 20-day follow-up, 62.3% (95% CI: 66.7-71.9) of the patients had normal potassium. While, 11.5% (95% CI: 9.7-13.3) had  hypokalemia  and 19.2% (95% CI: 17.0-21.5) had hyperkalemia. As the days of hospitalization increased, prevalence of hyperkalemia decreased while  hypokalemia  increased. On the 17 th day 21.2% (95% CI: 2.2-39.9) had  hypokalemia  and 10.5% (95% CI: 0.1 - 24.7) had hyperkalemia. Findings of the present study showed that following urine alkalinization and fluid resuscitation, the prevalence of hyperkalemia reduced, but  hypokalemia  developed. It seems that the correction of serum potassium level should be accompanied by precise monitoring of intake and output of the patient and prescription of reasonable amount of intravenous fluid. A Dynamical Threshold for Cardiac Delayed Afterdepolarization-Mediated Triggered Activity. PubMed Liu, Michael B; Ko, Christopher Y; Song, Zhen; Garfinkel, Alan; Weiss, James N; Qu, Zhilin 2016-12-06 Ventricular myocytes are excitable cells whose voltage threshold for action potential (AP) excitation is ∼-60 mV at which I Na is activated to give rise to a fast upstroke. Therefore, for a short stimulus pulse to elicit an AP, a stronger stimulus is needed if the resting potential lies further away from the I Na threshold, such as in  hypokalemia . However, for an AP elicited by a long duration stimulus or a diastolic spontaneous calcium release, we observed that the stimulus needed was lower in  hypokalemia  than in normokalemia in both computer simulations and experiments of rabbit ventricular myocytes. This observation provides insight into why  hypokalemia  promotes calcium-mediated triggered activity, despite the resting potential lying further away from the I Na threshold. To understand the underlying mechanisms, we performed bifurcation analyses and demonstrated that there is a dynamical threshold, resulting from a saddle-node bifurcation mainly determined by I K1 and I NCX . This threshold is close to the voltage at which I K1 is maximum, and lower than the I Na threshold. After exceeding this dynamical threshold, the membrane voltage will automatically depolarize above the I Na threshold due to the large negative slope of the I K1 -V curve. This dynamical threshold becomes much lower in  hypokalemia , especially with respect to calcium, as predicted by our theory. Because of the saddle-node bifurcation, the system can automatically depolarize even in the absence of I Na to voltages higher than the I Ca,L threshold, allowing for triggered APs in single myocytes with complete I Na block. However, because I Na is important for AP propagation in tissue, blocking I Na can still suppress premature ventricular excitations in cardiac tissue caused by calcium-mediated triggered activity. This suppression is more effective in normokalemia than in  hypokalemia  due to the difference in dynamical thresholds. Copyright Â© 2016 Biophysical Society. Published by Elsevier Inc Clinical Signs of Radiologic Pneumonia in Under-Five Hypokalemic Diarrheal Children Admitted to an Urban Hospital in Bangladesh PubMed Central Chisti, Mohammod Jobayer; Salam, Mohammed Abdus; Ashraf, Hasan; Faruque, Abu S. G.; Bardhan, Pradip Kumar; Das, Sumon Kumar; Shahunja, K. M.; Shahid, Abu S. M. S. B.; Ahmed, Tahmeed 2013-01-01 Background Clinical signs of pneumonia are often veiled in under-five diarrheal children presenting with  hypokalemia , making clinical diagnosis of pneumonia very difficult in such population. However, there is no published report that describes the influences of  hypokalemia  on the clinical signs of pneumonia in diarrheal children. Our objective was to assess the influences of  hypokalemia , and their outcome in such children. Methods We prospectively enrolled all under-five diarrheal children (n = 180) admitted to the Special Care Ward of the Dhaka Hospital of icddr,b from September-December 2007 with radiological pneumonia who also had their serum potassium estimated. We compared the clinical features and outcome of the diarrheal children having pneumonia with (cases = 55) and without  hypokalemia  (controls = 125). Results The case-fatality among the cases was 2 times higher compared to the controls, but the difference was not statistically significant (p = 0.202). In logistic regression analysis, after adjusting for potential confounders such as age of the patient, clinical dehydration, severe wasting, abnormally sleepy, lower chest wall in-drawing, nasal flaring and inability to drink on admission, under-five diarrheal children with pneumonia who presented with nutritional edema had 3 times more risk to have  hypokalemia  compared to those without nutritional edema (OR = 2.76, 95% CI = 1.01–7.51) and these hypokalemic children were 64% less likely to present with fast breathing (OR = 0.36, 95% CI = 0.17–0.74). Conclusion and significance The results of our analysis are simple but may have great public health implications and underscore the importance of diligent assessment for pneumonia in under-five diarrheal children having risk of  hypokalemia  as in children with nutritional edema even in absence of fast breathing, a useful sign of pneumonia. This may help for early initiation of first dose of parental antibiotics along with Plasma potassium, diuretic use and risk of developing chronic kidney disease in a predominantly White population PubMed Central Eisenga, Michele F.; Joosten, Michel M.; de Boer, Rudolf A.; Gansevoort, Ron T.; Kootstra-Ros, Jenny E.; Navis, Gerjan; Bakker, Stephan J. L. 2017-01-01 Objective Both  hypokalemia  and hyperkalemia are associated with disease progression in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD). It is unclear whether similar associations are present in the general population. Our aim was to examine the association of plasma potassium with risk of developing CKD and the role of diuretics in this association in a population-based cohort. Research design and methods We studied 5,130 subjects free of CKD at baseline of the Prevention of Renal and Vascular End-Stage Disease (PREVEND) study, a prospective, population-based cohort of Dutch men and women aged 28–75 years.  Hypokalemia  was defined as plasma potassium  < 3.5 mmol/L, and hyperkalemia as plasma potassium ≥5.0 mmol/L. Risk of CKD was defined as de novo development of eGFR  < 60 ml/min/1.73m2 and/or albuminuria >30 mg/24h. Results Mean baseline plasma potassium was 4.4±0.3 mmol/L. The prevalences of  hypokalemia  and hyperkalemia were 0.5% and 3.8%, respectively; 3.0% of the subjects used diuretics. During a median follow-up of 10.3 years (interquartile range: 6.3–11.4 years), 753 subjects developed CKD. The potassium-CKD association was modified by diuretic use (Pinteraction = 0.02). Both  hypokalemia  without (HR, 7.74, 95% CI, 3.43–17.48) or with diuretic use (HR, 4.32, 95% CI, 1.77–10.51) were associated with an increased CKD risk as compared to plasma potassium 4.0–4.4 mmol/L without diuretic use. Plasma potassium concentrations ≥3.5 mmol/L were associated with an increased CKD risk among subjects using diuretics (Ptrend = 0.01) but not among subjects not using diuretics (Ptrend = 0.74). Conclusion In this population-based cohort,  hypokalemia  was associated with an increased CKD risk, regardless of diuretic use. In the absence of  hypokalemia , plasma potassium was not associated with an increased CKD risk, except among subjects using diuretics. PMID:28346526 Paroxysmal paralytic attacks secondary to excessive cola consumption. PubMed Dubey, Divyanshu; Sawhney, Anshudha; Sharma, Abhishek; Dubey, Devashish 2014-09-01 We report a rare case of cola-induced  hypokalemia  presenting as recurrent attacks of lower extremity weakness and falls. Excessive consumption of cola-based drinks has been associated with dental enamel erosion, obesity, and diabetes. There are very few published cases depicting the correlation between cola drinks and hypokalemic manifestations. In our patient an extensive workup was performed, and common causes were ruled out before making the diagnosis of cola-induced  hypokalemia . Improvement in the patient's symptoms and electrolyte levels after reducing the consumption of cola-based drinks further confirmed our diagnosis. This case also emphasizes the importance of obtaining a detailed history and consideration of broad differential diagnoses in identifying uncommon but reversible etiologies. © 2014 Marshfield Clinic. [Primary hyperaldosteronism: problems of diagnostic approaches]. PubMed Widimský, Jiří 2015-05-01 Primary hyperaldosteronism (PH) is common cause of endocrine/secondary hypertension with autonomous aldosterone overproduction by adrenal cortex. PH is typically characterized by hypertension,  hypokalemia , high plasma aldosterone/renin ratio, high aldosterone, suppressed renin and nonsupressibilty of aldosterone during confirmatory tests. Diagnosis of PH can be difficult since  hypokalemia  is found only in 50 % of cases and measurement of the parameters of renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system can be influenced by several factors. Morphological dia-gnosis requires in majority of cases adrenal venous sampling. Early diagnostic and therapeutic measures are very important due to high prevalence of PH and potential cure. Patients with suspicion to PH should be investigated in experienced hypertensive centers due to relatively difficult laboratory and morphological diagnostic approaches. Bartter syndrome and growth hormone deficiency: three cases. PubMed Buyukcelik, Mithat; Keskin, Mehmet; Kilic, Beltinge Demircioglu; Kor, Yilmaz; Balat, Ayse 2012-11-01 Bartter syndrome is a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by  hypokalemia , salt loss, and metabolic alkalosis. Short stature is one of the clinical manifestations in these children. Although polyuria, polydipsia,  hypokalemia , and salt loss may be responsible for growth retardation, the exact pathogenesis of short stature in Bartter syndrome is not known. In this study, we present three children diagnosed as having Bartter syndrome with short stature and growth hormone (GH) deficiency. After recombinant human growth hormone therapy (rhGH), their growth velocities were improved. These results indicate that GH deficiency may contribute to short stature in children with Bartter syndrome, and rhGH therapy would be an excellent adjunctive treatment for short children with this syndrome whose condition is resistant to conventional therapies in terms of growth. Primary Molecular Disorders and Secondary Biological Adaptations in Bartter Syndrome PubMed Central Deschênes, Georges; Fila, Marc 2011-01-01 Bartter syndrome is a hereditary disorder that has been characterized by the association of  hypokalemia , alkalosis, and the hypertrophy of the juxtaglomerular complex with secondary hyperaldosteronism and normal blood pressure. By contrast, the genetic causes of Bartter syndrome primarily affect molecular structures directly involved in the sodium reabsorption at the level of the Henle loop. The ensuing urinary sodium wasting and chronic sodium depletion are responsible for the contraction of the extracellular volume, the activation of the renin-aldosterone axis, the secretion of prostaglandins, and the biological adaptations of downstream tubular segments, meaning the distal convoluted tubule and the collecting duct. These secondary biological adaptations lead to  hypokalemia  and alkalosis, illustrating a close integration of the solutes regulation in the tubular structures. PMID:21941653 Pregnancy in inherited hypokalemic salt-losing renal tubular disorder. PubMed Mascetti, Laura; Bettinelli, Alberto; Simonetti, Giacomo D; Tagliabue, Alessandro; Syrén, Marie Lousie; Nordio, Francesco; Bianchetti, Mario G 2011-02-01 The management of inherited  hypokalemia  has improved and the issue of pregnancy has become important. Between 1992 and 2010, five Italian women with the clinical diagnosis of Gitelman syndrome gave birth to a total of six newborns. Pregnancy was uneventful in four women but was complicated by tiredness and tetanic seizures in the fifth woman. Drug management included potassium chloride in four cases and magnesium and amiloride in one case each. The six neonates were born at term (n=4) or near term (n=2), with a body weight that was appropriate for gestational age. The children, aged between 6 weeks and 18 years, were healthy and neurodevelopmentally and somatically normal at the last follow-up. Women with  hypokalemia  can become pregnant and the disorder may be managed without negative effect on the fetus. Paroxysmal Paralytic Attacks Secondary to Excessive Cola Consumption PubMed Central Dubey, Divyanshu; Sawhney, Anshudha; Sharma, Abhishek; Dubey, Devashish 2014-01-01 We report a rare case of cola-induced  hypokalemia  presenting as recurrent attacks of lower extremity weakness and falls. Excessive consumption of cola-based drinks has been associated with dental enamel erosion, obesity, and diabetes. There are very few published cases depicting the correlation between cola drinks and hypokalemic manifestations. In our patient an extensive workup was performed, and common causes were ruled out before making the diagnosis of cola-induced  hypokalemia . Improvement in the patient’s symptoms and electrolyte levels after reducing the consumption of cola-based drinks further confirmed our diagnosis. This case also emphasizes the importance of obtaining a detailed history and consideration of broad differential diagnoses in identifying uncommon but reversible etiologies. PMID:24573702 [Alcoholic ketoacidosis and reversible neurological complications due to hypophosphataemia]. PubMed Fernández López, Ma T; García Bargo, Ma D; Rivero Luis, Ma T; Álvarez Vázquez, P; Saenz Fernández, C A; Mato Mato, J A 2012-01-01 A 57-year-old man with chronic alcoholism was admitted to our hospital due to disturbance of consciousness and polyradiculitis. Laboratory examination revealed metabolic acidosis,  hypokalemia  and hypophosphataemia. Alcoholic ketoacidosis is a common disorder in alcoholic patients. All patients present with a history of heavy alcohol misuse, preceding a bout of particularly excesive intake, which had been terminated by nausea, vomiting and abdominal pain. The most important laboratory results are: normal or low glucose level, metabolic acidosis with a raised anion GAP, low or absent blood alcohol level and urinary ketones. The greatest threats to patients are: hypovolemia, hypokaliemia, hypoglucemia and acidosis. Alcohol abuse may result in a wide range of electrolyte and acid-base disorders including hypophosphataemia, hypomagnesemia, hypocalcemia,  hypokalemia , metabolic acidosis and respiratory alkalosis. Disturbance of consciousness in alcoholic patients is observed in several disorders, such drunkenness, Wernicke encephalopathy, alcohol withdrawal syndrome, central pontine myelinolysis, hepatic encephalopathy, hypoglucemia and electrolyte disorders. Proton pump inhibitors and symptomatic hypomagnesemic hypoparathyroidism. PubMed Fatuzzo, P; Portale, G; Scollo, V; Zanoli, L; Granata, Antonio 2017-04-01 Hypomagnesemia is a common but often overlooked problem in hospitalized patients. Unrecognized hypomagnesemia can cause serious complications. The association of  hypokalemia  and hypocalcemia is strongly evocative of a magnesium deficiency. Research into the causes of hypomagnesemia is imperative, as it will definitely change the approach, treatment and prognosis. We report the case of a 65-year-old man with chronic hypocalcemia and  hypokalemia  associated with cerebellar syndrome, a solitary seizure and cerebellar hyperintensities on magnetic resonance imaging. After the detection and treatment of hypomagnesemia with oral supplements of magnesium and the replacement of pantoprazole with ranitidine, we observed immediate relief of the symptoms. In conclusion, in clinical practice, magnesium depletion should be investigated in elderly patients with hypocalcemia treated with proton pump inhibitors for many years, in particular in the presence of neurological disorders. Diffuse Lymphomatous Infiltration of Kidney Presenting as Renal Tubular Acidosis and Hypokalemic Paralysis: Case Report PubMed Central Jhamb, Rajat; Gupta, Naresh; Garg, Sandeep; Kumar, Sachin; Gulati, Sameer; Mishra, Deepak; Beniwal, Pankaj 2007-01-01 We report the case of a 22-year-old woman who presented with acute onset flaccid quadriparesis. Physical examination showed mild pallor with cervical and axillary lymphadenopathy, hepatomegaly, and bilateral smooth enlarged kidneys. Neurological examination revealed lower motor neuron muscle weakness in all the four limbs with hyporeflexia and normal sensory examination. Laboratory investigations showed anemia, severe  hypokalemia , and metabolic acidosis. Urinalysis showed a specific gravity of 1.010, pH of 7.0, with a positive urine anion gap. Ultrasound revealed hepatosplenomegaly with bilateral enlarged smooth kidneys. Renal biopsy was consistent with the diagnosis of non-Hodgkin lymphoma (B cell type). Metabolic acidosis, alkaline urine, and severe  hypokalemia  due to excessive urinary loss in our patient were suggestive of distal renal tubular acidosis. Renal involvement in lymphoma is usually subclinical and clinically overt renal disease is rare. Diffuse lymphomatous infiltration of the kidneys may cause tubular dysfunction and present with hypokalemic paralysis. PMID:18074421 McKittrick-Wheelock syndrome - a rare cause of acute renal failure. PubMed Popescu, Alina; Orban-Schiopu, Ana-Maria; Becheanu, Gabriel; Diculescu, Mircea 2005-03-01 Fluid and electrolyte hypersecretion in the villous adenoma of the rectum is presented in the case of a 74 year old man presenting with a severe fluid imbalance. The patient had a 2-year history of mucous diarrhea and, on admission, presented prerenal uremia, hyponatremia and severe  hypokalemia . At sigmoidoscopy, a 6/4 cm villous adenoma of the rectum was found. The increased loss of volume, followed by exhaustion of the physiological compensation mechanisms, led to a life-threatening  hypokalemia , as well as to acute renal failure. Conservative treatment was followed by a temporary improvement of the renal function. Alternative treatment was: endocavitary irradiation, endoscopic resection and radical tumor surgery. The surgical removal of the adenoma led to complete recovery of the symptoms. The McKittrick-Wheelock syndrome can be a problem of difficult diagnosis, both for the gastroenterologist and also for the nephrologist. The patient may develop severe complications, which require a sustained treatment. Paralysis as a Presenting Symptom of Hyperthyroidism in an Active Duty Soldier. PubMed Jennette, John; Tauferner, Dustin 2015-01-01 Thyrotoxic periodic paralysis (TPP) is an endocrine disorder presenting with proximal motor weakness, typically greatest in the lower extremities,  hypokalemia , and signs or laboratory findings consistent with hyperthyroidism. The incidence of TPP is highest in Asian males. This is a case report of a 30-year-old male active duty Soldier who presented to the emergency department complaining of several recent episodes of lower extremity paralysis. The patient underwent a workup which included serum and cerebrospinal fluid studies, and was found to be hypokalemic and hyperthyroid. Following consultation with neurology, the patient was admitted to the medicine service and treated for thyrotoxic periodic paralysis with potassium replacement and treatment of his hyperthyroidism. Since achieving a euthyroid state, he has had no recurrences of TPP. This disease should be considered in patients presenting with symmetric motor weakness and  hypokalemia , whether or not symptoms of hyperthyroidism are elicited during the review of systems. Antenatal Bartter syndrome presenting as hyperparathyroidism with hypercalcemia and hypercalciuria: a case report and review. PubMed Gross, Itai; Siedner-Weintraub, Yael; Simckes, Ari; Gillis, David 2015-07-01 Antenatal type I Bartter syndrome (ABS) is usually identified by the presence of polyhydramnios, premature delivery,  hypokalemia , metabolic alkalosis, hypercalciuria, and nephrocalcinosis caused by mutations in the Na-K-2Cl cotransporter (NKCC2)-encoding SLC12A1 gene. In this report, we describe a novel presentation of this syndrome with hypercalcemic hypercalciuric hyperparathyroidism, and review the literature of the variable atypical presentations of ABS. Acquired Bartter syndrome following gentamicin therapy PubMed Central Singh, J.; Patel, M. L.; Gupta, K. K.; Pandey, S.; Dinkar, A. 2016-01-01 Aminoglycoside nephrotoxicity may manifest as nonoliguric renal failure or tubular dysfunction, such as Fanconi-like syndrome, Bartter-like syndrome (BS), or distal renal tubular acidosis. We report a case who developed severe renal tubular dysfunction on the the 7th day of gentamicin therapy, resulting in metabolic alkalosis, refractory  hypokalemia , hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and polyuria. The patient was diagnosed as a case of transient BS associated with gentamicin exposure. The patient recovered with conservative management. PMID:27942182 Acquired Bartter syndrome following gentamicin therapy. PubMed Singh, J; Patel, M L; Gupta, K K; Pandey, S; Dinkar, A 2016-01-01 Aminoglycoside nephrotoxicity may manifest as nonoliguric renal failure or tubular dysfunction, such as Fanconi-like syndrome, Bartter-like syndrome (BS), or distal renal tubular acidosis. We report a case who developed severe renal tubular dysfunction on the the 7 th day of gentamicin therapy, resulting in metabolic alkalosis, refractory  hypokalemia , hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and polyuria. The patient was diagnosed as a case of transient BS associated with gentamicin exposure. The patient recovered with conservative management. Status epilepticus as the only presentation of the neonatal Bartter syndrome. PubMed Patra, Soumya; Konar, Mithun C; Basu, Rajarshi; Khaowas, Ajoy K; Dutta, Soumyadeep; Sarkar, Debanjali 2012-03-01 Bartter syndrome is a rare hereditary (autosomal recessive) salt-losing tubulopathy characterized by  hypokalemia , hypochloremia, metabolic alkalosis, and normal blood pressure with hyperreninemia, The underlying renal abnormality results in excessive urinary losses of sodium, chloride, and potassium. We report a case of a four-month-old infant with neonatal Bartter syndrome, who presented only with status epilepticus. To the best of our present knowledge, there is no reported case of Bartter syndrome who presented with status epilepticus. Roles of renal ammonia metabolism other than in acid-base homeostasis PubMed Central Weiner, I. David 2016-01-01 The importance of renal ammonia metabolism in acid-base homeostasis is well known. However, the effects of renal ammonia metabolism other than in acid-base homeostasis are not as widely recognized. First, ammonia differs from almost all other solutes in the urine in that it does not result from arterial delivery. Instead, ammonia is produced by the kidney and only a portion of the ammonia produced is excreted in the urine. The remainder is returned to the systemic circulation through the renal veins. In normal individuals, systemic ammonia addition is metabolized efficiently by the liver, but in patients with either acute or chronic liver disease, conditions that increase renal ammonia addition to the systemic circulation can cause precipitation and/or worsening of hyperammonemia. Second, ammonia appears to serve as an intra-renal paracrine signaling molecule.  Hypokalemia  increases proximal tubule ammonia production and secretion and it increases reabsorption in the thick ascending limb of the loop of Henle, thereby increasing delivery to the renal interstitium and the collecting duct. In the collecting duct, ammonia decreases potassium secretion and stimulates potassium reabsorption, thereby decreasing urinary potassium excretion and enabling feedback correction of the initiating  hypokalemia . Finally, hypokalemia’s stimulation of renal ammonia metabolism and  hypokalemia  contributes to development of metabolic alkalosis, which can stimulate NaCl reabsorption and thereby contribute to the intravascular volume expansion, increased blood pressure and diuretic resistance that can develop with  hypokalemia . In this review, we discuss the evidence supporting these novel non-acid-base roles of renal ammonia metabolism. PMID:27169421 Roles of renal ammonia metabolism other than in acid-base homeostasis. PubMed Weiner, I David 2017-06-01 The importance of renal ammonia metabolism in acid-base homeostasis is well known. However, the effects of renal ammonia metabolism other than in acid-base homeostasis are not as widely recognized. First, ammonia differs from almost all other solutes in the urine in that it does not result from arterial delivery. Instead, ammonia is produced by the kidney, and only a portion of the ammonia produced is excreted in the urine, with the remainder returned to the systemic circulation through the renal veins. In normal individuals, systemic ammonia addition is metabolized efficiently by the liver, but in patients with either acute or chronic liver disease, conditions that increase the addition of ammonia of renal origin to the systemic circulation can result in precipitation and/or worsening of hyperammonemia. Second, ammonia appears to serve as an intrarenal paracrine signaling molecule.  Hypokalemia  increases proximal tubule ammonia production and secretion as well as reabsorption in the thick ascending limb of the loop of Henle, thereby increasing delivery to the renal interstitium and the collecting duct. In the collecting duct, ammonia decreases potassium secretion and stimulates potassium reabsorption, thereby decreasing urinary potassium excretion and enabling feedback correction of the initiating  hypokalemia . Finally, the stimulation of renal ammonia metabolism by  hypokalemia  may contribute to the development of metabolic alkalosis, which in turn can stimulate NaCl reabsorption and contribute to the intravascular volume expansion, increased blood pressure and diuretic resistance that can develop with  hypokalemia . The evidence supporting these novel non-acid-base roles of renal ammonia metabolism is discussed in this review. Workshop on Gas Channels DTIC Science  &  Technology 2013-02-07 synthesis , signaling by EPO (erythropoietin) via its receptors. Stroud also determined the mechanisms of enzyme drug targets thymidylate synthase...rubbed Ach -8 -7 -6 w NE Furchgott et al., Nature 1980 NO synthesis COOH HCNH2 CH2 CH2 CH2 NH CNH NH2 COOH HCNH2 CH2... Hypokalemia   Increased urinary ammonia excretion  Urine alkalinization  Increased urine acidification cannot be the primary driving force Insulin and Sodium Bicarbonate Treatment of Diabetic Ketoacidosis in Children PubMed Central Reddy, Churku Mohan; Orti, Eduardo 1977-01-01 Nineteen patients, nine males and ten females had 24 episodes of diabetic ketoacidosis. Infection was the precipitating factor in the development of ketoacidosis. Recovery of ketoacidosis occurred with 0.7 units of crystalline insulin per kg of body weight. The insulin requirement is less than the generally recommended dose. Hypoglycemia,  hypokalemia , and alkalosis were not developed in our children. Ketoacidosis was adequately corrected by 2.5 mEq of sodium bicarbonate per kg of body weight. PMID:405501 Analysis of postoperative biochemical values and clinical outcomes after adrenalectomy for primary aldosteronism. PubMed Swearingen, Andrew J; Kahramangil, Bora; Monteiro, Rosebel; Krishnamurthy, Vikram; Jin, Judy; Shin, Joyce; Siperstein, Allan; Berber, Eren 2018-04-01 Primary aldosteronism causes hypertension and  hypokalemia  and is often surgically treatable. Diagnosis includes elevated plasma aldosterone, suppressed plasma renin activity, and elevated aldosterone renin ratio. Adrenalectomy improves hypertension and  hypokalemia . Postoperative plasma aldosterone and plasma renin activity may be useful in documenting cure or failure. A retrospective analysis of patients who underwent adrenalectomy for primary aldosteronism from 2010 to 2016 was performed, analyzing preoperative and postoperative plasma aldosterone, plasma renin activity, hypertension, and  hypokalemia . The utility of postoperative testing was assessed. Clinical cure was defined as improved hypertension control and resolution of potassium loss. Biochemical cure was defined as aldosterone renin ratio reduction to  < 23.6. Forty-four patients were included; 20 had plasma aldosterone and plasma renin activity checked on postoperative day 1. In the study, 40/44 (91%) were clinically cured. All clinical failures had of biochemical failure at follow-up. Postoperative day 1aldosterone renin ratio  < 23.6 had PPV of 95% for clinical cure. Cured patients had mean plasma aldosterone drop of 33.1 ng/dL on postoperative day 1; noncured patient experienced 3.9 ng/dL increase. A cutoff of plasma aldosterone decrease of 10 ng/dL had high positive predictive value for clinical cure. Changes in plasma aldosterone and plasma renin activity after adrenalectomy correlate with improved hypertension and  hypokalemia . The biochemical impact of adrenalectomy manifests as early as postoperative day 1. We propose a plasma aldosterone decrease of 10 ng/dL as a criterion to predict clinical cure. Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved. Association of Amelogenesis Imperfecta and Bartter's Syndrome. PubMed Kumar, A C V; Alekya, V; Krishna, M S V V; Alekya, K; Aruna, M; Reddy, M H K; Sangeetha, B; Ram, R; Kumar, V S 2017-01-01 Bartter's syndrome is an autosomal recessive renal tubular disorder characterized by  hypokalemia , hypochloremia, metabolic alkalosis, and hyperreninemia with normal blood pressure. Bartter's syndrome is associated with hypercalciuria and nephrocalcinosis. Amelogenesis imperfecta (AI) is a group of hereditary disorders that affect dental enamel. AI could be part of several syndromes. The enamel renal syndrome is the association of AI and nephrocalcinosis. We report two patients of AI with Bartter's syndrome. Drug-nutrient interactions in the elderly. PubMed Roe, D A 1986-03-01 Drug metabolism and efficacy may be affected simply by changing the diet of an elderly patient. For example, an increase in the protein content of the diet can affect the bioavailability of certain drugs and increase the rate of drug metabolism. All elderly patients receiving long-term drug therapies that cause diarrhea, with or without steatorrhea, should be monitored for evidence of  hypokalemia , folate deficiency, and deficiencies of vitamins A and D. Recognizing and preventing refeeding syndrome. PubMed Adkins, Susan M 2009-01-01 Refeeding syndrome is an uncommon but potentially fatal phenomenon that can occur in patients receiving parenteral, enteral, or oral feedings after a period of sustained malnutrition or starvation. This syndrome is characterized by hypophosphatemia,  hypokalemia , and hypomagnesemia. The purpose of this article was to bring an acute awareness of refeeding syndrome to the critical care nurse. The recognition, pathogenesis, clinical manifestations, potential life threatening complications, and treatment are presented. Serum potassium, mortality, and kidney outcomes in the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC) Study PubMed Central Chen, Yan; Chang, Alex R.; McAdams DeMarco, Mara A.; Inker, Lesley A.; Matsushita, Kunihiro; Ballew, Shoshana H.; Coresh, Josef; Grams, Morgan E. 2017-01-01 Objectives To investigate the association between serum potassium, mortality, and kidney outcomes in the general population and whether potassium-altering medications modify these associations. Patients and Methods We studied 15,539 adults in the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC) study. Cox proportional hazard regression was used to investigate the association of serum potassium at baseline (1987–1989), evaluated categorically ( hypokalemia ,  < 3.5 mmol/L; normokalemia, ≥3.5 and  <  5.5 mmol/L; hyperkalemia, ≥5.5 mmol/L) and continuously using linear spline terms (knots at 3.5 and 5.5 mmol/L), with mortality, sudden cardiac death (SCD), incident chronic kidney disease (CKD), and end-stage renal disease (ESRD). The end date of follow up for all outcomes was December 31, 2012. We also evaluated whether classes of potassium-altering medications modified the association between serum potassium and adverse outcomes. Results Overall, 2.7% of the participants had  hypokalemia  and 2.1% had hyperkalemia. In a fully adjusted model, hyperkalemia was significantly associated with mortality (HR: 1.24; 95% CI: 1.04–1.49) but not SCD, CKD, or ESRD.  Hypokalemia  as a categorical variable was not associated with any outcome; however, associations of  hypokalemia  with all-cause mortality and kidney outcomes were observed among those who were not taking potassium-wasting diuretics (all P for interaction  < .001). Conclusions Higher values of serum potassium were associated with higher risk of mortality in the general population. Lower levels of potassium were associated with adverse kidney outcomes and mortality among participants not taking potassium-wasting diuretics. PMID:27499535 Serum Potassium, Mortality, and Kidney Outcomes in the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities Study. PubMed Chen, Yan; Chang, Alex R; McAdams DeMarco, Mara A; Inker, Lesley A; Matsushita, Kunihiro; Ballew, Shoshana H; Coresh, Josef; Grams, Morgan E 2016-10-01 To investigate the association between serum potassium, mortality, and kidney outcomes in the general population and whether potassium-altering medications modify these associations. We studied 15,539 adults in the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities Study. Cox proportional hazard regression was used to investigate the association of serum potassium at baseline (1987-1989), evaluated categorically ( hypokalemia ,  < 3.5 mmol/L; normokalemia, ≥3.5 and  < 5.5 mmol/L; hyperkalemia, ≥5.5 mmol/L) and continuously using linear spline terms (knots at 3.5 and 5.5 mmol/L), with mortality, sudden cardiac death, incident chronic kidney disease, and end-stage renal disease. The end date of follow-up for all outcomes was December 31, 2012. We also evaluated whether classes of potassium-altering medications modified the association between serum potassium and adverse outcomes. Overall, 413 (2.7%) of the participants had  hypokalemia  and 321 (2.1%) had hyperkalemia. In a fully adjusted model, hyperkalemia was significantly associated with mortality (hazard ratio, 1.24; 95% CI, 1.04-1.49) but not sudden cardiac death, chronic kidney disease, or end-stage renal disease.  Hypokalemia  as a categorical variable was not associated with any outcome; however, associations of  hypokalemia  with all-cause mortality and kidney outcomes were observed among those who were not taking potassium-wasting diuretics (all P for interaction,  < .001). Higher values of serum potassium were associated with a higher risk of mortality in the general population. Lower levels of potassium were associated with adverse kidney outcomes and mortality among participants not taking potassium-wasting diuretics. Copyright © 2016 Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved. Effects of weightlessness on human fluid and electrolyte physiology NASA Technical Reports Server (NTRS) Leach, Carolyn S.; Johnson, Philip C., Jr. 1991-01-01 Skylab and Spacelab data on changes occurring in human fluid and electrolyte physiology during the acute and adaptive phases of adaptation to spaceflight are summarized. The combined results for all three Spacelab studies show that hyponatremia developed within 20 h after the onset of weightlessness and continued throughout the flights, and  hypokalemia  developed by 40 h. Antidiuretic hormone was increased in plasma throughout the flights. Aldosterone decreased by 40 h, but after 7 days it had reached preflight levels. A Quick Reference on Hyperkalemia. PubMed Kogika, Márcia Mery; de Morais, Helio Autran 2017-03-01 The clinical signs of hyperkalemia usually are less evident than  hypokalemia . Arrhythmia and bradycardia could be the first changes noticed. Most cases of persistent hyperkalemia are associated with renal retention of potassium. Common causes for hyperkalemia include hypoadrenocorticism, ruptured bladder, and urethral or bilateral ureteral obstruction. Drug such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers, potassium-sparing diuretics, and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs can also lead to hyperkalemia. Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved. Imaging and Molecular Markers for Patients with Lung Cancer: Approaches with Molecular Targets, Complementary/Innovative Treatment, and Therapeutic Modalities DTIC Science  &  Technology 2011-02-01 Thrombocytopenia, Grade 3 in 1 patient • Hypomagnesemia, Grade 3 in 1 patient •  Hypokalemia , Grade 3 in 2 patient • Pneumonia , Grade 3 in 7 patients...urgently needed. While the molecular events involved in lung cancer pathogenesis are being unraveled by ongoing large scale genomics, proteomics, and...tumor initiation, progression and metastasis are an important first step leading to the development of new prognostic markers and targets for therapy IMPACT: Imaging and Molecular Markers for Patients with Lung Cancer: Approaches with Molecular Targets, Complementary/Innovative Treatments, and Therapeutic Modalities DTIC Science  &  Technology 2016-04-01 Hypomagnesemia, Grade 3 in 1 patient •  Hypokalemia , Grade 3 in 2 patient • Pneumonia , Grade 3 in 7 patients • Dehydration, Grade 3 in 3 patients. Once...improvements on lab- scale radiosynthesis (Fig. 9) so that it is readily scaled up and adopted by the cGMP manufacturing. We are working on an automated...reproducibly building at the nanometer scale , including the need for streamlined and “bottom-up” approaches for assembling nanoparticle architectures, the Hypokalemic Paralysis Complicated by Concurrent Hyperthyroidism and Hyperaldosternoism: A Case Report PubMed Central Hsiao, Yu-Hsin; Fang, Yu-Wei; Leu, Jyh-Gang; Tsai, Ming-Hsien 2017-01-01 Patient: Female, 38 Final Diagnosis: Primary hyperaldosteronism Symptoms: Paralysis Medication: — Clinical Procedure: — Specialty: Nephrology Objective: Challenging differential diagnosis Background: Thyrotoxic periodic paralysis (TPP) is commonly observed in patients with acute paralysis and hyperthyroidism. However, there is a possibility of secondary causes of  hypokalemia  in such a setting. Case Report: Herein, we present the case of a 38-year-old woman with untreated hypertension and hyperthyroidism. She presented with muscle weakness, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea since one week. The initial diagnosis was TPP. However, biochemistry tests showed  hypokalemia  with metabolic alkalosis and renal potassium wasting. Moreover, a suppressed plasma renin level and a high plasma aldosterone level were noted, which was suggestive of primary aldosteronism. Abdominal computed tomography confirmed this diagnosis. Conclusions: Therefore, it is imperative to consider other causes of  hypokalemia  (apart from TPP) in a patient with hyper-thyroidism but with renal potassium wasting and metabolic alkalosis. This can help avoid delay in diagnosis of the underlying disease. PMID:28050008 Influence of Herbal Complexes Containing Licorice on Potassium Levels: A Retrospective Study PubMed Central Jung, WooSang; Kwon, SeungWon; Im, JinWook; Park, SeongUk; Moon, SangKwan; Park, JungMi; Ko, ChangNam; Cho, KiHo 2014-01-01 To observe the influence of these complexes on potassium levels in a clinical setting, we investigated the influence of herbal complexes containing licorice on potassium levels. We retrospectively examined the medical records of patients treated with herbal complexes containing licorice from January 1, 2010, to December 31, 2010. We recorded the changes in the levels of potassium, creatinine, and blood urea nitrogen and examined the differences between before and after herbal complexes intake using a paired t-test. In addition, we investigated the prevalence of  hypokalemia  among these patients and reviewed such patients. We identified 360 patients who did not show significant changes in the levels of potassium and creatinine (P = 0.815, 0.289). We observed  hypokalemia  in 6 patients. However, in 5 patients, the  hypokalemia  did not appear to be related to the licorice. Thus, we could suggest that herbal complexes containing licorice do not significantly influence the potassium levels in routine clinical herbal therapies. However, we propose that follow-up examination for potassium levels is required to prevent any unpredictable side effects of administration of licorice in routine herbal medicine care. PMID:25045393 A retrospective study of emergency department potassium disturbances: severity, treatment, and outcomes. PubMed Singer, Adam J; Thode, Henry C; Peacock, W Frank 2017-06-01 Disturbances in potassium (K) levels are relatively common and may be associated with significant morbidity and mortality; however, treatments vary. Our purpose was to determine the incidence, treatments, and outcomes associated with hyperkalemia and  hypokalemia  in emergency department (ED) patients. We performed a structured, retrospective review of electronic medical records of consecutive adult ED patients with K measured while in the ED. Demographic, clinical, and laboratory data as well as treatments, disposition, and in-hospital complications were collected. Univariate and multivariate analyses, presented as adjusted odds ratios, were used to compare outcomes by K levels. Of 100,260 visits in 2014, an ED K level was ordered in 48,827 (49%). A total of 1,738 patients (3.6%) were excluded because of sample hemolysis. The K was low ( < 3.5 mEq/L) in 5.5%, normal (3.5 to 5.0 mEq/L) in 90.9%, and elevated (>5.0 mEq/L) in 3.6% of patients. Patients with hyperkalemia were older (64 vs. 49 years, P < 0.001) and more likely male (58% vs. 40%, P < 0.001). Treatment for hyperkalemia varied greatly. After adjusting for confounders, both hyperkalemia and  hypokalemia  were associated with inpatient hospitalization and death. At least one medication was used to manage hyperkalemia in 11.5% of patients with a K of 5.1 to 5.4 mEq/L, 36.4% of those with a K 5.5 to 6 mEq/L and 77.0% of the cohort with K >6 mEq/L. Hyperkalemia or  hypokalemia  occur in 1 of 11 ED patients and are associated with inpatient admission and mortality. Treatment of hyperkalemia varies greatly suggesting the need for evidence-based treatment guidelines. QTc prolongation after brain surgery. PubMed Capparelli, Federico J; Abello, Mauricio; Patricio Maskin, L; Arista, Eugenia; Hlavnicka, Alejandro; Diaz, Maria Fernanda; Varela, Daniel; Wainsztein, Nestor A 2013-03-01 Abnormalities observed in the electrocardiogram (ECG) after acute central nervous system (CNS) events have been reported. Our objective was to assess the incidence of heart rate-corrected QT interval (QTc) prolongation in patients admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) after brain surgery. Admission standard 12-lead ECGs were analyzed blinded to patient data. The QT interval was measured and Bazzett's formula was used to obtain QTc. Prolonged QTc was defined as ≧450 ms. We included 114 patients in the study. The mean age was 49±17 years. Brain neoplasm was the surgical indication in 90% of the patients. The mean QTc was 470±42 ms. Prolonged QTc was found in 71% patients. The heart rate-corrected QT interval was between 450 ms and 500 ms in 52% and >500 ms in 19% of the patients. The heart rate and concentration of serum glucose were higher in the prolonged QTc group. Only 7·5% of all patients had  hypokalemia  (≤3 mEq/l). In the prolonged QTc group 9·2% had  hypokalemia  compared to 3·2% in normal QTc patients (P = 0·406). There were no significant associations between categories of QTc and the serum levels of creatinine, magnesium, calcium, sodium, or pH. Phenytoin and metoclopramide were not frequently used in patients with prolonged QTc. This study supports our hypothesis that prolonged QTc is frequently observed after a brain surgery.  Hypokalemia , hypocalcaemia, and drugs such as metoclopramide or phenytoin could not explain the high incidence of prolonged QTc. Brain injury during a surgical procedure may be one of the primary causes of QTc prolongation after neurosurgery. The large-conductance calcium-activated potassium channel holds the key to the conundrum of familial hypokalemic periodic paralysis PubMed Central Kim, Sung-Jo; Kang, Sun-Yang; Yi, Jin Woong; Kim, Seung-Min 2014-01-01 Purpose Familial hypokalemic periodic paralysis (HOKPP) is an autosomal dominant channelopathy characterized by episodic attacks of muscle weakness and  hypokalemia . Mutations in the calcium channel gene, CACNA1S, or the sodium channel gene, SCN4A, have been found to be responsible for HOKPP; however, the mechanism that causes  hypokalemia  remains to be determined. The aim of this study was to improve the understanding of this mechanism by investigating the expression of calcium-activated potassium (KCa) channel genes in HOKPP patients. Methods We measured the intracellular calcium concentration with fura-2-acetoxymethyl ester in skeletal muscle cells of HOKPP patients and healthy individuals. We examined the mRNA and protein expression of KCa channel genes (KCNMA1, KCNN1, KCNN2, KCNN3, and KCNN4) in both cell types. Results Patient cells exhibited higher cytosolic calcium levels than normal cells. Quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction analysis showed that the mRNA levels of the KCa channel genes did not significantly differ between patient and normal cells. However, western blot analysis showed that protein levels of the KCNMA1 gene, which encodes KCa1.1 channels (also called big potassium channels), were significantly lower in the membrane fraction and higher in the cytosolic fraction of patient cells than normal cells. When patient cells were exposed to 50 mM potassium buffer, which was used to induce depolarization, the altered subcellular distribution of BK channels remained unchanged. Conclusion These findings suggest a novel mechanism for the development of  hypokalemia  and paralysis in HOKPP and demonstrate a connection between disease-associated mutations in calcium/sodium channels and pathogenic changes in nonmutant potassium channels. PMID:25379045 Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide antihypertensive treatment in high sodium intake population: a randomized double-blind trial. PubMed Zhang, Puhong; Wang, Hongyi; Sun, Lei; Zhang, Jing; Xi, Yang; Wu, Yangfeng; Yan, Lijing L; Li, Xian; Sun, Ningling 2017-10-01 To compare the blood pressure (BP)-lowering effects of telmisartan 40 mg/day and hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) 25 mg/day in high sodium intake patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension in China. In this randomized, double-blind trial, eligible patients were randomly divided into telmisartan and HCTZ groups with three follow-ups scheduled on days 15, 30, and 60 after enrollment to compare BP decrease,  hypokalemia , and other adverse events after intervention. A total of 1333 mild-to-moderate hypertensive patients with average sodium intake of 5909 mg/day were enrolled from 14 county hospitals in China. Baseline characteristics were well balanced. At 15, 30, and 60 days of follow-up, average SBP/DBP reduction in telmisartan and HCTZ group was 12.5/8.0, 14.3/9.1, 12.8/7.2, 11.0/5.8, 13.6/7.1, and 11.5/5.3 mmHg, respectively. Telmisartan showed greater BP response than HCTZ at three visits, with statistical significance for DBP (P  <  0.001) regardless of the adjustment for baseline BP, sodium excretion, and pulse pressure (PP). SBP reduction was positively related to increasing urinary sodium and PP levels for patients in both groups but increased faster with increasing PP in HCTZ than in telmisartan (P = 0.0238 for group × PP). Compared with telmisartan, HCTZ showed more  hypokalemia  (0.4 vs. 4.5%, P  <  0.001). Both telmisartan and HCTZ were effective for the treatment of hypertensive patients with high sodium intake. Telmisartan showed better DBP-lowering effect and less  hypokalemia  than HCTZ among high sodium intake patients. Further studies are needed to evaluate the plausible superiority effect of hydrochlorothiazide among patients with large PP. Merits and pitfalls of mifepristone in Cushing's syndrome. PubMed Castinetti, F; Fassnacht, M; Johanssen, S; Terzolo, M; Bouchard, P; Chanson, P; Do Cao, C; Morange, I; Picó, A; Ouzounian, S; Young, J; Hahner, S; Brue, T; Allolio, B; Conte-Devolx, B 2009-06-01 Mifepristone is the only available glucocorticoid receptor antagonist. Only few adult patients with hypercortisolism were treated to date by this drug. Our objective was to determine effectiveness and tolerability of mifepristone in Cushing's syndrome (CS). Retrospective study of patients treated in seven European centers. Twenty patients with malignant (n=15, 12 with adrenocortical carcinoma, three with ectopic ACTH secretion) or benign (n=5, four with Cushing's disease, one with bilateral adrenal hyperplasia) CS were treated with mifepristone. Mifepristone was initiated with a median starting dose of 400 mg/day (200-1000). Median treatment duration was 2 months (0.25-21) for malignant CS, and 6 months (0.5-24) for benign CS. Clinical (signs of hypercortisolism, blood pressure, signs of adrenal insufficiency), and biochemical parameters (serum potassium and glucose) were evaluated. Treatment was stopped in one patient after 1 week due to severe uncontrolled  hypokalemia . Improvement of clinical signs was observed in 11/15 patients with malignant CS (73%), and 4/5 patients with benign CS (80%). Psychiatric symptoms improved in 4/5 patients within the first week. Blood glucose levels improved in 4/7 patients. Signs of adrenal insufficiency were observed in 3/20 patients. Moderate to severe  hypokalemia  was observed in 11/20 patients and increased blood pressure levels in 3/20 patients. Mifepristone is a rapidly effective treatment of hypercortisolism, but requires close monitoring of potentially severe  hypokalemia , hypertension, and clinical signs of adrenal insufficiency. Mifepristone provides a valuable treatment option in patients with severe CS when surgery is unsuccessful or impossible. Magnesium replacement therapy. PubMed DiPalma, J R 1990-07-01 Magnesium is involved as a cofactor in many vital enzymatic reactions. It is also important in the maintenance of membrane electric potential. Diagnosis of magnesium disturbances must often be based on clinical judgment. Hypomagnesemia is frequently associated with  hypokalemia  and hypocalcemia; hypermagnesemia most often occurs in patients with acute or chronic renal failure. Hypomagnesemia presents as neuromuscular, central nervous system and cardiac abnormalities. Inadequate dietary intake of magnesium occurs in alcoholism, catabolic states and gastrointestinal diseases. Intravenous administration of magnesium can cause neuromuscular paralysis and cardiac arrhythmias. Diverse proportion in composite pheochromocytoma-ganglioneuroma may induce varied clinical symptom: comparison of two cases PubMed Central Zhang, Bu-Yi; Zhao, Mingfei; Li, Baizhou; Zhang, Jian-Min 2015-01-01 Composite pheochromocytoma-ganglioneuroma is extremely rare. We described two cases of composite pheochromocytomas in the adrenal medullar. Case 1 was a 70-year-old male presenting with lower abdominal pain and normal blood electrolytes. Case 2 was a 48-year-old female with palpitation and back tenderness. Biochemical investigations showed hypocalcium,  hypokalemia  and high level of vma. The histological images and the immunohistochemical staining demonstrated the two cases composed of pheochromocytoma and ganglioneuromoma components. Ganglioneuroma component in case 2 accounted for more proportion than that in case 1. We speculated that the varied clinical symptoms were related with the diverse proportions in composite pheochromocytome-ganglioneuroma. PMID:26823896 Neonatal Bartter syndrome with cholelithiasis and hydrocephalus: Rare association. PubMed Özdemir, Özmert Ma; Çıralı, Ceren; Yılmaz Ağladıoğlu, Sebahat; Evrengül, Havva; Tepeli, Emre; Ergin, Hacer 2016-09-01 Neonatal Bartter syndrome (NBS) is a rare autosomal recessive renal tubular disorder. This disease is characterized by  hypokalemia , hypochloremia, and metabolic alkalosis that is often associated with failure to thrive and recurrent episodes of dehydration. The combination of BS and cholelithiasis in an infant is very rare. Herein, we report a premature male infant with NBS who developed cholelithiasis and hydrocephalus on clinical follow up. We recommend that periodic routine hepatobiliary ultrasonograpic screening for cholelithiasis should be performed in patients with NBS. © 2016 Japan Pediatric Society. Chlorthalidone versus hydrochlorothiazide for the treatment of hypertension in older adults: a population-based cohort study. PubMed Dhalla, Irfan A; Gomes, Tara; Yao, Zhan; Nagge, Jeff; Persaud, Navindra; Hellings, Chelsea; Mamdani, Muhammad M; Juurlink, David N 2013-03-19 Some evidence suggests that chlorthalidone may be superior to hydrochlorothiazide for the treatment of hypertension. To compare the effectiveness and safety of chlorthalidone and hydrochlorothiazide in older adults. Propensity score-matched observational cohort study with up to 5 years of follow-up. Ontario, Canada. All individuals aged 66 years or older who were newly treated with chlorthalidone or hydrochlorothiazide and were not hospitalized for heart failure, stroke, or myocardial infarction in the prior year were eligible for inclusion. Each chlorthalidone recipient was matched to up to 2 hydrochlorothiazide recipients on the basis of age, sex, year of treatment initiation, and propensity score. The primary outcome was a composite of death or hospitalization for heart failure, stroke, or myocardial infarction. Safety outcomes included hospitalization with  hypokalemia  or hyponatremia. A total of 29 873 patients were studied. During follow-up, chlorthalidone recipients (n = 10 384) experienced the primary outcome at a rate of 3.2 events per 100 person-years of follow-up, and hydrochlorothiazide recipients experienced 3.4 events per 100 person-years of follow-up (adjusted hazard ratio, 0.93 [95% CI, 0.81 to 1.06]). Patients treated with chlorthalidone were more likely to be hospitalized with  hypokalemia  (adjusted hazard ratio, 3.06 [CI, 2.04 to 4.58]) or hyponatremia (adjusted hazard ratio, 1.68 [CI, 1.24 to 2.28]). In 9 post hoc analyses comparing patients initially prescribed 12.5, 25, or 50 mg of chlorthalidone per day with those prescribed 12.5, 25, or 50 mg of hydrochlorothiazide per day, the former were more likely to be hospitalized with  hypokalemia  for all 6 comparisons in which a statistically significant association was found. The results of other effectiveness and safety outcomes were also consistent with those of the main analysis. Unmeasured differences in baseline characteristics or physician treatment approaches or an insufficiently large sample [Celiac crisis with quadriplegia due to potassium depletion as presenting feature of celiac disease]. PubMed Atikou, A; Rabhi, M; Hidani, H; El Alaoui Faris, M; Toloune, F 2009-06-01 Adult coeliac disease revealed by coeliac crisis and quadriplegia due to potassium depletion is an extremely rare situation. A 26-year-old woman presented with a suddenly developed weakness of all four limbs and a severe diarrhea. Authors emphasize coeliac crisis, which is a presenting feature of coeliac disease, characterized by acute diarrhea with life-threatening acid base and electrolyte abnormalities. The patient improved with correction of  hypokalemia  and gluten-free diet. A severe acute diarrhea with metabolic and systemic complications, the so-called coeliac crisis, is a possible presenting clinical feature of a previously undiagnosed adult celiac disease. Conn syndrome and Crohn disease in a pediatric case: an interesting parallel. PubMed Rodriguez, Manuel A; Alkhoury, Fuad; Malvezzi, Leopoldo; Diaz, Alejandro 2013-01-01 Conn syndrome is characterized by surreptitious secretion of aldosterone in which patients are found to have hypertension,  hypokalemia , and metabolic alkalosis. Although rare, the most common presentation in the pediatric population is bilateral hyperplasia of the adrenal glands as opposed to an adenoma. Crohn disease is part of the spectrum of inflammatory bowel disease, which manifests in children as flare-ups of bloody diarrhea and abdominal pain. The association of concurrent Conn syndrome and Crohn disease has been previously presented in two cases in adults. This is the first pediatric case to be reported in the literature. Electrolyte disorders with platinum-based chemotherapy: mechanisms, manifestations and management. PubMed Oronsky, Bryan; Caroen, Scott; Oronsky, Arnold; Dobalian, Vaughn E; Oronsky, Neil; Lybeck, Michelle; Reid, Tony R; Carter, Corey A 2017-11-01 Platinum chemotherapy, particularly cisplatin, is commonly associated with electrolyte imbalances, including hypomagnesemia,  hypokalemia , hypophosphatemia, hypocalcemia and hyponatremia. The corpus of literature on these dyselectrolytemias is large; the objective of this review is to synthesize the literature and summarize the mechanisms responsible for these particular electrolyte disturbances in the context of platinum-based treatment as well as to present the clinical manifestations and current management strategies for oncologists and primary care physicians, since the latter are increasingly called on to provide care for cancer patients with medical comorbidities. Correct diagnosis and effective treatment are essential to improved patient outcomes. Abnormal Liver Function Tests in an Anorexia Nervosa Patient and an Atypical Manifestation of Refeeding Syndrome PubMed Central Vootla, Vamshidhar R.; Daniel, Myrta 2015-01-01 Refeeding syndrome is defined as electrolyte and fluid abnormalities that occur in significantly malnourished patients when they are refed orally, enterally, or parenterally. The principal manifestations include hypophosphatemia,  hypokalemia , vitamin deficiencies, volume overload and edema. This can affect multiple organ systems, such as the cardiovascular, pulmonary, or neurological systems, secondary to the above-mentioned abnormalities. Rarely, patients may develop gastrointestinal symptoms and show abnormal liver function test results. We report the case of a 52-year-old woman with anorexia nervosa who developed refeeding syndrome and simultaneous elevations of liver function test results, which normalized upon the resolution of the refeeding syndrome. PMID:26351414 Abnormal Liver Function Tests in an Anorexia Nervosa Patient and an Atypical Manifestation of Refeeding Syndrome. PubMed Vootla, Vamshidhar R; Daniel, Myrta 2015-01-01 Refeeding syndrome is defined as electrolyte and fluid abnormalities that occur in significantly malnourished patients when they are refed orally, enterally, or parenterally. The principal manifestations include hypophosphatemia,  hypokalemia , vitamin deficiencies, volume overload and edema. This can affect multiple organ systems, such as the cardiovascular, pulmonary, or neurological systems, secondary to the above-mentioned abnormalities. Rarely, patients may develop gastrointestinal symptoms and show abnormal liver function test results. We report the case of a 52-year-old woman with anorexia nervosa who developed refeeding syndrome and simultaneous elevations of liver function test results, which normalized upon the resolution of the refeeding syndrome. Refeeding syndrome. PubMed Fuentebella, Judy; Kerner, John A 2009-10-01 Refeeding syndrome (RFS) is the result of aggressive enteral or parenteral feeding in a malnourished patient, with hypophosphatemia being the hallmark of this phenomenon. Other metabolic abnormalities, such as  hypokalemia  and hypomagnesemia, may also occur, along with sodium and fluid retention. The metabolic changes that occur in RFS can be severe enough to cause cardiorespiratory failure and death. This article reviews the pathophysiology, the clinical manifestations, and the management of RFS. The key to prevention is identifying patients at risk and being aware of the potential complications involved in rapidly reintroducing feeds to a malnourished patient. Higher caloric intake in hospitalized adolescents with anorexia nervosa is associated with reduced length of stay and no increased rate of refeeding syndrome. PubMed Golden, Neville H; Keane-Miller, Casey; Sainani, Kristin L; Kapphahn, Cynthia J 2013-11-01 To determine the effect of higher caloric intake on weight gain, length of stay (LOS), and incidence of hypophosphatemia, hypomagnesemia, and  hypokalemia  in adolescents hospitalized with anorexia nervosa. Electronic medical records of all subjects 10-21 years of age with anorexia nervosa, first admitted to a tertiary children's hospital from Jan 2007 to Dec 2011, were retrospectively reviewed. Demographic factors, anthropometric measures, incidence of hypophosphatemia (≤3.0 mg/dL), hypomagnesemia (≤1.7 mg/dL), and  hypokalemia  (≤3.5 mEq/L), and daily change in percent median body mass index (BMI) (%mBMI) from baseline were recorded. Subjects started on higher-calorie diets (≥1,400 kcal/d) were compared with those started on lower-calorie diets ( < 1,400 kcal/d). A total of 310 subjects met eligibility criteria (age, 16.1 ± 2.3 years; 88.4% female, 78.5 ± 8.3 %mBMI), including 88 in the lower-calorie group (1,163 ± 107 kcal/d; range, 720-1,320 kcal/d) and 222 in the higher-calorie group (1,557 ± 265 kcal/d; range, 1,400-2,800 kcal/d). Neither group had initial weight loss. The %mBMI increased significantly (p  <  .001) from baseline by day 1 in the higher-calorie group and day 2 in the lower-calorie group. Compared with the lower-calorie group, the higher-calorie group had reduced LOS (13.0 ± 7.3 days versus 16.6 ± 9.0 days; p  <  .0001), but the groups did not differ in rate of change in %mBMI (p = .50) or rates of hypophosphatemia (p = .49), hypomagnesemia (p = 1.0), or  hypokalemia  (p = .35). Hypophosphatemia was associated with %mBMI on admission (p = .004) but not caloric intake (p = .14). A higher caloric diet on admission is associated with reduced LOS, but not increased rate of weight gain or rates of hypophosphatemia, hypomagnesemia, or  hypokalemia . Refeeding hypophosphatemia depends on the degree of malnutrition but not prescribed caloric intake, within the range studied. Copyright © 2013 Society for Adolescent Health and Medicine. Published by Cardiac arrhythmias induced by hypokalaemia and potassium loss during maintenance digoxin therapy. PubMed Central Steiness, E; Olesen, K H 1976-01-01 Twelve patients with congestive heart failure receiving maintenance therapy with digoxin and potent diuretics were followed closely during development of  hypokalemia  and potassium loss. Cardiac arrhythmias compatible with digoxtin toxicity developed in 6 patients in the presence of stable, normal serum digoxin concentrations. The mechanisms involved in the development of the rhythm disturbances are discussed with regard to hypokalaemia, intracellular potassium loss, intra-/extracellular potassium gradients and digoxin, and the significance of maintaining a normal potassium balance in this setting is stressed. PMID:1259829 Recent advances in distal tubular potassium handling PubMed Central Rodan, Aylin R.; Cheng, Chih-Jen 2011-01-01 It is well known that sodium reabsorption and aldosterone play important roles in potassium secretion by the aldosterone-sensitive distal nephron. Sodium- and aldosterone-independent mechanisms also exist. This review focuses on some recent studies that provide novel insights into the sodium- and aldosterone-independent potassium secretion by the aldosterone-sensitive distal nephron. In addition, we discuss a study reporting on the regulation of the mammalian potassium kidney channel ROMK by intracellular and extracellular magnesium, which may be important in the pathogenesis of persistent  hypokalemia  in patients with concomitant potassium and magnesium deficiency. We also discuss outstanding questions and propose working models for future investigation. PMID:21270092 Acute clenbuterol overdose manifestations in a suicide attempt--a case report. PubMed Nawrocka, Izabela; Kowalczys, Maria H; Abramczyk, Piotr 2015-12-01 A 30-year-old man was admitted to the intensive care unit after a suicide attempt with respiratory difficulties, tremor, sinus tachycardia and significant  hypokalemia . On examination, the patient was lucid, fully conscious and did not exhibit positive symptoms. Sings were not typical for overdosing olanzapine, alprazolam and alcohol as declared by the patient. Additional anamnesis revealed high doses of ingested clenbuterol, a selective β2-adrenergic agonist. Due to its anabolic and lipolytic properties, clenbuterol has become a commonly abused drug in bodybuilding industry and is not routinely detected by toxicology screens. This is the first known report of suicide attempt by clenbuterol overdosing. © 2015 MEDPRESS. Persistent Primary Aldosteronism Despite Iatrogenic Adrenal Hemorrhage After Adrenal Vein Sampling PubMed Central Okamura, Keisuke; Okuda, Tetsu; Shirai, Kazuyuki; Abe, Ichiro; Kobayashi, Kunihisa; Ishii, Tatsu; Haraoka, Seiji; Urata, Hidenori 2018-01-01 Before surgery for primary aldosteronism (PA), localization is evaluated with adrenal vein sampling (AVS). A 56-year-old Japanese woman had a right adrenal mass,  hypokalemia , and a high aldosterone/renin ratio. Stress tests confirmed the diagnosis of PA. Subsequently, preoperative AVS was performed and right adrenal hemorrhage (AH) occurred unexpectedly. Because hypertension persisted, laparoscopic right adrenalectomy was performed. Postoperatively, the blood pressure was normalized. Pathological examination revealed an adrenal cortical adenoma largely unaffected by necrosis and hemorrhage. Previous reports have also indicated that AH may not ameliorate PA. We discussed the clinical progress of AH and the measures to prevent causing AH. PMID:29238437 Persistent Primary Aldosteronism Despite Iatrogenic Adrenal Hemorrhage After Adrenal Vein Sampling. PubMed Okamura, Keisuke; Okuda, Tetsu; Shirai, Kazuyuki; Abe, Ichiro; Kobayashi, Kunihisa; Ishii, Tatsu; Haraoka, Seiji; Urata, Hidenori 2018-01-01 Before surgery for primary aldosteronism (PA), localization is evaluated with adrenal vein sampling (AVS). A 56-year-old Japanese woman had a right adrenal mass,  hypokalemia , and a high aldosterone/renin ratio. Stress tests confirmed the diagnosis of PA. Subsequently, preoperative AVS was performed and right adrenal hemorrhage (AH) occurred unexpectedly. Because hypertension persisted, laparoscopic right adrenalectomy was performed. Postoperatively, the blood pressure was normalized. Pathological examination revealed an adrenal cortical adenoma largely unaffected by necrosis and hemorrhage. Previous reports have also indicated that AH may not ameliorate PA. We discussed the clinical progress of AH and the measures to prevent causing AH. Congenital Chloride Diarrhea - Novel Mutation in SLC26A3 Gene. PubMed Bhardwaj, Swati; Pandit, Deepti; Sinha, Aditi; Hari, Pankaj; Cheong, Hae Il; Bagga, Arvind 2016-08-01 The authors report a case of congenital chloride diarrhea with molecular confirmation of diagnosis. A 10-mo-old boy presented with failure to thrive, voluminous diarrhea, dehydration, hyponatremia,  hypokalemia , metabolic alkalosis and history of maternal polyhydramnios. The diagnosis of congenital chloride diarrhea was based on high fecal and low urinary chloride excretion, in addition to biochemical abnormalities. Genetic testing revealed a novel homozygous mutation in exon 4 of the SLC26A3 gene that encodes the protein regulating chloride bicarbonate absorption in distal ileum and colon. Therapy with oral fluids and electrolytes led to decrease in stool frequency and improvement in growth parameters. Ectopic ACTH syndrome due to pheochromocytoma: case report and review of the literature. PubMed Central Forman, B. H.; Marban, E.; Kayne, R. D.; Passarelli, N. M.; Bobrow, S. N.; Livolsi, V. A.; Merino, M.; Minor, M.; Farber, L. R. 1979-01-01 A 51-year-old female was diagnosed preoperatively to have a pheochromocytoma producing ACTH. This diagnosis was based upon her paroxysmal hypertension, hyperpigmentation, and  hypokalemia . Elevated levels of serum and urine corticosteroids, plasma ACTH, urinary VMA, and catecholamines fell after a right adrenal pheochromocytoma was removed. Subsequently this tumor was found to have a high content of ACTH. Review of the literature indicates a mortality rate of 57% for this syndrome. Proper preoperative recognition and management can result in total cure. Images FIG. 1 FIG. 2 FIG. 3 FIG. 4 FIG. 5 FIG. 6 PMID:222080 Paralysis Episodes in Carbonic Anhydrase II Deficiency. PubMed Al-Ibrahim, Alia; Al-Harbi, Mosa; Al-Musallam, Sulaiman 2003-01-01 Carbonic anhydrase II (CAII) deficiency is an autosomal recessive disorder manifest by osteopetrosis, renal tubular acidosis, and cerebral calcification. Other features include growth failure and mental retardation. Complications of the osteopetrosis include frequent bone fractures, cranial nerve compression, and dental mal-occlusion. A hyper-chloremic metabolic acidosis, sometimes with  hypokalemia , occurs due to renal tubular acidosis that may be proximal, distal, or more commonly, the combined type. Such patients may present with global hypotonia, muscle weakness or paralysis. We report a case of CA II deficiency with recurrent attacks of acute paralysis which was misdiagnosed initially as Guillian-Barre syndrome. Pseudohyperaldosteronism due to mumijo consumption during pregnancy: a licorice-like syndrome. PubMed Stavropoulos, Konstantinos; Sotiriadis, Alexandros; Patoulias, Dimitrios; Imprialos, Konstantinos; Dampali, Roxani; Athyros, Vasileios; Dinas, Konstantinos 2018-06-22 Herbal supplements are widely used during pregnancy, although there are insufficient data regarding their efficacy and safety. Some of them have been associated with hypertension, including licorice, which induces the so called mineralocorticoid-excess syndrome, a clinical picture resembling to pseudohyperaldosteronism. This action is mediated via inhibition of 11-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 (11-HSD2), leading to impaired inactivation of cortisol to cortisone, accumulation of cortisol, and finally to excessive mineralocorticoid activity, especially in the distal and cumulative tubule of kidneys. This syndrome is characterized by hypertension and  hypokalemia . Herein, we report a case of a 37-year-old pregnant woman, who was referred from obstetrics department to our department due to persistent hypertension and  hypokalemia . She consumed a herbal supplement called "mumijo" during the last 6 months. After a thorough diagnostic work-up, the diagnosis of a "licorice-like syndrome" due to mumijo consumption was made. Potassium supplementation at the acute phase and discontinuation of mumijo were the treatment of choice. This is the first report of pseudohyperaldosteronism due to mumijo consumption in literature. Clinicians should be aware of this side effect and this agent should be included in those causing pseudohyperaldosteronism. Besides all, our case highlights the undeniable value of a detailed medical history. Cation interdependency in acute stressor states. PubMed Khan, M Usman; Komolafe, Babatunde O; Weber, Karl T 2013-05-01 Acute stressor states are inextricably linked to neurohormonal activation which includes the adrenergic nervous system. Consequent elevations in circulating epinephrine and norepinephrine unmask an interdependency that exists between K+, Mg2+ and Ca2+. Catecholamines, for example, regulate the large number of Mg2+-dependent Na/K ATPase pumps present in skeletal muscle. A hyperadrenergic state accounts for a sudden translocation of K+ into muscle and rapid appearance of  hypokalemia . In the myocardium, catecholamines promote Mg2+ efflux from cardiomyocytes, whereas intracellular Ca2+ influx and overloading account for the induction of oxidative stress and necrosis of these cells with leakage of their contents, including troponins. Accordingly, acute stressor states can be accompanied by nonischemic elevations in serum troponins, together with the concordant appearance of  hypokalemia , hypomagnesemia and ionized hypocalcemia, causing a delay in myocardial repolarization and electrocardiographic QTc prolongation raising the propensity for arrhythmias, including atrial fibrillation and polymorphic ventricular tachycardia. In this review, we focus on the interdependency between K+, Mg2+ and Ca2+ which are clinically relevant to acute stressor states. Congenital chloride diarrhea misdiagnosed as pseudo-Bartter syndrome. PubMed Saneian, Hossein; Bahraminia, Emad 2013-09-01 Congenital chloride diarrhea (CCD) is a rare autosomal recessive disease which is characterized by intractable diarrhea of infancy, failure to thrive, high fecal chloride, hypochloremia,  hypokalemia , hyponatremia and metabolic alkalosis. In this case report, we present the first female and the second official case of CCD in Iran. A 15-month-old girl referred to our hospital due to failure to thrive and poor feeding. She had normal kidneys, liver and spleen. Treating her with Shohl's solution, thiazide and zinc sulfate did not result in weight gain. Consequently, pseudo-Bartter syndrome was suspected, she was treated with intravenous (IV) therapy to which she responded dramatically. In addition,  hypokalemia  resolved quickly. Since this does not usually happen in patients with the pseudo-Bartter syndrome, stool tests were performed. Abnormal level of chloride in stool suggested CCD and she was thus treated with IV fluid replacement, Total parentral nutrition and high dose of oral omeprazole (3 mg/kg/day). She gained 1 kg of weight and is doing fine until present. CCD is a rare hereditary cause of intractable diarrhea of infancy. It should be considered in infants with unknown severe electrolyte disturbances. Treatment with 17-allylamino-17-demethoxygeldanamycin ameliorated symptoms of Bartter syndrome type IV caused by mutated Bsnd in mice. PubMed Nomura, Naohiro; Kamiya, Kazusaku; Ikeda, Katsuhisa; Yui, Naofumi; Chiga, Motoko; Sohara, Eisei; Rai, Tatemitu; Sakaki, Sei; Uchida, Shinich 2013-11-22 Mutations of BSND, which encodes barttin, cause Bartter syndrome type IV. This disease is characterized by salt and fluid loss,  hypokalemia , metabolic alkalosis, and sensorineural hearing impairment. Barttin is the β-subunit of the ClC-K chloride channel, which recruits it to the plasma membranes, and the ClC-K/barttin complex contributes to transepithelial chloride transport in the kidney and inner ear. The retention of mutant forms of barttin in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is etiologically linked to Bartter syndrome type IV. Here, we report that treatment with 17-allylamino-17-demethoxygeldanamycin (17-AAG), an Hsp90 inhibitor, enhanced the plasma membrane expression of mutant barttins (R8L and G47R) in Madin-Darby canine kidney cells. Administration of 17-AAG to Bsnd(R8L/R8L) knock-in mice elevated the plasma membrane expression of R8L in the kidney and inner ear, thereby mitigating  hypokalemia , metabolic alkalosis, and hearing loss. These results suggest that drugs that rescue ER-retained mutant barttin may be useful for treating patients with Bartter syndrome type IV. Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved. Hypokalemic paralysis in a young obese female. PubMed Chiang, Wen-Fang; Hsu, Yu-Juei; Chang, Chin-Chun; Lin, Shih-Hua 2012-08-16 Profound  hypokalemia  with paralysis usually poses a diagnostic and therapeutic challenge. We report on a 28-y-old obese Chinese female presenting with sudden onset of flaccid quadriparesis upon awaking in the morning. There is no family history of hyperthyroidism. She experienced body weight loss of 7 kg in 2 months. The most conspicuous blood biochemistry is marked  hypokalemia  (1.8 mmol/l) and hypophosphatemia (0.5 mmol/l) associated with low urine K(+) and phosphate excretion. Surreptitious laxatives and/or diuretics abuse-related hypokalemic paralysis were tentatively made. However, her relatively normal blood acid-base status and the absence of low urine Na(+) and/or Cl(-) excretion made these diagnoses unlikely. Furthermore, she developed rebound hyperkalemia (5.7 mmol/l) after only 80 mmol K(+) supplementation. Thyroid function test confirmed hyperthyroidism due to Graves' disease. Control of the hyperthyroidism completely abolished her periodic paralysis. Thyrotoxic periodic paralysis (TPP) should be kept in mind as a cause of paralysis in female, even with obesity, despite its predominance in adult males. Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. Electrolyte abnormalities in cystic fibrosis: systematic review of the literature. PubMed Scurati-Manzoni, Elisabetta; Fossali, Emilio F; Agostoni, Carlo; Riva, Enrica; Simonetti, Giacomo D; Zanolari-Calderari, Maura; Bianchetti, Mario G; Lava, Sebastiano A G 2014-06-01 Cystic fibrosis per se can sometimes lead to hyponatremia,  hypokalemia , hypochloremia or hyperbicarbonatemia. This tendency was first documented 60 years ago and has subsequently been confirmed in single case reports or small case series, most of which were retrospective. However, this issue has not been addressed analytically. We have therefore systematically reviewed and analyzed the available literature on this subject. This was a systematic review of the literature. The reports included in this review cover 172 subacute and 90 chronic cases of electrolyte imbalances in patients with cystic fibrosis. The male:female ratio was 1.57. Electrolyte abnormalities were mostly associated with clinically inapparent fluid volume depletion, mainly affected patients aged ≤2.5 years, frequently tended to recur and often were found before the diagnosis of cystic fibrosis was established. Subacute presentation often included an history of heat exposure, vomiting, excessive sweating and pulmonary infection. History of chronic presentation, in contrast, was often inconspicuous. The tendency to hypochloremia,  hypokalemia  and metabolic alkalosis was similar between subacute and chronic patients, with hyponatremia being more pronounced (P  <  0.02) in subacute compared to chronic presentations. Subacute cases were treated parenterally; chronic ones were usually managed with oral salt supplementation. Retention of urea and creatinine was documented in 38 % of subacute cases. The findings of our review suggest that physicians should be aware that electrolyte abnormalities can occur both as a presenting and a recurring feature of cystic fibrosis. Cardiac arrest due to lymphocytic colitis: a case report PubMed Central 2012-01-01 Introduction We present a case of cardiac arrest due to  hypokalemia  caused by lymphocytic colitis. Case presentation A 69-year-old Caucasian man presented four months prior to a cardiac arrest with watery diarrhea and was diagnosed with lymphocytic colitis. Our patient experienced a witnessed cardiac arrest at his general practitioner's surgery. Two physicians and the emergency medical services resuscitated our patient for one hour and four minutes before arriving at our university hospital. Our patient was defibrillated 16 times due to the recurrence of ventricular tachyarrhythmias. An arterial blood sample revealed a potassium level of 2.0 mmol/L (reference range: 3.5 to 4.6 mmol/L) and pH 6.86 (reference range: pH 7.37 to 7.45). As the potassium level was corrected, the propensity for ventricular tachyarrhythmias ceased. Our patient recovered from his cardiac arrest without any neurological deficit. Further tests and examinations revealed no other reason for the cardiac arrest. Conclusion Diarrhea can cause life-threatening situations due to the excretion of potassium, ultimately causing cardiac arrest due to  hypokalemia . Physicians treating patients with severe diarrhea should consider monitoring their electrolyte levels. PMID:22405093 Effects of asphyxia and potassium on canine and feline electrocardiograms. PubMed Central Coulter, D B; Duncan, R J; Sander, P D 1975-01-01 The effects of asphyxia and potassium on the electrocardiogram (ECG), lead II, were recorded from dogs and cats anesthetized with sodium pentobarbital and halothane. Electrocardiographic recordings were made during control periods, during asphyxia (occluded endotracheal tube), during infusion of an isotonic KCl solution and during infusion of an isotonic NaCl solution. Arterial and venous blood gas partial pressures (PaCO2, PvCO2, PaO2 and and PvO2), plasma Na+ and K+ concentrations, heart rate and mean arterial blood pressure were measured during control periods, asphyxia and during the periods of infusion. The vagi were severed to assess the effect of vagal tone on the ECG changes. The characteristic ECG changes during asphyxia and the electrolyte imbalances resulting from infusion of isotonic KCl and NaCl were determined during sodium pentobarbital and halothane anesthesia in both dogs and cats. The combination of halothane and high PCO2 caused cardiac arrhythmias. Spontaneous recovery from ventricular fibrillation, as a result of hyperkalemia, was recorded from cats. Disappearance of the P waves, which is characteristic of hyperkalemia, was infrequent in this study and the U waves associated with  hypokalemia  were not found. Severing the vagi did not alter the ECG changes characteristic of asphyxia, hyperkalemia and  hypokalemia . It was found that asphyxia and infusion of fluids high or low in potassium can produce ECG changes in both dogs and cats that can be correlated with blood gas partial pressure changes or plasma potassium concentrations. PMID:1175078 Fatal barium chloride poisoning: four cases report and literature review. PubMed Ananda, Sunnassee; Shaohua, Zhu; Liang, Liu 2013-06-01 Barium is an alkaline earth metal which has a variety of uses including in the manufacturing industry and in medicine. However, adverse health effects and fatalities occur due to absorption of soluble barium compounds, notably the chloride, nitrate, and hydroxide, which are toxic to humans. Although rare, accidental and suicidal modes of poisoning are sporadically reported in the literature.We describe 4 cases of poisoning due to barium chloride in China. In witnessed cases, severe gastrointestinal symptoms,  hypokalemia  leading to muscle weakness, cardiac arrhythmias, and respiratory failure were noted. Autopsy showed some nonspecific but common findings, such as subendocardial hemorrhage in the ventricles, visceral petechiae, and fatty changes in the liver. Interestingly, microscopic examination showed degenerative changes and amorphous, flocculent foamy materials in the renal tubules. Toxicology was relevant for barium in blood and tissues. Three of the cases were accidental and 1 homicidal in nature. A round-up of relevant literature on fatal barium compounds poisoning is also provided. Forensic pathologists should be aware of the clinical presentations of barium compound poisoning and especially look for any evidence of  hypokalemia . Still, postmortem toxicological and histological studies are essential for an accurate identification of the cause of death. Apparent mineralocorticoid excess and the long term treatment of genetic hypertension. PubMed Razzaghy-Azar, Maryam; Yau, Mabel; Khattab, Ahmed; New, Maria I 2017-01-01 Apparent mineralocorticoid excess (AME) is a genetic disorder causing severe hypertension,  hypokalemia , and hyporeninemic hypoaldosteronism owing to deficient 11 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type-2 (11βHSD2) enzyme activity. The 11βHSD2 enzyme confers mineralocorticoid receptor specificity for aldosterone by converting cortisol to its inactive metabolite, cortisone and inactivating the cortisol-mineralocorticoid receptor complex. The 20year follow-up of a consanguineous Iranian family with three sibs affected with AME shows the successes and pitfalls of medical therapy with spironolactone. The three sibs, (female, male, female) were diagnosed at the ages of 14, 11, and 4 years, respectively. At diagnosis, hypertensive retinopathy and left ventricular hypertrophy were present in the eldest female and retinopathy was noted in the male sib. Spironolactone treatment resulted in decreased blood pressure and rise in serum potassium levels. The older female, age 36, developed reduced left ventricular function with mitral and tricuspid regurgitation and renal failure after her second pregnancy. She was treated with renal transplantation resulting in cure of AME with decreased blood pressure and weaning from antihypertensives. Her younger sibs, age 34 and 26, do not have end organ damage. Early and vigilant treatment improves morbidity in patients with AME. Mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists normalize blood pressure, correct  hypokalemia  and reduce hypertensive end-organ damage in patients with AME. Low dose dexamethasone can be considered, though the response may be variable. Future directions of therapy include selective mineralocorticoid antagonists. Copyright Â© 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved. Bartter's syndrome with type 2 diabetes mellitus. PubMed See, Ting-Ting; Lee, Siu-Pak 2009-02-01 We report a rare case of Bartter's syndrome in a 35-year-old woman with type 2 diabetes mellitus. The patient presented with leg weakness, fatigue, polyuria and polydipsia.  Hypokalemia , metabolic alkalosis, and high renin and aldosterone concentrations were present, but the patient was normotensive. Gitelman's syndrome was excluded because of the presence of hypercalciuria, secondary hyperparathyroidism and bilateral nephrocalcinosis. The patients condition improved upon administration of a prostaglandin synthetase inhibitor (acemetacin), oral potassium chloride and potassium-sparing diuretics. Five months later, the patient discontinued acemetacin because of epigastric discomfort; at the same time, severe  hypokalemia  and hyperglycemia developed. Glucagon stimulation and water deprivation tests were performed. Type 2 diabetes mellitus with nephrogenic diabetes insipidus was diagnosed. To avoid further gastrointestinal complications, the patient was treated with celecoxib, a selective cyclooxygenase 2 inhibitor. This case serves as a reminder that Bartter's syndrome is associated with various metabolic derangements including nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, nephrocalcinosis and diabetes mellitus. When treating Bartter's syndrome, it is also prudent to remember that the long-term use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and potassium-sparing diuretics may result in serious adverse reactions. Refeeding syndrome: clinical and nutritional relevance. PubMed Viana, Larissa de Andrade; Burgos, Maria Goretti Pessoa de Araújo; Silva, Rafaella de Andrade 2012-01-01 Feedback syndrome is characterized clinically by neurological alterations, respiratory symptoms, arrhythmias and heart failure few days after refeeding. It happens due to severe electrolyte changes, such as hypophosphatemia, hypomagnesemia and  hypokalemia  associated with metabolic abnormalities that may occur as a result of nutritional support (oral, enteral or parenteral) in severely malnourished patients. To evaluate its causes and the preventive dietary measures aiming to reduce the morbimortality. Was conducted literature review in SciELO, LILACS, Medline / PUBMED, Cochrane Library and government websites in Portuguese, English and Spanish. The survey was about the last 15 years, selecting the headings: refeeding syndrome, malnutrition, hypophosphatemia,  hypokalemia , hypomagnesemia. The monitoring of metabolic parameters and electrolyte levels before starting nutritional support and periodically during feeding should be based on protocols and the duration of therapy. Patients at high risk and other metabolic complications should be followed closely, and depletion of minerals and electrolytes should be replaced before starting the diet. A multidisciplinary team of nutrition therapy can guide and educate other health professionals in prevention, diagnosis and treatment of the syndrome. Seventeen Alpha-Hydroxylase Deficiency Associated with Absent Gonads and Myelolipoma: A Case Report and Review of Literature. PubMed Soveid, Mahmood; Rais-Jalali, Ghanbar Ali 2016-11-01 Congenital adrenal hyperplasia comprises a group of disorders resulting from defects in enzymes required for the synthesis of cortisol. The clinical presentation depends on the specific enzyme defect. We report a rare case of congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to 17 alpha-hydroxylase deficiency. A 26-year-old female patient referred with hypertension and  hypokalemia . She also had primary amenorrhea and lack of sexual development. The karyotype was 46, XY. Hormonal evaluation showed low serum levels of all steroid hormones, requiring alpha-hydroxylation, which included cortisol, 17 alpha-hydroxy progesterone, dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate, estradiol, and testosterone. The levels of adrenocorticotropic, follicle-stimulating, and luteinizing hormones were high. Radiological and surgical investigations failed to show a gonad. She also had a large myelolipoma. Treatment was commenced with low-dose dexamethasone and conjugated estrogen. Her hypertension and  hypokalemia  were resolved. The myelolipoma was removed by laparoscopy due to pain and sensation of heaviness. Our review of literature revealed that a combination of this disorder with either agonadism or myelolipoma is very rare and that only 2 previous cases have been reported for each entity. Observations of a large Dent disease cohort. PubMed Blanchard, Anne; Curis, Emmanuel; Guyon-Roger, Tiphaine; Kahila, Diana; Treard, Cyrielle; Baudouin, Véronique; Bérard, Etienne; Champion, Gérard; Cochat, Pierre; Dubourg, Julie; de la Faille, Renaud; Devuyst, Olivier; Deschenes, Georges; Fischbach, Michel; Harambat, Jérôme; Houillier, Pascal; Karras, Alexandre; Knebelmann, Bertrand; Lavocat, Marie-Pierre; Loirat, Chantal; Merieau, Elodie; Niaudet, Patrick; Nobili, François; Novo, Robert; Salomon, Rémi; Ulinski, Tim; Jeunemaître, Xavier; Vargas-Poussou, Rosa 2016-08-01 Dent disease classically combines low-molecular-weight proteinuria, hypercalciuria with nephrocalcinosis, and renal failure. Nephrotic range proteinuria, normal calciuria, and  hypokalemia  have been rarely reported. It is unknown whether the changes in phenotype observed over time are explained by a decrease in glomerular filtration rate (GFR) or whether there is any phenotype-genotype relationship. To answer this we retrospectively analyzed data from 109 male patients with CLCN5 mutations (Dent-1) and 9 patients with mutation of the OCRL gene (Dent-2). In Dent-1 disease, the estimated GFR decreased with age, by 1.0 to 1.6 ml/min per 1.73 m(2)/yr in the absence and presence of nephrocalcinosis, respectively, with no significant difference. Median values of low-molecular-weight proteinuria were in the nephrotic range and remained at the same level even in late renal disease. End-stage renal disease occurred in 12 patients, at a median age of 40 years. Hypercalciuria decreased with glomerular filtration and was absent in 40% of the patients under 30 and 85% of those over the age of 30. Hypophosphatemia did not resolve with age and calcitriol concentrations were in the upper normal range. Kalemia decreased with age, with half of the patients over the age of 18 presenting with  hypokalemia . Thus, no phenotype/genotype correlation was observed in this cohort of patients with Dent disease. Copyright © 2016 International Society of Nephrology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved. Drug-induced abnormalities of potassium metabolism. PubMed Kokot, Franciszek; Hyla-Klekot, Lidia 2008-01-01 Pharmacotherapy has progressed rapidly over the last 20 years with the result that general practioners more and more often use drugs which may influence potassium metabolism at the kidney or gastrointestinal level, or the transmembrane transport of potassium at the cellular level. Potassium abnormalities may result in life-theatening clinical conditions.  Hypokalemia  is most frequently caused by renal loss of this electrolyte (thiazide, thiazide-like and loop diuretics, glucocorticoids) and the gastrointestinal tract (laxatives, diarrhea, vomiting, external fistula), and may be the result of an increased intracellular potassium influx induced by sympathicomimetics used mostly by patients with asthma, or by insulin overdosage in diabetic subjects. The leading symptoms of  hypokalemia  are skeletal and smooth muscle weakness and cardiac arrhythmias. Hyperkalemia may be caused by acute or end-stage renal failure, impaired tubular excretion of potassium (blockers of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, cyclosporine, antifungal drugs, potassium sparing diuretics), acidemia, and severe cellular injury (tumor lysis syndrome). Hyperkalemia may be the cause of severe injury of both skeletal and smooth muscle cells. The specific treatment counteracting hyperkalemia is a bolus injection of calcium salts and, when necessary, hemodialysis. Incidence, nature, and etiology of metabolic alkalosis in dogs and cats. PubMed Ha, Y-S; Hopper, K; Epstein, S E 2013-01-01 The incidence and causes of metabolic alkalosis in dogs and cats have not been fully investigated. To describe the incidence, nature, and etiology of metabolic alkalosis in dogs and cats undergoing blood gas analysis at a veterinary teaching hospital. Dogs and cats at a veterinary medical teaching hospital. Acid-base and electrolyte results for dogs and cats measured during a 13-month period were retrospectively collected from a computer database. Only the first measured (venous or arterial) blood gas analyzed in a single hospitalization period was included. Animals with a base excess above the reference range for the species were included. A total of 1,805 dogs and cats were included. Of these, 349 (19%) were identified as having an increased standardized base excess, 319 dogs and 30 cats. The mixed acid-base disorder of metabolic alkalosis with respiratory acidosis was the most common abnormality identified in both dogs and cats.  Hypokalemia  and hypochloremia were more common in animals with metabolic alkalosis compared to animals without metabolic alkalosis. The 4 most commonly identified underlying diseases were respiratory disease, gastrointestinal tract obstruction, furosemide administration, and renal disease. Metabolic alkalosis was less common than metabolic acidosis in the same population of animals. Evidence of contraction alkalosis was present in many patients in this study.  Hypokalemia  and hypochloremia were more frequent in patients with metabolic alkalosis and suggest the importance of evaluation of acid-base status in conjunction with serum electrolyte concentrations. Copyright © 2013 by the American College of Veterinary Internal Medicine. Generation and analysis of the thiazide-sensitive Na+ -Cl- cotransporter (Ncc/Slc12a3) Ser707X knockin mouse as a model of Gitelman syndrome. PubMed Yang, Sung-Sen; Lo, Yi-Fen; Yu, I-Shing; Lin, Shu-Wha; Chang, Tai-Hsiang; Hsu, Yu-Juei; Chao, Tai-Kuang; Sytwu, Huey-Kang; Uchida, Shinichi; Sasaki, Sei; Lin, Shih-Hua 2010-12-01 Gitelman syndrome (GS) is characterized by salt-losing hypotension, hypomagnesemia, hypokalemic metabolic alkalosis, and hypocalciuria. To better model human GS caused by a specific mutation in the thiazide-sensitive Na(+) -Cl(-) cotransporter (NCC) gene SLC12A3, we generated a nonsense Ncc Ser707X knockin mouse corresponding to human p.Ser710X (c.2135C>A), a recurrent mutation with severe phenotypes in Chinese GS patients. Compared with wild-type or heterozygous littermates, homozygous (Hom) knockin mice fully recapitulated the phenotype of human GS. The markedly reduced Ncc mRNA and virtually absent Ncc protein expression in kidneys of Hom mice was primarily due to nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD) surveillance mechanisms. Expression of epithelial Na(+) channel (Enac), Ca(2+) channels (Trpv5 and Trpv6), and K(+) channels (Romk1 and maxi-K) were significantly increased. Late distal convoluted tubules (DCT) volume was increased and DCT cell ultrastructure appeared intact. High K(+) intake could not correct  hypokalemia  but caused a further increase in maxi-K but not Romk1 expression. Renal tissue from a patient with GS also showed the enhanced TRPV5 and ROMK1 expression in distal tubules. We suggest that the upregulation of TRPV5/6 and of ROMK1 and Maxi-K may contribute to hypocalciuria and  hypokalemia  in Ncc Ser707X knockin mice and human GS, respectively. © 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc. Double knockout of pendrin and Na-Cl cotransporter (NCC) causes severe salt wasting, volume depletion, and renal failure. PubMed Soleimani, Manoocher; Barone, Sharon; Xu, Jie; Shull, Gary E; Siddiqui, Faraz; Zahedi, Kamyar; Amlal, Hassane 2012-08-14 The Na-Cl cotransporter (NCC), which is the target of inhibition by thiazides, is located in close proximity to the chloride-absorbing transporter pendrin in the kidney distal nephron. Single deletion of pendrin or NCC does not cause salt wasting or excessive diuresis under basal conditions, raising the possibility that these transporters are predominantly active during salt depletion or in response to excess aldosterone. We hypothesized that pendrin and NCC compensate for loss of function of the other under basal conditions, thereby masking the role that each plays in salt absorption. To test our hypothesis, we generated pendrin/NCC double knockout (KO) mice by crossing pendrin KO mice with NCC KO mice. Pendrin/NCC double KO mice displayed severe salt wasting and sharp increase in urine output under basal conditions. As a result, animals developed profound volume depletion, renal failure, and metabolic alkalosis without  hypokalemia , which were all corrected with salt replacement. We propose that the combined inhibition of pendrin and NCC can provide a strong diuretic regimen without causing  hypokalemia  for patients with fluid overload, including patients with congestive heart failure, nephrotic syndrome, diuretic resistance, or generalized edema. [Thyrotoxic hypokalemic periodic paralysis, an endocrine emergency: clinical and genetic features in 25 patients]. PubMed Silva, Magnus R Dias da; Chiamolera, Maria Izabel; Kasamatsu, Teresa S; Cerutti, Janete M; Maciel, Rui M B 2004-02-01 Thyrotoxic hypokalemic periodic paralysis (THPP) is a medical emergency characterized by acute attacks of weakness,  hypokalemia , and thyrotoxicosis that resolve with the treatment of hyperthyroidism. Attacks are transient, self-limited, associated with  hypokalemia  and resemble those of familial hypokalemic periodic paralysis (FHPP), an autosomal dominant neurological channelopathy. This study reviews the clinical features and genetic findings of THPP in 25 Brazilian patients. Most patients had weight loss, taquicardia, goiter, tremor, and ophthalmopathy. Most often attacks arose during the night and recovered spontaneously but some patients evolved to total quadriplegia, and few experienced cardiac arrhythmias. All patients had suppressed TSH and elevated T4 and most had positive anti-thyroid antibodies, indicating autoimmunity thyrotoxic etiology. Potassium was low in all patients during the crisis. Prophylactic potassium therapy has not been shown to prevent attacks; however it was useful for curbing the paralysis during the crisis. We identified the mutation R83H in the KCNE3 gene in one sporadic case, and M58V in the KCNE4 gene in one case with family history. Furthermore, we identified other genetic polymorphisms in the CACNA1S, SCN4A, KCNE1, KCNE2, KCNE1L, KCNJ2, KCNJ8 e KCNJ11 genes. We conclude that THPP is the most common treatable cause of acquired periodic paralysis; therefore, it must be included in the differential diagnosis of acute muscle weakness. A case report: Giant cystic parathyroid adenoma presenting with parathyroid crisis after Vitamin D replacement. PubMed Asghar, Ali; Ikram, Mubasher; Islam, Najmul 2012-07-28 Parathyroid adenoma with cystic degeneration is a rare cause of primary hyperparathyroidism. The clinical and biochemical presentation may mimic parathyroid carcinoma. We report the case of a 55 year old lady, who had longstanding history of depression and acid peptic disease. Serum calcium eight months prior to presentation was slightly high, but she was never worked up. She was found to be Vitamin D deficient while being investigated for generalized body aches. A month after she was replaced with Vitamin D, she presented to us with parathyroid crisis. Her corrected serum calcium was 23.0 mg/dL. She had severe gastrointestinal symptoms and acute kidney injury. She had unexplained consistent  hypokalemia  until surgery. Neck ultrasound and CT scan revealed giant parathyroid cyst extending into the mediastinum. After initial medical management for parathyroid crisis, parathyroid cystic adenoma was surgically excised. Her serum calcium, intact parathyroid hormone, creatinine and potassium levels normalized after surgery. This case of parathyroid crisis, with very high serum calcium and parathyroid hormone levels, is a rare presentation of parathyroid adenoma with cystic degeneration. This case also highlights that Vitamin D replacement may unmask subclinical hyperparathyroidism. Consistent  hypokalemia  until surgery merits research into its association with hypercalcemia. Inherited renal tubulopathies associated with metabolic alkalosis: effects on blood pressure. PubMed Ariceta, Gema; Rodríguez-Soriano, Juan 2006-11-01 Inherited tubular disorders associated with metabolic alkalosis are caused by several gene mutations encoding different tubular transporters responsible for NaCl renal handling. Body volume and renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system status are determined by NaCl reabsorption in the distal nephron. Two common hallmarks in affected individuals:  hypokalemia  and normal / high blood pressure, support the differential diagnosis. Bartter's syndrome, characterized by  hypokalemia  and normal blood pressure, is a heterogenic disease caused by the loss of function of SLC12A1 (type 1), KCNJ1 (type 2), CLCNKB (type 3), or BSND genes (type 4). As a result, patients present with renal salt wasting and hypercalciuria. Gitelman's syndrome is caused by the loss of funcion of the SLC12A3 gene and may resemble Bartter's syndrome, though is associated with the very low urinary calcium. Liddle's syndrome, also with similar phenotype but with hypertension, is produced by the gain of function of the SNCC1B or SNCC1G genes, and must be distinguished from other entities of inherited hypertension such as Apparently Mineralocorticoid Excess, of glucocorticoid remediable hypertension. Acute hydrofluoric acid exposure reported to Taiwan Poison Control Center, 1991-2010. PubMed Wu, M-L; Yang, C-C; Ger, J; Tsai, W-J; Deng, J-F 2014-05-01 Hydrofluoric acid (HF) is a dangerous chemical that can cause severe cutaneous burns as well as possible systemic toxicity. We retrospectively analyzed all human HF exposure cases reported to the National Poison Control Center of Taiwan between 1991 and 2010. In this 20-year survey, 324 calls were identified, with a majority of dermal exposure (84%). Occupational exposure accounted for 80% of all cases, with workers in semiconductor industry (61%), cleaning industry (15%), chemical or metal industry (13%), and other industries (11%). Electrolyte imbalances were uncommon, hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and  hypokalemia  were recorded in 8.6%, 1.2%, and 1.5% of all cases, respectively. Most cases (64%) of dermal exposure received antidotal treatment. Treatment modalities of dermal exposure included calcium gluconate soaking, 49.8%; intravenous calcium, 20.6%; and topical use of calcium gluconate gel, 13.9%. Twenty patients (7%) received surgery. Following HF exposure, the majority of patients presented with mild (56.5%) or moderate (36.7%) toxic effects. However, four patients were severely intoxicated; two patients died of HF-related dysrhythmia and shock. Significant symptomology may occur following HF exposure, and most of the HF exposure required hospitals evaluation. Calcium gluconate soaks appear to be effective in reducing local pain and tissue damage. Hyperkalemia should not be overemphasized as a common finding in HF exposure,  hypokalemia  tends to occur in cases of severe HF poisoning. Double knockout of pendrin and Na-Cl cotransporter (NCC) causes severe salt wasting, volume depletion, and renal failure PubMed Central Soleimani, Manoocher; Barone, Sharon; Xu, Jie; Shull, Gary E.; Siddiqui, Faraz; Zahedi, Kamyar; Amlal, Hassane 2012-01-01 The Na-Cl cotransporter (NCC), which is the target of inhibition by thiazides, is located in close proximity to the chloride-absorbing transporter pendrin in the kidney distal nephron. Single deletion of pendrin or NCC does not cause salt wasting or excessive diuresis under basal conditions, raising the possibility that these transporters are predominantly active during salt depletion or in response to excess aldosterone. We hypothesized that pendrin and NCC compensate for loss of function of the other under basal conditions, thereby masking the role that each plays in salt absorption. To test our hypothesis, we generated pendrin/NCC double knockout (KO) mice by crossing pendrin KO mice with NCC KO mice. Pendrin/NCC double KO mice displayed severe salt wasting and sharp increase in urine output under basal conditions. As a result, animals developed profound volume depletion, renal failure, and metabolic alkalosis without  hypokalemia , which were all corrected with salt replacement. We propose that the combined inhibition of pendrin and NCC can provide a strong diuretic regimen without causing  hypokalemia  for patients with fluid overload, including patients with congestive heart failure, nephrotic syndrome, diuretic resistance, or generalized edema. PMID:22847418 Pseudo Gitelman Syndrome Associated With Pregnancy. PubMed Yoshihara, Masato; Sayo, Akira; Mayama, Michinori; Oguchi, Hidenori 2015-10-01 Gitelman syndrome is a rare inherited renal tubulopathy associated with metabolic alkalosis and electrolyte disorders. Pseudo Gitelman syndrome presents with the same clinical characteristics as Gitelman syndrome, yet without genetic mutations in SLC12A3. A 32-year-old woman with no remarkable medical and family history developed  hypokalemia  at 32 weeks of gestation. Laboratory findings were consistent with Gitelman syndrome and potassium supplementation was initiated. The patient delivered a healthy neonate at 40 weeks of gestation and the electrolyte disorders drastically improved. After delivery, genomic analysis revealed no evidence of mutations in SLC12A3, and pseudo Gitelman syndrome was finally diagnosed. Pseudo Gitelman syndrome, presenting with Gitelman syndrome-like renal tubulopathy without mutations in SLC12A3, can cause a temporary electrolyte imbalance based on the physiologic changes of pregnancy. Although pregnant women with isolated  hypokalemia  need not be evaluated for Gitelman or pseudo Gitelman syndrome, if it is accompanied by metabolic alkalosis, hypocalciuria, hypomagnesia, and activation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system without hypertension, this evaluation should be considered. A cola-induced hypokalemic rhabdomyolysis with electromyographic evaluation: A case report. PubMed Ferrazzoli, Davide; Sabetta, Annarita; Palamara, Grazia; Caremani, Luca; Capobianco, Marina; Balbi, Pietro; Frazzitta, Giuseppe 2017-01-01 To report a rare case of hypokalemic rhabdomyolysis induced by the heavy and prolonged ingestion of cola-based beverages, and its uneventful recovery after kalemia normalization. We report a 38-year-old Caucasian male presented in our emergency room with a recent and progressive weakness of the lower limbs proximal muscles. A dietary history revealed a prolonged ingestion of cola-based beverages. Blood tests showed severe  hypokalemia  and marked increase in serum creatine phosphokinase. The analysis of cerebrospinal fluid resulted normal. Electromyography was suggestive for a myopathy. The clinical, laboratory and neurophysiological data were evocative for a cola-induced hypokalemic rhabdomyolysis. After kalemia normalization, the improvements of the electromyographic findings paralleled the clinical recovery. Chronic consumption of large amount of cola-based soft drinks may result in severe symptomatic  hypokalemia , eventually leading in turn to myopathy. To our knowledge, this is the first description of the electromyographic findings of the cola-induced hypokalemic rhabdomyolysis. An early diagnosis and a prompt treatment appear to be crucial for a benign clinical course. Serum level of scorpion toxins, electrolytes and electrocardiogram alterations in Mexican children envenomed by scorpion sting. PubMed Osnaya-Romero, N; Acosta-Saavedra, L C; Goytia-Acevedo, R; Lares-Asseff, I; Basurto-Celaya, G; Perez-Guille, G; Possani, L D; Calderón-Aranda, E S 2016-11-01 The scorpion Centruroides limpidus limpidus (C.l.l.) is endemic in México, producing hundreds of accidents in humans; children being one of the most susceptible targets. Few studies reported that severe envenoming by scorpion venom induces cardiac damage and electrolytes abnormalities in children, but the relationship of envenoming severity and toxic blood levels is unknown. The aim of this study was to determine the relationship among clinical status of envenoming, serum electrolyte, electrocardiographic abnormalities, and serum toxin levels in 44 children stung by scorpion over a period of 6 months in the State of Morelos, Mexico. The patients were said to be asymptomatic, when they presented just local symptoms, and were said to be symptomatic when showing local symptoms and at least one systemic symptom. The clinical status was evaluated at the admission at the emergency room of the Hospital, and 30 min after the administration of polyspecific F(ab')2 anti-scorpion therapy to symptomatic children. Forty-one percent of the children were asymptomatic and 59% symptomatic. Potassium and sodium imbalance and an elongation of the QT interval were detected; the rate of  hypokalemia  was higher in symptomatic than on asymptomatic children (50% and 6%, respectively).  Hypokalemia  persisted in 19% in symptomatic patients, whereas sodium reached normal levels 30 min after anti-venom therapy. The  hypokalemia  statistically correlated with elongation of the QT interval. The concentration of the toxic components of C.l.l in serum was significantly higher in symptomatic than asymptomatic children, and the serum levels of the toxic component significantly decreased to undetectable levels after the application of anti-venom therapy. Despite the small size of the sample, this study establishes that severity of envenoming was statistically related to potassium imbalance in serum, QT interval and the concentration of toxic components in serum, which decreased at undetectable levels Potassium status of Northeast Thai constructors in three different geographic locations. PubMed Tosukhowong, P; Sriboonlue, P; Tungsanga, K; Bovornpadungkitti, S; Chatuporn, S; Muktahant, B; Prapunwattana, P; Sangwatanaroj, S; Sitprija, V 2001-06-01 Sudden and unexpected death of young adults during sleep is a phenomenon among Southeast Asians and particularly young Northeast (NE) Thailand constructors in Singapore. Survivor of sudden unexplained death syndrome (SUDS) without structural heart disease with idopathic ventricular fibrillation (VF) has been documented. Low plasma potassium (K) and depletion of K can occur simply through a reduction of K intake and are associated with increased risk of VF. The K-status of the populations was evaluated in the NE (Group 1, n=30), Bangkok (Group 2, n=48) and Singapore (Group 3, n=46). Groups 2 and 3 were further subdivided into Group 2A (worked in Bangkok  <  or = 1 year, n=8), Group 2B (worked in Bangkok > 1 year, n=40), Group 3A (consumed self-prepared or ready-to-buy meals, n=25) and Group 3B (regularly consumed foods provided free-of-charge by construction companies, n=21). Thirty-four male healthy university personnels from the NE and Bangkok served as the control--Group 4. Two 24-h urine samples and a fasting blood sample were collected from each subject. Dietary-K from food was determined by duplicated meal analysis. All these samples were then analyzed for their K-content. Group 3A had the lowest K-status: their K-intake, serum-K, and urinary-K level were 29 +/- 5.8 mmol/day (% low K-intake=100), 3.43 +/- 0.34 mmol/L (%  hypokalemia =48) and 19.23 +/- 8.2 mmol/day (% hypokaliuria=87.5), respectively. Among the construction workers, average K-intake, serum-K and urinary-K levels were 45.5 +/- 6.1 mmol/day (% low K-intake = 37.5), 3.93 +/- 0.2 mmol/L (%  hypokalemia  = 2.5) and 39.6 +/- 9.2 mmol/day (% hypokaliuria = 12.5), respectively. The values of Group 2B were similar to Group 4. In addition, when the data from all of the groups were compared, there was a positive correlation between dietary-K (intake) and urinary-K (excretion) (r=0.881, p < 0.001). In conclusion, NE Thailand constructors from various locations exhibited low K status with low dietary-K, high Loop Diuretics in the Treatment of Hypertension. PubMed Malha, Line; Mann, Samuel J 2016-04-01 Loop diuretics are not recommended in current hypertension guidelines largely due to the lack of outcome data. Nevertheless, they have been shown to lower blood pressure and to offer potential advantages over thiazide-type diuretics. Torsemide offers advantages of longer duration of action and once daily dosing (vs. furosemide and bumetanide) and more reliable bioavailability (vs. furosemide). Studies show that the previously employed high doses of thiazide-type diuretics lower BP more than furosemide. Loop diuretics appear to have a preferable side effect profile (less hyponatremia,  hypokalemia , and possibly less glucose intolerance). Studies comparing efficacy and side effect profiles of loop diuretics with the lower, currently widely prescribed, thiazide doses are needed. Research is needed to fill gaps in knowledge and common misconceptions about loop diuretic use in hypertension and to determine their rightful place in the antihypertensive arsenal. [Classical antihypertensive drugs: diuretics]. PubMed Nagy, Viktor László 2017-03-01 The diuretics are essential medicaments of antihypertensive therapy. They reduce blood pressure and cardiovascular events optimally. With increasing doses of thiazides and thiazide analogs do not come further powerful effect of reducing blood pressure or cardiovascular mortality and morbidity, but clearly elevate the side effects. Because of it, the minimum effective dose level and the fixed-dose combination therapy should be preferred. The use these drugs leads to especially positive outcome in elder patients, isolated systolic hypertension, heart failure, after stroke and in black population. Loop diuretics as antihypertensive therapy can be used only by renal impairment. The use of aldosterone antagonists can have a good effect not only on heart failure but also on prevention of atrial fibrillation. Furthermore, using it in a combination therapy with thiazides, it reduces the risk of  hypokalemia . Therefore, the diuretic treatment in hypertension is flourishing again. Orv. Hetil., 2017, 158(11), 403-408. Oxidative stress and cardiomyocyte necrosis with elevated serum troponins: pathophysiologic mechanisms. PubMed Robinson, Antwon D; Ramanathan, Kodangudi B; McGee, Jesse E; Newman, Kevin P; Weber, Karl T 2011-08-01 The progressive nature of heart failure is linked to multiple factors, including an ongoing loss of cardiomyocytes and necrosis. Necrotic cardiomyocytes leave behind several footprints: the spillage of their contents leading to elevations in serum troponins; and morphologic evidence of tissue repair with scarring. The pathophysiologic origins of cardiomyocyte necrosis relates to neurohormonal activation, including the adrenergic nervous system. Catecholamine-initiated excessive intracellular Ca accumulation and mitochondria Ca overloading in particular initiate a mitochondriocentric signal-transducer-effector pathway to necrosis and which includes the induction of oxidative stress and opening of their inner membrane permeability transition pore.  Hypokalemia , ionized hypocalcemia and hypomagnesemia, where consequent elevations in parathyroid hormone further account for excessive intracellular Ca accumulation, hypozincemia and hyposelenemia each compromise metalloenzyme-based antioxidant defenses. The necrotic loss of cardiomyocytes and adverse structural remodeling of myocardium is related to the central role played by a mitochondriocentric pathway initiated by neurohormonal activation. Neuroendocrine carcinoma of the ampulla of Vater causing ectopic adrenocorticotropic hormone-dependent Cushing's syndrome. PubMed Kato, Akihisa; Hayashi, Kazuki; Naitoh, Itaru; Seno, Kyoji; Okada, Yukiko; Ban, Tesshin; Kondo, Hiromu; Nishi, Yuji; Umemura, Shuichiro; Hori, Yasuki; Natsume, Makoto; Joh, Takashi 2016-07-01 Ectopic adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) is rarely secreted by neuroendocrine tumors. Although neuroendocrine tumors may occur at any site in the gastrointestinal system, they very rarely occur in the ampulla of Vater and have a poor prognosis. The present study described the first Cushing's syndrome as a result of ectopic ACTH arising from the ampulla of Vater neuroendocrine carcinoma. A 69-year-old female was admitted with clinical features of Cushing's syndrome, confirmed biochemically by  hypokalemia , and elevated levels of ACTH and cortisol. In further investigations, a tumor of the ampulla of Vater and liver metastases were detected. Pathological analysis of the biopsy confirmed a neuroendocrine carcinoma, which was immunohistochemically positive for chromogranin A, synaptophysin, cluster of differentiation 56 and ACTH. Therefore, the present study diagnosed a functional and metastatic neuroendocrine carcinoma of the ampulla of Vater with ectopic ACTH production causing Cushing's syndrome. The patient succumbed to mortality 4 months later, despite administration of combined chemotherapy with irinotecan and cisplatin. Renal calculi in primary hyperaldosteronism. PubMed Central Kabadi, U. M. 1995-01-01 Increased urinary calcium (Ca++) excretion and the presence of negative Ca++ balance is well documented in primary hyperaldosteronism. However, renal calculi as a major manifestation of this disorder has not previously been described. This report describes a patient who presented with renal calculi in association with primary hyperaldosteronism. We believe that primary hyperaldosteronism was a major pathogenetic factor in the formation of renal calculi since the increased urinary excretion of Ca++ and uric acid noted at onset declined following a short-term spironolactone administration and remission from renal calculi has persisted following initial nephrolithotomy and continued spironolactone therapy, which also corrected hypertension and  hypokalemia , a hallmark of this disorder. Images Figure PMID:7479473 Cefovecin (Convenia) for the treatment of septic peritonitis in a female lion (Panthera leo). PubMed Steeil, James; Schumacher, Juergen; Seibert, Rachel; Tobias, Karen 2012-09-01 An 8-yr-old intact female African lion (Panthera leo) presented with a 3-day history of lethargy, anorexia, and vomiting. Hematologic and biochemical abnormalities included a leukocytosis, 41,700/microl (4,700-15,300) with a neutrophilia (37,530/microl; 2,000-9,200) and a left shift (1,250/microl bands; 0-300), and mild  hypokalemia  of 2.1 mEq/L (2.8-4.8). Abdominal radiographs revealed evidence of intestinal ileus, peritonitis, and the presence of effusion. An exploratory laparotomy was performed, and septic peritonitis due to a pyometra was diagnosed. The lion was treated with an ovariohysterectomy, abdominal lavage, fluid therapy, and a subcutaneous injection of cefovecin. The lion recovered, and clinical signs associated with septic peritonitis resolved within 36 hr. It was returned to conspecifics 3 wk later. Three months postoperatively, the lion showed no residual signs of septic peritonitis. [Risk factors for development of hypomagnesemia in the burned patient]. PubMed Durán-Vega, Héctor César; Romero-Aviña, Francisco Javier; Gutiérrez-Salgado, Jorge Eduardo; Silva-Díaz, Teresita; Ramos-Durón, Luis Ernesto; Carrera-Gómez, Francisco Javier 2004-01-01 Electrolyte abnormalities are common in the severely burned patient. There is little information with regard to the frequency and magnitude of hypomagnesemia, as well as on risk factors for this condition. We performed an observational, retrospective analysis of 35 burned patients treated at the Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery Service at the Hospital Central Sur PEMEX, Mexico City. We determined serum magnesium behavior and divided patients into two groups: the first included 11 patients with burns and hypomagnesemia, and the second, 24 patients with burns but without hypomagnesemia. Risk factor identification was performed. We found patient at risk was the one with more than 40% of 2nd or 3rd degree total burned body area, in day 4 or 10 after the burn, and with  hypokalemia , hypocalcemia, or both, and without intravenous (i.v.) supplementation of magnesium. The best way to prevent or avoid major complications is to identify the high-risk patient, or to diagnose earlier. Bartter syndrome type III and congenital anomalies of the kidney and urinary tract: an antenatal presentation. PubMed Westland, Rik; Hack, Wilfried W; van der Horst, Henricus J R; Uittenbogaard, Lukas B; van Hagen, Johanna M; van der Valk, Paul; Kamsteeg, Erik J; van den Heuvel, Lambert P; van Wijk, Joanna A E 2012-12-01 Bartter syndrome encompasses a variety of inheritable renal tubular transport disorders characterized by  hypokalemia  and hypochloremic metabolic alkalosis. Bartter syndrome Type III is caused by genetic alterations in the chloride channel kidney B (CLCNKB) gene and often presents in the first 2 years of life, known as classic Bartter syndrome. However, in rare cases Bartter syndrome Type III has an antenatal presentation with polyhydramnios, premature delivery and severe dehydration in the first weeks of life. Associations between congenital anomalies of the kidney and urinary tract and Bartter syndrome are extremely rare. This case report presents a girl with Bartter syndrome Type III due to a homozygous CLCNKB mutation and bilateral congenital anomalies of the kidney and urinary tract. In addition, we describe the antenatal presentation as well as its perinatal management. Bartter Syndrome Type 1 Presenting as Nephrogenic Diabetes Insipidus PubMed Central Fabbri, Elena; Pedini, Annalisa; Tedeschi, Silvana; Borsa, Niccolò 2018-01-01 Bartter syndrome (BS) type 1 (OMIM #601678) is a hereditary salt-losing renal tubular disorder characterized by hypokalemic metabolic alkalosis, hypercalciuria, nephrocalcinosis, polyuria, recurrent vomiting, and growth retardation. It is caused by loss-of-function mutations of the SLC12A1 gene, encoding the furosemide-sensitive Na-K-Cl cotransporter. Recently, a phenotypic variability has been observed in patients with genetically determined BS, including absence of nephrocalcinosis,  hypokalemia , and/or metabolic alkalosis in the first year of life as well as persistent metabolic acidosis mimicking distal renal tubular acidosis. We report the case of a child with a genetically determined diagnosis of Bartter syndrome type 1 who presented with a phenotype of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, with severe hypernatremia and urinary concentrating defect. In these atypical cases, molecular analysis is mandatory to define the diagnosis, in order to establish the correct clinical and therapeutic management. PMID:29527380 Bartter Syndrome Type 1 Presenting as Nephrogenic Diabetes Insipidus. PubMed Vergine, Gianluca; Fabbri, Elena; Pedini, Annalisa; Tedeschi, Silvana; Borsa, Niccolò 2018-01-01 Bartter syndrome (BS) type 1 (OMIM #601678) is a hereditary salt-losing renal tubular disorder characterized by hypokalemic metabolic alkalosis, hypercalciuria, nephrocalcinosis, polyuria, recurrent vomiting, and growth retardation. It is caused by loss-of-function mutations of the SLC12A1 gene, encoding the furosemide-sensitive Na-K-Cl cotransporter. Recently, a phenotypic variability has been observed in patients with genetically determined BS, including absence of nephrocalcinosis,  hypokalemia , and/or metabolic alkalosis in the first year of life as well as persistent metabolic acidosis mimicking distal renal tubular acidosis. We report the case of a child with a genetically determined diagnosis of Bartter syndrome type 1 who presented with a phenotype of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, with severe hypernatremia and urinary concentrating defect. In these atypical cases, molecular analysis is mandatory to define the diagnosis, in order to establish the correct clinical and therapeutic management. Adult presentation of Bartter syndrome type IV with erythrocytosis. PubMed Heilberg, Ita Pfeferman; Tótoli, Cláudia; Calado, Joaquim Tomaz 2015-01-01 Bartter syndrome comprises a group of rare autosomal-recessive salt-losing disorders with distinct phenotypes, but one unifying pathophysiology consisting of severe reductions of sodium reabsorption caused by mutations in five genes expressed in the thick ascending limb of Henle, coupled with increased urinary excretion of potassium and hydrogen, which leads to hypokalemic alkalosis. Bartter syndrome type IV, caused by loss-of-function mutations in barttin, a subunit of chloride channel CLC-Kb expressed in the kidney and inner ear, usually occurs in the antenatal-neonatal period. We report an unusual case of late onset presentation of Bartter syndrome IV and mild phenotype in a 20 years-old man who had  hypokalemia , deafness, secondary hyperparathyroidism and erythrocytosis. Rectal Cancer in a Patient with Bartter Syndrome: A Case Report PubMed Central Fujino, Shiki; Miyoshi, Norikatsu; Ohue, Masayuki; Mukai, Mikio; Kukita, Yoji; Hata, Taishi; Matsuda, Chu; Mizushima, Tsunekazu; Doki, Yuichiro; Mori, Masaki 2017-01-01 A woman with rectal cancer was scheduled for surgery. However, she also had  hypokalemia , hyperreninemia, and hyperaldosteronism in the absence of any known predisposing factors or endocrine tumors. She was given intravenous potassium, and her blood abnormalities stabilized after tumor resection. Genetic analysis revealed mutations in several genes associated with Bartter syndrome (BS) and Gitelman syndrome, including SLC12A1, CLCNKB, CASR, SLC26A3, and SLC12A3. Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) plays an important role in BS and worsens electrolyte abnormalities. The PGE2 level is reportedly increased in colorectal cancer, and in the present case, immunohistochemical examination revealed an increased PGE2 level in the tumor. We concluded that the tumor-related PGE2 elevation had worsened the patient’s BS, which became more manageable after tumor resection. PMID:28498361 Rectal Cancer in a Patient with Bartter Syndrome: A Case Report. PubMed Fujino, Shiki; Miyoshi, Norikatsu; Ohue, Masayuki; Mukai, Mikio; Kukita, Yoji; Hata, Taishi; Matsuda, Chu; Mizushima, Tsunekazu; Doki, Yuichiro; Mori, Masaki 2017-05-12 A woman with rectal cancer was scheduled for surgery. However, she also had  hypokalemia , hyperreninemia, and hyperaldosteronism in the absence of any known predisposing factors or endocrine tumors. She was given intravenous potassium, and her blood abnormalities stabilized after tumor resection. Genetic analysis revealed mutations in several genes associated with Bartter syndrome (BS) and Gitelman syndrome, including SLC12A1 , CLCNKB , CASR , SLC26A3 , and SLC12A3 . Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) plays an important role in BS and worsens electrolyte abnormalities. The PGE2 level is reportedly increased in colorectal cancer, and in the present case, immunohistochemical examination revealed an increased PGE2 level in the tumor. We concluded that the tumor-related PGE2 elevation had worsened the patient's BS, which became more manageable after tumor resection. Adult presentation of Bartter syndrome type IV with erythrocytosis PubMed Central Heilberg, Ita Pfeferman; Tótoli, Cláudia; Calado, Joaquim Tomaz 2015-01-01 Abstract Bartter syndrome comprises a group of rare autosomal-recessive salt-losing disorders with distinct phenotypes, but one unifying pathophysiology consisting of severe reductions of sodium reabsorption caused by mutations in five genes expressed in the thick ascending limb of Henle, coupled with increased urinary excretion of potassium and hydrogen, which leads to hypokalemic alkalosis. Bartter syndrome type IV, caused by loss-of-function mutations in barttin, a subunit of chloride channel CLC-Kb expressed in the kidney and inner ear, usually occurs in the antenatal-neonatal period. We report an unusual case of late onset presentation of Bartter syndrome IV and mild phenotype in a 20 years-old man who had  hypokalemia , deafness, secondary hyperparathyroidism and erythrocytosis. PMID:26537508 Diabetic Ketoacidosis—A Review of Cases at a University Medical Center PubMed Central Kiraly, John F.; Becker, Charles E.; Williams, Hibbard E. 1970-01-01 Twenty-five cases of diabetic ketoacidosis were studied retrospectively with respect to clinical characteristics and results of therapy. In this series (as with all 88 patients admitted in the last five years with a diagnosis of diabetic ketoacidosis) there were no deaths. Infection was found to be the most common precipitating event, documented by physical findings and cultures in one-third of these cases. In about two-thirds of the cases, electrocardiograms which were read as abnormal on admission reverted to normal after therapy. In all patients serum potassium levels decreased from admission values; one patient became symptomatically hypokalemic. Low serum potassium levels on admission and early vigorous bicarbonate therapy are emphasized as major predisposing factors of symptomatic  hypokalemia . None of the patients had overt hyperosmolar coma, lactic acidosis or cerebral edema during therapy. PMID:4985288 Metabolic alkalosis during immobilization in monkeys (M. nemestrina) NASA Technical Reports Server (NTRS) Young, D. R.; Yeh, I.; Swenson, R. S. 1983-01-01 The systemic and renal acid-base response of monkeys during ten weeks of immobilization was studied. By three weeks of immobilization, arterial pH and bicarbonate concentrations were elevated (chronic metabolic alkalosis). Net urinary acid excretion increased in immobilized animals. Urinary bicarbonate excretion decreased during the first three weeks of immobilization, and then returned to control levels. Sustained increases in urinary ammonium excretion were seen throughout the time duration of immobilization. Neither potassium depletion nor  hypokalemia  was observed. Most parameters returned promptly to the normal range during the first week of recovery. Factors tentatively associated with changes in acid-base status of monkeys include contraction of extracellular fluid volume, retention of bicarbonate, increased acid excretion, and possible participation of extrarenal buffers. Barium determination in gastric contents, blood and urine by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry in the case of oral barium chloride poisoning. PubMed Łukasik-Głębocka, Magdalena; Sommerfeld, Karina; Hanć, Anetta; Grzegorowski, Adam; Barałkiewicz, Danuta; Gaca, Michał; Zielińska-Psuja, Barbara 2014-01-01 A serious case of barium intoxication from suicidal ingestion is reported. Oral barium chloride poisoning with  hypokalemia , neuromuscular and cardiac toxicity, treated with intravenous potassium supplementation and hemodialysis, was confirmed by the determination of barium concentrations in gastric contents, blood, serum and urine using the inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry method. Barium concentrations in the analyzed specimens were 20.45 µg/L in serum, 150 µg/L in blood, 10,500 µg/L in urine and 63,500 µg/L in gastric contents. Results were compared with barium levels obtained from a non-intoxicated person. © The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com. Advantageous Use of Hypnosis in a Case of Psychogenic Vomiting. PubMed Chandrashekhar, Roopa 2016-04-01 This case study describes in detail the role of hypnosis in treatment of a case of psychogenic vomiting. The patient, a 60-yearold woman, had been suffering for 9 months from episodes of vomiting which resulted in weight loss, dehydration, and  hypokalemia . She was a conscientious woman with high standards of behavior, which did not allow an expression of the extreme hostility she felt toward her daughter-in-law. Hypnotherapeutic sessions reduced her anxiety, restored her sleep, improved mood, and helped deepen rapport, all of which created the ideal setting for Gestalt's empty chair technique. Integrating hypnosis greatly enhanced the quality of the empty chair dialogue, which by bringing about a shift in the patient's emotions from hostility to sympathy, facilitated recovery. Nutritional studies NASA Technical Reports Server (NTRS) Rambaut, P. C.; Smith, M. C., Jr.; Wheeler, H. O. 1975-01-01 Detailed metabolic studies were conducted of the Apollo 16 and Apollo 17 flight crews, and the results are presented in tabular form. Intake and absorption data are also included. Apollo nutrient intakes were found to be characteristically hypocaloric. Estimates of body composition changes from metabolic balance data, from preflight and postflight weights and volumes, and from total body water and potassium provide no evidence for diminished caloric requirements during a flight. As observed during the Gemini Program and during periods of bed rest, measurements of bone density and metabolic balance confirm a tendency toward loss of skeletal tissue in weightlessness. No evidence exists that any inflight metabolic anomaly, including  hypokalemia , was induced by marginal or deficient nutrient intakes. In general, the Apollo crewmen were well nourished and exhibited normal gastroenterological functions, although appetite was somewhat diminished and the organoleptic response to food was somewhat modified during flight. Treatment-related neuroendocrine prostate cancer resulting in Cushing's syndrome. PubMed Ramalingam, Sundhar; Eisenberg, Adva; Foo, Wen Chi; Freedman, Jennifer; Armstrong, Andrew J; Moss, Larry G; Harrison, Michael R 2016-12-01 Here we present, to the best of our knowledge, the first case of a paraneoplastic Cushing's syndrome (hypercortisolism) resulting from treatment-related neuroendocrine prostate cancer - a highly aggressive and difficult disease to treat. A 51-year-old man was started on androgen deprivation therapy after presenting with metastatic prostate cancer, characterized by diffuse osseous metastasis. Shortly thereafter, he developed progressive disease with biopsy proven neuroendocrine prostate cancer as well as symptoms of increased skin pigmentation,  hypokalemia , hypertension, hyperglycemia and profound weakness, consistent with ectopic Cushing's syndrome. Molecular analysis of the patient's tumor through RNA sequencing showed high expression of several genes including CHGA, ASCL1, CALCA, HES6, PCSK1, CALCB and INSM1 confirming his neuroendocrine phenotype; elevated POMC expression was found, supporting the diagnosis of ectopic Cushing's syndrome. © 2016 The Japanese Urological Association. The Basic Metabolic Profile in Heart Failure-Marker and Modifier. PubMed Elfar, Ahmed; Sambandam, Kamalanathan K 2017-08-01 The physiologic determinants of each of the components of the basic metabolic profile in patients with heart failure will be explored. Additionally, the review will discuss the prognostic value of alterations in the basic metabolic profile as well as their effects on management. Abnormalities in the basic metabolic profile have significant correlation with clinical outcomes and can modify treatment in heart failure. Hypochloremia has recently received increased attention for these reasons. Elevated creatinine, increased blood urea nitrogen, hyponatremia, and hypochloremia correlate with worse mortality and diuretic resistance in heart failure.  Hypokalemia , even when mild, has proven to be a worse clinical indicator than modest elevations in serum potassium. Hypochloremia is mechanistically linked to hyponatremia and metabolic alkalosis, but recent compelling data suggests that it can provide more discriminating prognostic information. Knowledge of the physiologic basis for each of these alterations informs their management. Acquired Fanconi syndrome in patients with Legionella pneumonia. PubMed Kinoshita-Katahashi, Naoko; Fukasawa, Hirotaka; Ishigaki, Sayaka; Isobe, Shinsuke; Imokawa, Shiro; Fujigaki, Yoshihide; Furuya, Ryuichi 2013-08-02 Hyponatremia is often observed in patients with Legionella pneumonia. However, other electrolyte abnormalities are uncommon and the mechanism remains to be clarified. We experienced two male cases of acquired Fanconi syndrome associated with Legionella pneumonia. The laboratory findings at admission showed hypophosphatemia,  hypokalemia , hypouricemia and/or hyponatremia. In addition, they had the generalized dysfunction of the renal proximal tubules presenting decreased tubular reabsorption of phosphate (%TRP), increased fractional excretion of potassium (FEK) and uric acid (FEUA), low-molecular-weight proteinuria, panaminoaciduria and glycosuria. Therefore, they were diagnosed as Fanconi syndrome. Treatment for Legionella pneumonia with antibiotics resulted in the improvement of all serum electrolyte abnormalities and normalization of the %TRP, FEK, FEUA, low-molecular-weight proteinuria, panaminoaciduria and glycosuria, suggesting that Legionella pneumophila infection contributed to the pathophysiology of Fanconi syndrome. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report demonstrating Fanconi syndrome associated with Legionella pneumonia. Cardiac arrest caused by sibutramine obtained over the Internet: a case of a young woman without pre-existing cardiovascular disease successfully resuscitated using extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. PubMed Bunya, Naofumi; Sawamoto, Keigo; Uemura, Shuji; Kyan, Ryoko; Inoue, Hiroyuki; Nishida, Junichi; Kouzu, Hidemichi; Kokubu, Nobuaki; Miura, Tetsuji; Narimatsu, Eichi 2017-07-01 Sibutramine is a weight loss agent that was withdrawn from the market in the USA and European Union because it increases adverse events in patients with cardiovascular diseases. However, non-prescription weight loss pills containing sibutramine can be still easily purchased over the Internet. A 21-year-old woman without history of cardiovascular diseases developed cardiac arrest. She was a user of a weight loss pills, containing sibutramine and  hypokalemia -inducing agents, imported from Thailand over the Internet. She was successfully resuscitated without any neurological deficits by using extracorporeal membrane oxygenation for refractory ventricular fibrillation. This case indicates that sibutramine can cause cardiac arrest even in subjects without pre-existing cardiovascular disease when combined with agents that promote QT prolongation. Hypoglycemia associated with refeeding syndrome in a cat. PubMed DeAvilla, Marisa D; Leech, Elizabeth B 2016-11-01 To describe the clinical presentation and biochemical abnormalities occurring during the successful treatment of refeeding syndrome in a cat. A 2-year-old neutered male domestic shorthair cat presented after having been missing for 12 weeks. The cat had clinical signs of severe starvation. Common complications developed during refeeding (eg, hypophosphatemia,  hypokalemia , and hemolytic anemia). The cat also developed hypoglycemia, a complication common in people but not previously reported in a cat. Hypoglycemia and electrolyte deficiencies were managed with intravenous supplementation. The cat was successfully treated and was discharged alive 7 days after presentation. Hypoglycemia has not been reported previously as a complication of refeeding in a cat. Frequent monitoring of electrolyte, mineral, and blood glucose concentrations is essential to successful management of refeeding syndrome. The ideal refeeding strategy is unknown at this time. Evidence suggests that a diet low in carbohydrate decreases the likelihood of metabolic derangements commonly associated with refeeding. © Veterinary Emergency and Critical Care Society 2016. N-acetylcysteine in Cleistanthus collinus Poisoning: A Report of Two Cases in Children. PubMed Sharma, Shreya; Rameshkumar, Ramachandran; Mahadevan, Subramanian 2016-12-01 Cleistanthus collinus, also known as Oduvanthalai in Tamil, is the most commonly encountered plant poison in southern India. The leaves are used for poisoning humans (suicide or homicide) and animals (cattle and fish) and as an abortifacient, especially in rural south India. Although this poisoning is commonly reported in adults, data regarding the use of N-acetylcysteine in pediatric poisoning is lacking. We report two previously healthy male siblings of pediatric age group who ingested the liquid extracted from crushed leaves of this plant given to them by their mother as a means of deliberate harm. Both patients developed distal renal tubular acidosis, with  hypokalemia . The younger sibling also developed myocardial toxicity. Other significant findings noted include hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia and elevated liver enzymes. Both patients received supportive care along with N-acetylcysteine infusion, and showed complete recovery within 10 days. © The Author [2016]. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com. Idiopathic Fanconi's syndrome with nephrogenic diabetes insipidus in a child who presented as vitamin D resistant rickets--a case report and review of literature. PubMed Patra, Soumya; Nadri, Gulnaz; Chowdhary, Harish; Pemde, Harish K; Singh, Varinder; Chandra, Jagdish 2011-01-01 Fanconi's syndrome is a complex of multiple tubular dysfunctions of proximal tubular cells occurring alone or in association with a variety of inherited (primary) or acquired (secondary) disorders. It is characterized by aminoaciduria, normoglycemic glycosuria, tubular proteinuria without hematuria, metabolic acidosis without anion gap and excessive urinary excretion of phosphorous, calcium, uric acid, bicarbonate, sodium, potassium and magnesium. Diabetes insipidus is a disease of collecting tubules and a child mainly presents with dehydration and hypernatremia. We report the first case of idiopathic Fanconi's syndrome along with nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (NDI) in a child who presented to us as resistant rickets. Medline search did not reveal any case of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus associated with idiopathic Fanconi's syndrome. We hypothesized that the NDI may be due to severe  hypokalemia  induced tubular dysfunction. The child was treated for hypophosphatemic rickets with severe metabolic acidosis and the treatment for NDI was also given. Now he has healed rickets and normal blood pH, sodium and osmolarity. A case report of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus with idiopathic Fanconi syndrome in a child who presented with vitamin D resistant rickets. PubMed Patra, Soumya; Nadri, Gulnaz; Chowdhary, Harish; Pemde, Harish K; Singh, Varinder; Chandra, Jagdish 2014-05-01 Fanconi syndrome is a complex of multiple tubular dysfunctions of proximal tubular cells, occurring alone or in association with a variety of inherited (primary) or acquired (secondary) disorders. It is characterized by aminoaciduria, normoglycemic glycosuria, tubular proteinuria without hematuria, metabolic acidosis without anion gap and excessive urinary excretion of phosphorous, calcium, uric acid, bicarbonate, sodium, potassium and magnesium. Diabetes insipidus is a disease of collecting tubules and children mainly present with dehydration and hypernatremia. We are reporting the first case of idiopathic Fanconi's syndrome along with nephrogenic diabetes insipidus in a child who presented to us with vitamin D resistant rickets. Medline search did not reveal any case of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (NDI) associated with idiopathic Fanconi syndrome. We hypothesized that the NDI may be due to to severe  hypokalemia  induced tubular dysfunction. Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus with idiopathic Fanconi's syndrome in a child who presented as vitamin D resistant rickets. PubMed Patra, Soumya; Nadri, Gulnaz; Chowdhary, Harish; Pemde, Harish K; Singh, Varinder; Chandra, Jagdish 2011-10-01 Fanconi's syndrome is a complex of multiple tubular dysfunctions of proximal tubular cells occurring alone or in association with a variety of inherited (primary) or acquired (secondary) disorders. It is characterized by aminoaciduria, normoglycaemic glycosuria, tubular proteinuria without hematuria, metabolic acidosis without anion gap and excessive urinary excretion of phosphorous, calcium, uric acid, bicarbonate, sodium, potassium, and magnesium. Whereas diabetes insipidus is a disease of collecting tubules and child mainly presents with dehydration and hypernatremia. Though all the cases published till date were secondary to drugs, myeloma, hematological disorders, etc., we are reporting the first case of idiopathic Fanconi's syndrome along with nephrogenic diabetes insipidus in a child who presented to us as resistant rickets. Medline search did not reveal any case of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus associated with idiopathic Fanconi syndrome. We hypothesized that the NDI may be due to of severe  hypokalemia  induced tubular dysfunction. Refeeding and metabolic syndromes: two sides of the same coin PubMed Central Obeid, O A; Hachem, D H; Ayoub, J J 2014-01-01 Refeeding syndrome describes the metabolic and clinical changes attributed to aggressive rehabilitation of malnourished subjects. The metabolic changes of refeeding are related to hypophosphatemia,  hypokalemia , hypomagnesemia, sodium retention and hyperglycemia, and these are believed to be mainly the result of increased insulin secretion following high carbohydrate intake. In the past few decades, increased consumption of processed food (refined cereals, oils, sugar and sweeteners, and so on) lowered the intake of several macrominerals (mainly phosphorus, potassium and magnesium). This seems to have compromised the postprandial status of these macrominerals, in a manner that mimics low grade refeeding syndrome status. At the pathophysiological level, this condition favored the development of the different components of the metabolic syndrome. Thus, it is reasonable to postulate that metabolic syndrome is the result of long term exposure to a mild refeeding syndrome. PMID:24979149 Renal Tubular Acidosis in Patients with Primary Sjögren's Syndrome. PubMed Jung, Su Woong; Park, Eun Ji; Kim, Jin Sug; Lee, Tae Won; Ihm, Chun Gyoo; Lee, Sang Ho; Moon, Ju-Young; Kim, Yang Gyun; Jeong, Kyung Hwan 2017-09-01 Primary Sjögren's syndrome (pSS) is characterized by lymphocytic infiltration of the exocrine glands resulting in decreased saliva and tear production. It uncommonly involves the kidneys in various forms, including tubulointerstitial nephritis, renal tubular acidosis, Fanconi syndrome, and rarely glomerulonephritis. Its clinical symptoms include muscle weakness, periodic paralysis, and bone pain due to metabolic acidosis and electrolyte imbalance. Herein, we describe the cases of two women with pSS whose presenting symptoms involve the kidneys. They had  hypokalemia  and normal anion gap metabolic acidosis due to distal renal tubular acidosis and positive anti-SS-A and anti-SS-B autoantibodies. Since one of them experienced femoral fracture due to osteomalacia secondary to renal tubular acidosis, an earlier diagnosis of pSS is important in preventing serious complications. Tyzzer's disease in a red panda (Ailurus fulgens fulgens). PubMed Langan, J; Bemis, D; Harbo, S; Pollock, C; Schumacher, J 2000-12-01 A debilitated 9-yr-old female red panda (Ailurus fulgens fulgens) with a recent history of corticosteroid administration displayed anorexia, depression, and diarrhea for 2 days. Blood work revealed a moderate nonregenerative anemia, leukocytosis,  hypokalemia , hyperbilirubinemia, and mildly elevated alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase. Serology was negative for occult heartworm, Toxoplasma gondii, feline leukemia virus, feline infectious peritonitis, feline immunodeficiency virus, and canine distemper virus. Electron microscopy of the feces demonstrated corona-like virus particles. The panda died 3 days after initial presentation. Histologic findings included multifocal, acute, hepatic necrosis and diffuse, necrotizing colitis. Liver and colon lesions contained intracellular, curved, spore-forming, gram-negative, silver-positive rods morphologically consistent with Clostridium piliforme. This panda most likely contracted Tyzzer's disease subsequent to having a compromised immune system after corticosteroid administration and concurrent disease. Thyrotoxic periodic paralysis associated with transient thyrotoxicosis due to painless thyroiditis. PubMed Oh, Sang Bo; Ahn, Jinhee; Oh, Min Young; Choi, Bo Gwang; Kang, Ji Hyun; Jeon, Yun Kyung; Kim, Sang Soo; Kim, Bo Hyun; Kim, Yong Ki; Kim, In Joo 2012-07-01 Thyrotoxic periodic paralysis (TPP) is a rare manifestation of hyperthyroidism characterized by muscle weakness and  hypokalemia . All ethnicities can be affected, but TPP typically presents in men of Asian descent. The most common cause of TPP in thyrotoxicosis is Graves' disease. However, TPP can occur with any form of thyrotoxicosis. Up to our knowledge, very few cases ever reported the relationship between TPP and painless thyroiditis. We herein report a 25-yr-old Korean man who suffered from flaccid paralysis of the lower extremities and numbness of hands. The patient was subsequently diagnosed as having TPP associated with transient thyrotoxicosis due to painless thyroiditis. The paralytic attack did not recur after improving the thyroid function. Therefore, it is necessary that early diagnosis of TPP due to transient thyrotoxicosis is made to administer definite treatment and prevent recurrent paralysis. Thyrotoxic Periodic Paralysis Associated with Transient Thyrotoxicosis Due to Painless Thyroiditis PubMed Central Oh, Sang Bo; Ahn, Jinhee; Oh, Min Young; Choi, Bo Gwang; Kang, Ji Hyun; Jeon, Yun Kyung; Kim, Sang Soo; Kim, Yong Ki; Kim, In Joo 2012-01-01 Thyrotoxic periodic paralysis (TPP) is a rare manifestation of hyperthyroidism characterized by muscle weakness and  hypokalemia . All ethnicities can be affected, but TPP typically presents in men of Asian descent. The most common cause of TPP in thyrotoxicosis is Graves' disease. However, TPP can occur with any form of thyrotoxicosis. Up to our knowledge, very few cases ever reported the relationship between TPP and painless thyroiditis. We herein report a 25-yr-old Korean man who suffered from flaccid paralysis of the lower extremities and numbness of hands. The patient was subsequently diagnosed as having TPP associated with transient thyrotoxicosis due to painless thyroiditis. The paralytic attack did not recur after improving the thyroid function. Therefore, it is necessary that early diagnosis of TPP due to transient thyrotoxicosis is made to administer definite treatment and prevent recurrent paralysis. PMID:22787383 Clinical analysis of hyperkalemia after esophagectomy: A case report. PubMed Chen, Qiang; Zhang, Wei-Guo; Chen, Shu-Chang 2017-12-01 The occurrence of hyperkalemia after esophagectomy is clinically rare. Patients who underwent esophagectomy often have a serum potassium level due to perioperative reduced intake, fluids loss, consumption and other reasons. These patients often require the artificial administration of potassium. Rapid fluid loss and physiological consumption lead to the deficiency of potassium, even  hypokalemia . Patients often require the addition of a large amount of potassium after operation. The occurrence of hyperkalemia after esophagectomy is never been reported. The patient presented with continuous tachycardia, palpitations, chest tightness, progressive nausea, irritability, progressive myasthenia gravis. Hyperkalemia, sepsis, acidosis, diabetes, postoperative esophageal cancer. Prompt anti-infection treatment and the management of blood sugar, hemodialysis was performed to correct sthe acidosis and electrolyte disorder OUTCOMES:: All symptoms were alleviated. Therefore, there is a need to regularly test electrolytes, especially in patients with diabetes, as well as better blood glucose control. Attention should be paid to the potential of infection, and to avoiding ketoacidosis and risk of sepsis. Aloe vera: A review of toxicity and adverse clinical effects. PubMed Guo, Xiaoqing; Mei, Nan 2016-04-02 The Aloe plant is employed as a dietary supplement in a variety of foods and as an ingredient in cosmetic products. The widespread human exposure and its potential toxic and carcinogenic activities raise safety concerns. Chemical analysis reveals that the Aloe plant contains various polysaccharides and phenolic chemicals, notably anthraquinones. Ingestion of Aloe preparations is associated with diarrhea,  hypokalemia , pseudomelanosis coli, kidney failure, as well as phototoxicity and hypersensitive reactions. Recently, Aloe vera whole leaf extract showed clear evidence of carcinogenic activity in rats, and was classified by the International Agency for Research on Cancer as a possible human carcinogen (Group 2B). This review presents updated information on the toxicological effects, including the cytotoxicity, genotoxicity, carcinogenicity, and adverse clinical effects of Aloe vera whole leaf extract, gel, and latex. Severe metabolic alkalosis due to pyloric obstruction: case presentation, evaluation, and management. PubMed McCauley, Meredith; Gunawardane, Manjula; Cowan, Mark J 2006-12-01 A 46-year-old man presented to the emergency room with severe metabolic alkalosis,  hypokalemia , and respiratory failure requiring intubation and mechanical ventilation. The cause of his acid-base disorder was initially unclear. Although alkalosis is common in the intensive care unit, metabolic alkalosis of this severity is unusual, carries a very high mortality rate, and requires careful attention to the pathophysiology and differential diagnosis to effectively evaluate and treat the patient. A central concept in the diagnosis of metabolic alkalosis is distinguishing chloride responsive and chloride nonresponsive states. Further studies are then guided by the history and physical examination in most cases. By using a systematic approach to the differential diagnosis, we were able to determine that a high-grade gastric outlet obstruction was the cause of the patients' alkalosis and to offer effective therapy for his condition. A literature review and algorithm for the diagnosis and management of metabolic alkalosis are also presented. [Dehydration and metabolic alkalosis: an unusual presentation of cystic fibrosis in an infant]. PubMed Aranzamendi, Roberto J; Breitman, Fanny; Asciutto, Carolina; Delgado, Norma; Castaños, Claudio 2008-10-01 Cystic fibrosis (CF) may present during neonatal period with classic clinic symptoms related to the disease. The severity of the disease is multifactorial, one of the factors depends on the level of activity of the CFTR protein, which is related with the mutation type that affects the patient. An infant is presented who developed recurrent episodes of vomiting, anorexia, weight loss, dehydration and electrolyte abnormalities, such as metabolic alkalosis, hyponatremia,  hypokalemia  and hypochloremia. CF was diagnosed after the third episode showing an unusual and not very publicized presentation of the disease. Mutations !F 508 and 2789+5G-A were found. CF should be considered in patients of any age, but particularly in infants, presenting with anorexia, vomiting, failure to thrive, that are associated with recurrent episodes of hyponatremic hypochloremic, dehydration with metabolic alkalosis unexplained by other causes, even in the absence of respiratory or gastrointestinal symptoms or failure to thrive. Spironolactone-Induced Unilateral Gynecomastia PubMed Central Veeregowda, Sahana Hadihalli; Krishnamurthy, Jayakumar Jyothinagaram; Krishnaswamy, Bhuvana; Narayana, Sarala 2018-01-01 Gynecomastia is benign enlargement of male breast, drug-induced gynecomastia accounts for about 25%. We are reporting a case of spironolactone-induced unilateral gynecomastia. A 52-year-old male patient receiving multiple antihypertensives including hydrochlorothiazide presented with muscle weakness and easy fatigability. Investigations revealed  hypokalemia ; he was advised to stop hydrochlorothiazide and consume potassium-rich diet; since he did not respond to this, spironolactone was added. The patient improved symptomatically but developed painful swelling of the right breast after 12 months of treatment which was suspected to be spironolactone-induced gynecomastia. Within a month of stopping the drug, pain in the right breast subsided followed by decrease in size of swelling. Literature search indicates bilateral gynecomastia by spironolactone, but when clinician encounters unilateral presentation, they should consider the possibility of drug-induced etiology. Patients should be educated about this while prescribing, and eplerenone can be a safe alternative. PMID:29552536 Spironolactone-Induced Unilateral Gynecomastia. PubMed Veeregowda, Sahana Hadihalli; Krishnamurthy, Jayakumar Jyothinagaram; Krishnaswamy, Bhuvana; Narayana, Sarala 2018-01-01 Gynecomastia is benign enlargement of male breast, drug-induced gynecomastia accounts for about 25%. We are reporting a case of spironolactone-induced unilateral gynecomastia. A 52-year-old male patient receiving multiple antihypertensives including hydrochlorothiazide presented with muscle weakness and easy fatigability. Investigations revealed  hypokalemia ; he was advised to stop hydrochlorothiazide and consume potassium-rich diet; since he did not respond to this, spironolactone was added. The patient improved symptomatically but developed painful swelling of the right breast after 12 months of treatment which was suspected to be spironolactone-induced gynecomastia. Within a month of stopping the drug, pain in the right breast subsided followed by decrease in size of swelling. Literature search indicates bilateral gynecomastia by spironolactone, but when clinician encounters unilateral presentation, they should consider the possibility of drug-induced etiology. Patients should be educated about this while prescribing, and eplerenone can be a safe alternative. A young man with polyuria and lethargy. PubMed Imtiaz, Salman; Qayyum, Shahid; Kafouri, Hala; Al Khoiter, Mohammad; Askar, Akram 2011-07-01 We report a 20-year-old man who presented to our emergency room with a history of polyuria, weakness, constipation, nausea, and vomiting of two months duration. History and clinical examination revealed a significant weight loss and mild hepatomegaly. Laboratory investigations revealed  hypokalemia , hypernatremia, and severe metabolic acidosis and anemia. Ultra-sound of the abdomen revealed enlarged kidneys without hydronerphrosis. The patient developed paralysis due to further decline in serum potassium level, which improved after an aggressive fluid and electrolyte management. He was investigated extensively for polyuria and type of acidosis. The kidney biopsy showed interstitial leukemic infiltration. He was managed accordingly and recovered from the condition. This case demonstrates an unusual presentation of a hematological malignancy, which was a diagnostic as well as a management challenge. Electrolyte and Metabolic Disturbances in Ebola Patients during a Clinical Trial, Guinea, 2015. PubMed van Griensven, Johan; Bah, Elhadj Ibrahima; Haba, Nyankoye; Delamou, Alexandre; Camara, Bienvenu Salim; Olivier, Kadio Jean-Jacques; De Clerck, Hilde; Nordenstedt, Helena; Semple, Malcolm G; Van Herp, Michel; Buyze, Jozefien; De Crop, Maaike; Van Den Broucke, Steven; Lynen, Lutgarde; De Weggheleire, Anja 2016-12-01 By using data from a 2015 clinical trial on Ebola convalescent-phase plasma in Guinea, we assessed the prevalence of electrolyte and metabolic abnormalities at admission and their predictive value to stratify patients into risk groups. Patients underwent testing with a point-of-care device. We used logistic regression to construct a prognostic model and summarized the predictive value with the area under the receiver operating curve. Abnormalities were common among patients, particularly  hypokalemia , hypocalcemia, hyponatremia, raised creatinine, high anion gap, and anemia. Besides age and PCR cycle threshold value, renal dysfunction, low calcium levels, and low hemoglobin levels were independently associated with increased risk for death. A prognostic model using all 5 factors was highly discriminatory (area under the receiver operating curve 0.95; 95% CI 0.90-0.99) and enabled the definition of risk criteria to guide targeted care. Most patients had a very low ( < 5%) or very high (>80%) risk for death. Use of computed tomography in diagnosing the cause of primary aldosteronism SciTech Connect White, E.A.; Schambelan, M.; Rost, C.R. 1980-12-25 Computed tomography (CT) was performed in 22 consecutive patients with primary aldosteronism to evaluate the usefulness of this technique in diagnosing and locating aldosterone-producing adenomas. Sixteen patients had severe  hypokalemia , hyperaldosteronism, and elevated plasma levels of 18-hydroxycorticosterone suggestive of an adenoma. In 12 of these 16, a unilateral adrenal mass was demonstrated clearly, and in all 11 who had surgery an adenoma was confirmed. In the other four patients in this group, one adrenal gland was normal and the other was either not seen adequately or had minor abnormalities that could not be definitely classified; and adenoma was found inmore » the poorly visualized gland in each of the two patients who had surgery. The remaining six patients, who had milder biochemical abnormalities suggestive of idiopathic hyperaldosteronism, had bilateral adrenal enlargement or normal-appearing glands on scan and were not surgically explored.« less Thyrotoxic periodic paralysis SciTech Connect Ferreiro, J.E.; Arguelles, D.J.; Rams, H. Jr. 1986-01-01 A case of thyrotoxic periodic paralysis is reported in a Hispanic man with an unusual recurrence six weeks after radioactive iodine treatment. Thyrotoxic periodic paralysis has now been well characterized in the literature: it occurs primarily in Orientals with an overwhelming male preponderance and a higher association of specific HLA antigens. Clinical manifestations include onset after high carbohydrate ingestion or heavy exertion, with progressive symmetric weakness leading to flaccid paralysis of the extremities and other muscle groups, lasting several hours. If  hypokalemia  is present, potassium administration may help abort the attack. Although propranolol can be efficacious in preventing further episodes,more » the only definitive treatment is establishing a euthyroid state. The pathophysiology is still controversial, but reflects altered potassium and calcium dynamics as well as certain morphologic characteristics within the muscle unit itself.« less Primary aldosteronism: diagnosis and treatment. PubMed Pimenta, Eduardo; Calhoun, David A 2006-12-01 Recent studies have indicated a higher prevalence of primary aldosteronism (PA) than reported historically. Aldosterone excess induces sodium and fluid retention with consequential increases in blood pressure. Patients with PA are at an increased risk of developing left ventricular hypertrophy, chronic kidney disease, and endothelial dysfunction. Measurement of the plasma aldosterone/plasma renin activity ratio is an effective screening test for PA. The majority of patients with PA do not have a discernable aldosterone-producing adenoma (APA), and the aldosterone excess is considered idiopathic in etiology and/or attributed to adrenal hyperplasia. Treatment of PA includes medical therapy with mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists and adrenalectomy for patients with a unilateral APA. A reasonable treatment strategy is to attempt medical therapy in all patients with a high plasma aldosterone/PRA ratio and reserve the extensive workup needed to identify an APA for those patients whose hypertension or  hypokalemia  cannot be controlled medically. Electrolyte changes in stroke. PubMed Alam, M N; Uddin, M J; Rahman, K M; Ahmed, S; Akhter, M; Nahar, N; Swapan, M K; Alam, M M; Sultana, N; Hallaz, M M; Alam, M M; Uddin, M M; Bari, M S; Israil, M A 2012-10-01 The present study was carried out in the department of Neurology and Medicine, Mymensingh Medical College Hospital, Bangladesh during the period of January 2009 to December 2010 to see the electrolyte changes in stroke. The serum concentration of Na⁺, K⁺, and Cl⁻ were measured in 110 cases during acute period of stroke (55 ischemic and 55 haemorrhagic strokes). Data were analyzed by computer with SPSS programme using 't' test and chi square test. In haemorrhagic stroke, out of 55 patients 29(52.72%) had abnormal sodium level, of them 23(41.8%) had hyponatremia, 6(10.9%) had hypernatremia. In contrast in ischemic stroke 23(41.80%) out of 55 had abnormal sodium level, of them 21(38%) had hyponatremia. The result showed that hyponatremia is almost equally common in both haemorrhagic and ischaemic group without significant difference (p>0.05). The study also revealed that hyponatremia is more common than hypernatremia in both groups. Mean ± SD of age of the haemorrhagic group was 60.80 ± 15.97 while the age of ischaemic group was 59.89 ± 15.84 years. Male, female ratio in haemorrhagic and ischaemic group 1:0.62 and 1:0.89 respectively. Mean ± SD of serum Na⁺, K⁺, Cl⁻ in haemorrhagic group were 136.18 ± 10.5, 3.83 ± 0.65, 97.96 ± 16.74 mmol/L, in ischaemic group 135.08 ± 9.08, 4.00 ± 0.75, 100.27 ± 8.39 mmol/L. The result showed no significant difference in haemorrhagic and ischemic stroke. Hyponatremia, hypokalamia and hyperchloredemia were more common than hypernatremia, hyperkalamia and hyperchloredemia. In haemorrhagic stroke, out of 55 patients, 21(38.18%) had abnormal potassium level, of them 19(34.55%) had  hypokalemia , 2(3.63%) had hyperkalemia. In contrasts, in ischemic stroke, 15 out of 55(27.22%) had abnormal potassium level. Of them 12(21.81%) had  hypokalemia  and 3(5.45%) had hyperkalemia. The finding showed that  hypokalemia  is almost equally common in both haemorrhagic and ischaemic group without significant difference. The study also Severe Acute Cardiopulmonary Failure Related to Gadobutrol Magnetic Resonance Imaging Contrast Reaction: Successful Resuscitation With Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation. PubMed Guru, Pramod K; Bohman, J Kyle; Fleming, Chad J; Tan, Hon L; Sanghavi, Devang K; De Moraes, Alice Gallo; Barsness, Gregory W; Wittwer, Erica D; King, Bernard F; Arteaga, Grace M; Flick, Randall; Schears, Gregory J 2016-03-01 Nonanaphylactic noncardiogenic pulmonary edema leading to cardiorespiratory arrest related to the magnetic resonance imaging contrast agent gadobutrol has rarely been reported in the literature. Rarer is the association of  hypokalemia  with acidosis. We report 2 patients who had severe pulmonary edema associated with the use of gadobutrol contrast in the absence of other inciting agents or events. These cases were unique not only for their rare and severe presentations but also because they exemplified the increasing role of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation in resuscitation. Emergency extracorporeal membrane oxygenation resuscitation can be rapidly initiated and successful in the setting of a well-organized workflow, and it is a viable alternative and helps improve patient outcome in cases refractory to conventional resuscitative measures. Copyright © 2016 Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved. Hashimoto Thyroiditis and Nephrocalcinosis in a Child with Down Syndrome PubMed Central Spahiu, Lidvana; Jashari, Haki; Mulliqi-Kotori, Vjosa; Elezi-Rugova, Blerta; Merovci, Besart 2016-01-01 Introduction: Hypothyroidism has been reported to affect renal function and structure. However, the association of hypothyroidism with distal renal tubular acidosis (dRTA) is rarely reported in children. Case Presentation: We present a 6-year-boy with Down syndrome admitted in our department due to vomiting, weakness, polyuria, polydipsia, irritability and weight loss in the last few weeks. Investigations revealed features of  hypokalemia , metabolic acidosis and alkaline urine consistent with dTRA. Abdominal ultrasound found nephrocalcinosis. In addition, Antithyroid peroxidase antibodies were positive, suggesting an autoimmune background for the pathogenesis of the tubular dysfunction. Treatment for dRTA and hypothyroidism was started and symptomatic improve was noticed. Conclusion: dRTA should be excluded in children with autoimmune disorders who develop weakness, polyuria, polydipsia or growth failure. Early diagnosis would reduce long-term complications. PMID:27147809 Safety and Efficacy of Low-osmolarity ORS vs. Modified Rehydration Solution for Malnourished Children for Treatment of Children with Severe Acute Malnutrition and Diarrhea: A Randomized Controlled Trial. PubMed Kumar, Ruchika; Kumar, Praveen; Aneja, S; Kumar, Virendra; Rehan, Harmeet S 2015-12-01 World Health Organization-recommended rehydration solution for malnourished children (ReSoMal) for rehydrating severe acute malnourished children is not available in India. In present study, 110 consecutive children aged 6-59 months with severely acute malnourishment and acute diarrhea were randomized to low-osmolarity oral rehydration solution (ORS) (osmolarity: 245, sodium: 75) with added potassium (20 mmol/l) or modified ReSoMal (osmolarity: 300, sodium: 45). In all, 15.4% of modified ReSoMal group developed hyponatremia as compared with 1.9% in low-osmolarity ORS, but none developed severe hyponatremia or hypernatremia. Both groups had equal number of successful rehydration (52 each). Both types of ORS were effective in correcting  hypokalemia  and dehydration, but rehydration was achieved in shorter duration with modified ReSoMal. © The Author [2015]. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com. Comparison of thiazide-like diuretics versus thiazide-type diuretics: a meta-analysis. PubMed Liang, Wenjing; Ma, Hui; Cao, Luxi; Yan, Wenjiang; Yang, Jingjing 2017-11-01 Thiazide diuretics are widely used for the management of hypertension. In recent years, it has been actively debated that there is interchangeability of thiazide-type diuretics hydrochlorothiazide and thiazide-like diuretics including indapamide and chlorthalidone for the treatment of hypertension. With the purpose of seeking out the best thiazide diuretic for clinicians, we summarized the existing evidence on the two types of drugs and conducted a meta-analysis on their efficacy in lowering blood pressure and effects on blood electrolyte, glucose and total cholesterol. Twelve trials were identified: five based on the comparison of indapamide versus hydrochlorothiazide and seven based on the chlorthalidone versus hydrochlorothiazide. In the meta-analysis of blood pressure reduction, thiazide-like diuretics seemed to further reduce systolic BP ([95% CI]; -5.59 [-5.69, -5.49]; P  <  0.001) and diastolic BP ([95% CI]; -1.98 [-3.29, -0.66]; P = 0.003). Meanwhile, in the analysis of side effects, the incidence of  hypokalemia  ([95% CI]; 1.58 [0.80, 3.12]; P = 0.19), hyponatremia ([95% CI]; -0.14 [-0.57, 0.30], P = 0.54), change of blood glucose ([95% CI];0.13 [-0.16, 0.41], P = 0.39) and total cholesterol ([95% CI]; 0.13 [-0.16, 0.41], P = 0.39) showed that there is no statistical significant differences between the two groups of drugs. In conclusion, using thiazide-like diuretics is superior to thiazide-type diuretics in reducing blood pressure without increasing the incidence of  hypokalemia , hyponatraemia and any change of blood glucose and serum total cholesterol. © 2017 The Authors. Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine published by John Wiley  &  Sons Ltd and Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine. Clinical Investigation of Adrenal Incidentalomas in Japanese Patients of the Fukuoka Region with Updated Diagnostic Criteria for Sub-clinical Cushing's Syndrome. PubMed Abe, Ichiro; Sugimoto, Kaoru; Miyajima, Tetsumasa; Ide, Tomoko; Minezaki, Midori; Takeshita, Kaori; Takahara, Saori; Nakagawa, Midori; Fujimura, Yuki; Kudo, Tadachika; Miyajima, Shigero; Taira, Hiroshi; Ohe, Kenji; Ishii, Tatsu; Yanase, Toshihiko; Kobayashi, Kunihisa 2018-04-27 Objectives We retrospectively investigated the clinical and endocrinological characteristics of adrenal incidentalomas. Methods We studied 61 patients who had been diagnosed with adrenal incidentalomas and had undergone detailed clinical and endocrinological evaluations while hospitalized. We used common criteria to diagnose the functional tumors, but for sub-clinical Cushing's syndrome, we used an updated set of diagnosis criteria: serum cortisol ≥1.8 μg/dL after a positive response to a 1-mg dexamethasone suppression test if the patient has a low morning ACTH level ( < 10 pg/mL) and a loss of the diurnal serum cortisol rhythm. Results Of the 61 patients, none (0%) had malignant tumors, 8 (13.1%) had pheochromocytoma, and 15 (24.6%) had primary aldosteronism; when diagnosed by our revised criteria, 13 (21.3%) had cortisol-secreting adenomas (Cushing's syndrome and sub-clinical Cushing's syndrome), and 25 (41.0%) had non-functional tumors. Compared with the non-functional tumor group, the primary aldosteronism group and the cortisol-secreting adenoma group were significantly younger and had significantly lower rates of  hypokalemia , whereas the pheochromocytoma group had significantly larger tumors and a significantly lower body mass index. Conclusion Our study found a larger percentage of functional tumors among adrenal incidentalomas than past reports, partly because we used a lower serum cortisol level after a dexamethasone suppression test to diagnose sub-clinical Cushing's syndrome and because all of the patients were hospitalized and could therefore receive more detailed examinations. Young patients with  hypokalemia  or lean patients with large adrenal tumors warrant particularly careful investigation. A rare case of an ACTH/CRH co-secreting midgut neuroendocrine tumor mimicking Cushing's disease. PubMed Streuli, Regina; Krull, Ina; Brändle, Michael; Kolb, Walter; Stalla, Günter; Theodoropoulou, Marily; Enzler-Tschudy, Annette; Bilz, Stefan 2017-01-01 Ectopic ACTH/CRH co-secreting tumors are a very rare cause of Cushing's syndrome and only a few cases have been reported in the literature. Differentiating between Cushing's disease and ectopic Cushing's syndrome may be particularly difficult if predominant ectopic CRH secretion leads to pituitary corticotroph hyperplasia that may mimic Cushing's disease during dynamic testing with both dexamethasone and CRH as well as bilateral inferior petrosal sinus sampling (BIPSS). We present the case of a 24-year-old man diagnosed with ACTH-dependent Cushing's syndrome caused by an ACTH/CRH co-secreting midgut NET. Both high-dose dexamethasone testing and BIPSS suggested Cushing's disease. However, the clinical presentation with a rather rapid onset of cushingoid features, hyperpigmentation and  hypokalemia  led to the consideration of ectopic ACTH/CRH-secretion and prompted a further workup. Computed tomography (CT) of the abdomen revealed a cecal mass which was identified as a predominantly CRH-secreting neuroendocrine tumor. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first reported case of an ACTH/CRH co-secreting tumor of the cecum presenting with biochemical features suggestive of Cushing's disease. The discrimination between a Cushing's disease and ectopic Cushing's syndrome is challenging and has many caveats.Ectopic ACTH/CRH co-secreting tumors are very rare.Dynamic tests as well as BIPSS may be compatible with Cushing's disease in ectopic CRH-secretion.High levels of CRH may induce hyperplasia of the corticotroph cells in the pituitary. This could be the cause of a preserved pituitary response to dexamethasone and CRH.Clinical features of ACTH-dependent hypercortisolism with rapid development of Cushing's syndrome, hyperpigmentation, high circulating levels of cortisol with associated  hypokalemia , peripheral edema and proximal myopathy should be a warning flag of ectopic Cushing's syndrome and lead to further investigations. Prognostic factors in ectopic Cushing's syndrome due to neuroendocrine tumors: a multicenter study. PubMed Davi', Maria Vittoria; Cosaro, Elisa; Piacentini, Serena; Reimondo, Giuseppe; Albiger, Nora; Arnaldi, Giorgio; Faggiano, Antongiulio; Mantovani, Giovanna; Fazio, Nicola; Piovesan, Alessandro; Arvat, Emanuela; Grimaldi, Franco; Canu, Letizia; Mannelli, Massimo; Ambrogio, Alberto Giacinto; Pecori Giraldi, Francesca; Martini, Chiara; Lania, Andrea; Albertelli, Manuela; Ferone, Diego; Zatelli, Maria Chiara; Campana, Davide; Colao, Annamaria; Scaroni, Carla; Terzolo, Massimo; De Marinis, Laura; Cingarlini, Sara; Micciolo, Rocco; Francia, Giuseppe 2017-04-01 Evidence is limited regarding outcome of patients with ectopic Cushing's syndrome (ECS) due to neuroendocrine tumors (NETs). We assessed the prognostic factors affecting the survival of patients with NETs and ECS. Retrospective analysis of clinicopathological features, severity of hormonal syndrome, treatments from a large cohort of patients with NETs and ECS collected from 17 Italian centers. Our series included 110 patients, 58.2% female, with mean (±s.d.) age at diagnosis of 49.5 ± 15.9 years. The main sources of ectopic ACTH were bronchial carcinoids (BC) (40.9%), occult tumors (22.7%) and pancreatic (p)NETs (15.5%). Curative surgery was performed in 56.7% (70.2% of BC, 11% of pNETs). Overall survival was significantly higher in BC compared with pNETs and occult tumors ( P  = 0.033) and in G1-NETs compared with G2 and G3 ( P  = 0.007). Negative predictive factors for survival were severity of hypercortisolism ( P   <  0.02),  hypokalemia  ( P  = 0.001), diabetes mellitus ( P  = 0.0146) and distant metastases ( P   <  0.001). Improved survival was observed in patients who underwent NET removal ( P   <  0.001). Adrenalectomy improved short-term survival. Multiple factors affect prognosis of ECS patients: type of NET, grading, distant metastases, severity of hypercortisolism,  hypokalemia  and diabetes mellitus. BCs have the highest curative surgical rate and better survival compared with occult tumors and pNETs. Hypercortisolism plays a primary role in affecting outcome and quality of life; therefore, prompt and vigorous treatment of hormonal excess by NET surgery and medical therapy should be a key therapeutic goal. In refractory cases, adrenalectomy should be considered as it affects outcome positively at least in the first 2 years. © 2017 European Society of Endocrinology. Clinical and biochemical findings in Mexican patients with distal renal tubular acidosis. PubMed Guerra-Hernández, Norma; Matos-Martínez, Mario; Ordaz-López, Karen Verónica; Camargo-Muñiz, María Dolores; Medeiros, Mara; Escobar-Pérez, Laura 2014-01-01 Renal tubular acidosis (RTA) is a rare disease characterized by a normal serum anion gap, sustained metabolic acidosis, low concentration of plasma bicarbonate, variable hyperchloremia and  hypokalemia  and conserved glomerular filtration rate. RTA is developed during the first year of life and produces failure to thrive and anorexia. Primary distal RTA (type 1) is a renal syndrome with a reduced ability to excrete the acid load through the collecting ducts and impairment to concentrate the urine causing polyuria and dehydration. Evaluate the current health status and describe the clinical findings and progress of Mexican patients with distal RTA. Demonstrate the distal urinary acidification defect by measuring the urinary pCO2 tension in alkaline urines. We looked for infants in tertiary care hospitals with a clinical history of normal serum anion gap, metabolic acidosis,  hypokalemia , hyperchloremia, nephrocalcinosis, sensorineural hearing loss and inability for urine acidification under systemic metabolic acidosis. Biochemical analysis were performed periodically. Alkali medication was not suspended in one patient to assess urinary acidification with oral administration of sodium bicarbonate (2 mEq/Kg) and acetazolamide (500 mg/1.73 m2 body surface). Urinary pCO2 levels were determined at 60 and 90 min. Three children, one adolescent and one adult with distal RTA were found. They had an infant history of dehydration, failure to thrive, anorexia, vomiting, muscle paralysis, hypercalciuria, urinary infections, polyuria, polydipsia and polyhidramnios during pregnancy. Severe nephrocalcinosis was detected in all patients whereas sensorineural hearing loss was developed in four cases. Under the alkali medication all cases but one were normocalciuric. A patient developed kidney failure. The urinary acidification test confirmed the innability to eliminate the acid load. Early diagnosis in infancy and continuos alkali medication were of great benefit for most of the Colistin use in critically ill neonates: A case-control study. PubMed İpek, Mehmet Sah; Aktar, Fesih; Okur, Nilufer; Celik, Muhittin; Ozbek, Erdal 2017-12-01 The aim of this study was to assess the safety and efficacy of colistin use in critically ill neonates. This was a case-control study that included newborn infants with proven or suspected nosocomial infections between January 2012 and October 2015, at two centers in Diyarbakir, Turkey. The clinical and laboratory characteristics and outcomes of patients who received colistin therapy were reviewed and compared to patients who were treated with antimicrobial agents other than colistin during the same period. Forty-seven cases who received intravenous colistin (colistin group) and 59 control patients (control group) were included. There were no significant differences between the groups regarding outcomes and nephrotoxicity, including acute renal failure. Colistin therapy was associated with significantly reduced serum magnesium (1.38 ± 0.39 mg/dL vs. 1.96 ± 0.39 mg/dL, p  <  0.001) and  hypokalemia  (46.8% vs. 25.4%, p = 0.026). The patients who received colistin also had longer hospital stays (43 (32-70) days vs. 39 (28-55) days, p = 0.047), a higher rate of previous carbapenem exposure (40.4% vs. 11.9%, p = 0.001), and a higher age at the onset of infection (13 (10-21) days vs. 11 (9-15) days, p = 0.03). This study showed that colistin was both effective and safe for treating neonatal infections caused by multidrug-resistant gram-negative bacteria. However, intravenous colistin use was significantly associated with hypomagnesemia and  hypokalemia . Copyright © 2017. Published by Elsevier B.V. Bartter syndrome type 3 in an elderly complicated with adrenocorticotropin-deficiency. PubMed Tamagawa, Eri; Inaba, Hidefumi; Ota, Takayuki; Ariyasu, Hiroyuki; Kawashima, Hiromichi; Wakasaki, Hisao; Furuta, Hiroto; Nishi, Masahiro; Nakao, Taisei; Kaito, Hiroshi; Iijima, Kazumoto; Nakanishi, Koichi; Yoshikawa, Norishige; Akamizu, Takashi 2014-01-01 Bartter syndrome (BS) is a disorder with normotensive hypokalemic alkalosis and hyperreninemic hyperaldosteronemia. BS affects infants or early childhood. Patients with BS type 3 harbor mutation in CLCNKB, Cl channel Kb. Gitelman syndrome (GS) is a disorder in childhood, with mutation in SLC12A3. Isolated adrenocorticotropin deficiency (IAD) causes secondary adrenal insufficiency. Neither elderly cases, nor cases with IAD were previously reported in BS. A 72-year-old man was admitted with acute adrenal crisis. He had been treated for IAD for 19 years. He had no trouble during perinatal period, delivery, and growth. After the recovery from adrenal crisis, laboratory tests revealed  hypokalemia ; 3.0 mEq/L (normal: 3.5-4.5), impaired renal function: eGFR; 37.6 mL/min/1.73 m2, normomagnesemia; 2.1 mg/dL (1.7-2.3), hyperreninemia; 59.4 ng/mL/h (0.2-2.7), hyperaldosteronemia; 23.5 ng/dL (3.0-15.9), and normal urinary ratio of calcium/creatinine. In diuretic tests, he showed a fine response to furosemide, and a mild response to thiazide. In genetic tests, no mutation of SLC12A3 was found and homozygous mutation: c.1830 G > A in CLCNKB was shown. Thus he was diagnosed as BS type 3. Current case presented with unusual features as BS type 3, 1) his late and mild clinical manifestation suggested GS rather than BS, 2) laboratory data and diuretics tests did not show typical features as BS, and 3) IAD and chronic renal failure altered electrolyte metabolism. In conclusion, current case implies that BS type 3 should be considered even in elderly cases with normotensive  hypokalemia , and highlights importance of endocrinological and genetic examinations. Barium toxicosis in a dog. PubMed Adam, Fiona H; Noble, Peter J M; Swift, Simon T; Higgins, Brent M; Sieniawska, Christine E 2010-09-01 A 2-year-old 14.9-kg (32.8-lb) neutered female Shetland Sheepdog was admitted to the University of Liverpool Small Animal Teaching Hospital for evaluation of acute collapse. At admission, the dog was tachypneic and had reduced limb reflexes and muscle tone in all limbs consistent with diffuse lower motor neuron dysfunction. The dog was severely hypokalemic (1.7 mEq/L; reference range, 3.5 to 5.8 mEq/L). Clinical status of the dog deteriorated; there was muscle twitching, flaccid paralysis, and respiratory failure, which was considered a result of respiratory muscle weakness. Ventricular arrhythmias and severe acidemia (pH, 7.18; reference range, 7.35 to 7.45) developed. Intoxication was suspected, and plasma and urine samples submitted for barium analysis had barium concentrations comparable with those reported in humans with barium toxicosis. Analysis of barium concentrations in 5 control dogs supported the diagnosis of barium toxicosis in the dog. Fluids and potassium supplementation were administered IV. The dog recovered rapidly. Electrolyte concentrations measured after recovery were consistently unremarkable. Quantification of plasma barium concentration 56 days after the presumed episode of intoxication revealed a large decrease; however, the plasma barium concentration remained elevated, compared with that in control dogs. To our knowledge, this case represented the first description of barium toxicosis in the veterinary literature. Barium toxicosis can cause life-threatening  hypokalemia ; however, prompt supportive treatment can yield excellent outcomes. Barium toxicosis is a rare but important differential diagnosis in animals with  hypokalemia  and appropriate clinical signs. Rhabdomyolysis and coeliac disease: A causal or casual association? A case report and review of literature. PubMed Mandato, Claudia; Rossi, Alessandro; Caldore, Mariano; Lamba, Marta; Rocco, Michele; Auricchio, Renata; Vajro, Pietro; Siani, Paolo 2018-02-01 Rhabdomyolysis is a rare, potentially life-threatening condition, caused by multiple disorders. The association with Coeliac Disease (CD) has been rarely reported and in these cases muscular damage was imputed to  hypokalemia . Herein we describe a new case of severe rhabdomyolysis in a child subsequently diagnosed as affected by CD, and review previous reports. A 3-year-old boy was referred for diarrhea, brown urine, muscular pain/weakness, and no history of muscular trauma. At entry, laboratory tests showed elevated levels of creatine kinase (CK) (x100 unv) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) (x10 unv), alanine aminotrasferase (ALT) (x5 unv); electrolytes were within the reference range. Twenty-four hours after admission serum CK peaked 115,000 U/L and transaminases increased up to 30 times unv. Hyperhydration treatment was started with renal function monitoring. Urine output decreased little, while serum creatinine and urea nitrogen stayed within the reference range. Serum potassium levels went down to 2.8 mEq/L at day 3, in spite of supplementation. The patient completely recovered at day 16. Main metabolic causes of rhabdomyolysis were ruled out by appropriate tests. Because of rarely reported cases of CD/rhabdomyolysis, anti-tissue transglutaminase (tTG) antibodies were measured and found positive (IgA 34 U/mL, unv  < 9). HLA typing was DQA1 05:02, DQB1 03:02. As jejunal biopsy showed patchy villous atrophy, gluten free diet (GFD) was prescribed. One year after starting GFD, histology was normal. Literature (search engines: PUB MED and GOOGLE SCHOLAR) from 1980 to 2016 retrieved 8 cases (age range: 12 to 75 years old) previously described. The present case suggests to check for CD in children with severe rhabdomyolysis. Because severe rhabdomyolysis itself may elevate the serum potassium levels,  hypokalemia  might go unrecognized as the cause of muscular damage. Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved. Hyperkalemia develops in some thyroidectomized patients undergoing thyroid hormone withdrawal in preparation for radioactive iodine ablation for thyroid carcinoma. PubMed Horie, Ichiro; Ando, Takao; Imaizumi, Misa; Usa, Toshiro; Kawakami, Atsushi 2015-05-01 Hyponatremia is observed in hypothyroidism, but it is not known if hypo- or hyperkalemia is associated with hypothyroidism. To study these questions, we determined serum potassium (K(+)) levels in thyroidectomized patients undergoing levothyroxine withdrawal before radioactive iodine (RAI) therapy for thyroid carcinoma. We retrospectively studied the records of 108 patients who had undergone total thyroidectomy for thyroid carcinoma followed by levothyroxine withdrawal and then ablation with RAI at Nagasaki University Hospital from 2009-2013. Blood samples were analyzed for serum K(+) concentrations when patients were euthyroid just before levothyroxine withdrawal and hypothyroid 21 days after levothyroxine withdrawal. We determined the proportion of patients who developed hyperkalemia (K(+) ≥5 mEq/L) and  hypokalemia  (K(+) ≤3.5 mEq/L). Five (4.6%) patients developed hyperkalemia and 2 (1.9%) patients developed  hypokalemia  after levothyroxine withdrawal. The mean serum K(+) level after levothyroxine withdrawal was significantly higher than before levothyroxine withdrawal (4.23 ± 0.50 mEq/L vs. 4.09 ± 0.34 mEq/L; P < .001). After levothyroxine withdrawal, serum K(+) values were significantly correlated with age, serum sodium and creatinine levels, and the estimated glomerular filtration rate but not with serum free thyroxine or thyroid-stimulating hormone concentrations. The finding of an elevated serum K(+) of >0.5 mEq/L after levothyroxine withdrawal was more prevalent with age >60 years (odds ratio [OR], 4.66; P = .026) and with the use of angiotensin-II receptor blockers or angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (OR, 3.53; P = .033) in a multivariate analysis. Hyperkalemia develops in a small percentage of hypothyroid patients after thyroid hormone withdrawal, especially in patients over 60 years of age who are using antihypertensive agents that inhibit the reninangiotensin-aldosterone system. Refeeding syndrome in children in developing countries who have celiac disease. PubMed Agarwal, Jaya; Poddar, Ujjal; Yachha, Surender K; Srivastava, Anshu 2012-04-01 The clinical presentations of celiac crisis and refeeding syndrome in celiac disease are almost similar, but information about refeeding syndrome is scarce. We are reporting for the first time 5 cases of refeeding syndrome in children with celiac disease that could have otherwise been labeled as celiac crisis. From January to December 2010, a chart review of hospital records of all celiac disease cases was performed, and refeeding syndrome was ascribed in those celiac patients who deteriorated clinically after initiation of a gluten-free diet and had biochemical parameters suggestive of refeeding syndrome such as hypophosphatemia,  hypokalemia , hypocalcemia, and hypoalbuminemia. Of the total 35 celiac disease patients, 5 (median age 6.5 [range 2.2-10] years, 3 boys) were identified as having refeeding syndrome. All 5 children were severely malnourished (body mass index  < 14 kg/m) and all of them had anemia, hypophosphatemia,  hypokalemia , hypoalbuminemia, and hypocalcemia, meaning that they had the perfect setting for developing refeeding syndrome. At the same time, their clinical features fulfilled the criteria for celiac crisis except that their symptoms have worsened after the introduction of a gluten-free diet. Nevertheless, instead of using steroids, they were managed as refeeding syndrome in terms of correction of electrolytes and gradual feeding, and that led to a successful outcome in all of them. Severely malnourished patients with celiac disease are at risk of developing potentially life-threatening refeeding syndrome, which may mimic celiac crisis, especially in developing countries. Early recognition and appropriate treatment are the keys to a successful outcome. Complicated pregnancies in inherited distal renal tubular acidosis: importance of acid-base balance. PubMed Seeger, Harald; Salfeld, Peter; Eisel, Rüdiger; Wagner, Carsten A; Mohebbi, Nilufar 2017-06-01 Inherited distal renal tubular acidosis (dRTA) is caused by impaired urinary acid excretion resulting in hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis. Although the glomerular filtration rate (GFR) is usually preserved, and hypertension and overt proteinuria are absent, it has to be considered that patients with dRTA also suffer from chronic kidney disease (CKD) with an increased risk for adverse pregnancy-related outcomes. Typical complications of dRTA include severe  hypokalemia  leading to cardiac arrhythmias and paralysis, nephrolithiasis and nephrocalcinosis. Several physiologic changes occur in normal pregnancy including alterations in acid-base and electrolyte homeostasis as well as in GFR. However, data on pregnancy in women with inherited dRTA are scarce. We report the course of pregnancy in three women with hereditary dRTA. Complications observed were severe metabolic acidosis, profound  hypokalemia  aggravated by hyperemesis gravidarum, recurrent urinary tract infection (UTI) and ureteric obstruction leading to renal failure. However, the outcome of all five pregnancies (1 pregnancy each for mothers n. 1 and 2; 3 pregnancies for mother n. 3) was excellent due to timely interventions. Our findings highlight the importance of close nephrologic monitoring of women with inherited dRTA during pregnancy. In addition to routine assessment of creatinine and proteinuria, caregivers should especially focus on acid-base status, plasma potassium and urinary tract infections. Patients should be screened for renal obstruction in the case of typical symptoms, UTI or renal failure. Furthermore, genetic identification of the underlying mutation may (a) support early nephrologic referral during pregnancy and a better management of the affected woman, and (b) help to avoid delayed diagnosis and reduce complications in affected newborns. Apparent mineralocorticoid excess syndrome: report of one family with three affected children. PubMed Al-Harbi, Taiba; Al-Shaikh, Adnan 2012-01-01 The syndrome of apparent mineralocorticoid excess (AME) is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by hypertension,  hypokalemia , low renin, and hypoaldosteronism. It is caused by deficiency of 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase, which results in a defect of the peripheral metabolism of cortisol to cortisone. As a consequence, the serum cortisol half-life (T½) is prolonged, ACTH is suppressed, and serum cortisol concentration is normal. The hormonal diagnosis of the disorder is made by the increased ratio of urine-free cortisol to cortisone. In patients with AME, this ratio is 5-18, while in normal individuals it is  < 0.5. These studies suggest that an abnormality in cortisol action or metabolism results in cortisol behaving as a potent mineralocorticoid and causing the syndrome of AME. We report three siblings - two female and one male - with the syndrome of apparent mineralocorticoid excess who presented with hypertension,  hypokalemia , low renin, and low aldosterone levels. The finding of abnormally high ratios of 24-h urine-free cortisol to cortisone in our three patients (case 1, 8.4; case 2, 25; and case 3, 7.5) confirmed the diagnosis of apparent mineralocorticoid excess syndrome in these children. They were treated with oral potassium supplements. The addition of spironolactone resulted in a decrease in blood pressure, rise in serum potassium and a gradual increase in plasma renin activity in all three. In this study, the genetic testing of those three siblings with the typical clinical features of AME has detected missense mutation c.662C>T (p.Arg208Cys) in exon 3 of the HSD11B2 gene in the homozygous state. Essential role of Kir5.1 channels in renal salt handling and blood pressure control PubMed Central Levchenko, Vladislav; Ilatovskaya, Daria V.; Pavlov, Tengis S.; Pochynyuk, Oleh M.; Jacob, Howard J.; Geurts, Aron M.; Hodges, Matthew R. 2017-01-01 Supplementing diets with high potassium helps reduce hypertension in humans. Inwardly rectifying K+ channels Kir4.1 (Kcnj10) and Kir5.1 (Kcnj16) are highly expressed in the basolateral membrane of distal renal tubules and contribute to Na+ reabsorption and K+ secretion through the direct control of transepithelial voltage. To define the importance of Kir5.1 in blood pressure control under conditions of salt-induced hypertension, we generated a Kcnj16 knockout in Dahl salt-sensitive (SS) rats (SSKcnj16–/–). SSKcnj16–/– rats exhibited  hypokalemia  and reduced blood pressure, and when fed a high-salt diet (4% NaCl), experienced 100% mortality within a few days triggered by salt wasting and severe  hypokalemia . Electrophysiological recordings of basolateral K+ channels in the collecting ducts isolated from SSKcnj16–/– rats revealed activity of only homomeric Kir4.1 channels. Kir4.1 expression was upregulated in SSKcnj16–/– rats, but the protein was predominantly localized in the cytosol in SSKcnj16–/– rats. Benzamil, but not hydrochlorothiazide or furosemide, rescued this phenotype from mortality on a high-salt diet. Supplementation of high-salt diet with increased potassium (2% KCl) prevented mortality in SSKcnj16–/– rats and prevented or mitigated hypertension in SSKcnj16–/– or control SS rats, respectively. Our results demonstrate that Kir5.1 channels are key regulators of renal salt handling in SS hypertension. PMID:28931751 Outcomes of an inpatient refeeding protocol in youth with anorexia nervosa: Rady Children's Hospital San Diego/University of California, San Diego. PubMed Maginot, Tamara R; Kumar, Maya M; Shiels, Jacqueline; Kaye, Walter; Rhee, Kyung E 2017-01-01 Current guidelines for nutritional rehabilitation in hospitalized restrictive eating disorder patients recommend a cautious approach to refeeding. Several studies suggest that higher calorie diets may be safe and effective, but have traditionally excluded severely malnourished patients. The goal of this study was to evaluate the safety of a higher calorie nutritional rehabilitation protocol (NRP) in a broad sample of inpatients with restrictive eating disorders, including those who were severely malnourished. A retrospective chart review was conducted among eating disorder inpatients between January 2015 and March 2016. Patients were started on a lower calorie diet (≤1500 kcals/day) or higher calorie diet (≥1500 kcals/day). Calorie prescription on admission was based on physician clinical judgement. The sample included patients aged 8-20 years with any DSM-5 restrictive eating disorder. Those who were severely malnourished ( < 75% expected body weight [EBW]) or required tube feeding during admission were included. Multivariable regression models were used to determine whether level of nutritional rehabilitation was associated with hypophosphatemia, hypomagnesemia, or  hypokalemia . The sample included 87 patients; mean age was 14.4 years (S.D. 32.7); 29% were  < 75% EBW. The majority (75.8%) was started on higher calorie diets (mean 1781 kcal/day). Controlling for rate of calorie change, initial %EBW, age, race/ethnicity, insurance, diagnosis, and NG/NJ tube placement, higher calorie diets were not associated with hypophosphatemia, hypomagnesemia, or  hypokalemia  on admission or within the first 72 h. Increased risk of hypophosphatemia on admission was associated with lower baseline %EBW. A higher calorie NRP was tolerated in this broad population of inpatients with restrictive eating disorders. Lower %EBW on admission was a more important predictor of hypophosphatemia than initial calorie level. Larger studies are required to demonstrate the safety of higher A 10-year analysis of thyrotoxic periodic paralysis in 135 patients: focus on symptomatology and precipitants PubMed Central Chang, Chin-Chun; Cheng, Chih-Jen; Sung, Chih-Chien; Chiueh, Tzong-Shi; Lee, Chien-Hsing; Chau, Tom; Lin, Shih-Hua 2013-01-01 Background A comprehensive analysis has not been performed on patients with thyrotoxic periodic paralysis (TPP) characterized by acute  hypokalemia  and paralysis in the setting of thyrotoxicosis. Purpose The aim of this study was to analyze the detailed symptomatology of thyrotoxicosis and precipitating factors for the attack in a large cohort of TPP patients. Patients and methods A prospective observational study enrolled patients with TPP consecutively over 10 years at an academic medical center. Clinical features, including signs/symptoms of thyrotoxicosis and precipitating factors, were analyzed. The Wayne's index was used to assess the severity of thyrotoxicosis at presentation. Patients who agreed to receive an oral glucose-loading test after recovery were evaluated. Results Among the 135 TPP patients (male:female, 130:5), 70% of paralytic attacks occurred in the morning, especially during the seasons of summer and fall. Two-thirds of patients did not have a known family or personal history of hyperthyroidism. Only 17% of TPP patients manifested overt signs/symptoms of thyrotoxicosis (Wayne's index >19). A clear precipitating factor, such as high carbohydrate load, acute upper respiratory tract infection, strenuous exercise, high-salt diet, or the use of steroids or bronchodilators, was identified in only 34% of TPP patients. A glucose load to stimulate insulin secretion induced acute  hypokalemia  (K+2.47±0.6 mmol/l) with reparalysis in only 18% (10/55) of TPP patients. Conclusions Most TPP patients have only subtle clinical signs/symptoms of thyrotoxicosis and only a small fraction has clear precipitating factors. In addition to the effects of hyperinsulinemia, other insulin-independent mechanisms may participate in the pathogenesis of TPP. PMID:23939916 Case report of severe Cushing's syndrome in medullary thyroid cancer complicated by functional diabetes insipidus, aortic dissection, jejunal intussusception, and paraneoplastic dysautonomia: remission with sorafenib without reduction in cortisol concentration. PubMed Hammami, Muhammad M; Duaiji, Najla; Mutairi, Ghazi; Aklabi, Sabah; Qattan, Nasser; Abouzied, Mohei El-Din M; Sous, Mohamed W 2015-09-09 Normalization of cortisol concentration by multikinase inhibitors have been reported in three patients with medullary thyroid cancer-related Cushing's syndrome. Aortic dissection has been reported in three patients with Cushing's syndrome. Diabetes insipidus without intrasellar metastasis, intestinal intussusception, and paraneoplastic dysautonomia have not been reported in medullary thyroid cancer. An adult male with metastatic medullary thyroid cancer presented with hyperglycemia, hypernatremia,  hypokalemia , hypertension, acne-like rash, and diabetes insipidus (urine volume >8 L/d, osmolality 190 mOsm/kg). Serum cortisol, adrenocorticoitropic hormone, dehydroepiandrostenedione sulfate, and urinary free cortisol were elevated 8, 20, 4.4, and 340 folds, respectively. Pituitary imaging was normal. Computed tomography scan revealed jejunal intussusception and incidental abdominal aortic dissection. Sorafenib treatment was associated with Cushing's syndrome remission, elevated progesterone (>10 fold), normalization of dehydroepiandrostenedione sulfate, but persistently elevated cortisol concentration. Newly-developed proximal lower limb weakness and decreased salivation were associated with elevated ganglionic neuronal acetylcholine receptor (alpha-3) and borderline P/Q type calcium channel antibodies. Extreme cortisol concentration may have contributed to aortic dissection and suppressed antidiuretic hormone secretion; which combined with  hypokalemia  due cortisol activation of mineralocorticoid receptors, manifested as diabetes insipidus. This is the first report of paraneoplastic dysautonomia and jejunal intussusception in medullary thyroid cancer, they may be related to medullary thyroid cancer's neuroendocrine origin and metastasis, respectively. Remission of Cushing's syndrome without measurable reduction in cortisol concentration suggests a novel cortisol-independent mechanism of action or assay cross-reactivity. Normalization of dehydroepiandrostenedione Pro-arrhythmic effects of low plasma [K+] in human ventricle: An illustrated review. PubMed Trenor, Beatriz; Cardona, Karen; Romero, Lucia; Gomez, Juan F; Saiz, Javier; Rajamani, Sridharan; Belardinelli, Luiz; Giles, Wayne 2018-05-01 Potassium levels in the plasma, [K + ] o , are regulated precisely under physiological conditions. However, increases (from approx. 4.5 to 8.0mM) can occur as a consequence of, e.g., endurance exercise, ischemic insult or kidney failure. This hyperkalemic modulation of ventricular electrophysiology has been studied extensively.  Hypokalemia  is also common. It can occur in response to diuretic therapy, following renal dialysis, or during recovery from endurance exercise. In the human ventricle, clinical  hypokalemia  (e.g., [K + ] o levels of approx. 3.0mM) can cause marked changes in both the resting potential and the action potential waveform, and these may promote arrhythmias. Here, we provide essential background information concerning the main K + -sensitive ion channel mechanisms that act in concert to produce prominent short-term ventricular electrophysiological changes, and illustrate these by implementing recent mathematical models of the human ventricular action potential. Even small changes (~1mM) in [K + ] o result in significant alterations in two different K + currents, I K1 and HERG. These changes can markedly alter in resting membrane potential and/or action potential waveform in human ventricle. Specifically, a reduction in net outward transmembrane K + currents (repolarization reserve) and an increased substrate input resistance contribute to electrophysiological instability during the plateau of the action potential and may promote pro-arrhythmic early after-depolarizations (EADs). Translational settings where these insights apply include: optimal diuretic therapy, and the interpretation of data from Phase II and III trials for anti-arrhythmic drug candidates. Crown Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved. Regulation of Potassium Homeostasis in CKD. PubMed DuBose, Thomas D 2017-09-01 Disturbances of potassium homeostasis can cause either hyperkalemia or  hypokalemia  and result in serious consequences. Although the consequences of acute and chronic hyperkalemia and treatment of these conditions in CKD have been widely appreciated by nephrologists, more recent information has focused attention on the consequences of chronic  hypokalemia . Several recent studies have documented a "U-shaped" relationship between the serum [K + ] and higher mortality in several clinical studies. The causes of dyskalemias are placed into the unique perspective of patients with CKD and its evolution with progression of CKD to later stages and focuses on the pathophysiology of these disorders. Emphasis is placed on the high mortality associated with both low and high levels of potassium that are unique to patients with CKD. Recent information regarding sensors of changes in the serum [K + ] that evoke changes in NaCl transport in the DCT1 and subsequent efferent responses by aldosterone-responsive cells in the DCT2 and cortical collecting duct to adjust K + secretion by the renal outer medullary potassium channel is reviewed in detail. These sensing mechanisms can be interrupted by drugs, such as the calcineurin inhibitors to cause both hypertension and hyperkalemia in kidney transplant patients, or can be inherited as familial hypertensive hyperkalemia. The role and pathogenesis of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers in causing hyperkalemia is a common stop point for cessation of these important drugs, but, and newer agents to lower the serum [K + ] that might allow continuation of angiotensin-converting enzyme or angiotensin receptor blocker therapy are examined. Finally, the importance of emphasis on potassium-containing foods, such as fresh produce and fruit in the diets of patients with early-stage CKD, is examined as an under-appreciated area requiring more emphasis by nephrologists caring for these patients and may be unique [A clinical analysis of reninoma-induced hypertensive crisis associated with reversible posterior encephalopathy syndrome]. PubMed Wu, Hong-hua; Wang, Guang-ya; Ma, Xiao-wei; Guo, Xiao-hui 2012-01-01 Reninoma is a rare benign tumor of the renal juxtaglomerular cell apparatus that causes hypertension and  hypokalemia  via hypersecretion of renin, while it is extremely rare that reninoma induced hypertensive crisis with reversible posterior encephalopathy syndrome (RPES). To improve the clinical understanding for this disease, we conducted a case-analysis. To analyze the clinical and pathological data of a case of reninoma-induced hypertensive crisis with reversible posterior encephalopathy syndrome, who was admitted to Peking University First Hospital in November, 2007 and follow-up. This was a 16-year old female patient, onset with suddenly spasm with loss of consciousness, while blood pressure stepped up to 210/140 mm Hg (1 mm Hg = 0.133 kPa), and the head magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed "multiple long-T(2) signal", and  hypokalemia  (2.8 - 3.2 mmol/L), urine protein positive, ultrasound cardiogram revealed left ventricular hypertrophy, laboratory study revealed hyperreninism (38.23 ng·ml(-1)×h(-1), normal range 0.07 - 1.15 ng·ml(-1)×h(-1)) and hyperaldosteronism (660.9 ng/L, normal range 60 - 174 ng/L), abdominal CT-Scan revealed a mass at right kidney, blood pressure achieved safety range and the head MRI was rechecked and revealed "the abnormal long-T(2) signal disappeared". The clinical diagnosis was reninoma induced hypertensive crisis with RPES. The tumor was resected and the pathologic diagnosis was reninoma. The patient remained normotensive in the postoperative period without any medication. Reninoma represents a rare but surgically curable cause of hypertension, thus the clinical suspicion of it is very important in young patients. If the diagnosis is confirmed, positive treatment must be done immediately to improve the prognosis. The most common cause of RPES is hypertension, and the diagnosis depends on the distinctive head MRI. There is always a good prognosis with the decline of blood pressure rapidly. Signal Detection of Imipenem Compared to Other Drugs from Korea Adverse Event Reporting System Database PubMed Central Park, Kyounghoon; Soukavong, Mick; Kim, Jungmee; Kwon, Kyoung-eun; Jin, Xue-mei; Lee, Joongyub; Yang, Bo Ram 2017-01-01 Purpose To detect signals of adverse drug events after imipenem treatment using the Korea Institute of Drug Safety  &  Risk Management-Korea adverse event reporting system database (KIDS-KD). Materials and Methods We performed data mining using KIDS-KD, which was constructed using spontaneously reported adverse event (AE) reports between December 1988 and June 2014. We detected signals calculated the proportional reporting ratio, reporting odds ratio, and information component of imipenem. We defined a signal as any AE that satisfied all three indices. The signals were compared with drug labels of nine countries. Results There were 807582 spontaneous AEs reports in the KIDS-KD. Among those, the number of antibiotics related AEs was 192510; 3382 reports were associated with imipenem. The most common imipenem-associated AE was the drug eruption; 353 times. We calculated the signal by comparing with all other antibiotics and drugs; 58 and 53 signals satisfied the three methods. We compared the drug labelling information of nine countries, including the USA, the UK, Japan, Italy, Switzerland, Germany, France, Canada, and South Korea, and discovered that the following signals were currently not included in drug labels:  hypokalemia , cardiac arrest, cardiac failure, Parkinson's syndrome, myocardial infarction, and prostate enlargement.  Hypokalemia  was an additional signal compared with all other antibiotics, and the other signals were not different compared with all other antibiotics and all other drugs. Conclusion We detected new signals that were not listed on the drug labels of nine countries. However, further pharmacoepidemiologic research is needed to evaluate the causality of these signals. PMID:28332362 Signal Detection of Imipenem Compared to Other Drugs from Korea Adverse Event Reporting System Database. PubMed Park, Kyounghoon; Soukavong, Mick; Kim, Jungmee; Kwon, Kyoung Eun; Jin, Xue Mei; Lee, Joongyub; Yang, Bo Ram; Park, Byung Joo 2017-05-01 To detect signals of adverse drug events after imipenem treatment using the Korea Institute of Drug Safety  &  Risk Management-Korea adverse event reporting system database (KIDS-KD). We performed data mining using KIDS-KD, which was constructed using spontaneously reported adverse event (AE) reports between December 1988 and June 2014. We detected signals calculated the proportional reporting ratio, reporting odds ratio, and information component of imipenem. We defined a signal as any AE that satisfied all three indices. The signals were compared with drug labels of nine countries. There were 807582 spontaneous AEs reports in the KIDS-KD. Among those, the number of antibiotics related AEs was 192510; 3382 reports were associated with imipenem. The most common imipenem-associated AE was the drug eruption; 353 times. We calculated the signal by comparing with all other antibiotics and drugs; 58 and 53 signals satisfied the three methods. We compared the drug labelling information of nine countries, including the USA, the UK, Japan, Italy, Switzerland, Germany, France, Canada, and South Korea, and discovered that the following signals were currently not included in drug labels:  hypokalemia , cardiac arrest, cardiac failure, Parkinson's syndrome, myocardial infarction, and prostate enlargement.  Hypokalemia  was an additional signal compared with all other antibiotics, and the other signals were not different compared with all other antibiotics and all other drugs. We detected new signals that were not listed on the drug labels of nine countries. However, further pharmacoepidemiologic research is needed to evaluate the causality of these signals. © Copyright: Yonsei University College of Medicine 2017 Concentration of Potassium in Plasma, Erythrocytes, and Muscle Tissue in Cows with Decreased Feed Intake and Gastrointestinal Ileus. PubMed Schneider, S; Müller, A; Wittek, T 2016-01-01 Healthy cows consume large amounts of potassium and a sudden loss in appetite can lead to  hypokalemia . The routine method to evaluate potassium homeostasis is the measurement of the extracellular potassium in plasma or serum, but this does not provide information about the intracellular potassium pool. To evaluate potassium homeostasis by comparing the extracellular and intracellular potassium concentration in cows with reduced feed intake and gastrointestinal ileus. Twenty cows 1-3 days postpartum (group 1) and 20 cows with gastrointestinal ileus (group 2). Observational cross-sectional study. Plasma potassium was measured by using an ion-sensitive electrode. Intracellular potassium was measured in erythrocytes and muscle tissue (muscle biopsy) by using inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectroscopy. Cows of group 1 did not have  hypokalemia . Overall cows with gastrointestinal ileus were hypokalemic (mean ± SD, 2.9 mmol/L ± 0.78), but potassium concentration in erythrocytes and muscle tissue was not lower than in postpartum cows. Intracellular potassium in erythrocytes varied very widely; group 1: 3497-10735 mg/kg (5559 ± 2002 mg/kg), group 2: 4139-21678 mg/kg (7473 ± 4034 mg/kg). Potassium in muscle tissue did not differ between group 1 (3356 ± 735 mg/kg wet weight) and group 2 (3407 ± 1069 mg/kg wet weight). No association between extracellular and intracellular potassium concentrations was detected. That measurement of plasma potassium concentration is not sufficient to evaluate potassium metabolism of cows. Copyright © 2016 The Authors. Journal of Veterinary Internal Medicine published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. on behalf of the American College of Veterinary Internal Medicine. Effects of bumetanide on neurobehavioral function in children and adolescents with autism spectrum disorders PubMed Central Lemonnier, E; Villeneuve, N; Sonie, S; Serret, S; Rosier, A; Roue, M; Brosset, P; Viellard, M; Bernoux, D; Rondeau, S; Thummler, S; Ravel, D; Ben-Ari, Y 2017-01-01 In animal models of autism spectrum disorder (ASD), the NKCC1 chloride-importer inhibitor bumetanide restores physiological (Cl−)i levels, enhances GABAergic inhibition and attenuates electrical and behavioral symptoms of ASD. In an earlier phase 2 trial; bumetanide reduced the severity of ASD in children and adolescents (3–11 years old). Here we report the results of a multicenter phase 2B study primarily to assess dose/response and safety effects of bumetanide. Efficacy outcome measures included the Childhood Autism Rating Scale (CARS), the Social Responsive Scale (SRS) and the Clinical Global Impressions (CGI) Improvement scale (CGI-I). Eighty-eight patients with ASD spanning across the entire pediatric population (2–18 years old) were subdivided in four age groups and randomized to receive bumetanide (0.5, 1.0 or 2.0 mg twice daily) or placebo for 3 months. The mean CARS value was significantly improved in the completers group (P: 0.015). Also, 23 treated children had more than a six-point improvement in the CARS compared with only one placebo-treated individual. Bumetanide significantly improved CGI (P: 0.0043) and the SRS score by more than 10 points (P: 0.02). The most frequent adverse events were  hypokalemia , increased urine elimination, loss of appetite, dehydration and asthenia.  Hypokalemia  occurred mainly at the beginning of the treatment at 1.0 and 2.0 mg twice-daily doses and improved gradually with oral potassium supplements. The frequency and incidence of adverse event were directly correlated with the dose of bumetanide. Therefore, bumetanide improves the core symptoms of ASD and presents a favorable benefit/risk ratio particularly at 1.0 mg twice daily. PMID:28291262 A rare case of an ACTH/CRH co-secreting midgut neuroendocrine tumor mimicking Cushing's disease PubMed Central Streuli, Regina; Krull, Ina; Brändle, Michael; Kolb, Walter; Stalla, Günter; Theodoropoulou, Marily; Enzler-Tschudy, Annette 2017-01-01 Ectopic ACTH/CRH co-secreting tumors are a very rare cause of Cushing’s syndrome and only a few cases have been reported in the literature. Differentiating between Cushing’s disease and ectopic Cushing’s syndrome may be particularly difficult if predominant ectopic CRH secretion leads to pituitary corticotroph hyperplasia that may mimic Cushing’s disease during dynamic testing with both dexamethasone and CRH as well as bilateral inferior petrosal sinus sampling (BIPSS). We present the case of a 24-year-old man diagnosed with ACTH-dependent Cushing’s syndrome caused by an ACTH/CRH co-secreting midgut NET. Both high-dose dexamethasone testing and BIPSS suggested Cushing’s disease. However, the clinical presentation with a rather rapid onset of cushingoid features, hyperpigmentation and  hypokalemia  led to the consideration of ectopic ACTH/CRH-secretion and prompted a further workup. Computed tomography (CT) of the abdomen revealed a cecal mass which was identified as a predominantly CRH-secreting neuroendocrine tumor. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first reported case of an ACTH/CRH co-secreting tumor of the cecum presenting with biochemical features suggestive of Cushing’s disease. Learning points: The discrimination between a Cushing’s disease and ectopic Cushing’s syndrome is challenging and has many caveats. Ectopic ACTH/CRH co-secreting tumors are very rare. Dynamic tests as well as BIPSS may be compatible with Cushing’s disease in ectopic CRH-secretion. High levels of CRH may induce hyperplasia of the corticotroph cells in the pituitary. This could be the cause of a preserved pituitary response to dexamethasone and CRH. Clinical features of ACTH-dependent hypercortisolism with rapid development of Cushing’s syndrome, hyperpigmentation, high circulating levels of cortisol with associated  hypokalemia , peripheral edema and proximal myopathy should be a warning flag of ectopic Cushing’s syndrome and lead to further investigations Toxicity of Amphotericin B Deoxycholate-Based Induction Therapy in Patients with HIV-Associated Cryptococcal Meningitis PubMed Central Bottomley, Christian; Loyse, Angela; Brouwer, Annemarie E.; Muzoora, Conrad; Taseera, Kabanda; Jackson, Arthur; Phulusa, Jacob; Hosseinipour, Mina C.; van der Horst, Charles; Limmathurotsakul, Direk; White, Nicholas J.; Wilson, Douglas; Wood, Robin; Meintjes, Graeme; Harrison, Thomas S.; Jarvis, Joseph N. 2015-01-01 Amphotericin B deoxycholate (AmBd) is the recommended induction treatment for HIV-associated cryptococcal meningitis (CM). Its use is hampered by toxicities that include electrolyte abnormalities, nephrotoxicity, and anemia. Protocols to minimize toxicity are applied inconsistently. In a clinical trial cohort of AmBd-based CM induction treatment, a standardized protocol of preemptive hydration and electrolyte supplementation was applied. Changes in blood counts, electrolyte levels, and creatinine levels over 14 days were analyzed in relation to the AmBd dose, treatment duration (short course of 5 to 7 days or standard course of 14 days), addition of flucytosine (5FC), and outcome. In the 368 patients studied, the hemoglobin levels dropped by a mean of 1.5 g/dl (95% confidence interval [CI], 1.0 to 1.9 g/dl) following 7 days of AmBd and by a mean of 2.3 g/dl (95% CI, 1.1 to 3.6 g/dl) after 14 days. Serum creatinine levels increased by 37 μmol/liter (95% CI, 30 to 45 μmol/liter) by day 7 and by 49 μmol/liter (95% CI, 35 to 64μmol/liter) by day 14 of AmBd treatment. Overall, 33% of patients developed grade III/IV anemia, 5.6% developed grade III  hypokalemia , 9.5% had creatinine levels that exceeded 220 μmol, and 6% discontinued AmBd prematurely. The addition of 5FC was associated with a slight increase in anemia but not neutropenia. Laboratory abnormalities stabilized or reversed during the second week in patients on short-course induction. Grade III/IV anemia (adjusted odds ratio [aOR], 2.2; 95% CI, 1.1 to 4.3; P = 0.028) and nephrotoxicity (aOR, 4.5; 95% CI, 1.8 to 11; P = 0.001) were risk factors for 10-week mortality. In summary, routine intravenous saline hydration and preemptive electrolyte replacement during AmBd-based induction regimens for HIV-associated CM minimized the incidence of  hypokalemia  and nephrotoxicity. Anemia remained a concerning adverse effect. The addition of flucytosine was not associated with increased neutropenia. Shorter AmBd courses Prevalence of Hyponatremia, Renal Dysfunction, and Other Electrolyte Abnormalities Among Runners Before and After Completing a Marathon or Half Marathon PubMed Central Mohseni, Michael; Silvers, Scott; McNeil, Rebecca; Diehl, Nancy; Vadeboncoeur, Tyler; Taylor, Walt; Shapiro, Shane; Roth, Jennifer; Mahoney, Sherry 2011-01-01 Background: Prior reports on metabolic derangements observed in distance running frequently have small sample sizes, lack prerace laboratory measures, and report sodium as the sole measure. Hypothesis: Metabolic abnormalities—hyponatremia,  hypokalemia , renal dysfunction, hemoconcentration—are frequent after completing a full or half marathon. Clinically significant changes occur in these laboratory values after race completion. Study Design: Observational, cross-sectional study. Methods: Consenting marathon and half marathon racers completed a survey as well as finger stick blood sampling on race day of the National Marathon to Fight Breast Cancer (Jacksonville, Florida, February 2008). Parallel blood measures were obtained before and after race completion (prerace, n = 161; postrace, n = 195). Results: The prevalence of prerace and postrace hyponatremia was 8 of 161 (5.0%) and 16 of 195 (8.2%), respectively.  Hypokalemia  was not present prerace but was present in 1 runner postrace (1 of 195). Renal dysfunction occurred prerace in 14 of 161 (8.7%) and postrace in 83 of 195 (42.6%). Among those with postrace renal dysfunction, 45.8% (38 of 83) were classified as moderate or severe. Hemoconcentration was present in 2 of 161 (1.2%) prerace and 6 of 195 (3.1%) postrace. The mean changes in laboratory values were (postrace minus prerace): sodium, 1.6 mmol/L; potassium, −0.2 mmol/L; blood urea nitrogen, 2.8 mg/dL; creatinine, 0.2 mg/dL; and hemoglobin, 0.3 g/dL for 149 pairs (except blood urea nitrogen, n = 147 pairs). Changes were significant for all comparisons (P  <  0.01) except potassium (P = 0.08) and hemoglobin (P = 0.01). Conclusions: Metabolic abnormalities are common among endurance racers, and they may be present prerace, including hyponatremia. The clinical significance of these findings is unknown. Clinical relevance: It is unclear which runners are at risk for developing clinically important metabolic derangements. Participating in prolonged endurance 17-hydroxylase/17,20-lyase deficiency due to a R96Q mutation causing hypertension and poor breast development PubMed Central Al Suwaidi, Hana; Attia, Salima; Al Ameri, Ahlam 2015-01-01 Summary Combined17α-hydroxylase/17,20-lyase deficiency is a rare cause of congenital adrenal hyperplasia and hypogonadism. Hypertension and  hypokalemia  are essential presenting features. We report an Arab family with four affected XX siblings. The eldest presented with abdominal pain and was diagnosed with a retroperitoneal malignant mixed germ cell tumour. She was hypertensive and hypogonadal. One sibling presented with headache due to hypertension while the other two siblings were diagnosed with hypertension on a routine school check. A homozygous R96Q missense mutation in P450c17 was detected in the index case who had primary amenorrhea and lack of secondary sexual characters at 17 years. The middle two siblings were identical twins and had no secondary sexual characters at the age of 14. All siblings had  hypokalemia , very low level of adrenal androgens, high ACTH and high levels of aldosterone substrates. Treatment was commenced with steroid replacement and puberty induction with estradiol. The index case had surgical tumor resection and chemotherapy. All siblings required antihypertensive treatment and the oldest remained on two antihypertensive medications 12 years after diagnosis. Her breast development remained poor despite adequate hormonal replacement. Combined 17α-hydroxylase/17,20-lyase deficiency is a rare condition but might be underdiagnosed. It should be considered in young patients presenting with hypertension, particularly if there is a family history of consanguinity and with more than one affected sibling. Antihypertensive medication might continue to be required despite adequate steroid replacement. Breast development may remain poor in mutations causing complete form of the disease. Learning points Endocrine hypertension due to rarer forms of CAH should be considered in children and adolescents, particularly if more than one sibling is affected and in the presence of consanguinity. 17α-hydroxylase/17,20-lyase deficiency is a rare form of Periodic paralysis: rare presenting symptom of thyrotoxicosis. PubMed Correa-Luna, Luis Daniel; Reyes-Ortiz, Luis M; Ramírez-Rivera, José 2006-01-01 Paralysis due to  hypokalemia  results from an acute shift of potassium into cells or excessive potassium deficit. In the absence of potassium deficit, it is observed in Familial Hypokalemic Periodic Paralysis and in Thyrotoxic Hypokalemic Periodic Paralysis (TPP). This report describes the initial presentation of hyperthyroidism as sudden quadriplegia associated with  hypokalemia . A healthy 25-year-old Puerto Rican policeman came to the emergency room with sudden paralysis in the four extremities of five hours evolution. He woke up in the morning and could not get up. The day before admission his legs felt weak, and it was hard to get out of bed. He arrived home at 7:00 PM, ate pasta and vegetables, and went to sleep at 10:00 PM. He had no diarrhea or weight loss, no history of medications or illicit drugs. He has a cousin and an aunt with the diagnosis of hypo-thyroidism. The admission temperature was 36.0 degrees C, pulse 96 per minute, respiratory rate 18 per minute, blood pressure 160/70 mmHg. He was alert and oriented as to time, place and person. He could talk properly and was in no respiratory distress. He had no exophtalmos or lid lag. The thyroid was not enlarged or tender. No pseudoclubbing or pretibial edema was found. There was flaccid paralysis of all extremities, 0/5 legs and 1/5 arms. Deep tendon reflexes could not be elicited. The cranial nerves and sensory examination were normal. The hemogram was within normal limits as were the renal and liver functions. Serum sodium was 140 mEq/L, potassium 1.48 mEq/L, phosphorus 1.4 mEq/L. A random glucose was 155 mg/dl and the arterial Ph was 7.41. The urine potassium was 7.04 mEq/L, sodium 60.8 mg/dl. TSH levelwas  <  0.03 ug/d], TUP 50.69% (24-40%), T4 17.6 ug/dl (4.7-11.4 ug/dl) Free T4 Index 28.23. He was managed with intravenous potassium chloride, 80 mEq in a period of seven hours with cardiac monitor. The serum potassium level, after the infusion was completed, was 6.70 mEq/L. No cardiac arrhythmia was On the Mechanism of Polyuria in Potassium Depletion PubMed Central Berl, Tomas; Linas, Stuart L.; Aisenbrey, Gary A.; Anderson, Robert J. 1977-01-01 The association of potassium (K) depletion with polyuria and a concentrating defect is established, but the extent to which these defects could be secondary to an effect of low K on water intake has not been systematically investigated. To determine whether  hypokalemia  has a primary effect to increase thirst and whether any resultant polyuria and polydipsia contribute to the concentrating defect, we studied three groups of rats kept in metabolic cages for 15 days. The groups were set up as follows: group 1, normal diets and ad lib. fluids (n = 12); group 2, K-deficient diet on ad lib. fluids (n = 12); and group 3, K-deficient diet and fluid intake matched to group 1 (n = 14). Daily urine flow and urinary osmolality of groups 1 and 3 were not significantly different throughout the study. In contrast, as of day 6, group 2 rats consistently had a higher fluid intake (P  <  0.0025), higher urine flow (P  <  0.001), and lower urinary osmolality (P  <  0.001) than the other two groups. These alterations in fluid intake and urine flow preceded a defect in maximal concentrating ability. On day 7, maximal urinary osmolality was 2,599±138 msmol/kg in rats on K-deficient intake and 2,567±142 msmol/kg in controls. To determine whether this primary polydipsia is itself responsible for the development of the concentrating defect, the three groups of rats were dehydrated on day 15. Despite different levels of fluid intake, maximal urinary osmolality was impaired equally in groups 2 and 3 (1,703 and 1,511 msmol/kg, respectively), as compared to rats in group 1 (2,414 msmol/kg), P  <  0.001. We therefore conclude that K depletion stimulates thirst, and the resultant increase in water intake is largely responsible for the observed polyuria. After 15 days of a K-deficient diet, the impaired maximal urinary concentration in  hypokalemia , however, was not related to increased water intake, since fluid restriction did not abolish the renal concentrating defect. PMID:893666 Periodic Paralysis and Encephalopathy as Initial Manifestations of Graves' Disease: Case Report and Review of the Literature. PubMed Tsironis, Theocharis; Tychalas, Athanasios; Kiourtidis, Dimitrios; Kountouras, Jannis; Xiromerisiou, Georgia; Rudolf, Jobst; Deretzi, Georgia 2017-07-01 Thyrotoxic periodic paralysis (TPP) is an uncommon complication of Graves' disease, characterized by the triad of acute  hypokalemia  without total body potassium deficit, episodic muscle paralysis, and thyrotoxicosis. Graves' encephalopathy is an extremely rare form of encephalopathy associated with autoimmune thyroid disease (EAATD), characterized by neuropsychiatric symptoms, increased antithyroid antibodies and cerebrospinal fluid protein concentration, nonspecific electroencephalogram abnormalities, and cortico-responsiveness. Coexistence of both these complications in the same patient has not been reported before. We herein present a 48-year-old white male patient with TPP and encephalopathy as initial presentations of Graves' disease. Flaccid tetraparesis was reversed a few hours after potassium level correction and the patient did not suffer any relapse with the successful pharmaceutical management of the thyroid function. One month later, the patient presented with dizziness and behavioral symptoms, such as inappropriate laughter and anger. Brain magnetic resonance imaging revealed meningeal enhancement and cerebrospinal fluid analysis showed a mild protein increase, with a blood-brain barrier disruption. With the suspicion of EAATD, the patient was treated with high doses of corticosteroids and improved dramatically. To our knowledge this is the first reported coexistence of potentially treatable TPP and EAATD as initial neurological manifestations of Graves' disease, thereby underscoring the necessity of suspicion of possible underlying Graves' disease in patients with acute paralysis and encephalopathy of unclear origin. Diuretics in the treatment of hypertension. Part 2: loop diuretics and potassium-sparing agents. PubMed Tamargo, Juan; Segura, Julian; Ruilope, Luis M 2014-04-01 Diuretics enhance the renal excretion of Na(+) and water due to a direct action at different tubular sites of the nephron where solute re-absorption occurs. This paper focuses on the mechanism of action, pharmacodynamics, antihypertensive effects, adverse effects, interactions and contraindications of loop diuretics and potassium-sparing agents (including mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists (MRAs) and epithelial Na(+) channel blockers). Loop diuretics are less effective than thiazide diuretics in lowering blood pressure, so that their major use is in edematous patients with congestive heart failure (HF), cirrhosis with ascites and nephritic edema. MRAs represent a major advance in the treatment of resistant hypertension, primary and secondary hyperaldosteronism and in patients with systolic HF to reduce the risks of hospitalization and of premature death. Potassium-sparing diuretics when coadministered with diuretics (thiazides and loop diuretics) working at more proximal nephron locations reduce the risk of  hypokalemia  and hypomagnesemia and the risk of cardiac arrhythmias. At the end of the article, the basis for the combination of diuretics with other antihypertensive drugs to achieve blood pressure targets is presented. Stressor states and the cation crossroads. PubMed Weber, Karl T; Bhattacharya, Syamal K; Newman, Kevin P; Soberman, Judith E; Ramanathan, Kodangudi B; McGee, Jesse E; Malik, Kafait U; Hickerson, William L 2010-12-01 Neurohormonal activation involving the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and adrenergic nervous and renin-angiotensin-aldosterone systems is integral to stressor state-mediated homeostatic responses. The levels of effector hormones, depending upon the degree of stress, orchestrate the concordant appearance of  hypokalemia , ionized hypocalcemia and hypomagnesemia, hypozincemia, and hyposelenemia. Seemingly contradictory to homeostatic responses wherein the constancy of extracellular fluid would be preserved, upregulation of cognate-binding proteins promotes coordinated translocation of cations to injured tissues, where they participate in wound healing. Associated catecholamine-mediated intracellular cation shifts regulate the equilibrium between pro-oxidants and antioxidant defenses, a critical determinant of cell survival. These acute and chronic stressor-induced iterations in extracellular and intracellular cations are collectively referred to as the cation crossroads. Intracellular cation shifts, particularly excessive accumulation of Ca2+, converge on mitochondria to induce oxidative stress and raise the opening potential of their inner membrane permeability transition pores (mPTPs). The ensuing loss of cationic homeostasis and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) production, together with osmotic swelling, leads to organellar degeneration and cellular necrosis. The overall impact of iterations in extracellular and intracellular cations and their influence on cardiac redox state, cardiomyocyte survival, and myocardial structure and function are addressed herein. Hypomagnesemia and mild rhabdomyolysis in living related donor renal transplant recipient treated with cyclosporine A. PubMed Cavdar, C; Sifil, A; Sanli, E; Gülay, H; Camsari, T 1998-12-01 Since cyclosporine A (CsA) had been used in renal transplant recipients, important improvements in short-term and long-term graft survivals have been detected. In spite of these improvements CsA seems to have several adverse effects. First, CsA leads to nephrotoxicity. Moreover, CsA affects the other organs and systems (skin, liver, nervous system, etc.) and causes, increased risks of infections and malignancies. Hypomagnesemia is one of the side effects of CsA therapy, but it is a rare condition in living related donor renal transplant recipients. It may also cause multi-system dysfunction, especially hypocalcemia and  hypokalemia , which cannot be corrected without magnesium therapy. In addition, rhabdomyolysis was detected in animals, but it has not been reported in living related donor renal transplant recipients. In this case report, a living related donor renal transplant recipient who suffered from hypomagnesemia and mild rhabdomyolysis due to CsA therapy will be described and discussed. Fludrocortisone therapy in cerebral salt wasting. PubMed Taplin, Craig E; Cowell, Christopher T; Silink, Martin; Ambler, Geoffrey R 2006-12-01 Cerebral salt wasting is an increasingly recognized condition in pediatrics and is characterized by inappropriate natriuresis and volume contraction in the presence of cerebral pathology. Diagnosis can be difficult and therapy challenging. A few single case reports of the successful use of fludrocortisone exist. We report 4 patients with cerebral salt wasting, all of whom presented with hyponatremia in the presence of known intracerebral pathology. All had clinically significant hyponatremia, and 3 had hyponatremic seizures. Two of the patients also satisfied clinical criteria for diabetes insipidus. They all were treated with regimens using increased sodium and fluid administration but experienced ongoing salt wasting. Fludrocortisone was instituted in all 4 patients and in 3 resulted in rapid improvement in net sodium balance, enabling the weaning of hypertonic fluids and stabilization of serum electrolytes. In 3 patients, fludrocortisone treatment was complicated by  hypokalemia , and in 1 patient by hypertension, which necessitated a dose reduction or brief cessation of therapy. Duration of therapy was 4 to 125 days. Cerebral salt wasting presents considerable management challenges; however, fludrocortisone therapy can be an effective adjunct to treatment. Cushing's syndrome in infancy due to ectopic ACTH secretion by a sacro-coccygeal teratoma. PubMed Rydzewska, Marta; Krawczuk-Rybak, Maryna; Zajkowska, Adrianna; Jurczuk, Natalia; Polnik, Dariusz; Szalecki, Mieczysław; Moszczyńska, Elżbieta; Savage, Martin O; Bossowski, Artur 2017-04-01 Adenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH)-dependent Cushing's syndrome in infancy is extremely rare. We describe the case of a sacro-coccygeal ectopic ACTH-secreting immature teratoma in an infant who also presented the triad of defects characteristic of Currarino syndrome. A girl was born with a large immature teratoma in the sacro-coccygeal region associated with anal atresia. At the age of 7 days, the concentration of α-fetoprotein (AFP) was above the age-specific normal range. Two non-radical surgical excisions of the tumour were performed. At the age of 7 months, she developed polyphagia, acne, hirsutism, hypertension and  hypokalemia  with elevated ACTH and absence of serum cortisol circadian rhythm. Immunostaining of tumour tissue showed ACTH-immunoreactive cells. Due to unsuccessful therapy with ketoconazole and resistance to antihypertensive medications [blood pressure (BP) 210/160 mmHg], metyrapone was administered, which controlled her ACTH and cortisol levels in the normal range. Following further removal of tumour bulk after three operations during the first year of life, there was a decrease of BP to normal values. A rare case of ectopic ACTH syndrome causing Cushing's syndrome in infancy in the context of Currarino syndrome is reported. Radical surgery has resulted in excision of the tumour and current control of Cushing's syndrome. Impact and Timing of Bilateral Adrenalectomy for Refractory ACTH-Dependent Cushing’s Syndrome PubMed Central Morris, Lilah F.; Harris, Rachel S.; Milton, Denái R.; Waguespack, Steven G.; Habra, Mouhammed A.; Jimenez, Camilo; Vassilopoulou-Sellin, Rena; Lee, Jeffrey E.; Perrier, Nancy D.; Grubbs, Elizabeth G. 2014-01-01 Introduction In patients with refractory ACTH-dependent Cushing’s syndrome (CS), we evaluated steroidogenesis inhibition (SI) and bilateral adrenalectomy (BA) to predict which patients might benefit most from each treatment modality. Methods Clinical data from patients treated 1970-2012 were retrospectively reviewed by treatment group (SI or SI+BA). Validated severity scales were used to calculate metabolic (M) score ( hypokalemia , hyperglycemia, hypertension, proximal muscle weakness) and adverse events (AE) score (thrombosis, fracture, infection). Results 65 patients (16 pituitary, 49 ectopic) were treated with SI+BA (n=21,32%) or SI alone (n=44,68%). Presenting M scores and source of ACTH excess (ectopic vs. pituitary) were similar. Both groups improved metabolically after treatment. 39% of AEs in the SI+BA group occurred within 12 months of presentation. 24(55%) SI patients died (median survival 24.0 months); steroid excess contributed to 71%. Six SI+BA patients died (29%), including all 3 patients with recurrent CS after BA. Minor perioperative complications occurred in 7 patients (33%). Conclusions Post-treatment M and AE scores improved for all patients and 70% of AEs occurred in SI+BA patients within 12 months of presentation, emphasizing the importance of early surgical intervention. These data argue for the safety and efficacy of early BA in selected patients with uncontrollable CS. PMID:24383115 Endocrine hypertension: An overview on the current etiopathogenesis and management options. PubMed Thomas, Reena M; Ruel, Ewa; Shantavasinkul, Prapimporn Ch; Corsino, Leonor Endocrine causes of secondary hypertension include primary aldosteronism, pheochromocytoma, cushing's syndrome, hyperparathyroidism and hypo- and hyperthyroidism. They comprise of the 5%-10% of the causes of secondary hypertension. Primary hyperaldosteronism, the most common of the endocrine cause of hypertension often presents with resistant or difficult to control hypertension associated with either normo-or  hypokalemia . Pheochromocytoma, the great mimicker of many conditions, is associated with high morbidity and mortality if left untreated. A complete history including pertinent family history, physical examination along with a high index of suspicion with focused biochemical and radiological evaluation is important to diagnose and effectively treat these conditions. The cost effective targeted genetic screening for current known mutations associated with pheochromocytoma are important for early diagnosis and management in family members. The current review focuses on the most recent evidence regarding causes, clinical features, methods of diagnosis, and management of these conditions. A multidisciplinary approach involving internists, endocrinologists and surgeons is recommended in optimal management of these conditions. Whole-exome sequencing reveals an inherited R566X mutation of the epithelial sodium channel β-subunit in a case of early-onset phenotype of Liddle syndrome. PubMed Polfus, Linda M; Boerwinkle, Eric; Gibbs, Richard A; Metcalf, Ginger; Muzny, Donna; Veeraraghavan, Narayanan; Grove, Megan; Shete, Sanjay; Wallace, Stephanie; Milewicz, Dianna; Hanchard, Neil; Lupski, James R; Hashmi, Syed Shahrukh; Gupta-Malhotra, Monesha 2016-11-01 To comprehensively evaluate a European-American child with severe hypertension, whole-exome sequencing (WES) was performed on the child and parents, which identified causal variation of the proband's early-onset disease. The proband's hypertension was resistant to treatment, requiring a multiple drug regimen including amiloride, spironolactone, and hydrochlorothiazide. We suspected a monogenic form of hypertension because of the persistent  hypokalemia  with low plasma levels of renin and aldosterone. To address this, we focused on rare functional variants and indels, and performed gene-based tests incorporating linkage scores and allele frequency and filtered on deleterious functional mutations. Drawing upon clinical presentation, 27 genes were selected evidenced to cause monogenic hypertension and matched to the gene-based results. This resulted in the identification of a stop-gain mutation in an epithelial sodium channel (ENaC), SCNN1B , an established Liddle syndrome gene, shared by the child and her father. Interestingly, the father also harbored a missense mutation (p.Trp552Arg) in the α-subunit of the ENaC trimer, SCNN1A , possibly pointing to pseudohypoaldosteronism type I. This case is unique in that we present the early-onset disease and treatment response caused by a canonical stop-gain mutation (p.Arg566*) as well as ENaC digenic hits in the father, emphasizing the utility of WES informing precision medicine. Scorpion envenoming in Morona Santiago, Amazonian Ecuador: Molecular phylogenetics confirms involvement of the Tityus obscurus group. PubMed Román, Juan P; García, Fernanda; Medina, Doris; Vásquez, Manolo; García, José; Graham, Matthew R; Romero-Alvarez, Daniel; Pardal, Pedro P de Oliveira; Ishikawa, Edna A Y; Borges, Adolfo 2018-02-01 Scorpion envenoming by species in the genus Tityus is hereby reported from rural locations in the Amazonian province of Morona Santiago, southeastern Ecuador. Twenty envenoming cases (18 patients under 15 years of age) including one death (a 4-year-old male) were recorded at the Macas General Hospital, Morona Santiago, between January 2015 and December 2016 from the counties of Taisha (n=17), Huamboyo (n=1), Palora (n=1), and Logroño (n=1). An additional fatality from 2014 (a 3-year-old female from Nayantza, Taisha county) is also reported. Leukocytosis and low serum potassium levels were detected in most patients. We observed a significant negative correlation between leukocytosis and  hypokalemia . Scorpions involved in three accidents from Macuma, Taisha County, were identified as genetically related to Tityus obscurus from the Brazilian Amazonian region based on comparison of mitochondrial DNA sequences encoding cytochrome oxidase subunit I. These cases, along with previously reported envenoming from northern Manabí, reinforce the notion that scorpionism is a health hazard for children in Ecuador and emphasizes the need to supply effective antivenoms against local species, which are not currently available. The genetic affinity of the Ecuadorian specimens with T. obscurus may underlay toxinological, clinical, and venom antigenic relationships among Amazonian scorpions that deserves further exploration for designing therapeutic strategies to treat scorpionism in the region. Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. Consequences of an extreme diet in the professional sport: Refeeding syndrome to a bodybuilder. PubMed Lapinskienė, Indrė; Mikulevičienė, Gabija; Laubner, Gabija; Badaras, Robertas 2018-02-01 Refeeding syndrome, as a life-threatening condition, is well known among severely malnourished or deeply metabolically stressed patients. This case presents an atypical manifestation of the syndrome to a young bodybuilder, whose extreme diet, including 5 months of insufficient nourishment before the sport competition and 6 days of carbohydrates overload afterwards, has led him to a bilateral lower - limb paralysis and drastic homeostatic disturbances. Severe  hypokalemia , hypophosphatemia, hypomagnesemia and hyperglycemia with mildly elevated liver enzymes have occurred. The patient could barely move his legs and arms, and his state has been followed by a hypertensive crisis, which required an immediate intravenous treatment. Although his weight was 112,5 kg with a body mass index of 32,2 kg per square meter, and his blood serum albumin concentration resulted inside the normal range, the overall condition was corresponding to the state of extenuated and malnourished patients. This case reflects to high prevalence of eating disorders or non-adequate nutrition among weight-sensitive sport athletes. The importance of prevention and opportune diagnostics of refeeding syndrome among special vulnerable groups should be considered. Copyright © 2017 European Society for Clinical Nutrition and Metabolism. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved. [Synthetic cannabinoids: spread, addiction biology  &  current perspective of personal health hazard]. PubMed Bonnet, U; Mahler, H 2015-04-01 Among the new psychoactive substances (NPS), most frequently synthetic cannabinoids (SCBs) have been found in Europe. These are sold as active compounds in e. g. so-called "herbal blends". When inhaled or ingested, besides intoxication symptoms, as they occur with heavy cannabis use (e. g., tachycardia, myocardial infarction, confusion, hallucinations, panic attacks, and paranoia), harmful effects (severe agitation, coma, catatonic stupor, hypertension, cardiac arrhythmia, dyspnoea, seizures, myoclonus, rhabdomyolysis, hyperthermia, diaphoresis, acute kidney injury, vomiting, headache, and  hypokalemia ) arise, which are mostly unusual about cannabis use. In addition, the first cases of addiction and death related to SCBs have been reported. Taking into account the newest literature and using an algorithm with two main criteria (addiction potential, toxicity), the authors made a first attempt to rank the personal health hazard of SCBs in comparison to that of other psychoactive drugs. Accordingly, the relative health hazard of SCBs is found to be somewhat higher than that of cannabis and lower than that of synthetic cathinones ("bath salts"). However, the toxicity of SCBs, is significantly greater than the toxicity of cannabis, thus being similar to that of synthetic cathinones and benzodiazepines. The addiction potential appears to be lower than that of synthetic cathinones, benzodiazepines, or cannabis. Due to the fluctuation of substances and the availability in internet resources, legislation is facing a serious "hare-hedgehog" problem to control the manufacture, trade and possession of SCBs. © Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York. Maintenance of Clinical Expertise and Clinical Research by the Clinical Professors at Gifu Pharmaceutical University. PubMed Tachi, Tomoya; Noguchi, Yoshihiro; Teramachi, Hitomi 2017-01-01 The clinical professors at Gifu Pharmaceutical University (GPU) provide pharmaceutical services at GPU Pharmacy, Gifu University Hospital, and Gifu Municipal Hospital to keep their clinical skills up-to-date; they also perform clinical research in collaboration with many clinical institutes. The Laboratory of Clinical Pharmacy is part of the Department of Pharmacy Practice and Science, to which the clinical professors belong, and is composed of three clinical professors (a professor, an associate professor, and an assistant professor). The professor administers the GPU Pharmacy as its director, while the associate professor and assistant professor provide pharmaceutical services to patients at Gifu Municipal Hospital, and also provide practical training for students in the GPU Pharmacy. Collectively, they have performed research on such topics as medication education for students, clinical communication education, and analysis of clinical big data. They have also conducted research in collaboration with clinical institutes, hospitals, and pharmacies. Here, we introduce the collaborative research between the Laboratory of Clinical Pharmacy and Gifu Municipal Hospital. These studies include "Risk factors contributing to urinary protein expression resulting from bevacizumab combination chemotherapy", "Hyponatremia and  hypokalemia  as risk factors for falls", "Economic evaluation of adjustments of levofloxacin dosage by dispensing pharmacists for patients with renal dysfunction", and "Effect of patient education upon discharge for use of a medication notebook on purchasing over-the-counter drugs and health foods". In this symposium, we would like to demonstrate one model of the association and collaborative research between these clinical professors and clinical institutes. Diagnosis and surgical treatment of a Chiari I-like malformation in an African lion (Panthera leo). PubMed McCain, Stephanie; Souza, Marcy; Ramsay, Ed; Schumacher, Juergen; Hecht, Silke; Thomas, William 2008-09-01 A 13-mo-old intact male African lion (Panthera leo) presented with a 3-mo history of lethargy, ventral flexion of the neck, abnormal vocalization, and ataxia. Hemogram and serum biochemistries were within normal limits except for the presence of  hypokalemia  (2.7 mEq/L) and hypochloridemia (108 mEq/L). When no improvement was noted with oral potassium gluconate supplementation, a computed tomography scan of the brain and skull was performed, and no abnormalities were noted. However, magnetic resonance imaging detected occipital bone thickening, crowding of the caudal cranial fossa with cerebellar compression and herniation, and cervical syringohydromyelia, which was consistent with a Chiari I-like malformation. Foramen magnum decompression was performed to relieve the compression of the cerebellum. The animal recovered well with subsequent resolution of clinical signs. Hypovitaminosis A has been proposed previously as the underlying etiology for this malformation in lions with similar clinical presentations. This lion's serum and liver vitamin A concentrations were low (100 ng/ml and 25.31 microg/g, respectively) compared to concentrations reported for domestic carnivores and support hypovitaminosis A as the underlying cause of this animal's Chiari I-like malformation. Hypokalemic periodic paralysis; two different genes responsible for similar clinical manifestations PubMed Central Kim, Hunmin; Hwang, Hee; Cheong, Hae Il 2011-01-01 Primary hypokalemic periodic paralysis (HOKPP) is an autosomal dominant disorder manifesting as recurrent periodic flaccid paralysis and concomitant  hypokalemia . HOKPP is divided into type 1 and type 2 based on the causative gene. Although 2 different ion channels have been identified as the molecular genetic cause of HOKPP, the clinical manifestations between the 2 groups are similar. We report the cases of 2 patients with HOKPP who both presented with typical clinical manifestations, but with mutations in 2 different genes (CACNA1Sp.Arg528His and SCN4A p.Arg672His). Despite the similar clinical manifestations, there were differences in the response to acetazolamide treatment between certain genotypes of SCN4A mutations and CACNA1S mutations. We identified p.Arg672His in the SCN4A gene of patient 2 immediately after the first attack through a molecular genetic testing strategy. Molecular genetic diagnosis is important for genetic counseling and selecting preventive treatment. PMID:22253645 Type III Bartter-like syndrome in an infant boy with Gitelman syndrome and autosomal dominant familial neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus. PubMed Brugnara, Milena; Gaudino, Rossella; Tedeschi, Silvana; Syrèn, Marie-Louise; Perrotta, Silverio; Maines, Evelina; Zaffanello, Marco 2014-09-01 We report the case of an infant boy with polyuria and a familial history of central diabetes insipidus. Laboratory blood tests disclosed  hypokalemia , metabolic alkalosis, hyperreninemia, and hyperaldosteronism. Plasma magnesium concentration was slightly low. Urine analysis showed hypercalciuria, hyposthenuria, and high excretion of potassium. Such findings oriented toward type III Bartter syndrome (BSIII). Direct sequencing of the CLCNKB gene revealed no disease-causing mutations. The water deprivation test was positive. Magnetic resonance imaging showed a lack of posterior pituitary hyperintensity. Finally, direct sequencing of the AVP-NPII gene showed a point mutation (c.1884G>A) in a heterozygous state, confirming an autosomal dominant familial neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus (adFNDI). This condition did not explain the patient's phenotype; thus, we investigated for Gitelman syndrome (GS). A direct sequencing of the SLC12A3 gene showed c.269A>C and c.1205C>A new mutations. In conclusion, the patient had a genetic combination of GS and adFNDI with a BSIII-like phenotype. Mixed Bartter-Gitelman syndrome: an inbred family with a heterogeneous phenotype expression of a novel variant in the CLCNKB gene. PubMed Al-Shibli, Amar; Yusuf, Madinah; Abounajab, Issam; Willems, Patrick J 2014-01-01 Patients with renal diseases associated with salt-losing tubulopathies categorized as Gitelman and classic form of Bartter syndrome have undergone genetic screening for possible mutation capture in two different genes: SLC12A3 and CLCNKB. Clinical symptoms of these two diseases may overlap. Bartter syndrome and Gitelman syndrome are autosomal recessive salt-losing tubulopathies with  hypokalemia , metabolic alkalosis, hyperreninemia, hyperplasia of the juxtaglomerular apparatus, hyperaldosteronism, and, in some patients, hypomagnesemia. Here we describe four patients from an inbred family with a novel missense variant in the CLCNKB gene. All of patients are asymptomatic; yet they have the typical metabolic abnormality of salt losing tubulopathies. One of those patients had hypomagnesaemia while others not. Clinical and laboratory data of all patients was described. All 4 patients have a homozygous c.490G > T missense variant in exon 5 of the CLCNKB gene. This variant alters a glycine into a cysteine on amino acid position 164 of the resulting protein (p.Gly164Cys). The c.490G > T variant is a novel variant not previously described in other patients nor controls. Polyphen analysis predicts the variation to be possibly damaging. Analysis of SLC12A3 was normal. Here in we are describing a novel homozygous c.490G > T missense variation was identified in exon 5 of the CLCNKB gene was identified in an Emirati patients with a mild manifestation of Bartter - Gitelman syndrome. A patient with cystinosis presenting like bartter syndrome and review of literature. PubMed Ertan, Pelin; Evrengul, Havva; Ozen, Serkan; Emre, Sinan 2012-12-01 Nephropathic cystinosis is an autosomal recessively inherited metabolic disorder presenting with metabolic acidosis, Fanconi syndrome and renal failure. We present a 6-year-old girl with severe growth failure, hyponatremia and  hypokalemia . Her parents were 4(th) degree relatives. Two relatives were diagnosed as end stage renal failure. She also had persistant hypokalemic hypochloremic metabolic alkalosis. Her renal function was normal at presentation. She was thought to have Bartter syndrome with supporting findings of elevated levels of renin and aldosterone with normal blood pressure, and hyperplasia of juxtaglomerular apparatus. Her metabolic alkalosis did not resolve despite supportive treatment. At 6(th) month of follow-up proteinuria, glucosuria and deterioration of renal function developed. Diagnosis of cystinosis was made with slit lamp examination and leukocyte cystine levels. At 12(th) month of follow-up her metabolic alkalosis has converted to metabolic acidosis. In children presenting with persistant metabolic alkalosis, with family history of renal failure, and parental consanguinity, cystinosis should always be kept in mind as this disease is an important cause of end stage renal failure which may have features mimmicking Bartter syndrome. Cystinosis Presenting with Findings of Bartter Syndrome PubMed Central Özkan, Behzat; Çayır, Atilla; Koşan, Celalettin; Alp, Handan 2011-01-01 A five-year-old boy was referred to our pediatric clinic for evaluation of failure to thrive, headache, intermittent high fever, restlessness, polyuria, and polydipsia. His weight and height measurements were under the 3rd percentile. Clinical findings consisted of frontal bossing, carious teeth, O-bain deformity of the lower extremities, and moderate dehydration. The presence of metabolic alkalosis,  hypokalemia , hypochloremia, and high renin and aldosterone levels were suggestive of Bartter syndrome and a treatment regimen for Bartter syndrome was started. At follow-up, the polyuria and hyponatremia were found to persist. A reassessment of the patient revealed findings consistent with proximal renal tubular acidosis such as metabolic acidosis with a high urinary pH, proteinuria, aminoaciduria with phosphaturia and hypercalciuria. Based on the presence of parental consanguinity as well as polyuria, proteinuria, low tubular reabsorption of phosphorus, generalized aminoaciduria, light yellow skin and hair color, the probable diagnosis of cystinosis was established and was confirmed by slit-lamp examination of the cornea showing cystine crystal deposition. Our case is a good example demonstrating that development of metabolic alkalosis does not exclude cystinosis and that all findings of the patient should be thoroughly evaluated. Conflict of interest:None declared. PMID:21750641 Antenatal Bartter Syndrome: A Review PubMed Central Bhat, Y. Ramesh; Vinayaka, G.; Sreelakshmi, K. 2012-01-01 Antenatal Bartter syndrome (ABS) is a rare autosomal recessive renal tubular disorder. The defective chloride transport in the loop of Henle leads to fetal polyuria resulting in severe hydramnios and premature delivery. Early onset, unexplained maternal polyhydramnios often challenges the treating obstetrician. Increasing polyhydramnios without apparent fetal or placental abnormalities should lead to the suspicion of this entity. Biochemical analysis of amniotic fluid is suggested as elevated chloride level is usually diagnostic. Awareness, early recognition, maternal treatment with indomethacin, and amniocentesis allow the pregnancy to continue. Affected neonates are usually born premature, have postnatal polyuria, vomiting, failure to thrive, hypercalciuria, and subsequently nephrocalcinosis.  Hypokalemia , metabolic alkalosis, secondary hyperaldosteronism and hyperreninaemia are other characteristic features. Volume depletion due to excessive salt and water loss on long term stimulates renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system resulting in juxtaglomerular hyperplasia. Clinical features and electrolyte abnormalities may also depend on the subtype of the syndrome. Prenatal diagnosis and timely indomethacin administration prevent electrolyte imbalance, restitute normal growth, and improve activity. In this paper, authors present classification, pathophysiology, clinical manifestations, laboratory findings, complications, and prognosis of ABS. PMID:22518185 A patient with Bartter syndrome accompanying severe growth hormone deficiency and focal segmental glomerulosclerosis. PubMed Akil, Ipek; Ozen, Serkan; Kandiloglu, Ali Riza; Ersoy, Betul 2010-06-01 Bartter syndrome is a rare autosomal recessive, salt-losing disorder characterized by hypokalemic hypochloremic metabolic alkalosis. A 10-year-old boy had severe growth retardation (height standard deviation score -8.15). He had a thin, triangular face, prominent ears and forehead, and big eyes. Megacystis, bilateral hydroureteronephrosis, and residual urine were detected in ultrasonography, but there was no vesicoureteral reflux. Lumbosacral magnetic resonance (MR) showed posterior disc bulging at L4-5. Serum sodium and chloride levels were normal, but mild  hypokalemia  was overlooked initially. During follow-up, hypokalemic hypochloremic metabolic alkalosis developed, with high urinary chloride and potassium excretion (52 and 43 mEq/L, respectively). The patient, with renal salt loss, was thought to have classic Bartter syndrome due to absence of nephrocalcinosis, presence of persistent hypercalciuria and sensorineural deafness, and presence of relatively mild clinical and laboratory findings, except polyuria initially. The child was treated with indomethacin, spironolactone, and oral potassium in addition to growth hormone (GH). During treatment, he had considerable increase in weight and height compared with the period of GH therapy only. We present this case because, although growth retardation is a major feature of Bartter syndrome, associated GH deficiency is rarely reported in the literature. Diagnosis of Bartter syndrome was made later, as our patient was followed for megacystis and megaureter secondary to the neurogenic bladder and GH deficiency initially; and proteinuria associated with focal segmental glomerulosclerosis responded to treatment for Bartter syndrome. A patient with Dent disease and features of Bartter syndrome caused by a novel mutation of CLCN5. PubMed Okamoto, Takayuki; Tajima, Toshihiro; Hirayama, Tomoya; Sasaki, Satoshi 2012-02-01 Dent disease is an X-linked tubulopathy mainly caused by inactivating mutations of CLCN5. Features of Bartter syndrome such as hypokalemic metabolic alkalosis are rarely observed in patients with Dent disease. We report a Japanese male patient with Dent disease who also manifested features of Bartter syndrome. At the age of 3 years, he was diagnosed with Dent disease based on low molecular weight proteinuria and hypercalciuria. One year later, he was found to have features of Bartter syndrome, i.e.,  hypokalemia  and metabolic alkalosis, and high levels of plasma renin activity and aldosterone with a normal blood pressure. Despite medical interventions, he developed chronic kidney disease stage 3 at the age of 21 years. To investigate the molecular basis of his disease, CLCN5, KCNJ1, SLC12A1, and CLCkb were analyzed and a novel mutation (Y567X) in CLCN5 was identified. Hypokalemic metabolic alkalosis is a rare manifestation in Dent disease. It is speculated that Dent patients with features of Bartter syndrome are susceptible to progression to renal failure. To study this hypothesis, additional observations and long-term follow-up of such patients are necessary. A novel mutation of CLCNKB in a Korean patient of mixed phenotype of Bartter-Gitelman syndrome. PubMed Cho, Hee-Won; Lee, Sang Taek; Cho, Heeyeon; Cheong, Hae Il 2016-11-01 Bartter syndrome (BS) is an inherited renal tubular disorder characterized by low or normal blood pressure, hypokalemic metabolic alkalosis, and hyperreninemic hyperaldosteronism. Type III BS is caused by loss-of-function mutations in CLCNKB encoding basolateral ClC-Kb. The clinical phenotype of patients with CLCNKB mutations has been known to be highly variable, and cases that are difficult to categorize as type III BS or other hereditary tubulopathies, such as Gitelman syndrome, have been rarely reported. We report a case of a 10-year-old Korean boy with atypical clinical findings caused by a novel CLCNKB mutation. The boy showed intermittent muscle cramps with laboratory findings of  hypokalemia , severe hypomagnesemia, and nephrocalcinosis. These findings were not fully compatible with those observed in cases of BS or Gitelman syndrome. The CLCNKB mutation analysis revealed a heterozygous c.139G>A transition in exon 13 [p.Gly(GGG)465Glu(GAG)]. This change is not a known mutation; however, the clinical findings and in silico prediction results indicated that it is the underlying cause of his presentation. Bartter syndrome presenting as poor weight gain and abdominal mass in an infant. PubMed Heffernan, Annie; Steffensen, Thora S; Gilbert-Barness, Enid; Perlman, Sharon 2008-01-01 Bartter syndrome, a group of disorders that encompasses multiple genetic defects with similar clinical presentation, has been divided into six different genotypes, according to different genetic defects, and into three main clinical variants (or phenotypes). Classic laboratory findings in all variants include hypochloremia,  hypokalemia , and metabolic alkalosis with excessive excretion of chloride and potassium. Classic Bartter syndrome, neonatal Bartter syndrome, and Gitelman syndrome are the three main clinical variants. Classic Bartter syndrome and neonatal Bartter syndrome have defects in genes that affect transport channels in the ascending loop of Henle, where as in Gitleman syndrome the defect occurs in the transport channels of the distal convoluted tubule. Classic Bartter syndrome and neonatal Bartter syndrome have similar presenting symptoms, potential outcomes, and treatment, but different ages at presentation. Gitelman syndrome, a more benign condition than the other clinical variants, has the classic hallmark finding of hypomagnesemia and low to normal excretion of calcium. This differentiates it from the classic and neonatal variants of the disease. With early diagnosis and proper treatment, Bartter syndrome has a good prognosis. But failure to identify it can lead to tubulointerstitial nephritis and renal failure. We present a case of a 6-month-old boy with Bartter syndrome who presented with poor weight gain and an abdominal mass. [Pseudo-Bartter syndrome as manifestation of cystic fibrosis with DF508 mutation]. PubMed Galaviz-Ballesteros, María de Jesús; Acosta-Rodríguez-Bueno, Carlos Patricio; Consuelo-Sánchez, Alejandra; Franco-Álvarez, Isidro; Olalla-Mora, Odilo Iván; Vázquez-Frias, Rodrigo Pseudo Bartter syndrome (PBS) is defined as hypokalaemic hypochloraemic metabolic alkalosis in the absence of renal tubular pathology. Children with cystic fibrosis (CF) are at risk of developing electrolyte abnormalities and even PBS may occur. 5 months old female infant with a history of two events of dehydration with vomit, refusal to eat, chronic cough, polyuria, malnutrition, metabolic alkalosis,  hypokalemia , hyponatremia, hypochloremia and acute renal failure. Chronic cough study was performed, discarding pulmonary tuberculosis, gastroesophageal reflux disease and impaired swallowing. PBS was diagnosed due to hypokalaemic hypochloraemic metabolic alkalosis in the absence of renal tubular pathology. CF was corroborated by electrolytes in sweat and through molecular analysis of the delta F508 mutation. This is one of the few reported cases linking PBS and this mutation. In patients with hyponatremic dehydration episodes with hypokalaemic hypochloraemic metabolic alkalosis, PBS should be considered as differential diagnosis. CF could be presented as PBS, mainly in patients younger than 2 years. Copyright © 2016 Hospital Infantil de México Federico Gómez. Publicado por Masson Doyma México S.A. All rights reserved. Understanding Bartter syndrome and Gitelman syndrome. PubMed Fremont, Oliver T; Chan, James C M 2012-02-01 We aim to review the clinical features of two renal tubular disorders characterized by sodium and potassium wasting: Bartter syndrome and Gitelman syndrome. Selected key references concerning these syndromes were analyzed, together with a PubMed search of the literature from 2000 to 2011. The clinical features common to both conditions and those which are distinct to each syndrome were presented. The new findings on the genetics of the five types of Bartter syndrome and the discrete mutations in Gitelman syndrome were reviewed, together with the diagnostic workup and treatment for each condition. Patients with Bartter syndrome types 1, 2 and 4 present at a younger age than classic Bartter syndrome type 3. They present with symptoms, often quite severe in the neonatal period. Patients with classic Bartter syndrome type 3 present later in life and may be sporadically asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic. The severe, steady-state  hypokalemia  in Bartter syndrome and Gitelman syndrome may abruptly become life-threatening under certain aggravating conditions. Clinicians need to be cognizant of such renal tubular disorders, and promptly treat at-risk patients. ClC-K chloride channels: emerging pathophysiology of Bartter syndrome type 3. PubMed Andrini, Olga; Keck, Mathilde; Briones, Rodolfo; Lourdel, Stéphane; Vargas-Poussou, Rosa; Teulon, Jacques 2015-06-15 The mutations in the CLCNKB gene encoding the ClC-Kb chloride channel are responsible for Bartter syndrome type 3, one of the four variants of Bartter syndrome in the genetically based nomenclature. All forms of Bartter syndrome are characterized by  hypokalemia , metabolic alkalosis, and secondary hyperaldosteronism, but Bartter syndrome type 3 has the most heterogeneous presentation, extending from severe to very mild. A relatively large number of CLCNKB mutations have been reported, including gene deletions and nonsense or missense mutations. However, only 20 CLCNKB mutations have been functionally analyzed, due to technical difficulties regarding ClC-Kb functional expression in heterologous systems. This review provides an overview of recent progress in the functional consequences of CLCNKB mutations on ClC-Kb chloride channel activity. It has been observed that 1) all ClC-Kb mutants have an impaired expression at the membrane; and 2) a minority of the mutants combines reduced membrane expression with altered pH-dependent channel gating. Although further investigation is needed to fully characterize disease pathogenesis, Bartter syndrome type 3 probably belongs to the large family of conformational diseases, in which the mutations destabilize channel structure, inducing ClC-Kb retention in the endoplasmic reticulum and accelerated channel degradation. Copyright © 2015 the American Physiological Society. [A clinical and hereditary analysis of novel complex heterozygous KCNJ1 mutation in a Bartter syndrome type Ⅱ patient]. PubMed Li, X Y; Jiang, Y; Xu, L J; Duan, L; Peng, X Y; Chen, L M; Xia, W B; Xing, X P 2017-10-01 Bartter syndrome (BS) is a hereditary condition transmitted as an autosomal recessive (Bartter type 1 to 4) or dominant trait (Bartter type 5). The disease associates hypokalemic alkalosis with varying degrees of hypercalciuria. Here we presented a case (BS type Ⅱ) of a 17 years old female presented with polyhydramnios, polyuria, nephrocalcinosis and  hypokalemia , which was alleviated after treatment with celecoxib and vitamin D(3). DNA sequencing identified compound heterozygous KCNJ 1 gene mutations, c. 931C >T (p.R311W) and c. 445-446insCCTGAACAC (p.V149Afs, 150X), with the latter a novel mutation. Her father and mother were heterozygous carriers of c. 931C >T (p.R311W) and c. 445-446insCCTGAACAC (p.V149Afs, 150X), respectively. In conclusion, this case of BS type Ⅱ is caused by a novel compound heterozygous KCNJ 1 mutation. Further studies are needed to verify the effect of celecoxib in BS patients. Cystinosis presenting with findings of Bartter syndrome. PubMed Özkan, Behzat; Çayır, Atilla; Koşan, Celalettin; Alp, Handan 2011-01-01 A five-year-old boy was referred to our pediatric clinic for evaluation of failure to thrive, headache, intermittent high fever, restlessness, polyuria, and polydipsia. His weight and height measurements were under the 3rd percentile. Clinical findings consisted of frontal bossing, carious teeth, O-bain deformity of the lower extremities, and moderate dehydration. The presence of metabolic alkalosis,  hypokalemia , hypochloremia, and high renin and aldosterone levels were suggestive of Bartter syndrome and a treatment regimen for Bartter syndrome was started. At follow-up, the polyuria and hyponatremia were found to persist. A reassessment of the patient revealed findings consistent with proximal renal tubular acidosis such as metabolic acidosis with a high urinary pH, proteinuria, aminoaciduria with phosphaturia and hypercalciuria. Based on the presence of parental consanguinity as well as polyuria, proteinuria, low tubular reabsorption of phosphorus, generalized aminoaciduria, light yellow skin and hair color, the probable diagnosis of cystinosis was established and was confirmed by slit-lamp examination of the cornea showing cystine crystal deposition. Our case is a good example demonstrating that development of metabolic alkalosis does not exclude cystinosis and that all findings of the patient should be thoroughly evaluated. ©Journal of Clinical Research in Pediatric Endocrinology, Published by Galenos Publishing. [Clinical analysis of 6 cases of Bartter syndrome]. PubMed Yin, Fang-mei; Zheng, Fang-qiu; Zhang, Xin; Wu, Mei-jun; Wei, Hong-yan; Ma, Zhong-shu; Lu, Biao; Qiu, Ming-cai 2011-03-01 To summarize the clinical characteristics of Bartter syndrome and investigate its pathogenesis. The clinical data of 6 cases of Bartter syndrome at our hospital from November 2006 to May 2010 were analyzed retrospectively. The onset age of Bartter syndrome was 13-35 years old. The main symptoms included weakness (6/6), paralysis (1/6), numbness (5/6) and tetany (4/6). All patients had normal blood pressure. The biochemical tests showed persistent  hypokalemia , metabolic alkalosis (6/6) and hyperreninemia. The pathological examination of deltoid muscle biopsy showed the swelling, degeneration and necrosis of myocytes and the deposition of immunocomplex in myolemma. And the pathological examination of renal biopsy showed the hyperplasia of juxtaglomerular apparatus (5/6) and the deposition of immunocomplex. All symptoms were relieved after a therapy of potassium supplementation or a combination of indomethacin, spironolactone and immunosuppressant. When such clinical features as weakness, paralysis, tetany, hypokalemic alkalosis and normotension are encountered, Bartter syndrome should be suspected. Serum electrolytes, blood gas analysis and activation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system should be examined for a definite diagnosis. The treatment of choice includes potassium and magnesium supplementation or in combination with prostaglandin synthetase inhibitor, aldosterone antagonist and immunosuppressant. Immunologic mechanism may participate in the course of Bartter syndrome. [Bartter syndrome, severe rare orphan kidney disease: a step towards therapy through pharmacogenetic and epidemiological studies]. PubMed Conte, Elena; Imbrici, Paola; Sahbani, Dalila; Liantonio, Antonella; Conte, Diana 2018-05-01 Bartter syndromes (BS) types 1-5 are rare salt-losing tubulopathies presenting with overlapping clinical phenotypes including marked salt wasting and  hypokalemia  leading to polyuria, polydipsia, volume contraction, muscle weakness and growth retardation. These diseases are due to an impairment of sodium, potassium, chloride reabsorption caused by mutations in genes encoding for ion channel or transporters expressed in specific nephron tubule segments. Particularly, BS type 3 is a clinically heterogeneous form caused by mutations in CLCNKB gene which encodes the ClC-Kb chloride channel involved in NaCl reabsorption in the renal tubule. Specific therapy for BS is lacking and the only pharmacotherapy up today available is purely symptomatic and characterized by limiting side effects. The improvement of our understanding of the phenotype/genotype correlation and of the precise pathogenic mechanisms associated with BS type 3 as well as the pharmacological characterization of ClC-K chloride channels are fundamental to design therapies tailored upon patients' mutation. This mini review focused on recent studies representing relevant forward steps in the field as well as noteworthy examples of how basic and clinical research can cooperate to gain insight into the pathophysiology of this renal channelopathy, paving the way for a personalized therapy. Copyright by Società Italiana di Nefrologia SIN, Rome, Italy. A Patient with Cystinosis Presenting Like Bartter Syndrome and Review of Literature PubMed Central Ertan, Pelin; Evrengul, Havva; Ozen, Serkan; Emre, Sinan 2012-01-01 Background Nephropathic cystinosis is an autosomal recessively inherited metabolic disorder presenting with metabolic acidosis, Fanconi syndrome and renal failure. Case Presentation We present a 6-year-old girl with severe growth failure, hyponatremia and  hypokalemia . Her parents were 4th degree relatives. Two relatives were diagnosed as end stage renal failure. She also had persistant hypokalemic hypochloremic metabolic alkalosis. Her renal function was normal at presentation. She was thought to have Bartter syndrome with supporting findings of elevated levels of renin and aldosterone with normal blood pressure, and hyperplasia of juxtaglomerular apparatus. Her metabolic alkalosis did not resolve despite supportive treatment. At 6th month of follow-up proteinuria, glucosuria and deterioration of renal function developed. Diagnosis of cystinosis was made with slit lamp examination and leukocyte cystine levels. At 12th month of follow-up her metabolic alkalosis has converted to metabolic acidosis. Conclusion In children presenting with persistant metabolic alkalosis, with family history of renal failure, and parental consanguinity, cystinosis should always be kept in mind as this disease is an important cause of end stage renal failure which may have features mimmicking Bartter syndrome. PMID:23431081 Efficacy and Biological Correlates of Response in a Phase 2 Study of Venetoclax Monotherapy in Patients with Acute Myelogenous Leukemia PubMed Central Konopleva, Marina; Pollyea, Daniel A.; Potluri, Jalaja; Chyla, Brenda; Hogdal, Leah; Busman, Todd; McKeegan, Evelyn; Salem, Ahmed Hamed; Zhu, Ming; Ricker, Justin L.; Blum, William; DiNardo, Courtney D.; Kadia, Tapan; Dunbar, Martin; Kirby, Rachel; Falotico, Nancy; Leverson, Joel; Humerickhouse, Rod; Mabry, Mack; Stone, Richard; Kantarjian, Hagop; Letai, Anthony 2017-01-01 We present a phase 2, single-arm study evaluating 800 mg daily venetoclax, a highly selective, oral small-molecule B-cell leukemia/lymphoma-2 (BCL-2) inhibitor in patients with high-risk relapsed/refractory acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) or unfit for intensive chemotherapy. Responses were evaluated following revised International Working Group (IWG) criteria. The overall response rate was 19%; an additional 19% of patients demonstrated anti-leukemic activity not meeting IWG criteria (partial bone marrow response and incomplete hematologic recovery). Twelve (38%) patients had isocitrate dehydrogenase 1/2 mutations, of whom 4 (33%) achieved complete response/complete response with incomplete blood count recovery. Six (19%) patients had BCL-2–sensitive protein index at screening, which correlated with time on study. BH3 profiling was consistent with on-target BCL-2 inhibition and identified potential resistance mechanisms. Common adverse events included nausea, diarrhea and vomiting (all grades), and febrile neutropenia and  hypokalemia  (grade 3/4). Venetoclax demonstrated activity and acceptable tolerability in patients with AML and adverse features. PMID:27520294 Primer on clinical acid-base problem solving. PubMed Whittier, William L; Rutecki, Gregory W 2004-03-01 Acid-base problem solving has been an integral part of medical practice in recent generations. Diseases discovered in the last 30-plus years, for example, Bartter syndrome and Gitelman syndrome, D-lactic acidosis, and bulimia nervosa, can be diagnosed according to characteristic acid-base findings. Accuracy in acid-base problem solving is a direct result of a reproducible, systematic approach to arterial pH, partial pressure of carbon dioxide, bicarbonate concentration, and electrolytes. The 'Rules of Five' is one tool that enables clinicians to determine the cause of simple and complex disorders, even triple acid-base disturbances, with consistency. In addition, other electrolyte abnormalities that accompany acid-base disorders, such as  hypokalemia , can be incorporated into algorithms that complement the Rules and contribute to efficient problem solving in a wide variety of diseases. Recently urine electrolytes have also assisted clinicians in further characterizing select disturbances. Acid-base patterns, in many ways, can serve as a 'common diagnostic pathway' shared by all subspecialties in medicine. From infectious disease (eg, lactic acidemia with highly active antiviral therapy therapy) through endocrinology (eg, Conn's syndrome, high urine chloride alkalemia) to the interface between primary care and psychiatry (eg, bulimia nervosa with multiple potential acid-base disturbances), acid-base problem solving is the key to unlocking otherwise unrelated diagnoses. Inasmuch as the Rules are clinical tools, they are applied throughout this monograph to diverse pathologic conditions typical in contemporary practice. Electrical storm in patients with an implanted defibrillator: a matter of definition. PubMed Israel, Carsten W; Barold, S Serge 2007-10-01 The term "electrical storm" (ES) indicates a state of cardiac electrical instability manifested by several episodes of ventricular tachyarrhythmias (VTs) within a short time. In patients with an implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD), ES is best defined as 3 appropriate VT detections in 24 h, treated by antitachycardia pacing, shock or eventually untreated but sustained in a VT monitoring zone. The number of shocks and inappropriate detections are irrelevant for the definition. ES occurs in approximately 25% of ICD patients within 3 years, with typically 5-55 individual VTs within one storm. Potential triggers can be found in approximately 66% of patients and include new/worsened heart failure, changes in antiarrhythmic medication, context with other illness, psychological stress, diarrhea, and  hypokalemia . In most patients, ES consists of monomorphic VT indicating the presence of reentry while ventricular fibrillation indicating acute ischemia is rare. ES seems to have a low immediate mortality (1%) but frequently (50-80%) leads to hospitalization. Long-term prognostic implications of ES are unclear. The key intervention in ES is reduction of the elevated sympathetic tone by beta blockers and frequently benzodiazepines. Amiodarone i.v. has also been successful and azimilide seems promising while class I antiarrhythmic drugs are usually unsuccessful. Substrate mapping and VT ablation may be useful in treatment and prevention of ES. Prevention of ES requires ICD programming systematically avoiding unnecessary shocks (long VT detection, antitachycardia pacing where ever possible) which otherwise can fuel the sympathetic tone and prolong ES. Increased serum bicarbonate in critically ill patients: a retrospective analysis. PubMed Libório, Alexandre Braga; Noritomi, Danilo Teixeira; Leite, Tacyano Tavares; de Melo Bezerra, Candice Torres; de Faria, Evandro Rodrigues; Kellum, John A 2015-03-01 Although metabolic alkalosis is a common occurrence, no study has evaluated its prevalence, associated factors or outcomes in critically ill patients. This is a retrospective study from the Multiparameter Intelligent Monitoring in Intensive Care II database. From 23,529 adult patient records, 18,982 patients met the inclusion criteria. Serum bicarbonate levels demonstrated a U-shaped association with mortality with knots at 25 and 30 mEq/l. Of the total included patients, 5,565 (29.3 %) had at least one serum bicarbonate level measurement >30 mEq/l. The majority were exposed to multiple factors that are classically associated with metabolic alkalosis (mainly diuretic use, hypernatremia,  hypokalemia  and high gastric output). Patients with increased serum bicarbonate exhibited increased ICU LOS, more days on mechanical ventilation and higher hospital mortality. After multivariate adjustment, each 5-mEq/l increment in the serum bicarbonate level above 30 mEq/l was associated with an odds ratio of 1.21 for hospital mortality. The association between increased serum bicarbonate levels and mortality occurs independently of its possible etiologies. An increased serum bicarbonate level is common in critically ill patients; this can be attributed to multiple factors in the majority of cases, and its presence and duration negatively influence patient outcomes. A step by step approach in differential diagnosing of adrenal incidentaloma (epinephroma), (with comments on the new Clinical Practice Guidelines of the European Society of Endocrinology). PubMed Farrugia, Frederick-Anthony; Misiakos, Evangelos; Martikos, Georgios; Tzanetis, Panagiotis; Charalampopoulos, Anestis; Zavras, Nicolaos; Sotiropoulos, Dimitrios; Koliakos, Nikolaos 2017-12-01 To present a step by step approach for the diagnosis of adrenal incidentaloma (AI). An extensive review of the literature was conducted, searching the Pub-Med and Google Scholar using the Mesh terms; Adrenal; Incidentaloma; Adrenal tumours; Radiology; Diagnosis. We also did a cross-referencing search of the literature. Comments on the new European guidelines are presented. The majority of the tumours are non-functioning benign adenomas. The most important radiological characteristic of an adrenal incidentaloma is the radiation attenuation coefficient. Wash out percentage and the imaging characteristics of the tumour may help in diagnosis. Density less than 10 HU is in most cases characteristic of a lipid rich benign adenoma. More than 10 HU or/and history of malignancy raise the possibility for cancer. 1 mg dexamethasone test and plasma metanephrines should be done in all patients. If there is history of  hypokalemia  and/or resistant hypertension we test the plasma aldosterone to plasma renin ratio (ARR). Newer studies have shown that tumours even nonfunctioning and less than 4 cm may increase the metabolic risks so we may consider surgery at an earlier stage. Fluid and electrolyte disturbances in cirrhosis. PubMed Papper, S 1976-01-01 Glomerular filtration rate and renal plasma flow may be normal, reduced or increased in cirrhosis. The mechanism of departures from normal is not known. Other renal functional changes in cirrhosis include avid sodium reabsorption, impaired concentrating and diluting abilities, and partial renal tubular acidosis. Fluid and electrolyte disorders are common. Sodium retention with edema and ascites should generally be treated conservatively because they tend to disappear as the liver heals and because forced diuresis has hazards. The indications for diuretics are (1) incipient or overt atelectasis; (2) abdominal distress; and (3) possibility of skin breakdown. Hyponatremia is common and its mechanism and treatment must be assessed in each patient.  Hypokalemia  occurs and requires treatment. Respiratory alkalosis and renal tubular acidosis seldom need therapy. The hepatorenal syndrome is defined as functional renal failure in the absence of other known causes of renal functional impairment. The prognosis is terrible and therapy is unsatisfactory. The best approach is not to equate the occurrence of renal failure in cirrhosis with the hepatorenal syndrome. Rather the physician should first explore all treatable causes of renal failure, eg, dehydration, obstruction, infection, heart failure, potassium depletion, and others. Recurrent urinary tract infections in an infant with antenatal Bartter syndrome. PubMed Tasic, Velibor; Pota, Liljana; Gucev, Zoran 2011-02-01 antenatal variant of Bartter syndrome is characterized by a history of polyhydramnios, premature birth, metabolic alkalosis,  hypokalemia , polyuria and renal salt wasting. In this report we present a premature female baby with antenatal Barter syndrome who had three episodes of urinary tract infection (UTI), without evidence for congenital anomaly of the kidneys or urinary tract. antenatal Bartter syndrome was diagnosed according to the standard criteria. Ultrasound scan and voiding cystourethrography were performed to exclude congenital anomaly of the kidneys and urinary tract. the baby presented with early hyperkalemia and acidosis. The typical biochemical features of the Bartter syndrome were observed in the second month. Despite appropriate treatment she had persistent hypercalciuria. The clinical course was complicated with recurrent episodes of febrile UTIs. Urinary tract system imaging did not demonstrate congenital anomalies. She finally died of severe dehydration, acidosis and renal failure. since no congenital anomaly of the kidneys or urinary tract was demonstrated in our patient, we believe that severe, persistent hypercalciuria is the most important risk factor for development of recurrent UTIs. Update in diagnosis and management of primary aldosteronism. PubMed Dick, Sofia M; Queiroz, Marina; Bernardi, Bárbara L; Dall'Agnol, Angélica; Brondani, Letícia A; Silveiro, Sandra P 2018-02-23 Primary aldosteronism (PA) is a group of disorders in which aldosterone is excessively produced. These disorders can lead to hypertension,  hypokalemia , hypervolemia and metabolic alkalosis. The prevalence of PA ranges from 5% to 12% around the globe, and the most common causes are adrenal adenoma and adrenal hyperplasia. The importance of PA recognition arises from the fact that it can have a remarkably adverse cardiovascular and renal impact, which can even result in death. The aldosterone-to-renin ratio (ARR) is the election test for screening PA, and one of the confirmatory tests, such as oral sodium loading (OSL) or saline infusion test (SIT), is in general necessary to confirm the diagnosis. The distinction between adrenal hyperplasia (AH) or aldosterone-producing adenoma (APA) is essential to select the appropriate treatment. Therefore, in order to identify the subtype of PA, imaging exams such as computed tomography or magnetic ressonance imaging, and/or invasive investigation such as adrenal catheterization must be performed. According to the subtype of PA, optimal treatment - surgical for APA or pharmacological for AH, with drugs like spironolactone and amiloride - must be offered. [Opportunities to improve hospital emergency care of patients with diabetic ketoacidosis]. PubMed Navarro-Díaz, Francisco José; Amillo, Mónica; Rosales, María; Panadero, Ana; Ena, Javier 2015-02-01 To identify opportunities to improve the care of adult patients with diabetic ketoacidosis in the emergency room. Retrospective observational study of records for 2010 to 2013. Searching for International Classification of Diseases discharge codes 250.1–250.3 we identified patients who met the following 3 criteria: ketonuria of 100 mg/dL or more, diagnosed diabetes or glucose concentration of 250 mg/dL or more, and venous blood pH below 7.30 (or venous bicarbonate concentration less than 18 mEq/L). We reviewed the cases to extract patient and clinical characteristics and time from triage until diagnosis and start of treatment. The findings were compared with recommendations in clinical practice guidelines. We identified 49 episodes of diabetic ketoacidosis (4 mild, 32 moderate, and 13 severe) in 43 patients. The median delay between triage until the first blood test results were available was 142 minutes (range, 59-597 minutes). In 50% of the cases fluid therapy was delayed beyond the time recommended in clinical practice guidelines. Intravenous insulin was also delayed (in 66%) and insuficient intravenous potassium was given in 65%. Sodium bicarbonate was overused (in 50%). Half the patients developed  hypokalemia  in the hospital. Diagnosis and initiation of treatment were often delayed for patients with diabetic ketoacidosis in our emergency department. Critical illness polyneuropathy (CIP) in neurological early rehabilitation: clinical and neurophysiological features. PubMed Schmidt, Simone B; Rollnik, Jens D 2016-12-15 Critical illness polyneuropathy (CIP) is a complex disease affecting 30-70% of critically ill patients. Clinical (Barthel index, length of stay (LOS), morbidity, duration of mechanical ventilation, routine lab results) and neurophysiological (neurography) data of 191 patients admitted to neurological early rehabilitation and diagnosed with CIP have been analyzed retrospectively. CIP diagnosis was correct in 159 cases (83%). In this study, systemic inflammation, sepsis, systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS), multiple organic failure (MOF), chronic renal failure, liver dysfunction, mechanical ventilation, diabetes, dyslipidemia and impaired ion homeostasis (hypocalcaemia,  hypokalemia ) were associated with CIP. Neurography, in particular of the peroneal, sural, tibial and median nerves, helped to identify CIP patients. Compound muscle action potential amplitude (r = -0.324, p  <  0.05), as well as sensory (r = -0.389, p  <  0.05) and motor conduction velocity (r = -0.347, p  <  0.05) of the median nerve correlated with LOS in neurological early rehabilitation but not with outcome measures. In most cases, diagnosis of CIP among neurological early rehabilitation patients seems to be correct. Neurography may help to verify the diagnosis and to learn more about CIP pathophysiology, but it does not allow outcome prediction. Further studies on CIP are strongly encouraged. Electrolyte and acid-base abnormalities associated with purging behaviors. PubMed Mehler, Philip S; Walsh, Kristine 2016-03-01 Eating disorders that are associated with purging behaviors are complicated by frequent blood electrolyte and acid-base abnormalities. Herein, we review the major electrolyte and acid-base abnormalities and their treatment methods. The body of rigorous, eating disorder-specific literature on this topical area is not robust enough to perform a systematic review as defined by PRISMA guidelines. Therefore, a qualitative review of mostly medical literature was conducted.  Hypokalemia , hyponatremia, and sodium chloride-responsive metabolic alkalosis are the most common serum changes that occur as a result of purging behaviors. They vary depending on the mode and frequency of purging behaviors. They can all potentially cause dangerous medical complications and are in need of definitive medical treatment. Eating disorders that are associated with purging behaviors are associated with a number of electrolyte and acid-base changes which are complex in their origin, documented to be medically dangerous and this definitive treatment is necessary to help achieve a successful treatment outcome, and in need of definitive treatment as described herein. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Urea and Ammonia Metabolism and the Control of Renal Nitrogen Excretion. PubMed Weiner, I David; Mitch, William E; Sands, Jeff M 2015-08-07 Renal nitrogen metabolism primarily involves urea and ammonia metabolism, and is essential to normal health. Urea is the largest circulating pool of nitrogen, excluding nitrogen in circulating proteins, and its production changes in parallel to the degradation of dietary and endogenous proteins. In addition to serving as a way to excrete nitrogen, urea transport, mediated through specific urea transport proteins, mediates a central role in the urine concentrating mechanism. Renal ammonia excretion, although often considered only in the context of acid-base homeostasis, accounts for approximately 10% of total renal nitrogen excretion under basal conditions, but can increase substantially in a variety of clinical conditions. Because renal ammonia metabolism requires intrarenal ammoniagenesis from glutamine, changes in factors regulating renal ammonia metabolism can have important effects on glutamine in addition to nitrogen balance. This review covers aspects of protein metabolism and the control of the two major molecules involved in renal nitrogen excretion: urea and ammonia. Both urea and ammonia transport can be altered by glucocorticoids and  hypokalemia , two conditions that also affect protein metabolism. Clinical conditions associated with altered urine concentrating ability or water homeostasis can result in changes in urea excretion and urea transporters. Clinical conditions associated with altered ammonia excretion can have important effects on nitrogen balance. Copyright © 2015 by the American Society of Nephrology. Expression of urea transporters and their regulation. PubMed Klein, Janet D 2014-01-01 UT-A and UT-B families of urea transporters consist of multiple isoforms that are subject to regulation of both acutely and by long-term measures. This chapter provides a brief overview of the expression of the urea transporter forms and their locations in the kidney. Rapid regulation of UT-A1 results from the combination of phosphorylation and membrane accumulation. Phosphorylation of UT-A1 has been linked to vasopressin and hyperosmolality, although through different kinases. Other acute influences on urea transporter activity are ubiquitination and glycosylation, both of which influence the membrane association of the urea transporter, again through different mechanisms. Long-term regulation of urea transport is most closely associated with the environment that the kidney experiences. Low-protein diets may influence the amount of urea transporter available. Conditions of osmotic diuresis, where urea concentrations are low, will prompt an increase in urea transporter abundance. Although adrenal steroids affect urea transporter abundance, conflicting reports make conclusions tenuous. Urea transporters are upregulated when P2Y2 purinergic receptors are decreased, suggesting a role for these receptors in UT regulation. Hypercalcemia and  hypokalemia  both cause urine concentration deficiencies. Urea transporter abundances are reduced in aging animals and animals with angiotensin-converting enzyme deficiencies. This chapter will provide information about both rapid and long-term regulation of urea transporters and provide an introduction into the literature. Urea and Ammonia Metabolism and the Control of Renal Nitrogen Excretion PubMed Central Mitch, William E.; Sands, Jeff M. 2015-01-01 Renal nitrogen metabolism primarily involves urea and ammonia metabolism, and is essential to normal health. Urea is the largest circulating pool of nitrogen, excluding nitrogen in circulating proteins, and its production changes in parallel to the degradation of dietary and endogenous proteins. In addition to serving as a way to excrete nitrogen, urea transport, mediated through specific urea transport proteins, mediates a central role in the urine concentrating mechanism. Renal ammonia excretion, although often considered only in the context of acid-base homeostasis, accounts for approximately 10% of total renal nitrogen excretion under basal conditions, but can increase substantially in a variety of clinical conditions. Because renal ammonia metabolism requires intrarenal ammoniagenesis from glutamine, changes in factors regulating renal ammonia metabolism can have important effects on glutamine in addition to nitrogen balance. This review covers aspects of protein metabolism and the control of the two major molecules involved in renal nitrogen excretion: urea and ammonia. Both urea and ammonia transport can be altered by glucocorticoids and  hypokalemia , two conditions that also affect protein metabolism. Clinical conditions associated with altered urine concentrating ability or water homeostasis can result in changes in urea excretion and urea transporters. Clinical conditions associated with altered ammonia excretion can have important effects on nitrogen balance. PMID:25078422 A descriptive study of adverse events from clenbuterol misuse and abuse for weight loss and bodybuilding. PubMed Spiller, Henry A; James, Kyla J; Scholzen, Steven; Borys, Douglas J 2013-01-01 Clenbuterol is a β2-agonist approved in the United States for veterinary use in nonfood animals. Clenbuterol use is emerging among bodybuilders and fitness enthusiasts attracted to the hypertrophic and lipolytic effects. This was a retrospective chart review of clenbuterol exposures reported to 2 poison control centers. Misuse of clenbuterol for weight loss and bodybuilding was reported in 11 of 13 clenbuterol users. Reported clinical effects included tachycardia, widened pulse pressure, tachypnea,  hypokalemia , hyperglycemia, ST changes on electrocardiogram (ECG), elevated troponin, elevated creatine phosphokinase (CPK), palpitations, chest pain, and tremor. Measured serum clenbuterol concentration was 2983 pg/mL post 4.5 mg ingestion. Co-ingestants included T3 and anabolic steroids. Treatments included activated charcoal, benzodiazepines, β-blockers, potassium replacement, and intravenous (IV) fluid. There is an increasing use of the Internet for illicit drug use for bodybuilding and weight loss purposes. These patients may not present as the stereotype of illicit drug abusers, but as healthy athletic low-risk patients. Clinical effects persisted greater than 24 hours with evidence of myocardial injury in 2 patients. Clenbuterol is increasingly being abused within the bodybuilding subculture. These cases illustrate the hidden dangers of clenbuterol abuse among bodybuilders and fitness enthusiasts. SFE/SFHTA/AFCE consensus on primary aldosteronism, part 4: Subtype diagnosis. PubMed Bardet, Stéphane; Chamontin, Bernard; Douillard, Claire; Pagny, Jean-Yves; Hernigou, Anne; Joffre, Francis; Plouin, Pierre-François; Steichen, Olivier 2016-07-01 To establish the cause of primary aldosteronism (PA), it is essential to distinguish unilateral from bilateral adrenal aldosterone secretion, as adrenalectomy improves aldosterone secretion and controls hypertension and  hypokalemia  only in the former. Except in the rare cases of type 1 or 3 familial hyperaldosteronism, which can be diagnosed genetically and are not candidates for surgery, lateralized aldosterone secretion is diagnosed on adrenal CT or MRI and adrenal venous sampling. Postural stimulation tests and (131)I-norcholesterol scintigraphy have poor diagnostic value and (11)C-metomidate PET is not yet available. We recommend that adrenal CT or MRI be performed in all cases of PA. Imaging may exceptionally identify adrenocortical carcinoma, for which the surgical objectives are carcinologic, and otherwise shows either normal or hyperplastic adrenals or unilateral adenoma. Imaging alone carries a risk of false positives in patients over 35 years of age (non-aldosterone-secreting adenoma) and false negatives in all patients (unilateral hyperplasia). We suggest that all candidates for surgery over 35 years of age undergo adrenal venous sampling, simultaneously in both adrenal veins, without ACTH stimulation, to confirm the unilateral form of the hypersecretion. Sampling results should be confirmed on adrenal vein cortisol assay showing a concentration at least double that found in peripheral veins. Aldosterone secretion should be considered lateralized when aldosterone/cortisol ratio on the dominant side is at least 4-fold higher than contralaterally. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS. Obeticholic acid for severe bile acid diarrhea with intestinal failure: A case report and review of the literature PubMed Central Hvas, Christian Lodberg; Ott, Peter; Paine, Peter; Lal, Simon; Jørgensen, Søren Peter; Dahlerup, Jens Frederik 2018-01-01 Bile acid diarrhea results from excessive amounts of bile acids entering the colon due to hepatic overexcretion of bile acids or bile acid malabsorption in the terminal ileum. The main therapies include bile acid sequestrants, such as colestyramine and colesevelam, which may be given in combination with the opioid receptor agonist loperamide. Some patients are refractory to conventional treatments. We report the use of the farnesoid X receptor agonist obeticholic acid in a patient with refractory bile acid diarrhea and subsequent intestinal failure. A 32-year-old woman with quiescent colonic Crohn’s disease and a normal terminal ileum had been diagnosed with severe bile acid malabsorption and complained of watery diarrhea and fatigue. The diarrhea resulted in  hypokalemia  and sodium depletion that made her dependent on twice weekly intravenous fluid and electrolyte infusions. Conventional therapies with colestyramine, colesevelam, and loperamide had no effect. Second-line antisecretory therapies with pantoprazole, liraglutide, and octreotide also failed. Third-line treatment with obeticholic acid reduced the number of stools from an average of 13 to an average of 7 per 24 h and improved the patient’s quality of life. The fluid and electrolyte balances normalized. The effect was sustained during follow-up for 6 mo with treatment at a daily dosage of 25 mg. The diarrhea worsened shortly after cessation of obeticholic acid. This case report supports the initial report that obeticholic acid may reduce bile acid production and improve symptoms in patients with bile acid diarrhea. PMID:29881241 Rattlesnake envenomation in 12 New World camelids. PubMed Dykgraaf, Susanne; Pusterla, Nicola; Van Hoogmoed, Linda M 2006-01-01 Rattlesnake envenomation of New World camelids is a seasonal problem with often dramatic clinical signs. The purpose of this study was to identify the clinical signs, laboratory results, treatment methods, and outcome for rattlesnake envenomation in New World camelids. Medical records from 1988 to 2004 were searched for New World camelids presented for rattlesnake bite or clinical signs suspected to be related to recent envenomation. Twelve records were identified. From these records a retrospective study was performed. Nine camelids presented for acute disease (2/9 arrived dead), whereas 3 presented for subacute onset of disease. Swelling of the lips, head and neck, tachypnea, dyspnea, tachycardia, and lethargy were the most common presenting signs. Snake bites were most commonly located to the muzzle (10/12). Common complete blood count (CBC) and serum biochemical abnormalities were neutrophilia, lymphopenia, increased muscle enzyme activity, hypoalbuminemia, hyperglycemia,  hypokalemia , and thrombocytopenia. Treatment included combinations of intravenous fluid therapy, antimicrobials, anti-inflammatory drugs, tetanus prophylaxis, tracheostomy, supplemental oxygen, antivenom, total parenteral nutrition, and nursing care. Five of the 10 animals with acute onset of clinical signs survived, and all animals with subacute presentation died. The mortality rate for New World camelids with severe local tissue reaction and systemic signs of envenomation was 58%. New World camelids that sustain rattlesnake envenomation and severe facial swelling precluding prehension and mastication have a guarded prognosis for survival. Aggressive treatment is recommended to optimize the chances of survival. Animals with less severe local tissue reaction and absence of systemic signs have a better prognosis. Morphological and functional renovascular changes as cause of resistant arterial hypertension - case report and literature review. PubMed Costache, Irina Iuliana; Costea, Claudia Florida; Fotea, Vasile; Rusu, Victor Laurian; Aursulesei, Viviana; Al Namat, Razan; Costache, Dan Alexandru; Dumitrescu, Nicoleta; Buzdugă, Cătălin Mihai; Dumitrescu, Gabriela Florenţa; Sava, Anca; Bogdănici, Camelia Margareta 2018-01-01 Resistant hypertension is defined by the inability to maintain within normal limits the blood pressure values of an individual, while he is under treatment with maximal tolerated doses of three antihypertensive agents. One of the most common types of resistant hypertension is renovascular hypertension (RVH), which is caused by the narrowing of the renal arteries, in the context of existing atherosclerotic plaques at that level. We are presenting the case of a hypertensive 56-year-old man admitted in the Clinic of Cardiology for a sudden rise of his blood pressure values, despite undergoing the scheduled treatment. The abdominal bruit discovered at the clinical examination and the  hypokalemia , together with the mild impairment of the renal function raised the suspicion of an existing stenosis of the main renal blood vessels. Simple grey scale kidney ultrasound, Doppler ultrasound of the renal arteries, abdominal computed tomography and magnetic resonance angiography of the renal arteries, along with invasive renal angiography demonstrated a smaller right kidney, adrenal incidentalomas, reduced vascular diameter of renal arteries due to atheromatous lesions, thrombosis of the infrarenal segment of the abdominal aorta, and reduced vascular hemodynamics in the same territories. After the renal arteries revascularization and with minimal antihypertensive treatment, the patient had a favorable outcome, with normalization of blood pressure and renal function. Atherosclerotic disease causing renal artery stenosis is essential to be taken into consideration in the etiopathogenesis of resistant hypertension especially because RVH is a potentially curable disease. Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of Eating Disorders PubMed Central Walsh, Judith M E; Wheat, Mary E; Freund, Karen 2000-01-01 OBJECTIVE To describe how primary care clinicians can detect an eating disorder and identify and manage the associated medical complications. DESIGN A review of literature from 1994 to 1999 identified by a medlinesearch on epidemiology, diagnosis, and therapy of eating disorders, including anorexia nervosa and bulimia nervosa. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS Detection requires awareness of risk factors for, and symptoms and signs of, anorexia nervosa (e.g., participation in activities valuing thinness, family history of an eating disorder, amenorrhea, lanugo hair) and bulimia nervosa (e.g., unsuccessful attempts at weight loss, history of childhood sexual abuse, family history of depression, erosion of tooth enamel from vomiting, partoid gland swelling, and gastroesophageal reflux). Providers must also remain alert for disordered eating in female athletes (the female athlete triad) and disordered eating in diabetics. Treatment requires a multidisciplinary team including a primary care practitioner, nutritionist, and mental health professional. The role of the primary care practitioner is to help determine the need for hospitalization and to manage medical complications (e.g., arrhythmias, refeeding syndrome, osteoporosis, and electrolyte abnormalities such as  hypokalemia ). CONCLUSION Primary care providers have an important role in detecting and managing eating disorders. PMID:10940151 Successful Treatment of Suspected Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension in a Mealy Amazon Parrot (Amazona farinose). PubMed Brady, Sean M; Burgdorf-Moisuk, Anne; Silverman, Sarah; Wack, Raymund F 2016-12-01 A 25-year-old, male mealy Amazon parrot (Amazona farinose) with a history of polycythemia, hepatomegaly, and epistaxis was evaluated for progressive lethargy and anorexia. Clinical laboratory testing revealed severe polycythemia (71%), hypophosphatemia (1.6 mg/dL), and mild  hypokalemia  (2.8 mEq/L). Radiographs showed marked hepatomegaly and loss of air sac space. Despite supportive treatments, the bird's condition deteriorated, and it developed ataxia, was unable to fly, and became oxygen dependent. An echocardiogram, including an air bubble study, revealed a right-to-left atrial shunt and presumed pulmonary arterial hypertension. The bird was started on periodic phlebotomy (5-10 mL/kg q6wk) to reduce packed cell volume and sildenafil citrate (2.5 mg/kg PO q8h) for treatment of suspected pulmonary arterial hypertension. One week later, the patient was weaned off oxygen, and 24 days after initial presentation, the parrot was returned to its outdoor exhibit. Intermittent periods of increased respiratory rate and effort have been reported but have resolved without additional treatments. Epistaxis, once common in this bird, has not been noted since initiating treatment with sildenafil citrate 15 months ago. Clinical profile and outcome of myasthenic crisis in a tertiary care hospital: A prospective study. PubMed Sharma, Sudhir; Lal, Vivek; Prabhakar, Sudesh; Agarwal, Ritesh 2013-04-01 The present understanding of the clinical course, complications, and outcome of myasthenic crisis (MC) is based chiefly on observational studies and retrospective case series. To study the baseline demographic and clinical variables, risk factors, complications, outcome, and mortality in patients of MC. All patients of myasthenia gravis (MG) who presented with myasthenic crisis between July 2009 and December 2010 were included. Ten patients of MC were included in this study. The median age of the patients was 40.5 years (range 14-71 years). Seven were females and three were males. Nine had generalized MG and one patient had oculobulbar involvement only. Median duration of disease was 3 years (range 1 month to17 years). Two patients had thymoma. Two patients had history of thymectomy in the past. Infection was the most common triggering factor accounting for five cases (50%) followed by inadequate treatment/drug withdrawal in three (30%) and steroid initiation and  hypokalemia  in the remaining two patients (20%). Median duration of MC was 12 days (range 3-28 days). Mortality was in 3 out of 10 (30%) during MC. Management in the intensive care unit (ICU) and treatment with plasma exchange/intravenous immunoglobulins were associated with good outcome. Ventilator support and management in intensive care unit are the most important components in the management of MC. The high mortality rate seen in present study may be more reflective of the actual ground reality in resource constrained developing countries, however, larger prospective studies are needed to confirm these findings. Licoricidin, an Active Compound in the Hexane/Ethanol Extract of Glycyrrhiza uralensis, Inhibits Lung Metastasis of 4T1 Murine Mammary Carcinoma Cells PubMed Central Park, So Young; Kwon, Soo Jin; Lim, Soon Sung; Kim, Jin-Kyu; Lee, Ki Won; Park, Jung Han Yoon 2016-01-01 Licorice extracts containing glycyrrhizin exhibit anti-carcinogenic properties. Because glycyrrhizin induces severe  hypokalemia  and hypertension, we prepared a hexane/ethanol extract of Glycyrrhiza uralensis (HEGU) that lacks glycyrrhizin, and showed that HEGU induces apoptosis and G1 cell cycle arrest and inhibits migration of DU145 human prostate cancer cells. Our previous in vitro studies identified two active components in HEGU: isoangustone A, which induces apoptosis and G1 cycle arrest, and licoricidin, which inhibits metastasis. This study examined whether HEGU and licoricidin inhibit metastasis using the 4T1 mammary cancer model. Both HEGU and licoricidin treatment reduced pulmonary metastasis and the expression of CD45, CD31, HIF-1α, iNOS, COX-2, and VEGF-A in tumor tissues. Additionally, a decrease in protein expression of VEGF-R2, VEGF-C, VEGF-R3, and LYVE-1 was noted in tumor tissues of licoricidin-treated mice. Furthermore, the blood concentrations of MMP-9, ICAM-1, VCAM-1, and VEGF-A were decreased in HEGU-treated mice. In vitro 4T1 cell culture results showed that both HEGU and licoricidin inhibited cell migration, MMP-9 secretion, and VCAM expression. The present study demonstrates that the licoricidin in HEGU inhibits lung metastasis of 4T1 mammary carcinoma cells, which may be mediated via inhibition of cancer cell migration, tumor angiogenesis, and lymphangiogenesis. PMID:27314329 [Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus]. PubMed Velásquez-Jones, Luis; Medeiros-Domingo, Mara The anti-diuretic hormone arginine-vasopressin (AVP) is released from the pituitary and regulates water reabsorption in the principal cells of the kidney collecting duct. Binding of AVP to the arginine-vasopressin receptor type-2 in the basolateral membrane leads to translocation of aquaporin-2 water channels to the apical membrane of the principal cells of the collecting duct, inducing water permeability of the membrane. This results in water reabsorption in the collecting duct of the nephron following an osmotic gradient. Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus is caused by partial or complete renal resistance to the effects of AVP. Congenital nephrogenic diabetes insipidus is a disorder associated with mutations in either the AVPR2 or AQP2 gene, causing the inability of patients to concentrate their urine. Acquired nephrogenic diabetes insipidus can be caused by electrolyte imbalances (e.g., hypercalcemia,  hypokalemia ), renal/extra-renal diseases and drugs (e.g., lithium toxicity). This article reviews the causes, clinical manifestations, diagnosis and treatment of patients with nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. Based on more in-depth mechanistic understanding, new therapeutic strategies are current being explored. Copyright © 2014 Hospital Infantil de México Federico Gómez. Publicado por Masson Doyma México S.A. All rights reserved. Severe Hypoglycemia–Induced Lethal Cardiac Arrhythmias Are Mediated by Sympathoadrenal Activation PubMed Central Reno, Candace M.; Daphna-Iken, Dorit; Chen, Y. Stefanie; VanderWeele, Jennifer; Jethi, Krishan; Fisher, Simon J. 2013-01-01 For people with insulin-treated diabetes, severe hypoglycemia can be lethal, though potential mechanisms involved are poorly understood. To investigate how severe hypoglycemia can be fatal, hyperinsulinemic, severe hypoglycemic (10–15 mg/dL) clamps were performed in Sprague-Dawley rats with simultaneous electrocardiogram monitoring. With goals of reducing hypoglycemia-induced mortality, the hypotheses tested were that: 1) antecedent glycemic control impacts mortality associated with severe hypoglycemia; 2) with limitation of  hypokalemia , potassium supplementation could limit hypoglycemia-associated deaths; 3) with prevention of central neuroglycopenia, brain glucose infusion could prevent hypoglycemia-associated arrhythmias and deaths; and 4) with limitation of sympathoadrenal activation, adrenergic blockers could prevent hypoglycemia-induced arrhythmic deaths. Severe hypoglycemia–induced mortality was noted to be worsened by diabetes, but recurrent antecedent hypoglycemia markedly improved the ability to survive an episode of severe hypoglycemia. Potassium supplementation tended to reduce mortality. Severe hypoglycemia caused numerous cardiac arrhythmias including premature ventricular contractions, tachycardia, and high-degree heart block. Intracerebroventricular glucose infusion reduced severe hypoglycemia–induced arrhythmias and overall mortality. β-Adrenergic blockade markedly reduced cardiac arrhythmias and completely abrogated deaths due to severe hypoglycemia. Under conditions studied, sudden deaths caused by insulin-induced severe hypoglycemia were mediated by lethal cardiac arrhythmias triggered by brain neuroglycopenia and the marked sympathoadrenal response. PMID:23835337 Risk Factors for the Development of Refeeding Syndrome-Like Hypophosphatemia in Very Low Birth Weight Infants PubMed Central Okuno, Takashi; Ohta, Genrei; Tokuriki, Shuko 2017-01-01 Background Refeeding syndrome is characterized by metabolic disturbance including hypophosphatemia and  hypokalemia  upon reinstitution of nutrition in severely malnourished patients. Objective The present study sought to identify the risk factors for the development of refeeding syndrome-like metabolic disturbance in very low birth weight infants. Methods The correlations of severe hypophosphatemia with the serum levels of potassium and ionized calcium, daily calorie and phosphate intake, and umbilical cord blood flow on ultrasonography were analyzed in 49 very low birth weight infants. Results Fifteen infants (36%) presented with hypophosphatemia during the first postnatal week. Hypophosphatemia was significantly associated with birth weight z score (odds ratio, 1.60; 95% confidence interval, 1.04–2.47; p = 0.034) and umbilical artery resistance index (odds ratio, 7.72E−04; 95% confidence interval, 1.14E−06–0.523; p = 0.031). Multiple regression analysis revealed that umbilical artery resistance index was independently associated with hypophosphatemia. Conclusions Umbilical artery resistance index may serve as a useful marker for future development of refeeding syndrome-like hypophosphatemia in very low birth weight infants. Close monitoring of serum phosphorus and potassium levels and early intervention are important for the management of very low birth weight infants with intrauterine growth restriction due to placental dysfunction. PMID:29104345 Risk Factors for the Development of Refeeding Syndrome-Like Hypophosphatemia in Very Low Birth Weight Infants. PubMed Igarashi, Aiko; Okuno, Takashi; Ohta, Genrei; Tokuriki, Shuko; Ohshima, Yusei 2017-01-01 Refeeding syndrome is characterized by metabolic disturbance including hypophosphatemia and  hypokalemia  upon reinstitution of nutrition in severely malnourished patients. The present study sought to identify the risk factors for the development of refeeding syndrome-like metabolic disturbance in very low birth weight infants. The correlations of severe hypophosphatemia with the serum levels of potassium and ionized calcium, daily calorie and phosphate intake, and umbilical cord blood flow on ultrasonography were analyzed in 49 very low birth weight infants. Fifteen infants (36%) presented with hypophosphatemia during the first postnatal week. Hypophosphatemia was significantly associated with birth weight z score (odds ratio, 1.60; 95% confidence interval, 1.04-2.47; p = 0.034) and umbilical artery resistance index (odds ratio, 7.72 E -04; 95% confidence interval, 1.14 E -06-0.523; p = 0.031). Multiple regression analysis revealed that umbilical artery resistance index was independently associated with hypophosphatemia. Umbilical artery resistance index may serve as a useful marker for future development of refeeding syndrome-like hypophosphatemia in very low birth weight infants. Close monitoring of serum phosphorus and potassium levels and early intervention are important for the management of very low birth weight infants with intrauterine growth restriction due to placental dysfunction. Refeeding syndrome or refeeding hypophosphatemia: a systematic review of cases. PubMed Skipper, Annalynn 2012-02-01 Nutrition support clinicians refer to the abnormalities in laboratory data and changes in clinical signs and symptoms that follow refeeding of starved or malnourished patients as refeeding syndrome. Theoretical descriptions of refeeding syndrome include a complex and extensive list of changes, such as hypophosphatemia, hypomagnesemia,  hypokalemia , hyponatremia, hypocalcemia, hyperglycemia, and vitamin deficiency--all of which are accompanied by clinical signs and symptoms. In practice, clinicians see asymptomatic refeeding hypophosphatemia more often than a full-blown syndrome with multiple laboratory and clinical abnormalities. Confusion results because there is no widely accepted or uniformly applied set of defining characteristics for diagnosing refeeding syndrome. To gain insight into the clinical characteristics of refeeding syndrome described in the literature, a systematic review of reported cases and case series was conducted. Since 2000, 20 authors described 27 cases that contained sufficient data for review. Hypophosphatemia occurred in 26 patients (96%). While 19 patients (71%) experienced at least 1 other laboratory abnormality, only 14 (51%) exhibited a consistent pattern of abnormally low phosphorus and magnesium levels. Seven patients had hypocalcemia (26%), and hyponatremia was reported in 3 patients (11%). There were no reports of hyperglycemia. Mean data reported in case series containing data from 63 patients showed that hypophosphatemia was a consistent finding but that other abnormalities were not consistently identified. Findings suggest that refeeding hypophosphatemia is not accompanied by a consistent pattern of biochemical or clinical abnormalities among case reports or case series of patients reported to have refeeding syndrome. 'Refeeding syndrome' in a Kuwaiti child: clinical diagnosis and management. PubMed Al Sharkawy, Ibrahim; Ramadan, Dina; El-Tantawy, Amira 2010-01-01 To report a case of refeeding syndrome in a Kuwaiti child, its clinical presentation and management. A 13-month-old Kuwaiti boy presented with acute severe malnutrition in the form of marasmic kwashiorkor. On admission, blood sugar and serum electrolytes were normal but on the 3rd day he developed typical biochemical features of refeeding syndrome in the form of hyperglycemia, severe hypophosphatemia,  hypokalemia , hypocalcemia and hypomagnesemia. The child then received treatment appropriate for refeeding syndrome in the form of lower calorie intake with gradual increase, as well as supplementation of electrolytes, thiamine and vitamins and he eventually made a safe recovery. This case showed that during rehabilitation of a malnourished child, a severe potentially lethal electrolyte disturbance (refeeding syndrome) can occur. Careful monitoring of electrolytes before and during the refeeding phase was needed and helped to detect this syndrome early. We suggest that slow and gradual calorie increase in the 'at-risk' patient can help prevent its occurrence. Copyright (c) 2010 S. Karger AG, Basel. Serum potassium level is associated with metabolic syndrome: a population-based study. PubMed Sun, Kan; Su, Tingwei; Li, Mian; Xu, Baihui; Xu, Min; Lu, Jieli; Liu, Jianmin; Bi, Yufang; Ning, Guang 2014-06-01 Evidence has suggested that low serum potassium concentration or low dietary potassium intake can result in many metabolic disorders. Our objective was to evaluate the association between serum potassium level and risk of prevalent metabolic syndrome. We conducted a cross-sectional study in 10,341 participants aged 40 years or older. Metabolic syndrome was defined according to guidelines from the National Cholesterol Education Program with modification. The prevalence rate of metabolic syndrome was 51.7% in participants with  hypokalemia  and 37.7% in those with normokalemia. With the reduction of serum potassium quartiles, participants were tended to have higher level of triglycerides and uric acid, lower level of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), larger waist circumference and more severe insulin resistance. Serum potassium level significantly decreased with the increasing number of metabolic syndrome components. Compared with subjects in the highest quartile of serum potassium level, multivariate adjusted odds ratios for prevalent metabolic syndrome in the lowest quartile was 1.48 (95% confidence interval, 1.16-1.87). Moreover, compared with subjects without central obesity, hypertriglyceridemia, low HDL-C and elevated fasting plasma glucose, those with each of these metabolic syndrome components have lower level of serum potassium after adjusted for age and sex. Low serum potassium level significantly associated with prevalence of metabolic syndrome in middle-aged and elderly Chinese. Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd and European Society for Clinical Nutrition and Metabolism. All rights reserved. Discospondylitis caused by Staphylococcus aureus in an African black-footed penguin (Spheniscus demersus). PubMed Field, Cara L; Beaufrère, Hugues; Wakamatsu, Nobuko; Rademacher, Nathalie; MacLean, Robert 2012-12-01 A 22-year-old female African black-footed penguin (Spheniscus demersus), housed indoors with other African and rockhopper penguins, was presented acutely with lethargy, ataxia, and hind limb weakness after a molt. The penguin would assume a hunched position and, when resting, sat on its hocks or lay on its keel. Physical and neurologic examination revealed hind limb paraparesis, proprioceptive deficits, and tiptoe walking. Results of a complete blood cell count and biochemical analysis revealed mild heterophilic leukocytosis, anemia, mild hypoalbuminemia,  hypokalemia , and hyperuricemia. Results of whole-body radiographs and coelioscopy were unremarkable. Two computed tomographies of the spine at a 3-month interval revealed a lesion at the mobile thoracic vertebra proximal to the synsacrum with associated spinal cord compression. The penguin was treated with itraconazole, doxycycline, and meloxicam, and it initially improved with return to near normal gait and behavior. However, 5 months after the onset of clinical signs, the penguin was euthanatized after a relapse with worsening of the neurologic signs. Postmortem and histopathologic examination revealed focal granulomatous discospondylitis at the penultimate mobile thoracic vertebra, with intralesional bacteria from which Staphylococcus aureus was cultured. [Dent's syndrome. Nephrology follow-up of four patients of the same family]. PubMed Coulibaly, G; Babinet, F; Champion, G 2012-04-01 Dent's syndrome is a rare inherited tubulopathy. Factors influencing renal function in this disease are not well known. The aim of our study is to investigate the evolution of the Dent's syndrome in renal plan. The study was retrospective and conducted in 2006, concerning four brothers. The genetic defect was a mutation S244L missense in exon 6 of gene CLCN5. Various parameters were studied. Patients were 8.5 to 21-years-old at the beginning of the follow-up. Two of them had chronic renal insufficiency (CRI) which evolved, at least 7 years of moderate to terminal stage. Tubular signs were made of  hypokalemia , hypercalciuria, hypophosphatemia and proteinuria mostly β2 microglobulin. Improvement of these abnormalities was obtained with symptomatic treatment which has not always been well tolerated. A case of beginner nephrocalcinosis was observed. There was size and weight delay at the beginning of patient monitoring. Dent's syndrome may be complicated by CRI. It seems to appear in the second decade of life and hypercalciuria would contribute to it. Our CRI patients had significant bone disease. The hypercalciuria and proteinuria are factors over which we try to act. Clinical trials are needed to evaluate the efficacy of treatment on the reduction of CRI or its progression by reducing these factors in patients with Dent's syndrome. Copyright © 2011 Association Société de néphrologie. Published by Elsevier SAS. All rights reserved. Dysregulation of Aldosterone Secretion in Mast Cell-Deficient Mice. PubMed Boyer, Hadrien-Gaël; Wils, Julien; Renouf, Sylvie; Arabo, Arnaud; Duparc, Céline; Boutelet, Isabelle; Lefebvre, Hervé; Louiset, Estelle 2017-12-01 Resident adrenal mast cells have been shown to activate aldosterone secretion in rat and man. Especially, mast cell proliferation has been observed in adrenal tissues from patients with aldosterone-producing adrenocortical adenoma. In the present study, we show that the activity of adrenal mast cells is stimulated by low-sodium diet and correlates with aldosterone synthesis in C57BL/6 and BALB/c mice. We have also investigated the regulation of aldosterone secretion in mast cell-deficient C57BL/6 Kit W-sh/W-sh mice in comparison with wild-type C57BL/6 mice. Kit W-sh/W-sh mice submitted to normal sodium diet had basal plasma aldosterone levels similar to those observed in wild-type animals. Conversely, low-sodium diet unexpectedly induced an exaggerated aldosterone response, which seemed to result from an increase in adrenal renin and angiotensin type 1 receptor expression. Severe hyperaldosteronism was associated with an increase in systolic blood pressure and marked  hypokalemia , which favored polyuria. Adrenal renin and angiotensin type 1 receptor overexpression may represent a compensatory mechanism aimed at activating aldosterone production in the absence of mast cells. Finally, C57BL/6 Kit W-sh/W-sh mice represent an unexpected animal model of primary aldosteronism, which has the particularity to be triggered by sodium restriction. © 2017 American Heart Association, Inc. Cetuximab-induced hypomagnesaemia aggravates peripheral sensory neurotoxicity caused by oxaliplatin PubMed Central Satomi, Machiko; Asama, Toshiyuki; Ebisawa, Yoshiaki; Chisato, Naoyuki; Suno, Manabu; Karasaki, Hidenori; Furukawa, Hiroyuki; Matsubara, Kazuo 2010-01-01 Calcium and magnesium replacement is effective in reducing oxaliplatin-induced neurotoxicity. However, cetuximab treatment has been associated with severe hypomagnesaemia. Therefore, we retrospectively investigated whether cetuximab-induced hypomagnesaemia exacerbated oxaliplatin-induced neurotoxicity. Six patients with metastatic colorectal cancer who were previously treated with oxaliplatin-fluorouracil combination therapy were administered cetuximab in combination with irinotecan alone or irinotecan and fluorouracil as a second-line treatment. All patients had normal magnesium levels before receiving cetuximab. The Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 3.0 was used to evaluate the grade of neurotoxicity, hypomagnesaemia, hypocalcaemia, and  hypokalemia  every week. All six patients had grade 1 or higher hypomagnesaemia after starting cetuximab therapy. The serum calcium and potassium levels were within the normal range at the onset of hypomagnesaemia. Oxaliplatin-induced neurotoxicity occurred in all patients at the beginning of cetuximab therapy, with grade 1 neurotoxicity in five patients and grade 2 in one patient. After cetuximab administration, the neurotoxicity worsened in all six patients, and three progressed to grade 3. Among the three patients with grade 3 neurotoxicity, two required a dose reduction and one had to discontinue cetuximab therapy. A discontinuation or dose reduction in cetuximab therapy was associated with exacerbated oxaliplatin-induced neurotoxicity due to cetuximab-induced hypomagnesaemia in half of patients who had previously received oxaliplatin. Therefore, when administering cetuximab after oxaliplatin therapy, we suggest serially evaluating serum magnesium levels and neurotoxicity. PMID:22811813 Diabetic ketoacidosis producing extreme hyperkalemia in a patient with type 1 diabetes on hemodialysis. PubMed Yamada, Hodaka; Funazaki, Shunsuke; Kakei, Masafumi; Hara, Kazuo; Ishikawa, San-E 2017-01-01 Diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) is a critical complication of type 1 diabetes associated with water and electrolyte disorders. Here, we report a case of DKA with extreme hyperkalemia (9.0 mEq/L) in a patient with type 1 diabetes on hemodialysis. He had a left frontal cerebral infarction resulting in inability to manage his continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion pump. Electrocardiography showed typical changes of hyperkalemia, including absent P waves, prolonged QRS interval and tented T waves. There was no evidence of total body water deficit. After starting insulin and rapid hemodialysis, the serum potassium level was normalized. Although DKA may present with  hypokalemia , rapid hemodialysis may be necessary to resolve severe hyperkalemia in a patient with renal failure. Patients with type 1 diabetes on hemodialysis may develop ketoacidosis because of discontinuation of insulin treatment.Patients on hemodialysis who develop ketoacidosis may have hyperkalemia because of anuria.Absolute insulin deficit alters potassium distribution between the intracellular and extracellular space, and anuria abolishes urinary excretion of potassium.Rapid hemodialysis along with intensive insulin therapy can improve hyperkalemia, while fluid infusions may worsen heart failure in patients with ketoacidosis who routinely require hemodialysis. Significant hyperkalemia and hyponatremia secondary to telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide treatment. PubMed Cakir, Mehtap 2010-12-01 The renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) has crucial importance in maintaining blood pressure; thus blockade of RAAS is an effective antihypertensive treatment choice. The final step in RAAS stimulation is aldosterone secretion by angiotensin II, which leads to increased renal tubular sodium absorption and potassium secretion. Angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) allow blockade of RAAS by blocking binding of angiotensin II to the AT(1) receptors. There are several fixed-dose combinations of ARBs with hydrochlorothiazide in the market, providing antihypertensive therapies with complimentary mechanisms of action. With such combinations, while ARB inhibits the vasoconstricting action and aldosterone-secreting effects of angiotensin II, hydrochlorothiazide affects the renal tubular mechanisms of electrolyte reabsorption and directly increases excretion of sodium and chloride in the distal tubule, and promotes water excretion. Also,  hypokalemia , which may be triggered by increased urinary potassium loss induced by hydrochlorothiazide, is opposed by ARB use and hence ARB/hydrochlorothiazide combination is known to be safe in terms of potassium imbalance. In this case report, significant hyperkalemia and hyponatremia related to telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide use in a diabetic patient has been presented. Clinical analysis of hyperkalemia after esophagectomy PubMed Central Chen, Qiang; Zhang, Wei-Guo; Chen, Shu-Chang 2017-01-01 Abstract Rationale: The occurrence of hyperkalemia after esophagectomy is clinically rare. Patients who underwent esophagectomy often have a serum potassium level due to perioperative reduced intake, fluids loss, consumption and other reasons. These patients often require the artificial administration of potassium. Rapid fluid loss and physiological consumption lead to the deficiency of potassium, even  hypokalemia . Patients often require the addition of a large amount of potassium after operation. The occurrence of hyperkalemia after esophagectomy is never been reported. Patient concerns: The patient presented with continuous tachycardia, palpitations, chest tightness, progressive nausea, irritability, progressive myasthenia gravis. Diagnoses: Hyperkalemia, sepsis, acidosis, diabetes, postoperative esophageal cancer. Interventions: Prompt anti-infection treatment and the management of blood sugar, hemodialysis was performed to correct sthe acidosis and electrolyte disorder Outcomes: All symptoms were alleviated. Lessons : Therefore, there is a need to regularly test electrolytes, especially in patients with diabetes, as well as better blood glucose control. Attention should be paid to the potential of infection, and to avoiding ketoacidosis and risk of sepsis. PMID:29310400 Abnormalities of serum potassium concentration in dialysis-associated hyperglycemia and their correction with insulin: review of published reports. PubMed Tzamaloukas, Antonios H; Ing, Todd S; Elisaf, Moses S; Raj, Dominic S C; Siamopoulos, Kostas C; Rohrscheib, Mark; Murata, Glen H 2011-06-01 The main difference between dialysis-associated hyperglycemia (DH) and diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) or nonketotic hyperglycemia (NKH) occurring in patients with preserved renal function is the absence of osmotic diuresis in DH, which eliminates the need for large fluid and solute (including potassium) replacement. We analyzed published reports of serum potassium (K(+)) abnormalities and their treatment in DH. Hyperkalemia was often present at presentation of DH with higher frequency and severity than in hyperglycemic syndromes in patients with preserved renal function. The frequency and severity of hyperkalemia were higher in DH episodes with DKA than those with NKH in both hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis. For DKA, the frequency and severity of hyperkalemia were similar in hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis. For NKH, hyperkalemia was more severe and frequent in hemodialysis than in peritoneal dialysis. Insulin infusion corrected the hyperkalemia of DH in most cases. Additional measures for the management of hyperkalemia or modest potassium infusions for  hypokalemia  were needed in a few DH episodes. The predictors of the decrease in serum K(+) during treatment of DH with insulin included the starting serum K(+) level, the decreases in serum values of glucose concentration and tonicity, and the increase in serum total carbon dioxide level. DH represents a risk factor for hyperkalemia. Insulin infusion is the only treatment for hyperkalemia usually required. Electrolyte and Acid-Base Disturbances in End-Stage Liver Disease: A Physiopathological Approach. PubMed Jiménez, José Víctor; Carrillo-Pérez, Diego Luis; Rosado-Canto, Rodrigo; García-Juárez, Ignacio; Torre, Aldo; Kershenobich, David; Carrillo-Maravilla, Eduardo 2017-08-01 Electrolyte and acid-base disturbances are frequent in patients with end-stage liver disease; the underlying physiopathological mechanisms are often complex and represent a diagnostic and therapeutic challenge to the physician. Usually, these disorders do not develop in compensated cirrhotic patients, but with the onset of the classic complications of cirrhosis such as ascites, renal failure, spontaneous bacterial peritonitis and variceal bleeding, multiple electrolyte, and acid-base disturbances emerge. Hyponatremia parallels ascites formation and is a well-known trigger of hepatic encephalopathy; its management in this particular population poses a risky challenge due to the high susceptibility of cirrhotic patients to osmotic demyelination.  Hypokalemia  is common in the setting of cirrhosis: multiple potassium wasting mechanisms both inherent to the disease and resulting from its management make these patients particularly susceptible to potassium depletion even in the setting of normokalemia. Acid-base disturbances range from classical respiratory alkalosis to high anion gap metabolic acidosis, almost comprising the full acid-base spectrum. Because most electrolyte and acid-base disturbances are managed in terms of their underlying trigger factors, a systematic physiopathological approach to their diagnosis and treatment is required. Changes in ion transport in inflammatory disease. PubMed Eisenhut, Michael 2006-03-29 Ion transport is essential for maintenance of transmembranous and transcellular electric potential, fluid transport and cellular volume. Disturbance of ion transport has been associated with cellular dysfunction, intra and extracellular edema and abnormalities of epithelial surface liquid volume. There is increasing evidence that conditions characterized by an intense local or systemic inflammatory response are associated with abnormal ion transport. This abnormal ion transport has been involved in the pathogenesis of conditions like hypovolemia due to fluid losses, hyponatremia and  hypokalemia  in diarrhoeal diseases, electrolyte abnormalities in pyelonephritis of early infancy, septicemia induced pulmonary edema, and in hypersecretion and edema induced by inflammatory reactions of the mucosa of the upper respiratory tract. Components of membranous ion transport systems, which have been shown to undergo a change in function during an inflammatory response include the sodium potassium ATPase, the epithelial sodium channel, the Cystic Fibrosis Transmembrane Conductance Regulator and calcium activated chloride channels and the sodium potassium chloride co-transporter. Inflammatory mediators, which influence ion transport are tumor necrosis factor, gamma interferon, interleukins, transforming growth factor, leukotrienes and bradykinin. They trigger the release of specific messengers like prostaglandins, nitric oxide and histamine which alter ion transport system function through specific receptors, intracellular second messengers and protein kinases. This review summarizes data on in vivo measurements of changes in ion transport in acute inflammatory conditions and in vitro studies, which have explored the underlying mechanisms. Potential interventions directed at a correction of the observed abnormalities are discussed. Changes in ion transport in inflammatory disease PubMed Central Eisenhut, Michael 2006-01-01 Ion transport is essential for maintenance of transmembranous and transcellular electric potential, fluid transport and cellular volume. Disturbance of ion transport has been associated with cellular dysfunction, intra and extracellular edema and abnormalities of epithelial surface liquid volume. There is increasing evidence that conditions characterized by an intense local or systemic inflammatory response are associated with abnormal ion transport. This abnormal ion transport has been involved in the pathogenesis of conditions like hypovolemia due to fluid losses, hyponatremia and  hypokalemia  in diarrhoeal diseases, electrolyte abnormalites in pyelonephritis of early infancy, septicemia induced pulmonary edema, and in hypersecretion and edema induced by inflammatory reactions of the mucosa of the upper respiratory tract. Components of membranous ion transport systems, which have been shown to undergo a change in function during an inflammatory response include the sodium potassium ATPase, the epithelial sodium channel, the Cystic Fibrosis Transmembrane Conductance Regulator and calcium activated chloride channels and the sodium potassium chloride co-transporter. Inflammatory mediators, which influence ion transport are tumor necrosis factor, gamma interferon, interleukins, transforming growth factor, leukotrienes and bradykinin. They trigger the release of specific messengers like prostaglandins, nitric oxide and histamine which alter ion transport system function through specific receptors, intracellular second messengers and protein kinases. This review summarizes data on in vivo measurements of changes in ion transport in acute inflammatory conditions and in vitro studies, which have explored the underlying mechanisms. Potential interventions directed at a correction of the observed abnormalities are discussed. PMID:16571116 Multiple electrolyte disorders in a neurosurgical patient: solving the rebus PubMed Central 2013-01-01 Background It is important to ensure an adequate sodium and volume balance in neurosurgical patients in order to avoid the worsening of brain injury. Indeed, hyponatremia and polyuria, that are frequent in this patient population, are potentially harmful, especially if not promptly recognized. Differential diagnosis is often challenging, including disorders, which, in view of similar clinical pictures, present very different pathophysiological bases, such as syndrome of inappropriate antidiuresis, cerebral/renal salt wasting syndrome and diabetes insipidus. Case presentation Here we present the clinical report of a 67-year-old man with a recent episode of acute subarachnoid haemorrhage, admitted to our ward because of severe hyponatremia,  hypokalemia  and huge polyuria. We performed a complete workup to identify the underlying causes of these alterations and found a complex picture of salt wasting syndrome associated to primary polydipsia. The appropriate diagnosis allowed us to correct the patient hydro-electrolyte balance. Conclusion The comprehension of the pathophysiological mechanisms is essential to adequately recognize and treat hydro-electrolyte disorders, also solving the most complex clinical problems. PMID:23837469 KCNJ10 determines the expression of the apical Na-Cl cotransporter (NCC) in the early distal convoluted tubule (DCT1). PubMed Zhang, Chengbiao; Wang, Lijun; Zhang, Junhui; Su, Xiao-Tong; Lin, Dao-Hong; Scholl, Ute I; Giebisch, Gerhard; Lifton, Richard P; Wang, Wen-Hui 2014-08-12 The renal phenotype induced by loss-of-function mutations of inwardly rectifying potassium channel (Kir), Kcnj10 (Kir4.1), includes salt wasting, hypomagnesemia, metabolic alkalosis and  hypokalemia . However, the mechanism by which Kir.4.1 mutations cause the tubulopathy is not completely understood. Here we demonstrate that Kcnj10 is a main contributor to the basolateral K conductance in the early distal convoluted tubule (DCT1) and determines the expression of the apical Na-Cl cotransporter (NCC) in the DCT. Immunostaining demonstrated Kcnj10 and Kcnj16 were expressed in the basolateral membrane of DCT, and patch-clamp studies detected a 40-pS K channel in the basolateral membrane of the DCT1 of p8/p10 wild-type Kcnj10(+/+) mice (WT). This 40-pS K channel is absent in homozygous Kcnj10(-/-) (knockout) mice. The disruption of Kcnj10 almost completely eliminated the basolateral K conductance and decreased the negativity of the cell membrane potential in DCT1. Moreover, the lack of Kcnj10 decreased the basolateral Cl conductance, inhibited the expression of Ste20-related proline-alanine-rich kinase and diminished the apical NCC expression in DCT. We conclude that Kcnj10 plays a dominant role in determining the basolateral K conductance and membrane potential of DCT1 and that the basolateral K channel activity in the DCT determines the apical NCC expression possibly through a Ste20-related proline-alanine-rich kinase-dependent mechanism. Revisiting the NaCl cotransporter regulation by with-no-lysine kinases PubMed Central Bazúa-Valenti, Silvana 2015-01-01 The renal thiazide-sensitive Na+-Cl− cotransporter (NCC) is the salt transporter in the distal convoluted tubule. Its activity is fundamental for defining blood pressure levels. Decreased NCC activity is associated with salt-remediable arterial hypotension with  hypokalemia  (Gitelman disease), while increased activity results in salt-sensitive arterial hypertension with hyperkalemia (pseudohypoaldosteronism type II; PHAII). The discovery of four different genes causing PHAII revealed a complex multiprotein system that regulates the activity of NCC. Two genes encode for with-no-lysine (K) kinases WNK1 and WNK4, while two encode for kelch-like 3 (KLHL3) and cullin 3 (CUL3) proteins that form a RING type E3 ubiquitin ligase complex. Extensive research has shown that WNK1 and WNK4 are the targets for the KLHL3-CUL3 complex and that WNKs modulate the activity of NCC by means of intermediary Ste20-type kinases known as SPAK or OSR1. The understanding of the effect of WNKs on NCC is a complex issue, but recent evidence discussed in this review suggests that we could be reaching the end of the dark ages regarding this matter. PMID:25788573 A Case of Severe, Prolonged, Refractory Hypophosphatemia After Zoledronic Acid Administration. PubMed Clark, Sarah L; Nystrom, Erin M 2016-04-01 Zoledronic acid (ZA) administration has been associated with electrolyte abnormalities, including hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia,  hypokalemia , and hypophosphatemia. We describe a case of severe, refractory hypophosphatemia in a patient who received ZA for hypercalcemia of malignancy (HCM). Little data are available that describe the incidence or degree of severity of hypophosphatemia that can occur following ZA administration. In addition, no formal recommendations exist to guide monitoring for or management of electrolyte derangements in the setting of bisphosphonate use. Our patient required daily, high-dose phosphorus replacement beginning day 4 following ZA administration. The average daily dose of phosphorus, including both intravenous and enteral administration, was highest in the first 2 weeks after ZA, averaging 77 mmol/d days 4 through 15, and does not include sources of phosphorus from the patient's nutrition support. Despite this high amount of supplementation, which was well beyond what meets normal daily requirements and the amount expected to treat "usual" hypophosphatemia, the patient did not achieve sustained normal serum phosphorus levels for over 30 days after ZA. ZA is a favorable option for treating HCM because of its longer duration of action, potent serum calcium-lowering effects, and favorable safety profile. The risk of hypophosphatemia with ZA use is reviewed. © The Author(s) 2016. Ticarcillin in Combination with Cephalothin or Gentamicin as Empiric Antibiotic Therapy in Granulocytopenic Cancer Patients PubMed Central Schimpff, Stephen C.; Landesman, Sheldon; Hahn, Davis M.; Standiford, Harold C.; Fortner, Clarence L.; Young, Viola Mae; Wiernik, Peter H. 1976-01-01 Ticarcillin was used in combination with either cephalothin or gentamicin as initial empiric antibiotic therapy for 127 patient trials of suspected infection in granulocytopenic cancer patients. Bacteremia was present in 20%, nonbacteremic microbiologically documented infections in 21%, clinically documented infections in 23%, and possible infections in 5%; infection was doubtful in 31%. Although Staphylococcus aureus was the most common single organism isolated (23%), gram-negative bacilli accounted for 54% of all pathogens. Both antibiotic regimens were highly efficacious, with complete resolution in 46% of bacteremias, 88% of nonbacteremic microbiologically documented infections, and 95% of clinically documented infections. Among bacteremias, 8 of 9 caused by S. aureus but only 4 of 15 (27%) caused by gram-negative bacilli were completely resolved with these antibiotic combinations. Reasons for nonresponse in bacteremias were persistent granulocytopenia, mixed infection and, in two patients, antibiotic-resistant organisms. Toxicities other than  hypokalemia  were minimal. Although the rate of further infections was high overall (18/127), only one occurred among the 39 patients with  < 4 days of antibiotic therapy. Ticarcillin in combination with either cephalothin or gentamicin was effective as initial empiric therapy of suspected infection in granulocytopenic cancer patients. PMID:795372 Concomitant presentation of Anderson-Tawil syndrome and myasthenia gravis in an adult patient: A case report. PubMed Fan, Rui; Ji, Ruirui; Zou, Wenxin; Wang, Guoliang; Wang, Hu; Penney, Daniel James; Luo, Jin Jun; Fan, Yuxin 2016-10-01 Andersen-Tawil syndrome (ATS) is an autosomal dominant, multisystem channelopathy characterized by periodic paralysis, ventricular arrhythmias and distinctive dysmorphic facial or skeletal features. The disorder displays marked intrafamilial variability and incomplete penetrance. Myasthenia gravis (MG) is an autoimmune disorder that demonstrates progressive fatigability, in which the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) at neuromuscular junctions is the primary autoantigen. The present study reports a rare case of a 31-year-old woman with a history of morbid obesity and periodic weakness, who presented with hemodynamic instability, cardiogenic shock and facial anomalies. Laboratory results revealed  hypokalemia  and an elevated anti-AChR antibody expression levels. Electrocardiography demonstrated prolonged QT-interval, ST-elevation, and subsequent third-degree atrioventricular block. Neurological examination revealed bilateral ptosis, horizontal diplopia, dysarthria and generalized weakness. No mutations in the potassium channel inwardly rectifying subfamily J member 2 gene were detected in the present case. The patient was treated with oral potassium supplementation and an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor (pyridostigmine), after which the symptoms were improved. To the best of our knowledge, the present case report was the first to describe concomitant presentation of both ATS and MG, which represents a diagnostic and therapeutic challenge. Electrolyte and Metabolic Disturbances in Ebola Patients during a Clinical Trial, Guinea, 2015 PubMed Central Bah, Elhadj Ibrahima; Haba, Nyankoye; Delamou, Alexandre; Camara, Bienvenu Salim; Olivier, Kadio Jean-Jacques; De Clerck, Hilde; Nordenstedt, Helena; Semple, Malcolm G.; Van Herp, Michel; Buyze, Jozefien; De Crop, Maaike; Van Den Broucke, Steven; Lynen, Lutgarde; De Weggheleire, Anja 2016-01-01 By using data from a 2015 clinical trial on Ebola convalescent-phase plasma in Guinea, we assessed the prevalence of electrolyte and metabolic abnormalities at admission and their predictive value to stratify patients into risk groups. Patients underwent testing with a point-of-care device. We used logistic regression to construct a prognostic model and summarized the predictive value with the area under the receiver operating curve. Abnormalities were common among patients, particularly  hypokalemia , hypocalcemia, hyponatremia, raised creatinine, high anion gap, and anemia. Besides age and PCR cycle threshold value, renal dysfunction, low calcium levels, and low hemoglobin levels were independently associated with increased risk for death. A prognostic model using all 5 factors was highly discriminatory (area under the receiver operating curve 0.95; 95% CI 0.90–0.99) and enabled the definition of risk criteria to guide targeted care. Most patients had a very low ( < 5%) or very high (>80%) risk for death. PMID:27869610 Exclusion of linkage between hypokalemic periodic paralysis and a candidate region in 1q31-32 suggests genetic heterogeneity SciTech Connect Sillen, A.; Wadelius, C.; Gustabson, K.H. 1994-09-01 Familial hypokalemic periodic paralysis (HOKPP) is an autosomal dominant disease with attacks of paralysis of varying severity. The attacks occur at intervals of days to years in otherwise healthy people combined with  hypokalemia  during attacks. The paralysis attacks are precipitated by a number of different factors, like carbohydrate-rich meals, cold, exercise and mental stress. Recently linkage for HOKPP was shown for chromosome 1q31-32 and the disease was mapped between D1S413 and D1S249. The gene for the calcium channel alfa1-subunit (CACNL 1A3) maps to this interval and in two families no recombination was found between a polymorphism in the CACNL 1A3more » gene and the disease. This gene is therefore considered to be a candidate for HOKPP. The analysis of a large Danish family excludes linkage to this region and to the CACNL 1A3 gene. In each direction from D1S413, 18.8 cM could be excluded and for D1S249, 14.9 cM. The present study clearly excludes the possibility that the gene causing HOKPP in a large Danish family is located in the region 1q31-32. This result shows that HOKPP is a heterogenous disease, with only one mapped gene so far.« less Novel molecular variants of the Na-Cl cotransporter gene are responsible for Gitelman syndrome SciTech Connect Mastroianni, N.; De Fusco, M.; Casari, G. 1996-11-01 A hereditary defect of the distal tubule accounts for the clinical features of Gitelman syndrome (GS), an autosomal recessive disease characterized by  hypokalemia , hypomagnesemia, metabolic alkalosis, and hypocalciuria. Recently, we cloned the cDNA coding for the human Na-Cl thiazide-sensitive cotransporter (TSC; also known as {open_quotes}NCCT{close_quotes} or {open_quotes}SLC12A3{close_quotes}) as a possible candidate for GS, and Simon et al., independently, described rotation in patients with GS. Now, we show 12 additional mutations consistent with a loss of function of the Na-Cl cotransporter in GS. Two missense replacements, R09W and P349L, are common to both studies and could represent ancient mutations. The othermore » mutations include three deletions, two insertions, and six missense mutations. When all mutations from both studies are considered, missense mutations seem to be more frequently localized within the intracellular domains of the molecule, rather than in transmembrane or extracellular domains. One family, previously reported as a GS form with dominant inheritance, has proved to be recessive, with the affected child being a compound heterozygote. A highly informative intragenic tetranucleotide marker, useful for molecular diagnostic studies, has been identified at the acceptor splice site of exon 9. 12 refs., 3 figs., 2 tabs.« less Risperidone prolongs cardiac repolarization by blocking the rapid component of the delayed rectifier potassium current. PubMed Drolet, Benoit; Yang, Tao; Daleau, Pascal; Roden, Dan M; Turgeon, Jacques 2003-06-01 Cases of QT prolongation and sudden death have been reported with risperidone, a neuroleptic agent increasingly prescribed worldwide. Although  hypokalemia  was present in some of these events, we hypothesized that risperidone may have unsuspected electrophysiologic effects predisposing patients to proarrhythmia. In six isolated guinea pig hearts, risperidone elicited prolongation of cardiac repolarization: action potential duration increased from a baseline value of 128 ms +/- 5 to 147 ms +/- 5 (15%) with risperidone 1 microM during pacing at 250-ms cycle length, whereas the increase was only 10%, from 101 ms +/- 2 to 111 ms +/- 4, with pacing at a cycle length of 150 ms. In human ether-a-go-go (HERG)-transfected Chinese hamster ovary cells (n = 16), risperidone caused concentration-dependent block of the rapid component (I(Kr)) of the delayed rectifier potassium current with an IC(50) for tail block of 261 nM. Risperidone did not block I(Ks). Risperidone exerts cardiac electrophysiologic effects similar to those of Class III antiarrhythmic drugs. These effects are observed at clinically relevant concentrations. Because risperidone is metabolized primarily by CYP2D6, these actions likely enhance risk for risperidone-related QT prolongation and proarrhythmia in specific patient subsets (e.g., poor metabolizers and those taking interacting drugs). Effect of potassium depletion in normal males: an Apollo 15 simulation. PubMed Hyatt, K H; Johnson, P C; Hoffler, G W; Rambaut, P C; Rummel, J A; Hulley, S B; Vogel, J M; Huntoon, C; Spears, C P 1975-01-01 In the course of Apollo 15, physiologic abnormalities, manifested by ectopic activity on the ECG and unusual alterations in excerise tolerance, occurred in the crew of the Lunar Excursion Module. These were associated with decreases in total body potassium, measured by 42K, of 10% and 15%. The possibility of inadequate potassium (K plus) intake existed. A simulation study was performed prior to Apollo 16, corresponding in duration to Apollo 15. Subjects endured the same sleep aberrations and caloric expenditure as the Apollo 15 astronauts. Subjects consumed a diet containing only 15 mEq/d of K plus during the entire 12 d of absolute bedrest. ECG was continuously monitored, body fluid compartments and total body K plus were measured at intervals by radionuclide methods, electrolyte balance was determined daily, and excercise and orthostatic tolerances were determined prior to and after bedrest. In spite of decreases in total body K plus measured by 42K of 14.5% and 10.5%, and by potassium balances of 3.3% and 6.5%, respectively, neither of the two subjects developed symptomatic  hypokalemia . Minor ECG abnormalities were noted in one subject. Orthostatic and exercise tolerance showed only those changes expected as a result of bedrest. Muscle strength was unaffected. Study implications and reasons for discrepancies between K plus loss measured by balance techniques and 42K are reviewed. Sodium Bicarbonate Therapy in Patients with Metabolic Acidosis PubMed Central Adeva-Andany, María M.; Fernández-Fernández, Carlos; Mouriño-Bayolo, David; Castro-Quintela, Elvira; Domínguez-Montero, Alberto 2014-01-01 Metabolic acidosis occurs when a relative accumulation of plasma anions in excess of cations reduces plasma pH. Replacement of sodium bicarbonate to patients with sodium bicarbonate loss due to diarrhea or renal proximal tubular acidosis is useful, but there is no definite evidence that sodium bicarbonate administration to patients with acute metabolic acidosis, including diabetic ketoacidosis, lactic acidosis, septic shock, intraoperative metabolic acidosis, or cardiac arrest, is beneficial regarding clinical outcomes or mortality rate. Patients with advanced chronic kidney disease usually show metabolic acidosis due to increased unmeasured anions and hyperchloremia. It has been suggested that metabolic acidosis might have a negative impact on progression of kidney dysfunction and that sodium bicarbonate administration might attenuate this effect, but further evaluation is required to validate such a renoprotective strategy. Sodium bicarbonate is the predominant buffer used in dialysis fluids and patients on maintenance dialysis are subjected to a load of sodium bicarbonate during the sessions, suffering a transient metabolic alkalosis of variable severity. Side effects associated with sodium bicarbonate therapy include hypercapnia,  hypokalemia , ionized hypocalcemia, and QTc interval prolongation. The potential impact of regular sodium bicarbonate therapy on worsening vascular calcifications in patients with chronic kidney disease has been insufficiently investigated. PMID:25405229 Identification of fifteen novel mutations in the SLC12A3 gene encoding the Na-Cl Co-transporter in Italian patients with Gitelman syndrome. PubMed Syrén, Marie-Louise; Tedeschi, Silvana; Cesareo, Laila; Bellantuono, Rosa; Colussi, Giacomo; Procaccio, Mirella; Alì, Anna; Domenici, Raffaele; Malberti, Fabio; Sprocati, Monica; Sacco, Michele; Miglietti, Nunzia; Edefonti, Alberto; Sereni, Fabio; Casari, Giorgio; Coviello, Domenico A; Bettinelli, Alberto 2002-07-01 The SLC12A3 gene encodes the thiazide-sensitive Na-Cl co-transporter (NCCT) expressed in the apical membrane of the distal convoluted tubule of the kidney. Inactivating mutations of this gene are responsible for Gitelman syndrome (GS), a disorder inherited as an autosomal recessive trait. We searched for SLC12A3 gene mutations in 21 Italian patients with the clinical and biochemical features of GS ( hypokalemia , hypomagnesemia, metabolic alkalosis, hypocalciuria, and the absence of nephrocalcinosis). All coding regions with their intron-exon boundaries were analyzed using PCR and SSCP techniques followed by sequencing analysis. We identified 21 different mutations evenly distributed throughout the gene without any mutation hot-spot. Fifteen are novel variants, including 12 missense mutations, one deletion, one deletion-insertion and one splice site mutation: R158Q, T163M, W172R, G316V, G374V, G463E, A464T, S615W, V677M, R852S, R958G, C985Y, 2114-2120delACCAAGT, 2144-2158delGCCTTCTACTCGGATinsTG, and 531-2A>G. Copyright 2002 Wiley-Liss, Inc. Hypokalemic Paralysis: A Hidden Card of Several Autoimmune Diseases PubMed Central Velarde-Mejía, Yelitza; Gamboa-Cárdenas, Rocío; Ugarte-Gil, Manuel; Asurza, César Pastor 2017-01-01 Acute hypokalemic paralysis is a rare and potentially fatal condition, with few related causes, one of which highlights distal renal tubular acidosis (dRTA). Distal renal tubular acidosis is a rare complication of several autoimmune diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus, Sjögren’s syndrome, and Hashimoto thyroiditis. We report a case of a lupic patient who presented rapidly progressive quadriparesis in the context of active renal disease. Research revealed severe refractory  hypokalemia , metabolic acidosis, and alkaline urine suggestive of dRTA. We diagnosed Sjögren’s syndrome based on sicca symptoms, an abnormal salivary glands’ nuclear scan and the presence of anti-Ro/SSA and anti-La/SSB. In addition, the finding of thyroid peroxidase, thyroglobulin antibodies, and hypothyroidism led us to the diagnosis of Hashimoto thyroiditis. Due to the active renal involvement on the context of systemic lupus erythematosus and Sjögren’s syndrome, the patient received immunosuppression with rituximab, resulting in a progressive and complete improvement. PMID:28839447 Hyper-alkalinization without hyper-hydration for the prevention of high-dose methotrexate acute nephrotoxicity in patients with osteosarcoma. PubMed Mir, Olivier; Ropert, Stanislas; Babinet, Antoine; Alexandre, Jérôme; Larousserie, Frédérique; Durand, Jean-Philippe; Enkaoua, Eric; Anract, Philippe; Goldwasser, François 2010-11-01 To evaluate the reliability and renal safety of an original schedule of high-dose methotrexate (HDMTX) administration with hyper-alkalinization, and without hyper-hydration. Patients with osteosarcoma received HDMTX (8-12 g/m(2)) as a 4-h infusion. Hypertonic 8.4% sodium bicarbonate was infused prior to HDMTX, then once daily for 3 days. Methotrexate serum concentrations were measured at hour 4 (Cmax), hour 24, hour 48, and hour 72. Urinary pH was measured on each miction. Serum creatinine was assessed on days 1, 3, and 8. Twenty-six patients (median age: 18 years, range: 15-25) received a total of 344 cycles of HDMTX, including 16 patients treated in an outpatient basis. Urinary pH remained constantly higher than 7.5 in all patients. Grade 1 creatininemia toxicity was observed in 31 cycles (9%), and grade 2 creatinine toxicity was observed in one patient. No episode of acute severe nephrotoxicity was observed. No significant worsening was observed in serum creatinine and calculated creatinine clearance from baseline to the end of therapy (P = 0.74). The main extra-renal toxicity was alkalinization-related  hypokalemia  from H48. No re-hospitalization was required. Hyper-alkalinization appears an efficient and reliable method to prevent the acute renal toxicity of HDMTX and allows its safe administration in the outpatient setting. Afebrile Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome associated with Fluphenazine decanoate: A case report PubMed Central Assareh, Marzieh 2010-01-01 Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) is unusual but could be a lethal reaction associated with neuroleptic drugs. It occurs in almost 0.07-2.2% of patients under treatment with neuroleptics. There are some medical treatments that may also be helpful for its treatment, including dopamine agonists, muscle relaxants, and electroconvulsive therapy (ECT). We present this case to alert the clinicians to the potential for inducing afebrile NMS. Our case is a 41-year-old man with a history of schizophrenia showing signs and symptoms in accordance with NMS, 2 weeks after receiving one dose of 12.5 mg fluphenazine decanoate, abruptly following the 3rdsession of ECT. The patient presented with decreased level of consciousness, muscular rigidity, waxy flexibility, mutism, generalized tremor, sever diaphoresis and tachycardia which progressed during the previous 24 h. Laboratory data indicated primarily leukocytosis, an increasing level of creatinine phosphokinase and  hypokalemia  during the next 72h. In patients receiving antipsychotics, any feature of NMS should carefully be evaluated whether it is usual or unusual particularly in patients receiving long acting neuroleptics. PMID:22952496 Molecular genetics of Liddle's syndrome. PubMed Yang, Kun-Qi; Xiao, Yan; Tian, Tao; Gao, Ling-Gen; Zhou, Xian-Liang 2014-09-25 Liddle's syndrome, an autosomal dominant form of monogenic hypertension, is characterized by salt-sensitive hypertension with early penetrance,  hypokalemia , metabolic alkalosis, suppression of plasma rennin activity and aldosterone secretion, and a clear-cut response to epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) blockers but not spironolactone therapy. Our understanding of ENaCs and Na(+) transport defects has expanded greatly over the past two decades and provides detailed insight into the molecular basis of Liddle's syndrome. In this review, we offer an overview of recent advances in understanding the molecular genetics of Liddle's syndrome, involving mutation analysis, molecular mechanisms and genetic testing. The ENaC in the distal nephron is composed of α, β and γ subunits that share similar structures. Mutations associated with Liddle's syndrome are positioned in either β or γ subunits and disturb or truncate a conserved proline-rich sequence (i.e., PY motif), leading to constitutive activation of the ENaC. Genetic testing has made it possible to make accurate diagnoses and develop tailored therapies for mutation carriers. Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. Diagnosis of secondary hypertension: an age-based approach. PubMed Viera, Anthony J; Neutze, Dana M 2010-12-15 Secondary hypertension is a type of hypertension with an underlying, potentially correctable cause. A secondary etiology may be suggested by symptoms (e.g., flushing and sweating suggestive of pheochromocytoma), examina- tion findings (e.g., a renal bruit suggestive of renal artery stenosis), or laboratory abnormalities (e.g.,  hypokalemia  suggestive of aldosteronism). Secondary hypertension also should be considered in patients with resistant hyper- tension, and early or late onset of hypertension. The prevalence of secondary hypertension and the most common etiologies vary by age group. Approximately 5 to 10 percent of adults with hypertension have a secondary cause. In young adults, particu- larly women, renal artery stenosis caused by fibromuscular dyspla- sia is one of the most common secondary etiologies. Fibromuscular dysplasia can be detected by abdominal magnetic resonance imag- ing or computed tomography. These same imaging modalities can be used to detect atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis, a major cause of secondary hypertension in older adults. In middle-aged adults, aldosteronism is the most common secondary cause of hyperten- sion, and the recommended initial diagnostic test is an aldosterone/ renin ratio. Up to 85 percent of children with hypertension have an identifiable cause, most often renal parenchymal disease. Therefore, all children with confirmed hypertension should have an evaluation for an underlying etiology that includes renal ultrasonography. Adrenal Mass Causing Secondary Hypertension. PubMed Robinson, Darlene Y 2015-11-01 Most hypertensive patients have essential (primary) hypertension; only 5% to 10% have a secondary cause. Two clinical characteristics suggestive of secondary hypertension are early onset ( <  30 years of age) and severe hypertension (>180/110 mm Hg). When faced with these findings, clinicians should consider a secondary cause of hypertension. A 22-year-old woman being evaluated for asthma exacerbation in the emergency department was noted to have severe persistent hypertension. Additional evaluation revealed severe  hypokalemia , metabolic alkalosis, and hypernatremia. The patient was admitted to the hospital for blood pressure management, electrolyte replacement, and further evaluation of presumed hyperaldosteronism. Diagnostic imaging revealed a large adrenal mass. Surgical resection was performed, leading to a diagnosis of hyperaldosteronism caused by adrenal carcinoma. WHY SHOULD AN EMERGENCY PHYSICIAN BE AWARE OF THIS?: Secondary hypertension is far less common than essential hypertension; however, considering the large volume of patients seen in emergency departments, it is likely that some will have secondary hypertension. Emergency physicians should be aware of the clinical characteristics that suggest secondary hypertension so that the appropriate diagnostic and treatment pathways can be pursued. Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved. Sudden death in eating disorders PubMed Central Jáuregui-Garrido, Beatriz; Jáuregui-Lobera, Ignacio 2012-01-01 Eating disorders are usually associated with an increased risk of premature death with a wide range of rates and causes of mortality. “Sudden death” has been defined as the abrupt and unexpected occurrence of fatality for which no satisfactory explanation of the cause can be ascertained. In many cases of sudden death, autopsies do not clarify the main cause. Cardiovascular complications are usually involved in these deaths. The purpose of this review was to report an update of the existing literature data on the main findings with respect to sudden death in eating disorders by means of a search conducted in PubMed. The most relevant conclusion of this review seems to be that the main causes of sudden death in eating disorders are those related to cardiovascular complications. The predictive value of the increased QT interval dispersion as a marker of sudden acute ventricular arrhythmia and death has been demonstrated. Eating disorder patients with severe cardiovascular symptoms should be hospitalized. In general, with respect to sudden death in eating disorders, some findings (eg, long-term eating disorders, chronic  hypokalemia , chronically low plasma albumin, and QT intervals >600 milliseconds) must be taken into account, and it must be highlighted that during refeeding, the adverse effects of hypophosphatemia include cardiac failure. Monitoring vital signs and performing electrocardiograms and serial measurements of plasma potassium are relevant during the treatment of eating disorder patients. PMID:22393299 Health effects of desalinated water: Role of electrolyte disturbance in cancer development. PubMed Nriagu, Jerome; Darroudi, Firouz; Shomar, Basem 2016-10-01 This review contends that "healthy" water in terms of electrolyte balance is as important as "pure" water in promoting public health. It considers the growing use of desalination (demineralization) technologies in drinking water treatment which often results in tap water with very low concentrations of sodium, potassium, magnesium and calcium. Ingestion of such water can lead to electrolyte abnormalities marked by hyponatremia,  hypokalemia , hypomagnesemia and hypocalcemia which are among the most common and recognizable features in cancer patients. The causal relationships between exposure to demineralized water and malignancies are poorly understood. This review highlights some of the epidemiological and in vivo evidence that link dysregulated electrolyte metabolism with carcinogenesis and the development of cancer hallmarks. It discusses how ingestion of demineralized water can have a procarcinogenic effect through mediating some of the critical pathways and processes in the cancer microenvironment such as angiogenesis, genomic instability, resistance to programmed cell death, sustained proliferative signaling, cell immortalization and tumorigenic inflammation. Evidence that hypoosmotic stress-response processes can upregulate a number of potential oncogenes is well supported by a number studies. In view of the rising production and consumption of demineralized water in most parts of the world, there is a strong need for further research on the biological importance and protean roles of electrolyte abnormalities in promoting, antagonizing or otherwise enabling the development of cancer. The countries of the Gulf Cooperative Council (GCC) where most people consume desalinated water would be a logical place to start this research. Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved. Cardiovascular drugs inducing QT prolongation: facts and evidence. PubMed Taira, Carlos A; Opezzo, Javier A W; Mayer, Marcos A; Höcht, Christian 2010-01-01 Acquired QT syndrome is mainly caused by the administration of drugs that prolong ventricular repolarization. On the other hand, the risk of drug-induced torsades de pointes is increased by numerous predisposing factors, such as genetic predisposition, female sex,  hypokalemia  and cardiac dysfunction. This adverse reaction is induced by different chemical compounds used for the treatment of a variety of pathologies, including arrhythmias. As it is known, antiarrhythmic agents and other cardiovascular drugs can prolong the QT interval, causing this adverse reaction. Of the 20 most commonly reported drugs, 10 were cardiovascular agents and these appeared in 348 of the reports (46%). Class Ia antiarrhythmic agents have frequently been linked to inducing arrhythmia, including torsades de pointes. Sotalol and amiodarone, class III antiarrhythmics, are known to prolong the QT interval by blocking I(Kr). Due to the severity of events caused by the therapeutic use of these drugs, in this work of revision the cardiovascular drugs that present this property and the factors and evidence will be mentioned. Hypertensive crisis with 2 target organ impairment induced by glycyrrhizin: A case report. PubMed Li, Jing; Fan, Xiaoli; Wang, Qin 2018-03-01 Glycyrrhizin is the main active component of licorice. Licorice and glycyrrhizin induced hypertension has been widely reported, yet licorice and glycyrrhizin induced hypertensive crisis has been rarely known. The case of this report was a 47-year-old woman, who took 225 mg of glycyrrhizin daily for 3 years due to primary biliary cholangitis. She was found to have a dramatically elevated blood pressure of about 230/110 mmHg without a history of hypertension and was referred to the emergency department.  Hypokalemia , hypertensive retinopathy, and nephropathy were found during the following work-up. Since no other risk factors of hypertension were identified, she was suspected to have glycyrrhizin induced pseudo-hyperaldosteronism. Glycyrrhizin was discontinued. Intravenous sodium nitroprusside was used during the first few days. Nifedipine and irbesartan were taken after discharge, and the dosage was reduced gradually under supervision. She stopped all the anti-hypertensive drugs 6 months since glycyrrhizin was stopped. Her blood pressure was about 110/60 mmHg after repetitive measurement. Her serum potassium and urine albumin/creatinine ratio were also normalized. Licorice and glycyrrhizin induced hypertension due to pseudo-hyperaldosteronism has been widely reported, yet only 3 cases reported that excessive consumption of licorice could lead to hypertensive emergencies. This is the first case that glycyrrhizin induced hypertensive crisis with target organ impairment. By presenting this case, we remind clinicians of glycyrrhizin induced hypertension, a condition which could lead to medical emergencies. Prevalence of Electrolyte Disorders Among Cases of Diarrhea with Severe Dehydration and Correlation of Electrolyte Levels with Age of the Patients. PubMed Ahmad, Mirza Sultan; Wahid, Abdul; Ahmad, Mubashra; Mahboob, Nazia; Mehmood, Ramlah 2016-05-01 To find out the prevalence of electrolyte disorders among children with severe dehydration, and to study correlation between age and electrolyte, urea and creatinine levels. Prospective, analytical study. Outdoor and indoor of Fazle-Omar Hospital, Rabwah, Pakistan, from January to December 2012. All patients from birth to 18 years age, presenting with diarrhea and severe dehydration were included in the study. Urea, creatinine and electrolyte levels of all patients included in the study were checked and recorded in the data form with name, age and outcome. The prevalence of electrolyte disorders were ascertained and correlation with age was determined by Pearson's coefficient. At total of 104 patients were included in the study. None of the patients died. Hyperchloremia was the commonest electrolyte disorder (53.8%), followed by hyperkalemia (26.9%) and hypernatremia (17.3%). Hyponatremia,  hypokalemia  and hypochloremia were present in 10.6%, 7.7%, and 10.6% cases, respectively. Weak negative correlation was found between age and chloride and potassium levels. Different electrolyte disorders are common in children with diarrhea-related severe dehydration. Point mutation of Arg440 to his in cytochrome P450c17 causes severe 17{alpha}-hydroxylase deficiency SciTech Connect Fardella, C.E.; Hum, D.W.; Miller, W.L. Genetic disorders in the gene encoding P450c17 cause 17{alpha}-hydroxylase deficiency. The consequent defects in the synthesis of cortisol and sex steroids cause sexual infantilism and a female phenotype in both genetic sexes as well as mineralorcorticoid excess and hypertension. A 15-yr-old patient from Germany was seen for absent pubertal development and mild hypertension with  hypokalemia , high concentrations of 17-deoxysteroids, and hypergonadotropic hypogonadism. Analysis of her P450c17 gene by polymerase chain reaction amplification and direct sequencing showed mutation of codon 440 from CGC (Arg) to CAC (His). Expression of a vector encoding this mutated form of P450c17 in transfected nonsteroidogenic COS-1more » cells showed that the mutant P450c17 protein was produced, but it lacked both 17{alpha}-hydroxylase and 17,20-lyase activities. To date, 15 different P450c17 mutations have been described in 23 patients with 17{alpha}-hydroxylase deficiency, indicating that mutations in this gene are due to random events. 36 refs., 3 figs., 2 tabs.« less Ileus in children presenting with diarrhea and severe acute malnutrition: A chart review PubMed Central Shahid, Abu SMSB; Shahunja, K. M.; Bardhan, Pradip Kumar; Faruque, Abu Syeed Golam; Shahrin, Lubaba; Das, Sumon Kumar; Barua, Dipesh Kumar; Hossain, Md Iqbal; Ahmed, Tahmeed 2017-01-01 Background Severely malnourished children aged under five years requiring hospital admission for diarrheal illness frequently develop ileus during hospitalization with often fatal outcomes. However, there is no data on risk factors and outcome of ileus in such children. We intended to evaluate predictive factors for ileus during hospitalization and their outcomes. Methodology/Principal findings This was a retrospective chart review that enrolled severely malnourished children under five years old with diarrhea, admitted to the Dhaka Hospital of the International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease Research, Bangladesh between April 2011 and August 2012. We used electronic database to have our chart abstraction from previously admitted children in the hospital. The clinical and laboratory characteristics of children with (cases = 45), and without ileus (controls = 261) were compared. Cases were first identified by observation of abnormal bowel sounds on physical examination and confirmed with abdominal radiographs. For this comparison, Chi-square test was used to measure the difference in proportion, Student’s t-test to calculate the difference in mean for normally distributed data and Mann-Whitney test for data that were not normally distributed. Finally, in identifying independent risk factors for ileus, logistical regression analysis was performed. Ileus was defined if a child developed abdominal distension and had hyperactive or sluggish or absent bowel sound and a radiologic evidence of abdominal gas-fluid level during hospitalization. Logistic regression analysis adjusting for potential confounders revealed that the independent risk factors for admission for ileus were reluctance to feed (odds ratio [OR] = 3.22, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.24–8.39, p = 0.02), septic shock (OR = 3.62, 95% CI = 1.247–8.95, p < 0.01), and  hypokalemia  (OR = 1.99, 95% CI = 1.03–3.86, p = 0.04). Mortality was significantly higher in cases compared to controls (22% vs. 8%, p < 0 Ileus in children presenting with diarrhea and severe acute malnutrition: A chart review. PubMed Chisti, Mohammod Jobayer; Shahid, Abu Smsb; Shahunja, K M; Bardhan, Pradip Kumar; Faruque, Abu Syeed Golam; Shahrin, Lubaba; Das, Sumon Kumar; Barua, Dipesh Kumar; Hossain, Md Iqbal; Ahmed, Tahmeed 2017-05-01 Severely malnourished children aged under five years requiring hospital admission for diarrheal illness frequently develop ileus during hospitalization with often fatal outcomes. However, there is no data on risk factors and outcome of ileus in such children. We intended to evaluate predictive factors for ileus during hospitalization and their outcomes. This was a retrospective chart review that enrolled severely malnourished children under five years old with diarrhea, admitted to the Dhaka Hospital of the International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease Research, Bangladesh between April 2011 and August 2012. We used electronic database to have our chart abstraction from previously admitted children in the hospital. The clinical and laboratory characteristics of children with (cases = 45), and without ileus (controls = 261) were compared. Cases were first identified by observation of abnormal bowel sounds on physical examination and confirmed with abdominal radiographs. For this comparison, Chi-square test was used to measure the difference in proportion, Student's t-test to calculate the difference in mean for normally distributed data and Mann-Whitney test for data that were not normally distributed. Finally, in identifying independent risk factors for ileus, logistical regression analysis was performed. Ileus was defined if a child developed abdominal distension and had hyperactive or sluggish or absent bowel sound and a radiologic evidence of abdominal gas-fluid level during hospitalization. Logistic regression analysis adjusting for potential confounders revealed that the independent risk factors for admission for ileus were reluctance to feed (odds ratio [OR] = 3.22, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.24-8.39, p = 0.02), septic shock (OR = 3.62, 95% CI = 1.247-8.95, p < 0.01), and  hypokalemia  (OR = 1.99, 95% CI = 1.03-3.86, p = 0.04). Mortality was significantly higher in cases compared to controls (22% vs. 8%, p < 0.01) in univariate analysis; however, in Persistent hypertension after adrenalectomy for an aldosterone-producing adenoma: weight as a critical prognostic factor for aldosterone’s lasting effect on the cardiac and vascular systems PubMed Central Carter, Yvette; Roy, Madhuchhanda; Sippel, Rebecca S.; Chen, Herbert 2012-01-01 Background Primary aldosteronism caused by an aldosterone producing adrenal tumor/aldosteronoma (APA), is a potentially curable form of hypertension, via unilateral adrenalectomy. Resolution of hypertension (HTN) is not as prevalent after tumor resection, as are the normalization of aldosterone secretion,  hypokalemia , and other metabolic abnormalities. Here, we review the immediate and long term medical outcomes of laparoscopic adrenalectomy in patients with an APA, and attempt to identify any distinctive gender differences in the management of resistant hypertension. Materials and Methods We performed a retrospective review of the prospective Adrenal database at the University of Wisconsin between January 2001 and October 2010. Of the 165 adrenalectomies performed, thirty-two were for the resection of an aldosteronoma (APA). Patients were grouped according to their post-operative hypertension status. Those patients with normal blood pressure ( < 120/80 mmHg) and on no anti-hypertensive medication (CURE) were compared to those who continued to required medication for blood pressure control (HTN). We evaluated gender, age, body mass index (BMI), tumor size, duration of time with high blood pressure, and the differences in systolic and diastolic blood pressure following adrenalectomy. Statistical analysis was performed utilizing student’s t test. Statistical significance was defined as a p value  <  0.05. Results We identified 32 patients with an APA based on biochemical and radiographic studies, two patients were excluded, due to missing data. There were 19 males (63%) and 11 (37%) females, with a mean age was 48.3 ± 2.1 years, and mean tumor size was 24 ± 3 mm. Post-operatively, patients required significantly fewer anti-hypertensive medications (1.5 ± 0.2 vs. 3.3 ± 0.3, p < 0.001). Nine patients (31%) had complete resolution of their hypertension, requiring no post-operative anti-hypertensive medication. The only significant difference between the genders, was a Pharmacists' interventions on intravenous to oral conversion for potassium. PubMed Charpiat, B; Bedouch, P; Conort, O; Juste, M; Rose, F X; Roubille, R; Allenet, B 2014-06-01 Guidelines recommend use of the oral route whenever possible to treat or prevent  hypokalemia . Although a myriad of papers have been published regarding intravenous to oral (IV to PO) therapy conversion programs and about clinical pharmacy services provided in hospitals, little is known on the role of hospital pharmacists in promoting the oral route for potassium administration. The aim of this work was to describe the frequency of interventions related to IV to PO potassium therapy conversions performed by hospital pharmacists. Setting French hospitals recording pharmacist's interventions on the website tool of the French Society of Clinical Pharmacy. From the pharmacist's interventions (PI) dataset recorded we extracted all interventions related to potassium IV to PO conversion. We assessed the acceptance rate of these PI by prescribers. Additional free text information in the dataset was analysed. IV to PO potassium therapy conversions related to potassium chloride. From January 2007 to December 2010, 87 hospitals recorded 1,868 PIs concerning IV to PO therapy conversion. Among these, 16 ( < 1 %) concerned potassium chloride. They were recorded by four hospitals (4.6 %) with respectively 12, 2, 1 and 1 PIs. Six PIs were accepted by physicians and the prescriptions were modified. PIs to promote the administration of potassium by the oral route are extremely rare. Our results and scarce previously published data reveal that this field of practice remains almost unexplored. These findings highlight an important gap in the field of intravenous to oral therapy programs. This situation must be regarded as unsatisfactory and should lead to setting up more education and research programs. [Artificial nutrition in pediatric intensive care units]. PubMed Pérez-Navero, J L; Dorao Martínez-Romillo, P; López-Herce Cid, J; Ibarra de la Rosa, I; Pujol Jover, M; Hermana Tezanos, María T 2005-02-01 To perform an epidemiologic study of artificial nutrition in critically-ill pediatric patients. A multicenter, prospective and descriptive study was conducted in 23 Spanish intensive care units (ICU) (18 pediatric ICUs and five pediatric/neonatal ICUs) over a 1-month period. Artificial nutrition (AN) was required by 165 critically-ill patients (21.4 %). Data on diagnosis, severity, treatment, type of nutrition administered and complications were analyzed. A total of 54.4 % of the participants were younger than 1 year, 19.4 % were aged between 1 and 5 years old, 15.7 % between 5 and 10 years old and 13.4 % were older than 10 years. ICU mean length stay was 11 days. One hundred six patients were administered enteral nutrition (EN): 67.9 % continuous nasogastric EN, 27.4 intermittent nasogastric EN, 16 % nasojejunal EN, 2.8 % gastrostomy EN. Eighty patients required parenteral nutrition (PN): 86.3 % central PN, 20 % peripheral PN. No significant differences were found between patients with EN and PN in mean energy intake, days receiving AN, diagnosis at admission to the ICU, disease severity (measured by PRISM III) or intensive support techniques. The EN group required greater inotropic support. Patients undergoing mechanical ventilation had equal mortality independent of the type of AN. The most common complications in EN were: 17.9 % emesis, 13.2 % abdominal distension, 11.3 % diarrhea, 4.7 % gastric residual volumes, and 6.6 %  hypokalemia . In PN complications consisted of: 5 % catheter related infection, 1.3 % thrombophlebitis, 7.5 % hyponatremia, 3.8 % hypoglycemia, 6.3 % hypophosphatemia and 3.8 % hypertriglyceridemia. EN provides critically-ill children with adequate energy intake and is well tolerated. Therefore, if there are no contraindications, EN should be the system of choice in the critically-ill patient requiring AN. Effectiveness of patiromer in the treatment of hyperkalemia in chronic kidney disease patients with hypertension on diuretics. PubMed Weir, Matthew R; Mayo, Martha R; Garza, Dahlia; Arthur, Susan A; Berman, Lance; Bushinsky, David; Wilson, Daniel J; Epstein, Murray 2017-05-01 Recurrent hyperkalemia frequently limits use of renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system inhibitors (RAASi) in chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients with hypertension, diabetes, and/or heart failure. Patiromer is a sodium-free, nonabsorbed potassium (K)-binding polymer approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of hyperkalemia. This post-hoc analysis of OPAL-HK examined the effectiveness and safety of patiromer in reducing serum K in hyperkalemic CKD patients on RAASi, with hypertension, receiving diuretic therapy versus those not on diuretics. Depending on the degree of hyperkalemia at baseline, CKD patients with serum K from 5.1 to less than 6.5 mmol/l on RAASi (n = 243) were assigned to a patiromer of total dose 8.4 or 16.8 g, divided twice daily. Changes in serum K, and tolerability and safety were assessed over 4 weeks in patients on and not on diuretics. At baseline, 132 patients used diuretics and 111 were not on diuretics, mean age was 64.3 and 64.0 years, respectively, and 63 and 51% were men. Similar reductions in serum K were seen over 4 weeks in both subgroups. At week 4, serum K fell by -0.95 ± 0.04 mmol/l with any diuretic and -1.04 ± 0.05 mmol/l with no diuretic. Patiromer was well tolerated, with mild-to-moderate constipation reported as the most common adverse event (7.6 and 14.4% of patients on any diuretic or no diuretic, respectively).  Hypokalemia  (s-K  < 3.5 mEq/l) was reported in 2.3% of patients on any diuretic and in 3.7% not on diuretics. The serum K-lowering efficacy and safety profile of patiromer in hyperkalemia patients with CKD was not compromised by diuretic therapy. Amisulpride overdose is frequently associated with QT prolongation and torsades de pointes. PubMed Isbister, Geoffrey K; Balit, Corrine R; Macleod, Dawson; Duffull, Stephen B 2010-08-01 This study aimed to describe the effects of the antipsychotic amisulpride in overdose, including the frequency of QT prolongation and torsades de pointes. Cases of amisulpride overdose (>1 g) were recruited from 2 state poison centers and a tertiary toxicology unit over 5 years. A 1-page clinical research form was used to collect clinical information. Copies of all electrocardiograms were obtained. Electrocardiogram parameters (QRS and QT intervals) were manually measured as previously described, and plots of QT-heart rate (HR) pairs were compared with the QT nomogram. There were 83 patients with amisulpride overdoses with a median age of 29 years (interquartile range [IQR], 23-40 years), and 42 (51%) were female. The median dose ingested was 6 g (IQR, 3-13 g, range, 1.2-120 g). The median HR was 66 beats/min (IQR, 60-81 beats/min). Bradycardia occurred in 20 cases (24%), and hypotension in 19 (23%). From 440 electrocardiograms (average of 5 per case; range, 1-15), an abnormal QT-HR pair occurred in 61 cases (73%). Torsades de pointes developed in 6 cases (7%), with doses of 4, 4.6, 18, 24, 32, and 80 g. The patient taking 32 g died after a cardiac arrest. Widened QRS did not occur except transient rate-dependent bundle-branch block in 3 cases. There were significant associations of bradycardia,  hypokalemia , and hypocalcaemia, with QT prolongation and torsades de pointes. Central nervous system effects were uncommon with coma in 7 cases, seizures in 2, and dystonic reactions in 2. Amisulpride overdose commonly causes QT prolongation, bradycardia, and hypotension. Torsades de pointes occurred commonly enough to suggest that amisulpride is highly cardiotoxic in overdose. Distal renal tubular acidosis. Clinical manifestations in patients with different underlying gene mutations. PubMed Alonso-Varela, Marta; Gil-Peña, Helena; Coto, Eliecer; Gómez, Juan; Rodríguez, Julián; Rodríguez-Rubio, Enrique; Santos, Fernando 2018-05-03 To evaluate whether there are differences in the phenotype of primary distal renal tubular acidosis (dRTA) patients according to the causal defective gene. Twenty-seven non-oriental patients with genetically confirmed dRTA were grouped according to the identified underlying mutations in either ATP6V1B1 (n = 10), ATP6V0A4 (n = 12), or SLC4A1 (n = 5) gene. Demographic features, growth impairment, biochemical variables and presence of deafness, nephrocalcinosis, and urolithiasis at diagnosis were compared among the three groups. Patients with SLC4A1 mutations presented later than those with ATP6V1B1 or ATP6V0A4 defects (120 vs. 7 and 3 months, respectively). Hearing loss at diagnosis was present in the majority of patients with ATP6V1B1 mutations, in two patients with ATP6V0A4 mutations, and in none of cases harboring SLC4A1 mutations. Serum potassium concentration (X ± SD) was higher in SLC4A1 group (3.66 ± 0.44 mEq/L) than in ATP6V0A4 group (2.96 ± 0.63 mEq/L) (p = 0.046). There were no differences in the other clinical or biochemical variables analyzed in the three groups. This study indicates that non-oriental patients with dRTA caused by mutations in the SLC4A1 gene present later and have normokalemia or milder  hypokalemia . Hypoacusia at diagnosis is characteristically associated with ATP6V1B1 gene mutations although it may also be present in infants with ATP6V0A4 defects. Other phenotypical manifestations do not allow predicting the involved gene. KLHL3 regulates paracellular chloride transport in the kidney by ubiquitination of claudin-8 PubMed Central Gong, Yongfeng; Wang, Jinzhi; Yang, Jing; Gonzales, Ernie; Perez, Ronaldo; Hou, Jianghui 2015-01-01 A rare Mendelian syndrome—pseudohypoaldosteronism type II (PHA-II)—features hypertension, hyperkalemia, and metabolic acidosis. Genetic linkage studies and exome sequencing have identified four genes—with no lysine kinase 1 (wnk1), wnk4, Kelch-like 3 (KLHL3), and Cullin 3 (Cul3)—mutations of which all caused PHA-II phenotypes. The previous hypothesis was that the KLHL3–Cul3 ubiquitin complex acted on the wnk4–wnk1 kinase complex to regulate Na+/Cl− cotransporter (NCC) mediated salt reabsorption in the distal tubules of the kidney. Here, we report the identification of claudin-8 as a previously unidentified physiologic target for KLHL3 and provide an alternative explanation for the collecting duct’s role in PHA-II. Using a tissue-specific KO approach, we have found that deletion of claudin-8 in the collecting duct of mouse kidney caused hypotension,  hypokalemia , and metabolic alkalosis, an exact mirror image of PHA-II. Mechanistically, the phenotypes in claudin-8 KO animals were caused by disruption of the claudin-8 interaction with claudin-4, the paracellular chloride channel, and delocalization of claudin-4 from the tight junction. In mouse collecting duct cells, knockdown of KLHL3 profoundly increased the paracellular chloride permeability. Mechanistically, KLHL3 was directly bound to claudin-8, and this binding led to the ubiquitination and degradation of claudin-8. The dominant PHA-II mutation in KLHL3 impaired claudin-8 binding, ubiquitination, and degradation. These findings have attested to the concept that the paracellular pathway is physiologically regulated through the ubiquitination pathway, and its deregulation may lead to diseases of electrolyte and blood pressure imbalances. PMID:25831548 Urbanization of scrub typhus disease in South Korea. PubMed Park, Sang-Won; Ha, Na-Young; Ryu, Boyeong; Bang, Ji Hwan; Song, Hoyeon; Kim, Yuri; Kim, Gwanghun; Oh, Myoung-don; Cho, Nam-Hyuk; Lee, Jong-koo 2015-05-01 Scrub typhus is an endemic disease in Asia. It has been a rural disease, but indigenous urban cases have been observed in Seoul, South Korea. Urban scrub typhus may have a significant impact because of the large population. Indigenous urban scrub typhus was epidemiologically identified in Seoul, the largest metropolitan city in South Korea, using national notifiable disease data from 2010 to 2013. For detailed analysis of clinical features, patients from one hospital that reported the majority of cases were selected and compared to a historic control group. Chigger mites were prospectively collected in the city using a direct chigger mite-collecting trap, and identified using both phenotypic and 18S rDNA sequencing analyses. Their infection with Orientia tsutsugamushi was confirmed by sequencing the 56-kDa antigen gene. Eighty-eight cases of urban scrub typhus were determined in Seoul. The possible sites of infection were mountainous areas (56.8%), city parks (20.5%), the vicinity of one's own residence (17.0%), and riversides (5.7%). Eighty-seven chigger mites were collected in Gwanak mountain, one of the suspected infection sites in southern Seoul, and seventy-six (87.4%) of them were identified as Helenicula miyagawai and eight (9.2%) as Leptotrombidium scutellare. Pooled DNA extracted from H. miyagawai mites yielded O. tsutsugamushi Boryong strain. Twenty-six patients from one hospital showed low APACHE II score (3.4 ± 2.7), low complication rate (3.8%), and no  hypokalemia . We identified the presence of indigenous urban scrub typhus in Seoul, and a subgroup of them had mild clinical features. The chigger mite H. miyagawai infected with O. tsutsugamushi within the city was found. In endemic area, urban scrub typhus needs to be considered as one of the differential febrile diseases and a target for prevention. A rare case of juvenile hypertension: coexistence of type 2 multiple endocrine neoplasia -related bilateral pheochromocytoma and reninoma in a young patient with ACE gene polymorphism. PubMed Paragliola, Rosa Maria; Capoluongo, Ettore; Torino, Francesco; Minucci, Angelo; Canu, Giulia; Prete, Alessandro; Pontecorvi, Alfredo; Corsello, Salvatore Maria 2015-06-18 Pheochromocytoma and reninoma represent two rare diseases causing hypertension. We here reported a rare case of association between type 2 multiple endocrine neoplasia related bilateral pheochromocytoma and reninoma. Moreover, polymorphism of ACE gene, which is known to be related to an increase of cardiovascular risk, has been found in the same patient. A 24 year old Caucasian man came to our attention for severe hypertension, resistant to anti-hypertensive polytherapy. At the age of twenty he had undergone total thyroidectomy with lymphadenectomy for medullary carcinoma. Genetic testing showed a RET mutation of codon 918 (exon 16) not documented in other family members. During the follow-up, a progressive increase of urinary metanephrines and catecholamines was recorded. Our evaluation confirmed the presence of severe hypertension (220/140 mmHg) and a severe increase of urinary catecholamines and metanephrines. Due to the presence of  hypokalemia , other causes of hypertension were researched leading to the discovery of hyperreninemia (236 μUI/ml) with mild hyperaldosteronism, and a mild increase of the renal artery resistance at ultrasound. An abdominal MRI showed multiple adrenal masses and a right kidney nodular lesion of about 2 cm. The patient underwent bilateral adrenalectomy and right nephrectomy, and histology confirmed the presence of bilateral pheochromocytoma and right reninoma. The post-surgery laboratory evaluation showed a rapid reduction of the urinary metanephrines while plasma renin level remained low in spite of the bilateral adrenalectomy without any mineralocorticoid supplementation. To further investigate these unusual feature, we performed genetic testing for the ACE gene, which revealed the presence of ACE I/D polymorphism. This unique report describes the association between two rare causes of hypertension in the same patient. Furthermore, the absence of requirement of mineralocorticoid supplementation in spite of bilateral adrenalectomy Temporary Decompression in Critically Ill Patients: Retrospective Comparison of Ileostomy and Colostomy. PubMed Lin, Zhi-Liang; Yu, Wen-Kui; Shi, Jia-Liang; Chen, Qi-Yi; Tan, Shan-Jun; Li, Ning 2014-05-01 In critically ill patients, gastrointestinal function plays an important role in multiple organ dysfunction syndrome. Patients suffering from acute lower gastrointestinal dysfunction need to be performed a temporary fecal diversion after the failure of conservative treatment. This study aims to determine which type of fecal diversion is associated with better clinical outcomes in critically ill patients. Data of critically ill patients requiring surgical decompression following acute lower gastrointestinal dysfunction between January 2008 and June 2013 were retrospectively analyzed. Comparison was made between ileostomy group and colostomy group regarding the stoma-related complications and the recovery after stoma creation. 63 patients consisted of temporary ileostomy group (n = 35) and temporary colostomy group (n = 28) were included in this study. First bowel movement and length of enteral nutrition intolerance after fecal diversion were both significantly shorter in the ileostomy group than in the colostomy group (1.70 ± 0.95 vs. 3.04 ± 1.40; p  <  0.001 and 3.96 ± 2.84 vs. 8.12 ± 7.05; p = 0.009). In comparison of the complication rates, we found a significantly higher incidence of dermatitis (31.43% vs. 7.14%; p = 0.017),  hypokalemia  (25.71 vs. 3.57; p = 0.017) and hypocalcemia (28.57 vs. 7.14; p = 0.031), and slightly lower incidence of stoma prolapse (0% vs. 10.71%; p = 0.082) in the ileostomy group than in the colostomy group. Both procedures provide an effective defunctioning of the distant gastrointestinal tract with a low complication incidence. We prefer a temporary ileostomy to temporary colostomy for acute lower gastrointestinal dysfunction in critically ill patients. Small cell carcinoma of the prostate presenting with Cushing Syndrome. A narrative review of an uncommon condition. PubMed Rueda-Camino, José Antonio; Losada-Vila, Beatriz; De Ancos-Aracil, Cristina Lucía; Rodríguez-Lajusticia, Laura; Tardío, Juan Carlos; Zapatero-Gaviria, Antonio 2016-01-01 Small cell carcinoma (SCC) of the prostate is an uncommon condition; there are very few cases in which presenting symptoms are consistent with Cushing Syndrome (CS). We report a new case in which CS triggers the suspicion of an SCC of the prostate and a review of the published cases of SCC of the prostate presenting with CS. The origin of these neoplasms is still unclear. It may be suspected when laboratory features appear in patients diagnosed with prostatic adenocarcinoma which becomes resistant to specific therapy. SCC usually occurs after the 6th decade. Patients suffering SCC of the prostate presenting with CS usually present symptoms such as hypertension, hyperglycemia, alkalosis or  hypokalemia ; cushingoid phenotype is less frequent. Cortisol and ACTH levels are often high. Prostatic-specific antigen levels are usually normal. CT scan is the preferred imaging test to localize the lesion, but its performance may be improved by adding other tests, such as FDG-PET scan. All patients have metastatic disease at the time of diagnosis. Lymph nodes, liver and bone are the most frequent metastases sites. Surgery and Ketokonazole are the preferred treatments for CS. The prognosis is very poor: 2- and 5-year survival rates are 27.5 and 14.3%, respectively. Key messages When a patient presents with ectopic Cushing Syndrome but lungs are normal, an atypical localization should be suspected. We should suspect a prostatic origin if Cushing Syndrome is accompanied by obstructive inferior urinary tract symptoms or in the setting of a prostatic adenocarcinoma with rapid clinical and radiological progression with relatively low PSA levels. Although no imaging test is preferred to localize these tumors, FDG-PET-TC can be very useful. Hormone marker scintigraphy (e.g. somatostatin) could be used too. As Cushing Syndrome is a paraneoplastic phenomenon, treatment of the underlying disease may help control hypercortisolism manifestations. These tumors are usually metastatic by the Successful long-term treatment of Cushing disease with mifepristone (RU486). PubMed Basina, Marina; Liu, Hau; Hoffman, Andrew R; Feldman, David 2012-01-01 We describe a girl with Cushing disease for whom surgery and radiation treatments failed and the subsequent clinical course with mifepristone therapy. We present the patient's clinical, biochemical, and imaging findings. A 16-year-old girl presented with classic Cushing disease. After transsphenoidal surgery, Cyberknife radiosurgery, ketoconazole, and metyrapone did not control her disease, and she was prescribed mifepristone, which was titrated to a maximal dosage of 1200 mg daily with subsequent symptom improvement. Mifepristone (RU486) is a high-affinity, nonselective antagonist of the glucocorticoid receptor. There is limited literature on its use as an off-label medication to treat refractory Cushing disease. Over her 8-year treatment with mifepristone, her therapy was complicated by hypertension and  hypokalemia  requiring spironolactone and potassium chloride. She received a 2-month drug holiday every 4 to 6 months to allow for withdrawal menstrual bleeding with medroxyprogesterone acetate. Urinary cortisol, serum cortisol, and corticotropin levels remained elevated during mifepristone drug holidays. While on mifepristone, her signs and symptoms of Cushing disease resolved. Repeated magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated stable appearance of the residual pituitary mass. Bilateral adrenalectomy was performed, and mifepristone was discontinued after 95 months of medical therapy. We describe the longest duration of mifepristone therapy thus reported for the treatment of refractory Cushing disease. Mifepristone effectively controlled all signs and symptoms of hypercortisolism. Menstruating women who take the drug on a long-term basis should receive periodic drug holidays to allow for menses. The lack of reliable serum biomarkers to monitor the success of mifepristone therapy requires careful clinical judgment and may make its use difficult in Cushing disease. Bartter and Gitelman syndromes: Spectrum of clinical manifestations caused by different mutations PubMed Central Al Shibli, Amar; Narchi, Hassib 2015-01-01 Bartter and Gitelman syndromes (BS and GS) are inherited disorders resulting in defects in renal tubular handling of sodium, potassium and chloride. Previously considered as genotypic and phenotypic heterogeneous diseases, recent evidence suggests that they constitute a spectrum of disease caused by different genetic mutations with the molecular defects of chloride reabsorption originating at different sites of the nephron in each condition. Although they share some characteristic metabolic abnormalities such as  hypokalemia , metabolic alkalosis, hyperplasia of the juxtaglomerular apparatus with hyperreninemia, hyperaldosteronism, the clinical and laboratory manifestations may not always allow distinction between them. Diuretics tests, measuring the changes in urinary fractional excretion of chloride from baseline after administration of either hydrochlorothiazide or furosemide show very little change ( <  2.3%) in the fractional excretion of chloride from baseline in GS when compared with BS, except when BS is associated with KCNJ1 mutations where a good response to both diuretics exists. The diuretic test is not recommended for infants or young children with suspected BS because of a higher risk of volume depletion in such children. Clinical symptoms and biochemical markers of GS and classic form of BS (type III) may overlap and thus genetic analysis may specify the real cause of symptoms. However, although genetic analysis is available, its use remains limited because of limited availability, large gene dimensions, lack of hot-spot mutations, heavy workup time and costs involved. Furthermore, considerable overlap exists between the different genotypes and phenotypes. Although BS and GS usually have distinct presentations and are associated with specific gene mutations, there remains considerable overlap between their phenotypes and genotypes. Thus, they are better described as a spectrum of clinical manifestations caused by different gene mutations. PMID:26140272 Clinical and Genetic Spectrum of Bartter Syndrome Type 3. PubMed Seys, Elsa; Andrini, Olga; Keck, Mathilde; Mansour-Hendili, Lamisse; Courand, Pierre-Yves; Simian, Christophe; Deschenes, Georges; Kwon, Theresa; Bertholet-Thomas, Aurélia; Bobrie, Guillaume; Borde, Jean Sébastien; Bourdat-Michel, Guylhène; Decramer, Stéphane; Cailliez, Mathilde; Krug, Pauline; Cozette, Paul; Delbet, Jean Daniel; Dubourg, Laurence; Chaveau, Dominique; Fila, Marc; Jourde-Chiche, Noémie; Knebelmann, Bertrand; Lavocat, Marie-Pierre; Lemoine, Sandrine; Djeddi, Djamal; Llanas, Brigitte; Louillet, Ferielle; Merieau, Elodie; Mileva, Maria; Mota-Vieira, Luisa; Mousson, Christiane; Nobili, François; Novo, Robert; Roussey-Kesler, Gwenaëlle; Vrillon, Isabelle; Walsh, Stephen B; Teulon, Jacques; Blanchard, Anne; Vargas-Poussou, Rosa 2017-08-01 Bartter syndrome type 3 is a clinically heterogeneous hereditary salt-losing tubulopathy caused by mutations of the chloride voltage-gated channel Kb gene ( CLCNKB ), which encodes the ClC-Kb chloride channel involved in NaCl reabsorption in the renal tubule. To study phenotype/genotype correlations, we performed genetic analyses by direct sequencing and multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification and retrospectively analyzed medical charts for 115 patients with CLCNKB mutations. Functional analyses were performed in Xenopus laevis oocytes for eight missense and two nonsense mutations. We detected 60 mutations, including 27 previously unreported mutations. Among patients, 29.5% had a phenotype of ante/neonatal Bartter syndrome (polyhydramnios or diagnosis in the first month of life), 44.5% had classic Bartter syndrome (diagnosis during childhood, hypercalciuria, and/or polyuria), and 26.0% had Gitelman-like syndrome (fortuitous discovery of  hypokalemia  with hypomagnesemia and/or hypocalciuria in childhood or adulthood). Nine of the ten mutations expressed in vitro decreased or abolished chloride conductance. Severe (large deletions, frameshift, nonsense, and essential splicing) and missense mutations resulting in poor residual conductance were associated with younger age at diagnosis. Electrolyte supplements and indomethacin were used frequently to induce catch-up growth, with few adverse effects. After a median follow-up of 8 (range, 1-41) years in 77 patients, chronic renal failure was detected in 19 patients (25%): one required hemodialysis and four underwent renal transplant. In summary, we report a genotype/phenotype correlation for Bartter syndrome type 3: complete loss-of-function mutations associated with younger age at diagnosis, and CKD was observed in all phenotypes. Copyright © 2017 by the American Society of Nephrology. Type IV neonatal Bartter syndrome complicated with congenital chloride diarrhea. PubMed Sakallı, Hale; Bucak, Hakan İbrahim 2012-01-01 Pseudo-Bartter syndrome encompasses a heterogenous group of disorders similar to Bartter syndrome. Sometimes a few status may be nested, as in our case presented here. An 8-month-old boy was referred to our hospital with of intractable diarrhea, polyuria, persistent  hypokalemia , abdominal distension and failure to thrive. He was born in the 34 6/7 gestational week (GW) to consanguineous parents. In the 30(th) GW polyhydramnios was verified by ultrasonography. The laboratory results showed hypokalemic-hypochloremic metabolic alkalosis, hyponatremia, and increased urinary loss of chloride, potassium and calcium. An audiogram test revealed complete sensorineural deafness. Ultrasonography revealed medullary nephrocalcinosis in both kidneys. Elevated plasma renin activity and aldosterone were found and a provisional diagnosis of type-IV neonatal Bartter syndrome was made. Treatment with indomethacin, spironolactone and additional intake of NaCl/KCl was initiated. Despite these therapies, the child's diarrhea persisted but serum potassium concentration normalized, and hypercalciuria and urine output reduced. After determining the high fecal chloride concentration, there was an immediate decompensation of the disease on indomethacin withdrawal, thus a diagnosis of type IV neonatal Bartter syndrome complicated with congenital chloride diarrhea was considered. Indomethacin, spironolactone and supplementary therapies with NaCl/KCl were continued, which resulted in the normalization of serum electrolytes as well as his physical development, but high contents of chloride in urine and faeces and nephrocalcinosis remains unchanged during 1-year follow-up. Because of the clinical and laboratory simulations between the various diseases that lead to hypokalemic-hypochloremic metabolic alkalosis, patients must be evaluated carefully. Novel Compound Heterozygous CLCNKB Gene Mutations (c.1755A>G/ c.848_850delTCT) Cause Classic Bartter Syndrome. PubMed Wang, Chunli; Chen, Ying; Zheng, Bixia; Zhu, Mengshu; Fan, Jia; Wang, Juejin; Jia, Zhanjun; Huang, Songming; Zhang, Aihua 2018-02-14 Inactivated variants in CLCNKB gene encoding the basolateral chloride channel ClC-Kb cause classic Bartter syndrome characterized by hypokalemic metabolic alkalosis and hyperreninemic hyperaldosteronism. Here we identified two cBS siblings presenting  hypokalemia  in a Chinese family due to novel compound heterozygous CLCNKB mutations (c.848_850delTCT/c.1755A>G). Compound heterozygosity was confirmed by amplifying and sequencing the patient's genomic DNA. The synonymous mutation c.1755A>G (Thr585Thr) was located at +2bp from the 5' splice donor site in exon 15, further transcript analysis demonstrated that this single nucleotide mutation causes exclusion of exon 15 in the cDNA from the proband and his mother. Furthermore, we investigated the expression and protein trafficking change of c.848_850delTCT (TCT) and exon 15 deletion（E15）mutation in vitro. The E15 mutation markedly decreased the expression of ClC-Kb and resulted in a low-molecular-weight band (~55kD) trapping in the endoplasmic reticulum, while the TCT mutant only decreased the total and plasma membrane ClC-Kb protein expression but did not affect the subcellular localization. Finally, we studied the physiological functions of mutations by using whole-cell patch clamp and found that E15 or TCT mutation decreased the current of ClC-Kb/barttin channel. These results suggested that the compound defective mutations of CLCNKB gene are the molecular mechanism of the two cBS siblings. Type IV neonatal Bartter syndrome complicated with congenital chloride diarrhea PubMed Central Sakallı, Hale; Bucak, Hakan İbrahim 2012-01-01 Summary Background: Pseudo-Bartter syndrome encompasses a heterogenous group of disorders similar to Bartter syndrome. Sometimes a few status may be nested, as in our case presented here. Case Report: An 8-month-old boy was referred to our hospital with of intractable diarrhea, polyuria, persistent  hypokalemia , abdominal distension and failure to thrive. He was born in the 34 6/7 gestational week (GW) to consanguineous parents. In the 30th GW polyhydramnios was verified by ultrasonography. The laboratory results showed hypokalemic-hypochloremic metabolic alkalosis, hyponatremia, and increased urinary loss of chloride, potassium and calcium. An audiogram test revealed complete sensorineural deafness. Ultrasonography revealed medullary nephrocalcinosis in both kidneys. Elevated plasma renin activity and aldosterone were found and a provisional diagnosis of type-IV neonatal Bartter syndrome was made. Treatment with indomethacin, spironolactone and additional intake of NaCl/KCl was initiated. Despite these therapies, the child’s diarrhea persisted but serum potassium concentration normalized, and hypercalciuria and urine output reduced. After determining the high fecal chloride concentration, there was an immediate decompensation of the disease on indomethacin withdrawal, thus a diagnosis of type IV neonatal Bartter syndrome complicated with congenital chloride diarrhea was considered. Indomethacin, spironolactone and supplementary therapies with NaCl/KCl were continued, which resulted in the normalization of serum electrolytes as well as his physical development, but high contents of chloride in urine and faeces and nephrocalcinosis remains unchanged during 1-year follow-up. Conclusions: Because of the clinical and laboratory simulations between the various diseases that lead to hypokalemic-hypochloremic metabolic alkalosis, patients must be evaluated carefully. PMID:23569535 Poor phenotype-genotype association in a large series of patients with Type III Bartter syndrome. PubMed García Castaño, Alejandro; Pérez de Nanclares, Gustavo; Madariaga, Leire; Aguirre, Mireia; Madrid, Álvaro; Chocrón, Sara; Nadal, Inmaculada; Navarro, Mercedes; Lucas, Elena; Fijo, Julia; Espino, Mar; Espitaletta, Zilac; García Nieto, Víctor; Barajas de Frutos, David; Loza, Reyner; Pintos, Guillem; Castaño, Luis; Ariceta, Gema 2017-01-01 Type III Bartter syndrome (BS) is an autosomal recessive renal tubule disorder caused by loss-of-function mutations in the CLCNKB gene, which encodes the chloride channel protein ClC-Kb. In this study, we carried out a complete clinical and genetic characterization in a cohort of 30 patients, one of the largest series described. By comparing with other published populations, and considering that 80% of our patients presented the p.Ala204Thr Spanish founder mutation presumably associated with a common phenotype, we aimed to test the hypothesis that allelic differences could explain the wide phenotypic variability observed in patients with type III BS. Clinical data were retrieved from the referral centers. The exon regions and flanking intronic sequences of the CLCNKB gene were screened for mutations by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) followed by direct Sanger sequencing. Presence of gross deletions or duplications in the region was checked for by MLPA and QMPSF analyses. Polyuria, polydipsia and dehydration were the main common symptoms. Metabolic alkalosis and  hypokalemia  of renal origin were detected in all patients at diagnosis. Calciuria levels were variable: hypercalciuria was detected in 31% of patients, while 23% had hypocalciuria. Nephrocalcinosis was diagnosed in 20% of the cohort. Two novel CLCNKB mutations were identified: a small homozygous deletion (c.753delG) in one patient and a small deletion (c.1026delC) in another. The latter was present in compound heterozygosis with the already previously described p.Glu442Gly mutation. No phenotypic association was obtained regarding the genotype. A poor correlation was found between a specific type of mutation in the CLCNKB gene and type III BS phenotype. Importantly, two CLCNKB mutations not previously described were found in our cohort. Phase I Study of Oxaliplatin and Irinotecan in Pediatric Patients with Refractory Solid Tumors: A Children’s Oncology Group Study PubMed Central McGregor, Lisa M.; Spunt, Sheri L.; Furman, Wayne L.; Stewart, Clinton F.; Schaiquevich, Paula; Krailo, Mark D.; Speights, RoseAnne; Ivy, Percy; Adamson, Peter C.; Blaney, Susan M. 2010-01-01 Background This study estimates the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and describes the toxicities of oxaliplatin combined with irinotecan in children with refractory solid tumors. Methods Oxaliplatin was administered on days 1 and 8 in combination with irinotecan on days 1–5 and 8–12 of a 21-day cycle. An oral cephalosporin was administered daily to ameliorate irinotecan-associated diarrhea. Pharmacokinetic studies of oxaliplatin and UGT1A1 genotyping were performed. Results Thirteen patients were enrolled. Dose-limiting diarrhea (n = 3), serum lipase elevation (n = 3), serum amylase elevation (n = 2), colitis, abdominal pain, and headache (n = 1 each) occurred at the first dose level (60 mg/m2/dose oxaliplatin; 20 mg/m2/dose irinotecan). Only 1 of 7 patients treated with reduced doses of both agents (40 mg/m2/dose oxaliplatin; 15 mg/m2/dose irinotecan) experienced a DLT, diarrhea. When the oxaliplatin dose was re-escalated (60 mg/m2) with irinotecan 15 mg/m2, 2 of 3 patients had DLT (1 diarrhea, 1  hypokalemia ). Myelosuppression was minimal. One patient had a complete response and another had stable disease for 6 cycles of therapy. The median oxaliplatin area under the concentration versus time curve (AUC0→∞) was 5.9 µ g·h/mL (range 1.8–7.6 µg·h/mL). The frequency of 6/6, 6/7, and 7/7 UGT1A1 promoter genotypes were 5/10, 4/10, and 1/10, respectively. Conclusion The oxaliplatin MTD was 40 mg/m2/dose on days 1 and 8 in combination with irinotecan 15 mg/m2/dose (days 1–5 and 8–12). There was some evidence of anti-tumor activity; however, severe toxicity, expected (diarrhea) and unexpected (elevation in pancreatic enzymes), was observed. PMID:19170226 Phase 1b study of orteronel in postmenopausal women with hormone-receptor positive (HR+) metastatic breast cancer PubMed Central Rampurwala, Murtuza; Wisinski, Kari B; Burkard, Mark E; Ehsani, Sima; O’Regan, Ruth M; Carmichael, Lakeesha; Kim, KyungMann; Kolesar, Jill; Tevaarwerk, Amye J 2017-01-01 Intro Suppressing both androgens and estrogens may circumvent hormone receptor resistance in breast cancer by reducing androgen receptor stimulation. Selective inhibition of the 17, 20-lyase enzyme by orteronel leads to decreased androgen production in men and would be anticipated to reduce estrogen and androgen production in women. Thus, we conducted a phase 1b study of orteronel in postmenopausal women with hormone-receptor positive (HR+) metastatic breast cancer. Methods The primary objective was to identify the recommended phase 2 dose (R2PD) of orteronel in women; escalation was via standard 3+3 design. The initial dose was 300 mg BID and escalated to 400 mg BID. Cycle length was 28 days. Enrolled patients had HR+ metastatic breast cancer and were evaluated every 8 weeks for disease progression. Results Eight heavily pre-treated women enrolled [median age: 57 yo (range 47–73)]. Four received 300 mg BID at dose level 1; 4 received 400 mg BID at dose level 2. No dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) were observed. Adverse events (AE) at least possibly related to orteronel included grade 1–2 nausea (n=4) and bone pain (n=3), and grade 1  hypokalemia , hot flashes, myalgia and AST elevation (n=2). The only grade 3 AE was hypertension (n=2) with 8 patients receiving 34 cycles of treatment. No objective responses were seen; clinical benefit was seen in 2 patients with stable disease for more than 6 months. Serum estrogens and testosterone were suppressed from baseline on both doses of orteronel. Conclusions Orteronel 400 mg BID is well tolerated in postmenopausal women, and significantly suppresses serum estrogens and testosterone. Clinical benefit was seen among heavily pretreated postmenopausal women with HR+ metastatic breast cancer. PMID:27826831 Drug safety of macrolide and quinolone antibiotics in a tertiary care hospital: administration of interacting co-medication and QT prolongation. PubMed Niedrig, David; Maechler, Sarah; Hoppe, Liesa; Corti, Natascia; Kovari, Helen; Russmann, Stefan 2016-07-01 Some macrolide and quinolone antibiotics (MQABs) are associated with QT prolongation and life-threatening torsade de pointes (TdP) arrhythmia. MQAB may also inhibit cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and thereby cause pharmacokinetic drug interactions (DDIs). There is limited data on the frequency and management of such risks in clinical practice. We aimed to quantify co-administration of MQAB with interacting drugs and associated adverse drug reactions. We conducted an observational study within our pharmacoepidemiological database derived from electronic medical records of a tertiary care hospital. Among all users of MQAB associated with TdP, we determined the prevalence of additional QT-prolonging drugs and risk factors and identified contraindicated co-administrations of simvastatin, atorvastatin, or tizanidine. Electrocardiographic (ECG) monitoring and associated adverse events were validated in medical records. Among 3444 administered courses of clarithromycin, erythromycin, azithromycin, ciprofloxacin, levofloxacin, or moxifloxacin, there were 1332 (38.7 %) with concomitant use of additional QT-prolonging drugs. Among those, we identified seven cases of drug-related QT prolongation, but 49.1 % had no ECG monitoring. Of all MQAB users, 547 (15.9 %) had  hypokalemia . Forty-four MQAB users had contraindicated co-administrations of simvastatin, atorvastatin, or tizanidine and three of those related adverse drug reactions. In the studied real-life setting, we found a considerable number of MQAB users with additional risk factors for TdP but no ECG monitoring. However, adverse drug reactions were rarely found, and costs vs. benefits of ECG monitoring have to be weighted. In contrast, avoidable risk factors and selected contraindicated pharmacokinetic interactions are clear targets for implementation as automated alerts in electronic prescribing systems. Association of transient hyperthyroidism and severity of hyperemesis gravidarum. PubMed Malek, Nor Zila Hassan; Kalok, Aida; Hanafiah, Zainal Abidin; Shah, Shamsul Azhar; Ismail, Nor Azlin Mohamed 2017-03-23 Background Transient non-immune hyperthyroidism in early pregnancy is hyperthyroidism diagnosed for the first time in early pregnancy, without evidence of thyroid autoimmunity or clinical findings of Grave's disease and resolved spontaneously as the pregnancy progressed. Hyperemesis gravidarum (HG) is the commonest cause with 66%-73% of women with severe HG were found to have elevated thyroid function. Materials and methods We conducted a cross sectional study to determine the prevalence of transient hyperthyroidism in patients with hyperemesis gravidarum and its relation to the severity of nausea and vomiting. Severity of nausea and vomiting in pregnancy was assessed using the modified pregnancy-unique quantification of emesis (PUQE) scoring system. Each patient had urine and blood investigations which also included a full blood count and thyroid and renal function tests. Patients with abnormal thyroid function were retested at 20 weeks of gestation. The patients' demographic data, electrolyte levels, thyroid function and their respective PUQE score were analyzed. Results The prevalence of transient hyperthyroidism in women with hyperemesis gravidarum was 4.8%. Although there was a significant association between the severity of the PUQE score and  hypokalemia  (p = 0.001), there was no significant association with transient hyperthyroidism in early pregnancy (p = 0.072). Free T4 and TSH values of all women with transient hyperthyroidism were normalized by 20 weeks of gestation. Conclusion Transient hyperthyroidism in pregnancy is not significantly associated with the severity of the PUQE score. Women with transient hyperthyroidism in pregnancy are normally clinically euthyroid, hence a routine thyroid function test is unnecessary unless they exhibit clinical signs or symptoms of hyperthyroidism. MANAGEMENT OF ENDOCRINE DISEASE: Management of Cushing's syndrome during pregnancy: solved and unsolved questions. PubMed Brue, Thierry; Amodru, Vincent; Castinetti, Frederic 2018-06-01 With fewer than 200 reported cases, Cushing's syndrome (CS) in pregnancy remains a diagnostic and therapeutic challenge. In normal pregnancies, misleading signs may be observed such as striae or  hypokalemia , while plasma cortisol and urinary free cortisol may rise up to 2- to 3-fold. While the dexamethasone suppression test is difficult to use, reference values for salivary cortisol appear valid. Apart from gestational hypertension, differential diagnosis includes pheochromocytoma and primary aldosteronism. The predominant cause is adrenal adenoma (sometimes without decreased ACTH), rather than Cushing's disease. There are considerable imaging pitfalls in Cushing's disease. Aberrant receptors may, in rare cases, lead to increased cortisol production during pregnancy in response to HCG, LHRH, glucagon, vasopressin or after a meal. Adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC) is rare and has poor prognosis. Active CS during pregnancy is associated with a high rate of maternal complications: hypertension or preeclampsia, diabetes, fractures; more rarely, cardiac failure, psychiatric disorders, infection and maternal death. Increased fetal morbidity includes prematurity, intrauterine growth retardation and less prevalently stillbirth, spontaneous abortion, intrauterine death and hypoadrenalism. Therapy is also challenging. Milder cases can be managed conservatively by controlling comorbidities. Pituitary or adrenal surgery should ideally be performed during the second trimester and patients should then be treated for adrenal insufficiency. Experience with anticortisolic drugs is limited. Metyrapone was found to allow control of hypercortisolism, with a risk of worsening hypertension. Cabergoline may be an alternative option. The use of other drugs is not advised because of potential teratogenicity and/or lack of information. Non-hormonal (mechanical) contraception is recommended until sustained biological remission is obtained. © 2018 European Society of Endocrinology. Pretreatment of enteral nutrition with sodium polystyrene sulfonate: effective, but beware the high prevalence of electrolyte derangements in clinical practice. PubMed Le Palma, Krisha; Pavlick, Elisha Rampolla; Copelovitch, Lawrence 2018-04-01 Current treatment options for chronic hyperkalemia in children with chronic kidney disease include dietary restrictions or enteral sodium polystyrene sulfonate (SPS); however, dietary restrictions may compromise adequate nutrition and enteral SPS may be limited by palatability, adverse effects and feeding tube obstruction. A potentially safer alternative is to pretreat enteral nutrition (EN) with SPS prior to consumption. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of pretreating EN with SPS in pediatric patients with hyperkalemia. We performed a retrospective cohort study between September 2012 and May 2016 at the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia. In all, 14 patients (age range 0.5-53.2 months) who received 19 courses of SPS pretreatment of EN were evaluated. Serum electrolytes were evaluated at baseline and within 1 week of initiating therapy. The primary endpoint was mean change in potassium at 7 days. Secondary endpoints included the mean change in serum sodium, chloride, bicarbonate, calcium, phosphorous and magnesium, as well as the percentage of patients who developed electrolyte abnormalities within the first week of treatment. Serum potassium levels decreased from 6.0 to 4.4 mmol/L (P  <  0.001) and serum sodium levels increased from 135.8 to 141.3 mmol/L (P = 0.008) 1 week after initiating SPS pretreatment. No significant differences in mean serum calcium or magnesium levels were noted. Nevertheless, more than half of the courses resulted in at least one electrolyte abnormality, with  hypokalemia  (31.6%), hypernatremia (26.3%) and hypocalcemia (21.1%) occurring most frequently. Pretreatment of EN with SPS is an effective method for treating chronic hyperkalemia in pediatric patients; however, close monitoring of electrolytes is warranted. A Phase I Study of Zoledronic Acid and Low Dose Cyclophosphamide in Recurrent/Refractory Neuroblastoma: A New Approaches to Neuroblastoma Therapy (NANT) Study PubMed Central Russell, Heidi V.; Groshen, Susan G.; Ara, Tasnim; DeClerck, Yves A.; Hawkins, Randy; Jackson, Hollie A.; Daldrup-Link, Heike E.; Marachelian, Araz; Skerjanec, Andrej; Park, Julie R.; Katzenstein, Howard; Matthay, Katherine K.; Blaney, Susan M.; Villablanca, Judith G. 2010-01-01 Background Zoledronic acid, a bisphosphonate, delays progression of bone metastases in adult malignancies. Bone is a common metastatic site of advanced neuroblastoma. We previously reported efficacy of zoledronic acid in a murine model of neuroblastoma bone invasion prompting this Phase I trial of zoledronic acid with cyclophosphamide in children with neuroblastoma and bone metastases. The primary objective was to determine recommended dosing of zoledronic acid for future trials. Procedure Escalating doses of intravenous zoledronic acid were given every 28 days with oral metronomic cyclophosphamide (25 mg/m2/day). Toxicity, response, zoledronic acid pharmacokinetics, bone turnover markers, serum IL-6, and sIL-6R were evaluated. Results Twenty-one patients, median age 7.5 (range 0.8 - 25.6) years were treated with 2 mg/m2 (n=4), 3 mg/m2 (n=3), or 4 mg/m2 (n=14) zoledronic acid. Fourteen patients were evaluable for dose escalation. A median of one (range 1-18) courses was given. Two dose limiting toxicities (Grade 3 hypophosphatemia) occurred at 4 mg/m2 zoledronic acid. Other Grade 3-4 toxicities included hypocalcemia (n=2), elevated transaminases (n=1), neutropenia (n=2), anemia (n=1), lymphopenia (n=1), and  hypokalemia  (n=1). Osteosclerosis contributed to fractures in one patient after 18 courses. Responses in evaluable patients included 1 partial response, 9 stable disease (median 4.5 courses, range 3-18), and 10 progressions. Zoledronic acid pharmacokinetics were similar to adults. Markers of osteoclast activity and serum IL-6 levels decreased with therapy. Conclusions Zoledronic acid with metronomic cyclophosphamide is well tolerated with clinical and biologic responses in recurrent/refractory neuroblastoma. The recommended dose of zoledronic acid is 4 mg/m2 every 28 days. PMID:21671363 Efficacy and Biological Correlates of Response in a Phase II Study of Venetoclax Monotherapy in Patients with Acute Myelogenous Leukemia. PubMed Konopleva, Marina; Pollyea, Daniel A; Potluri, Jalaja; Chyla, Brenda; Hogdal, Leah; Busman, Todd; McKeegan, Evelyn; Salem, Ahmed Hamed; Zhu, Ming; Ricker, Justin L; Blum, William; DiNardo, Courtney D; Kadia, Tapan; Dunbar, Martin; Kirby, Rachel; Falotico, Nancy; Leverson, Joel; Humerickhouse, Rod; Mabry, Mack; Stone, Richard; Kantarjian, Hagop; Letai, Anthony 2016-10-01 We present a phase II, single-arm study evaluating 800 mg daily venetoclax, a highly selective, oral small-molecule B-cell leukemia/lymphoma-2 (BCL2) inhibitor in patients with high-risk relapsed/refractory acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) or unfit for intensive chemotherapy. Responses were evaluated following revised International Working Group (IWG) criteria. The overall response rate was 19%; an additional 19% of patients demonstrated antileukemic activity not meeting IWG criteria (partial bone marrow response and incomplete hematologic recovery). Twelve (38%) patients had isocitrate dehydrogenase 1/2 mutations, of whom 4 (33%) achieved complete response or complete response with incomplete blood count recovery. Six (19%) patients had BCL2-sensitive protein index at screening, which correlated with time on study. BH3 profiling was consistent with on-target BCL2 inhibition and identified potential resistance mechanisms. Common adverse events included nausea, diarrhea and vomiting (all grades), and febrile neutropenia and  hypokalemia  (grade 3/4). Venetoclax demonstrated activity and acceptable tolerability in patients with AML and adverse features. Venetoclax monotherapy demonstrated clinical activity in patients with AML (relapsed/refractory or unfit for intensive chemotherapy) with a tolerable safety profile in this phase II study. Predictive markers of response consistent with BCL2 dependence were identified. Clinical and preclinical findings provide a compelling rationale to evaluate venetoclax combined with other agents in AML. Cancer Discov; 6(10); 1106-17. ©2016 AACRSee related commentary by Pullarkat and Newman, p. 1082This article is highlighted in the In This Issue feature, p. 1069. ©2016 American Association for Cancer Research. Ectopic Cushing syndrome: Report of 9 cases. PubMed Araujo Castro, Marta; Palacios García, Nuria; Aller Pardo, Javier; Izquierdo Alvarez, Cristina; Armengod Grao, Laura; Estrada García, Javier 2018-05-01 Ectopic Cushing's syndrome (ECS) is a rare condition caused by ACTH secretion by extrapituitary tumors. Its low frequency makes it difficult to acquire experience in its management. The aim of this study was to describe patients with ECS seen at the endocrinology department of a tertiary hospital over 15 years. This was a retrospective study of the clinical, biochemical and radiographic data, treatment, and course of patients with ECS seen from 2000 to 2015. Nine patients (6 of them female) with a mean age of 47 years were included in the study. The clinical syndrome developed in less than 3 months in all cases but one, and most patients also had edema, hyperpigmentation and/or  hypokalemia . Mean urinary free cortisol and ACTH levels were 2,840μg/24h and 204pg/mL respectively. The ectopic origin was confirmed by a combination of dynamic non-invasive tests and radiographic studies in most cases. The tumor responsible could be identified in 8 cases, and 7 patients had metastatic dissemination. Primary treatment was surgery in one patient, surgery combined with systemic therapy in 3, and chemotherapy in the other 3 patients. Bilateral adrenalectomy was required in 4 patients to control hypercortisolism. After a mean follow-up of 40 months, 3 patients died, 5 were still alive, and one had been lost to follow-up. Our study confirms that ECS covers a wide spectrum of tumors of different aggressiveness and nature. The ectopic origin of Cushing's syndrome can usually, be suspected and confirmed in most cases without the need for invasive tests. Control of both hypercortisolism and the tumor requires multiple treatment modalities, and multidisciplinary management is recommended. Copyright © 2018 SEEN y SED. Publicado por Elsevier España, S.L.U. All rights reserved. Clinical presentation and management of severe Ebola virus disease. PubMed West, T Eoin; von Saint André-von Arnim, Amélie 2014-11-01 Clinicians caring for patients infected with Ebola virus must be familiar not only with screening and infection control measures but also with management of severe disease. By integrating experience from several Ebola epidemics with best practices for managing critical illness, this report focuses on the clinical presentation and management of severely ill infants, children, and adults with Ebola virus disease. Fever, fatigue, vomiting, diarrhea, and anorexia are the most common symptoms of the 2014 West African outbreak. Profound fluid losses from the gastrointestinal tract result in volume depletion, metabolic abnormalities (including hyponatremia,  hypokalemia , and hypocalcemia), shock, and organ failure. Overt hemorrhage occurs infrequently. The case fatality rate in West Africa is at least 70%, and individuals with respiratory, neurological, or hemorrhagic symptoms have a higher risk of death. There is no proven antiviral agent to treat Ebola virus disease, although several experimental treatments may be considered. Even in the absence of antiviral therapies, intensive supportive care has the potential to markedly blunt the high case fatality rate reported to date. Optimal treatment requires conscientious correction of fluid and electrolyte losses. Additional management considerations include searching for coinfection or superinfection; treatment of shock (with intravenous fluids and vasoactive agents), acute kidney injury (with renal replacement therapy), and respiratory failure (with invasive mechanical ventilation); provision of nutrition support, pain and anxiety control, and psychosocial support; and the use of strategies to reduce complications of critical illness. Cardiopulmonary resuscitation may be appropriate in certain circumstances, but extracorporeal life support is not advised. Among other ethical issues, patients' medical needs must be carefully weighed against healthcare worker safety and infection control concerns. However, meticulous attention Health effects of desalinated water: Role of electrolyte disturbance in cancer development SciTech Connect Nriagu, Jerome, E-mail: jnriagu@umich.edu This review contends that “healthy” water in terms of electrolyte balance is as important as “pure” water in promoting public health. It considers the growing use of desalination (demineralization) technologies in drinking water treatment which often results in tap water with very low concentrations of sodium, potassium, magnesium and calcium. Ingestion of such water can lead to electrolyte abnormalities marked by hyponatremia,  hypokalemia , hypomagnesemia and hypocalcemia which are among the most common and recognizable features in cancer patients. The causal relationships between exposure to demineralized water and malignancies are poorly understood. This review highlights some of the epidemiological and inmore » vivo evidence that link dysregulated electrolyte metabolism with carcinogenesis and the development of cancer hallmarks. It discusses how ingestion of demineralized water can have a procarcinogenic effect through mediating some of the critical pathways and processes in the cancer microenvironment such as angiogenesis, genomic instability, resistance to programmed cell death, sustained proliferative signaling, cell immortalization and tumorigenic inflammation. Evidence that hypoosmotic stress-response processes can upregulate a number of potential oncogenes is well supported by a number studies. In view of the rising production and consumption of demineralized water in most parts of the world, there is a strong need for further research on the biological importance and protean roles of electrolyte abnormalities in promoting, antagonizing or otherwise enabling the development of cancer. The countries of the Gulf Cooperative Council (GCC) where most people consume desalinated water would be a logical place to start this research. - Highlights: • Ingestion of low-mineral waters disrupts electrolyte homeostasis and cellular processes. • Electrolyte imbalance can affect the tumor microenvironment and many stages of tumorigenesis. • Electrolyte Lower-Extremity Weakness in a Teenager Due to Thyrotoxic Periodic Paralysis. PubMed Thornton, Matthew D 2017-04-01 Thyrotoxic hypokalemic paralysis is the hallmark of thyrotoxic periodic paralysis (TPP). TPP is a potentially deadly complication of hyperthyroidism that occurs because of rapid and dramatic intracellular shift of potassium. This transference results in severe  hypokalemia  and clinically manifests itself as muscle weakness or paralysis. This condition predominantly affects males of Asian descent, and its presentation can range from mild to severe, as seen in our case. We present the case of a 15-year-old Asian-American male who presented to a tertiary-care pediatric emergency department complaining of generalized weakness and flaccid paralysis of his lower extremities. The differential for such a complaint is extremely broad, and the symptoms can result from etiologies arising from the cerebral cortex, the spinal cord, peripheral nerves, the neuromuscular junction, or even the muscles themselves. Our patient was found to have an extremely low serum potassium concentration, as well as an electrocardiogram that revealed a prolonged QT interval and right bundle branch block. The etiology of these abnormalities and the patient's symptoms was found to be undiagnosed and uncontrolled hyperthyroidism from Grave's disease, which resulted in this dramatic presentation of thyrotoxic hypokalemic paralysis. WHY SHOULD AN EMERGENCY PHYSICIAN BE AWARE OF THIS?: This entity is common in Asia but still somewhat rare in the United States and other Western countries. Our case illustrates that careful history taking and a focused diagnostic evaluation, in conjunction with having an awareness of this disease, can help expedite diagnosis and management, as well as avoid unnecessary and potential harmful testing in the emergency department setting. Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved. Phase I Trial of M7824 (MSB0011359C), a Bifunctional Fusion Protein Targeting PD-L1 and TGFβ, in Advanced Solid Tumors. PubMed Strauss, Julius; Heery, Christopher R; Schlom, Jeffrey; Madan, Ravi A; Cao, Liang; Kang, Zhigang; Lamping, Elizabeth; Marté, Jennifer L; Donahue, Renee N; Grenga, Italia; Cordes, Lisa; Christensen, Olaf; Mahnke, Lisa; Helwig, Christoph; Gulley, James L 2018-03-15 Purpose: M7824 (MSB0011359C) is an innovative first-in-class bifunctional fusion protein composed of a mAb against programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1) fused to a TGFβ "trap." Experimental Design: In the 3+3 dose-escalation component of this phase I study (NCT02517398), eligible patients with advanced solid tumors received M7824 at 1, 3, 10, or 20 mg/kg once every 2 weeks until confirmed progression, unacceptable toxicity, or trial withdrawal; in addition, a cohort received an initial 0.3 mg/kg dose to evaluate pharmacokinetics/pharmacodynamics, followed by 10 mg/kg dosing. The primary objective is to determine the safety and maximum tolerated dose (MTD); secondary objectives include pharmacokinetics, immunogenicity, and best overall response. Results: Nineteen heavily pretreated patients with ECOG 0-1 have received M7824. Grade ≥3 treatment-related adverse events occurred in four patients (skin infection secondary to localized bullous pemphigoid, asymptomatic lipase increase, colitis with associated anemia, and gastroparesis with  hypokalemia ). The MTD was not reached. M7824 saturated peripheral PD-L1 and sequestered any released plasma TGFβ1, -β2, and -β3 throughout the dosing period at >1 mg/kg. There were signs of efficacy across all dose levels, including one ongoing confirmed complete response (cervical cancer), two durable confirmed partial responses (PR; pancreatic cancer; anal cancer), one near-PR (cervical cancer), and two cases of prolonged stable disease in patients with growing disease at study entry (pancreatic cancer; carcinoid). Conclusions: M7824 has a manageable safety profile in patients with heavily pretreated advanced solid tumors. Early signs of efficacy are encouraging, and multiple expansion cohorts are ongoing in a range of tumors. Clin Cancer Res; 24(6); 1287-95. ©2018 AACR . ©2018 American Association for Cancer Research. The ClC-K2 Chloride Channel Is Critical for Salt Handling in the Distal Nephron. PubMed Hennings, J Christopher; Andrini, Olga; Picard, Nicolas; Paulais, Marc; Huebner, Antje K; Cayuqueo, Irma Karen Lopez; Bignon, Yohan; Keck, Mathilde; Cornière, Nicolas; Böhm, David; Jentsch, Thomas J; Chambrey, Régine; Teulon, Jacques; Hübner, Christian A; Eladari, Dominique 2017-01-01 Chloride transport by the renal tubule is critical for blood pressure (BP), acid-base, and potassium homeostasis. Chloride uptake from the urinary fluid is mediated by various apical transporters, whereas basolateral chloride exit is thought to be mediated by ClC-Ka/K1 and ClC-Kb/K2, two chloride channels from the ClC family, or by KCl cotransporters from the SLC12 gene family. Nevertheless, the localization and role of ClC-K channels is not fully resolved. Because inactivating mutations in ClC-Kb/K2 cause Bartter syndrome, a disease that mimics the effects of the loop diuretic furosemide, ClC-Kb/K2 is assumed to have a critical role in salt handling by the thick ascending limb. To dissect the role of this channel in detail, we generated a mouse model with a targeted disruption of the murine ortholog ClC-K2. Mutant mice developed a Bartter syndrome phenotype, characterized by renal salt loss, marked  hypokalemia , and metabolic alkalosis. Patch-clamp analysis of tubules isolated from knockout (KO) mice suggested that ClC-K2 is the main basolateral chloride channel in the thick ascending limb and in the aldosterone-sensitive distal nephron. Accordingly, ClC-K2 KO mice did not exhibit the natriuretic response to furosemide and exhibited a severely blunted response to thiazide. We conclude that ClC-Kb/K2 is critical for salt absorption not only by the thick ascending limb, but also by the distal convoluted tubule. Copyright © 2016 by the American Society of Nephrology. The ClC-K2 Chloride Channel Is Critical for Salt Handling in the Distal Nephron PubMed Central Hennings, J. Christopher; Andrini, Olga; Picard, Nicolas; Paulais, Marc; Huebner, Antje K.; Cayuqueo, Irma Karen Lopez; Bignon, Yohan; Keck, Mathilde; Cornière, Nicolas; Böhm, David; Jentsch, Thomas J.; Chambrey, Régine; Hübner, Christian A. 2017-01-01 Chloride transport by the renal tubule is critical for blood pressure (BP), acid-base, and potassium homeostasis. Chloride uptake from the urinary fluid is mediated by various apical transporters, whereas basolateral chloride exit is thought to be mediated by ClC-Ka/K1 and ClC-Kb/K2, two chloride channels from the ClC family, or by KCl cotransporters from the SLC12 gene family. Nevertheless, the localization and role of ClC-K channels is not fully resolved. Because inactivating mutations in ClC-Kb/K2 cause Bartter syndrome, a disease that mimics the effects of the loop diuretic furosemide, ClC-Kb/K2 is assumed to have a critical role in salt handling by the thick ascending limb. To dissect the role of this channel in detail, we generated a mouse model with a targeted disruption of the murine ortholog ClC-K2. Mutant mice developed a Bartter syndrome phenotype, characterized by renal salt loss, marked  hypokalemia , and metabolic alkalosis. Patch-clamp analysis of tubules isolated from knockout (KO) mice suggested that ClC-K2 is the main basolateral chloride channel in the thick ascending limb and in the aldosterone-sensitive distal nephron. Accordingly, ClC-K2 KO mice did not exhibit the natriuretic response to furosemide and exhibited a severely blunted response to thiazide. We conclude that ClC-Kb/K2 is critical for salt absorption not only by the thick ascending limb, but also by the distal convoluted tubule. PMID:27335120 Ketogenic diet using a Japanese ketogenic milk for patients with epilepsy: A multi-institutional study. PubMed Kumada, Tomohiro; Imai, Katsumi; Takahashi, Yukitoshi; Nabatame, Shin; Oguni, Hirokazu 2018-03-01 In Japan, Meiji 817-B (M817-B), a powdered ketogenic milk, has been available since the ketogenic diet was introduced to infants and tube-fed children with medication-resistant epilepsy in the 1980s. We retrospectively evaluated the efficacy, tolerability, and side effects of the ketogenic diet using M817-B as the main source of daily food intake for patients with epilepsy by sending questionnaires to the members of a subcommittee of the Japan Epilepsy Society that focuses on the proper use of M817-B. A total of 42 patients were enrolled. Age at the initiation of the diet therapy ranged from 3 to 244 months (median, 32.5 months). Thirty-four patients were fed via tube, and the remaining 8 were fed orally. About 93% of patients were able to continue the diet for 1 month, 74% for 3 months, and 64% for 6 months. The median period of continuation was 16 months. One patient was able to continue as long as 7 years. The ketogenic ratio was maintained at about 3.0. The seizure-free rate and responder (>50% seizure reduction) rate were about 10% and 30-40%, respectively during the 12 months on the diet. Mean serum beta-hydroxybutyrate increased to almost 4 mM at 1 month and was maintained during the diet period. Side effects, which required discontinuation of the diet therapy, occurred in 11 of 42 patients and included hypertonia, weight loss, vomiting, hypoglycemia, metabolic acidosis, and  hypokalemia . M817-B could be used long-term with demonstrated efficacy in seizure reduction, although there are some side effects that may require cessation of the diet therapy. Copyright © 2017 The Japanese Society of Child Neurology. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. Urbanization of Scrub Typhus Disease in South Korea PubMed Central Park, Sang-Won; Ha, Na-Young; Ryu, Boyeong; Bang, Ji Hwan; Song, Hoyeon; Kim, Yuri; Kim, Gwanghun; Oh, Myoung-don; Cho, Nam-Hyuk; Lee, Jong-koo 2015-01-01 Background Scrub typhus is an endemic disease in Asia. It has been a rural disease, but indigenous urban cases have been observed in Seoul, South Korea. Urban scrub typhus may have a significant impact because of the large population. Methods Indigenous urban scrub typhus was epidemiologically identified in Seoul, the largest metropolitan city in South Korea, using national notifiable disease data from 2010 to 2013. For detailed analysis of clinical features, patients from one hospital that reported the majority of cases were selected and compared to a historic control group. Chigger mites were prospectively collected in the city using a direct chigger mite-collecting trap, and identified using both phenotypic and 18S rDNA sequencing analyses. Their infection with Orientia tsutsugamushi was confirmed by sequencing the 56-kDa antigen gene. Results Eighty-eight cases of urban scrub typhus were determined in Seoul. The possible sites of infection were mountainous areas (56.8%), city parks (20.5%), the vicinity of one’s own residence (17.0%), and riversides (5.7%). Eighty-seven chigger mites were collected in Gwanak mountain, one of the suspected infection sites in southern Seoul, and seventy-six (87.4%) of them were identified as Helenicula miyagawai and eight (9.2%) as Leptotrombidium scutellare. Pooled DNA extracted from H. miyagawai mites yielded O. tsutsugamushi Boryong strain. Twenty-six patients from one hospital showed low APACHE II score (3.4 ± 2.7), low complication rate (3.8%), and no  hypokalemia . Conclusions We identified the presence of indigenous urban scrub typhus in Seoul, and a subgroup of them had mild clinical features. The chigger mite H. miyagawai infected with O. tsutsugamushi within the city was found. In endemic area, urban scrub typhus needs to be considered as one of the differential febrile diseases and a target for prevention. PMID:26000454 A phase 1 study of the CXCR4 antagonist plerixafor in combination with high-dose cytarabine and etoposide in children with relapsed or refractory acute leukemias or myelodysplastic syndrome: A Pediatric Oncology Experimental Therapeutics Investigators' Consortium study (POE 10-03). PubMed Cooper, Todd M; Sison, Edward Allan Racela; Baker, Sharyn D; Li, Lie; Ahmed, Amina; Trippett, Tanya; Gore, Lia; Macy, Margaret E; Narendran, Aru; August, Keith; Absalon, Michael J; Boklan, Jessica; Pollard, Jessica; Magoon, Daniel; Brown, Patrick A 2017-08-01 Plerixafor, a reversible CXCR4 antagonist, inhibits interactions between leukemic blasts and the bone marrow stromal microenvironment and may enhance chemosensitivity. A phase 1 trial of plerixafor in combination with intensive chemotherapy in children and young adults with relapsed or refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), acute myeloid leukemia (AML), and myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) was performed to determine a tolerable and biologically active dose. Plerixafor was administered daily for 5 days at four dose levels (6, 9, 12, and 15 mg/m 2 /dose) followed 4 hr later by high-dose cytarabine (every 12 hr) and etoposide (daily). Nineteen patients (13 with AML, 5 with ALL, 1 with MDS) were treated. The most common grade 3 or greater nonhematologic toxicities attributable to plerixafor were febrile neutropenia and  hypokalemia . There were no dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs). Plerixafor exposure increased with increasing dose levels and clearance was similar on days 1 and 5. Eighteen patients were evaluable for response. Two patients achieved complete remission (CR) and one patient achieved CR with incomplete hematologic recovery (CRi): all three had AML. No responses were seen in patients with ALL or MDS. Plerixafor mobilized leukemic blasts into the peripheral blood in 14 of 16 evaluable patients (median 3.4-fold increase), and the degree of mobilization correlated with surface CXCR4 expression. Plerixafor, in combination with high-dose cytarabine and etoposide, was well tolerated in children and young adults with relapsed/refractory acute leukemias and MDS. While biologic responses were observed, clinical responses in this heavily pretreated cohort were modest. © 2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Chronic glue sniffing with transient central hypothyroidism and hypergonadotropism. PubMed Chen, Hua-Fen; Chen, Shwe-Winn; Chen, Peter; Su, Mei-Chin; See, Ting-Ting; Lee, Hsin-Yu 2003-12-01 Neuropsychiatric, gastrointestinal and muscular disorders associated with glue sniffing have been widely reported, but endocrinologic abnormalities of glue exposure are rarely mentioned in the literature. We report a 26-year old male patient, a chronic glue sniffer, who presented with weakness of both lower limbs. On physical examination, he had reduced muscle strength of his 4 limbs, especially in his lower limbs. Laboratory examination revealed  hypokalemia  with hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis. His thyroid function showed low TSH, T4, T3, free T4 and reverse T3 level. Other pituitary functions were normal apart from high FSH and LH level. TSH response to TRH stimulation was normal, but there was impaired T3 response to TRH. MRI of pituitary showed no significant changes. He continued glue sniffing after discharge. He repeatedly came to our hospital for recurrent hypokalemic paralysis. His serum T4 and free T4 level were low when he had certain amount of glue sniffing and it returned to normal after he stopped sniffing or sniffed less amount of glue. His serum T3 concentrations were normal most of the times thereafter. His FSH and LH level were persistently elevated, even after he did not sniff glue for 2 weeks. Low free T4, TSH and reverse T3 level associated with glue sniffing in our patient were compatible with central hypothyroidism. Toluene, a neurotoxic organic solvent, is present in glues. Being highly lipophilic, it can easily enter and is retained within the lipid-rich nervous system after being inhaled. Like other organic solvents, toluene has been shown to affect dopaminergic and adrenergic turnover within various parts of the brain. The effects on these neurotransmitters could lead to abnormal secretion of pituitary hormones resulting in transient central hypothyroidism and abnormal gonadotropin levels. Long-term harmful effect of central hypothyroidism and chronic influence of abnormal gonadotropins to reproduction function needs further observation. Leptospirosis Renal Disease: Emerging Culprit of Chronic Kidney Disease Unknown Etiology. PubMed Yang, Chih-Wei 2018-01-01 Leptospirosis is the most prevalent zoonosis affecting more than 1 million populations worldwide. Interestingly, leptospirosis endemic regions coincide with chronic kidney disease (CKD) hotspots largely due to flooding and agricultural overlaps. Acute leptospirosis induces multiple organ dysfunction including acute kidney injury and may predispose to CKD and end-stage renal disease, if not treated timely. Asymptomatic infection may carry the bacteria in the kidney and CKD progresses insidiously. Histologic finding of leptospirosis renal disease includes tubulointerstitial nephritis, interstitial fibrosis, and tubular atrophy. Proximal tubule dysfunction and  hypokalemia  are observed in adult male workers with leptospirosis, a characteristic similarity to CKD unknown etiology (CKDu). CKDu is a form of CKD that is not attributable to traditional risk factors clustering in agricultural communities affecting young male farmers. Kidney pathology shows a chronic tubulointerstitial disease. CKDu is being reported as an endemic nephropathy across the globe. Recent surveys suggest that asymptomatic leptospira renal colonization is an overlooked risk for renal fibrosis and CKDu. Population with anti-leptospira seropositivity is associated with lower estimated glomerular filtration rate in endemic regions and carrier may progress to CKD. Leptospirosis has been considered as a risk factor for CKDu in Sri Lanka and in Mesoamerican area. Sugarcane workers in Nicaragua showed increased anti-leptospira seropositivity and higher urinary biomarkers for kidney injury. Emerging evidence with signs of infection were reported in these endemic population, indicating that leptospira exposure could play a role in CKDu as a cause of primary kidney disease or a susceptible factor when secondary injury such as heat stress or dehydration aggravates kidney disease. Therefore, leptospirosis as an emerging culprit of CKDu deserves further in-depth investigation. © 2017 S. Karger AG, Basel. Thiazide diuretics in the treatment of hypertension: an update. PubMed Salvetti, Antonio; Ghiadoni, Lorenzo 2006-04-01 Thiazide diuretics were the first tolerated efficient antihypertensive drugs that significantly reduced cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in placebo-controlled clinical studies. Although these drugs today still are considered a fundamental therapeutic tool for the treatment of hypertensive patients, the following considerations should be taken into account. Although there are some indications that chlorthalidone can offer additional advantages as compared with other compounds, a recent meta-analysis of placebo-controlled trials suggested that the beneficial effects of thiazide diuretics could be a class effect. Thiazide diuretics must be used at appropriate and/or optimal doses to achieve the optimal antihypertensive effect with the smallest occurrence of side effects, including alterations in glucose and lipid profiles and  hypokalemia . Moreover, because thiazide diuretics can increase the incidence of new-onset diabetes, especially when combined with beta blockers, caution is advised in using these drugs above all in patients who are at high risk for developing diabetes, in whom thiazide diuretics should be used at the lowest active dose and possibly in combination with drugs that block the renin-angiotensin system. Finally, the current debate on whether thiazide diuretics are the first-choice drug for most patients with uncomplicated hypertension, as stated in the Seventh Joint National Committee Report, or are included in the major classes of antihypertensive agents that are suitable for initiation and maintenance of therapy, as reported in the European Society of Hypertension-European Society of Cardiology Guidelines, derives from different interpretations of controlled clinical trial data on drug class comparison and of cost-benefit analyses. However, considering that the benefit of antihypertensive drugs seems to be due principally to BP lowering per se without definitive evidence of the superiority of a particular drug class and that there is no cost Anti-Rhodotorula activity of mycophenolic acid enhanced in the presence of polyene antibiotic nystatin. PubMed Kinoshita, H; Wongsuntornpoj, S; Ihara, F; Nihira, T 2017-02-01 Rhodotorula species are opportunistic pathogens, which cause not only systemic fungaemia but also other localized infections. Despite serious side effects such as nephrotoxicity and  hypokalemia , amphotericin B (a polyene antifungal) has been commonly prescribed for Rhodotorula infection because Rhodotorula species are resistant against a candin family of antifungal agents. In this study, novel active compounds against Rhodotorula species were screened from the extracts of entomopathogenic fungi based on the synergistic effect of polyene nystatin (NYS), which causes efficient targeting of compounds due to increased permeability through the fungal cell membrane. Around 37% of culture extracts from 31 entomopathogenic fungal strains showed anti-Rhodotorula activity in the synergistic bioassay system, suggesting that the coexistence assay with NYS enhanced the discovery of anti-Rhodotorula compounds. Judging from various physicochemical data, the active component from strain HF763 was identified as an immunosuppressant drug, mycophenolic acid (MPA). The minimum inhibitory concentration of MPA against three pathogenic Rhodotorula strains was determined, focusing on the synergistic effect with NYS. The results revealed that the values decreased by at least 87% in the presence of NYS, indicating that MPA showed a synergistic effect with NYS. This study aimed to screen active compounds against Rhodotorula species that are resistant to a candin family of antifungal agents, from entomopathogenic fungi. Assuming that most of the latent antifungal compounds do not exert their activity due to their inability to penetrate the membrane, we took advantage of polyene nystatin in the screening to increase permeability through the fungal cell membrane. The result of the screening revealed hidden antifungal activity of mycophenolic acid, demonstrating that the method applied in this study unlocks the potentials of bioresources, and proposes a new remedy for mycosis. © 2016 The Abiraterone and increased survival in metastatic prostate cancer. PubMed de Bono, Johann S; Logothetis, Christopher J; Molina, Arturo; Fizazi, Karim; North, Scott; Chu, Luis; Chi, Kim N; Jones, Robert J; Goodman, Oscar B; Saad, Fred; Staffurth, John N; Mainwaring, Paul; Harland, Stephen; Flaig, Thomas W; Hutson, Thomas E; Cheng, Tina; Patterson, Helen; Hainsworth, John D; Ryan, Charles J; Sternberg, Cora N; Ellard, Susan L; Fléchon, Aude; Saleh, Mansoor; Scholz, Mark; Efstathiou, Eleni; Zivi, Andrea; Bianchini, Diletta; Loriot, Yohann; Chieffo, Nicole; Kheoh, Thian; Haqq, Christopher M; Scher, Howard I 2011-05-26 Biosynthesis of extragonadal androgen may contribute to the progression of castration-resistant prostate cancer. We evaluated whether abiraterone acetate, an inhibitor of androgen biosynthesis, prolongs overall survival among patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer who have received chemotherapy. We randomly assigned, in a 2:1 ratio, 1195 patients who had previously received docetaxel to receive 5 mg of prednisone twice daily with either 1000 mg of abiraterone acetate (797 patients) or placebo (398 patients). The primary end point was overall survival. The secondary end points included time to prostate-specific antigen (PSA) progression (elevation in the PSA level according to prespecified criteria), progression-free survival according to radiologic findings based on prespecified criteria, and the PSA response rate. After a median follow-up of 12.8 months, overall survival was longer in the abiraterone acetate-prednisone group than in the placebo-prednisone group (14.8 months vs. 10.9 months; hazard ratio, 0.65; 95% confidence interval, 0.54 to 0.77; P < 0.001). Data were unblinded at the interim analysis, since these results exceeded the preplanned criteria for study termination. All secondary end points, including time to PSA progression (10.2 vs. 6.6 months; P < 0.001), progression-free survival (5.6 months vs. 3.6 months; P < 0.001), and PSA response rate (29% vs. 6%, P < 0.001), favored the treatment group. Mineralocorticoid-related adverse events, including fluid retention, hypertension, and  hypokalemia , were more frequently reported in the abiraterone acetate-prednisone group than in the placebo-prednisone group. The inhibition of androgen biosynthesis by abiraterone acetate prolonged overall survival among patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer who previously received chemotherapy. (Funded by Cougar Biotechnology; COU-AA-301 ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00638690.). Safety of a 1-Day Polyethylene Glycol 3350 Bowel Preparation for Colonoscopy in Children. PubMed Sahn, Benjamin; Chen-Lim, Mei Lin; Ciavardone, Denise; Farace, Lisa; Jannelli, Frances; Nieberle, Megan; Ely, Elizabeth; Zhang, Xuemei; Kelsen, Judith; Puma, Anita; Mamula, Petar 2016-07-01 Electrolyte-free polyethylene glycol powder (PEG-3350) has been widely used for colonoscopy preparation (prep); however, limited safety data on electrolyte changes exists with 1-day prep regimens. The primary aim of this study was to determine the proportion of patients with significant serum chemistry abnormalities before and at the time of colonoscopy. Secondary aims included evaluation of prep tolerance and bowel cleansing efficacy. We performed a prospective descriptive observational study of pediatric patients scheduled for outpatient colonoscopy who received our standard 1-day, weight-based 4 g/kg PEG-3350 prep with a single stimulant laxative dose and had serum chemistry testing within 60 days before and at the time of colonoscopy. A standardized bowel cleanliness tool (Aronchick scale) was completed by the endoscopist. One hundred fifty-five patients had serum electrolytes data pre- and postprep. Comparison of each patient's chemistries demonstrated statistical equivalence with the 1 exception of blood urea nitrogen levels (P = 0.56).  Hypokalemia  was detected postprep in 37 subjects (24%), but none had a serum level  < 3.3 mmol/L, which was deemed to be of no clinical significance. Five patients were hypoglycemic post prep; 3 were 7 years or younger (P = 0.02). The colon cleanliness rating was excellent or good in 77% and suboptimal in 23% of patients. A 1-day, weight-based PEG-3350 bowel prep in children appears safe. Changes in electrolyte levels and renal function were not clinically significant. Children of 7 years or younger seem to be at a higher risk of hypoglycemia compared with older children. Mannitol to prevent cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity in patients with squamous cell cancer of the head and neck (SCCHN) receiving concurrent therapy. PubMed McKibbin, Trevor; Cheng, Linda L; Kim, Sungjin; Steuer, Conor E; Owonikoko, Taofeek K; Khuri, Fadlo R; Shin, Dong M; Saba, Nabil F 2016-04-01 The purpose of this study is to compare the incidence and severity of nephrotoxicity in patients receiving cisplatin with saline hydration vs. saline hydration with mannitol. Retrospective chart review of all patients receiving a starting dose of cisplatin 100 mg/m(2) with concurrent radiation for SCCHN between January 1, 2009 and March 1, 2013. All patients received pre and post hydration each with 1 l of 0.9 % saline. The mannitol group received 12.5 g of mannitol in the prehydration fluid. The primary outcome was to compare the rate of grade 3 or greater serum creatinine (SCr) increase in patients receiving saline hydration vs. the addition of mannitol; additional parameters of interest included creatinine clearance, electrolyte disturbances, dose changes, and discontinuation of cisplatin. Data from 139 patients (80 % male) with a median age of 56 years (range 22 to 75 years) were collected; 88 received mannitol and 51 received saline alone. On multivariable analysis, the mannitol group was less likely to have grade 3 SCr increase than saline only group (OR 0.16; 95 % CI 0.04-0.65; p value = 0.01). There were no grade 4 SCr increase events. Rates of hypomagnesemia and  hypokalemia  were similar across groups. Grade 3 hyponatremia was more likely to occur in the mannitol group as compared to saline alone group (41 vs 22 %; p = 0.026). The addition of mannitol to saline hydration decreased the incidence of grade 3 increases in SCr in this cohort of patients and may increase rates of hyponatremia. Further investigations of methods to lessen cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity are needed. Salt-sparing diuretic action of a water-soluble urea analog inhibitor of urea transporters UT-A and UT-B in rats PubMed Central Cil, Onur; Esteva-Font, Cristina; Tas, Sadik Taskin; Su, Tao; Lee, Sujin; Anderson, Marc O.; Ertunc, Mert; Verkman, A. S. 2015-01-01 Inhibitors of kidney urea transporter (UT) proteins have potential use as salt-sparing diuretics (‘urearetics’) with a different mechanism of action than diuretics that target salt transporters. To study UT inhibition in rats, we screened about 10,000 drugs, natural products and urea analogs for inhibition of rat UT-A1. Drug and natural product screening found nicotine, sanguinarine and an indolcarbonylchromenone with IC50 of 10–20 μM. Urea analog screening found methylacetamide and dimethylthiourea (DMTU). DMTU fully and reversibly inhibited rat UT-A1 and UT-B by a noncompetitive mechanism with IC50 of 2–3 mM. Homology modeling and docking computations suggested DMTU binding sites on rat UT-A1. Following a single intraperitoneal injection of 500 mg/kg DMTU, peak plasma concentration was 9 mM with t1/2 of about 10 hours, and a urine concentration of 20–40 mM. Rats chronically treated with DMTU had a sustained, reversible reduction in urine osmolality from 1800 to 600 mOsm, a 3-fold increase in urine output, and mild  hypokalemia . DMTU did not impair urinary concentrating function in rats on a low protein diet. Compared to furosemide-treated rats, the DMTU-treated rats had greater diuresis and reduced urinary salt loss. In a model of Syndrome of Inappropriate Antidiuretic Hormone secretion, DMTU treatment prevented hyponatremia and water retention produced by water-loading in dDAVP-treated rats. Thus, our results establish a rat model of UT inhibition and demonstrate the diuretic efficacy of UT inhibition. PMID:25993324 Salt-sparing diuretic action of a water-soluble urea analog inhibitor of urea transporters UT-A and UT-B in rats. PubMed Cil, Onur; Esteva-Font, Cristina; Tas, Sadik Taskin; Su, Tao; Lee, Sujin; Anderson, Marc O; Ertunc, Mert; Verkman, Alan S 2015-08-01 Inhibitors of kidney urea transporter (UT) proteins have potential use as salt-sparing diuretics ('urearetics') with a different mechanism of action than diuretics that target salt transporters. To study UT inhibition in rats, we screened about 10,000 drugs, natural products and urea analogs for inhibition of rat UT-A1. Drug and natural product screening found nicotine, sanguinarine and an indolcarbonylchromenone with IC50 of 10-20 μM. Urea analog screening found methylacetamide and dimethylthiourea (DMTU). DMTU fully and reversibly inhibited rat UT-A1 and UT-B by a noncompetitive mechanism with IC50 of 2-3 mM. Homology modeling and docking computations suggested DMTU binding sites on rat UT-A1. Following a single intraperitoneal injection of 500 mg/kg DMTU, peak plasma concentration was 9 mM with t1/2 of about 10 h, and a urine concentration of 20-40 mM. Rats chronically treated with DMTU had a sustained, reversible reduction in urine osmolality from 1800 to 600 mOsm, a 3-fold increase in urine output, and mild  hypokalemia . DMTU did not impair urinary concentrating function in rats on a low protein diet. Compared to furosemide-treated rats, the DMTU-treated rats had greater diuresis and reduced urinary salt loss. In a model of syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion, DMTU treatment prevented hyponatremia and water retention produced by water-loading in dDAVP-treated rats. Thus, our results establish a rat model of UT inhibition and demonstrate the diuretic efficacy of UT inhibition. Phase II study of tailored S-1 monotherapy with a 1-week interval after a 2-week dosing period in elderly patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer. PubMed Goto, Hisatsugu; Okano, Yoshio; Machida, Hisanori; Hatakeyama, Nobuo; Ogushi, Fumitaka; Haku, Takashi; Kanematsu, Takanori; Urata, Tomoyuki; Kakiuchi, Soji; Hanibuchi, Masaki; Sone, Saburo; Nishioka, Yasuhiko 2018-01-01 S-1 is an oral fluoropyrimidine that is active in the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC); however, an optimal treatment schedule and appropriate dose adjustments of S-1 in elderly patients have not yet been established. We conducted a phase II trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of a 2-week S-1 monotherapy treatment followed by a 1-week interval as a first-line treatment of elderly NSCLC patients, by adjusting the dose based on the individual creatinine clearance (Ccr) and body surface area (BSA). The primary endpoint was the disease control rate. Forty patients were enrolled. The disease control and response rates were 89.5% (95% confidence interval [CI] = 79.8-99.2) and 7.9% (95% CI = 0.0-16.4), respectively. The median progression-free survival and overall survival times were 4.4 months (95% CI = 4.2-8.5) and 17.0 months (95% CI = 11.2-18.7), respectively. Neutropenia, anorexia, hyponatremia,  hypokalemia , and pneumonia of grade ≥ 3 occurred in 5.0%, 7.5%, 5.0%, 2.5%, and 2.5% of patients, respectively. Among the patient-reported outcomes, most of the individual factors in the patients' quality of life, including upper intestine-related symptoms improved with the treatment, except for dyspnea, which slightly albeit continuously worsened throughout the study. In elderly patients with previously untreated advanced NSCLC, a 2-week S-1 monotherapy treatment, tailored to both the Ccr and BSA, with a 1-week interval was well tolerated and demonstrated promising efficacy. This study was registered at the University Hospital Medical Information Network (UMIN) Center (ID: UMIN000002035), Japan. Copyright © 2017 The Japanese Respiratory Society. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. Contribution of a KCNH2 variant in genotyped long QT syndrome: Romano-Ward syndrome under double mutations and acquired long QT syndrome under heterozygote. PubMed Fujii, Yusuke; Matsumoto, Yuichi; Hayashi, Kenshi; Ding, Wei-Guang; Tomita, Yukinori; Fukumoto, Daisuke; Wada, Yuko; Ichikawa, Mari; Sonoda, Keiko; Ozawa, Junichi; Makiyama, Takeru; Ohno, Seiko; Yamagishi, Masakazu; Matsuura, Hiroshi; Horie, Minoru; Itoh, Hideki 2017-07-01 Long QT syndrome (LQTS) presents two clinical phenotypes, congenital and acquired forms. This study aims to evaluate the genetic contribution of a KCNH2 variant for the two LQTS phenotypes. From 1996 to 2014, genetic screening for LQTS probands was performed for five major genes: KCNQ1, KCNH2, SCN5A, KCNE1, and KCNE2 and 389 probands were found to be mutation carriers. We analyzed the clinical phenotypes of p.His492Tyr carriers in KCNH2. Heterozygous p.His492Tyr variant was identified in 10 LQTS families. Six probands (mean age, 26±23 years) carried another mutation, and two of six had syncope associated with emotional stress or telephone ringing. The remaining four probands were significantly older at diagnosis (mean age, 42±33 years) and carried no other compound mutations. All the four probands had fatal arrhythmic events in the presence of additional precipitating factors such as culprit drugs in 2,  hypokalemia  in 1, and bradycardia in 1. The QTc interval of carriers with p.His492Tyr alone was 445±10ms and significantly shorter than that in double mutation carriers (481±40ms, p=0.041). KCNH2 p.His492Tyr variant presented Romano-Ward syndrome in the presence of another mutation and heterozygous carriers had mild phenotypes while even heterozygous carriers should be cared for not to encounter secondary factors because incidental factors could manifest "latent" form of p.His492Tyr heterozygous carriers. Copyright © 2016 Japanese College of Cardiology. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved. Stable gastric pentadecapeptide BPC 157-NO-system relation. PubMed Sikiric, Predrag; Seiwerth, Sven; Rucman, Rudolf; Turkovic, Branko; Rokotov, Dinko Stancic; Brcic, Luka; Sever, Marko; Klicek, Robert; Radic, Bozo; Drmic, Domagoj; Ilic, Spomenko; Kolenc, Danijela; Aralica, Gorana; Stupnisek, Mirjana; Suran, Jelena; Barisic, Ivan; Dzidic, Senka; Vrcic, Hrvoje; Sebecic, Bozidar 2014-01-01 We reviewed stable gastric pentadecapeptide BPC 157-NO-system-relation, its close participation in Moncada's (maintained vascular integrity, platelets control) homeostatic healing response of NO-system to injury. Namely, BPC 157's particular healing effect also affects all events after vascular integrity loss (dependent on circumstances, it reduces either thrombosis (abdominal aorta anastomosis) or bleeding/thrombocytopenia (amputation, heparin, warfarin, aspirin)) and in a series of different injurious models, acute and chronic, BPC 157 consistently advances healing after severe injuries in various tissues spontaneously unable to heal; stimulates egr-1 and naB2 genes; exhibits high safety (LD1 not achieved)). Hypothesis, that BPC 157 (since formed constitutively in the gastric mucosa, stable in human gastric juice, along with significance of NO-synthase and the basal formation of NO in stomach mucosa, greater than that seen in other tissues) exhibits a general, effective competing both with L-arginine analogues (i. e., L-NAME) and L-arginine, and that this has some physiologic importance (NO-generation), later, practically supports its beneficial effects illustrating BPC 157 and NOsystem mutual (with L-NAME/L-arginine; alone and together) relations in (i) gastric mucosa and mucosal protection, following alcohol lesions, in cytoprotection course, NO-generation, and blood pressure regulation; (ii) alcohol acute/chronic intoxication, and withdrawal; (iii) cardiovascular disturbances, chronic heart failure, pulmonary hypertension, and arrhythmias; (iv) disturbances after  hypokalemia  and hyperkalemia, and potassium-cell membrane dysfunction; and finally, in (v) complex healing failure, proved by the fistulas healing, colocutaneous and esophagocutaneous. However, how this advantage of modulating NO-system (i. e., particular effect on eNOS gene), may be practically translated into an enhanced clinical performance remains to be determined. Characterization of toxicosis in sheep dosed with blossoms of sacahuiste (Nolina microcarpa). PubMed Rankins, D L; Smith, G S; Ross, T T; Caton, J S; Kloppenburg, P 1993-09-01 To characterize more fully sacahuiste (Nolina microcarpa Watson) toxicosis in sheep and to evaluate benefits of supplemental Zn, sheep were dosed intraruminally with sacahuiste blossoms. In Trial 1, eight fine-wool sheep (47 +/- 2 kg BW) were fed alfalfa hay at 1% of BW daily and dosed intraruminally with inflorescences amounting to 1% of BW daily, in three portions per day, for 10 d. Four sheep were dosed intraruminally with aqueous ZnSO4 (30 mg of Zn/kg BW) daily for 3 d before initial sacahuiste dosing and on alternate days thereafter, and four sheep were untreated with Zn. Toxicosis was evident within 24 h after initial sacahuiste dosage, involving inappetence, depression,  hypokalemia , hypophosphatemia, hyperbilirubinemia, and elevated serum enzymes (alkaline phosphatase, creatine kinase, lactate dehydrogenase, aspartate aminotransferase, and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase). One sheep (untreated with Zn) died on d 3. Aqueous ZnSO4 alleviated inappetence and suppressed elevation of serum urea N and creatinine but did not suppress other changes in serum clinical profiles. In Trial 2, sacahuiste inflorescences were ruminally dosed into 12 fine-wool wethers (29 +/- 2 kg BW) in amounts equalling 0, .25, .50, .75% of BW per day, and chopped alfalfa hay was provided at 1.75% of BW per day for 14 d. Sacahuiste inflorescenses dosed at .75% of BW elicited severe toxicosis within 24 h, and dosage at .50 or .25% of BW per day increased (P = .12) serum bilirubin. Ruminal fluid pH, mean particle retention time, and particulate passage rate were not affected (P > .10) by sacahuiste, but ruminal fluid passage rate increased 1.6-fold (P  <  .10) and ruminal fluid volume decreased by 60% (P  <  .10) in sheep given inflorescenses amounting to .50% of BW daily. Sacahuiste inflorescenses dosed intraruminally at .75% of BW per day elicited ruminal impaction with severe hepatotoxicosis, and dosages amounting to .50% or .25% of BW per day caused similar trends. Increased urinary prostaglandin E2 metabolite: A potential therapeutic target of Gitelman syndrome. PubMed Peng, Xiaoyan; Jiang, Lanping; Chen, Chen; Qin, Yan; Yuan, Tao; Wang, Ou; Xing, Xiaoping; Li, Xuemei; Nie, Min; Chen, Limeng 2017-01-01 Gitelman syndrome (GS), an inherited autosomal recessive salt-losing renal tubulopathy caused by mutations in SLC12A3 gene, has been associated with normal prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) levels since 1995 by a study involving 11 clinically diagnosed patients. However, it is difficult to explain why cyclooxygenase-2 (COX2) inhibitors, which pharmacologically reduce PGE2 synthesis, are helpful to patients with GS, and few studies performed in the last 20 years have measured PGE2 levels. The relationships between the clinical manifestations and PGE2 levels were never thoroughly analyzed. This study involved 39 GS patients diagnosed by SLC12A3 gene sequencing. Plasma and 24-h urine samples as well as the clinical data were collected at admission. PGE2 and PGEM levels were detected in plasma and urine samples by enzyme immunoassays. The in vivo function of the sodium-chloride co-transporter (NCC) in GS patients was evaluated using a modified thiazide test. The association among PGE2 levels, clinical manifestations and the function of NCC in GS patients were analyzed. Significantly higher levels of urinary and plasma PGEM were observed in GS patients than in the healthy volunteers. Higher urinary PGEM levels indicated more severe clinical manifestations and NCC dysfunction estimated by the increase of Cl- clearance. A higher PGEM level was found in male GS patients, who showed earlier onset age and more severe  hypokalemia , hypochloremia and metabolic alkalosis than female GS patients. No relationship between renin angiotensin aldosterone system activation and PGEM level was observed. Higher urinary PGEM levels indicated more severe clinical manifestations and NCC dysfunction in GS patients. COX2 inhibition might be a potential therapeutic target in GS patients with elevated PGEM levels. SFE/SFHTA/AFCE consensus on primary aldosteronism, part 5: Genetic diagnosis of primary aldosteronism. PubMed Zennaro, Maria-Christina; Jeunemaitre, Xavier 2016-07-01 While the majority of cases of primary aldosteronism (PA) are sporadic, four forms of autosomal-dominant inheritance have been described: familial hyperaldosteronism (FH) types I to IV. FH-I, also called glucocorticoid-remediable aldosteronism, is characterized by early and severe hypertension, usually before the age of 20 years. It is due to the formation of a chimeric gene between the adjacent CYP11B2 and CYP11B1 genes (coding for aldosterone synthase and 11β-hydroxylase, respectively). FH-I is often associated with family history of stroke before 40years of age. FH-II is clinically and biochemically indistinguishable from sporadic forms of PA and is only diagnosed on the basis of two or more affected family members. No causal genes have been identified so far and no genetic test is available. FH-III is characterized by severe and early-onset hypertension in children and young adults, resistant to treatment and associated with severe  hypokalemia . Mild forms, resembling FH-II, have been described. FH-III is due to gain-of-function mutations in the KCNJ5 gene. Recently, a new autosomal-dominant form of familial PA, FH-IV, associated with mutations in the CACNA1H gene, was described in patients with hypertension and PA before the age of 10years. In rare cases, PA may be associated with complex neurologic disorder involving epileptic seizures and cerebral palsy (Primary Aldosteronism, Seizures, and Neurologic Abnormalities [PASNA]) due to de novo germline CACNA1D mutations. Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved. Comparison of hydrocortisone and prednisone in the glucocorticoid replacement therapy post-adrenalectomy of Cushing's Syndrome. PubMed Tang, Kunlong; Wang, Liang; Yang, Zhongyuan; Sui, Yingying; Li, Liming; Huang, Yuting; Gao, Peng 2017-12-01 Cushing's syndrome requires glucocorticoid replacement following adrenalectomy. Based on a simplified glucocorticoid therapy scheme and the peri-operative observation, we investigated its efficacy and safety up to 6 months post-adrenalectomy in this cohort study. We found the adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) levels were normal post-adrenalectomy, and sufficient to stimulate the recovery of the dystrophic adrenal cortex, thus exogenous supplemental ACTH might not be necessary. Patients were grouped by oral reception of either hydrocortisone or prednisone since day 2 post-adrenalectomy. Both groups had similar baseline responses to adrenalectomy, regarding the correction of hypertension (10/15 vs.12/19), hyperglycemia (6/11 vs. 7/10), and  hypokalemia  (12/12 vs. 11/11). Most patients lost weight (17/20 vs. 20/22). Both groups reported significant improvement in a subjective evaluation questionnaire. Hydrocortisone showed advantages over prednisone in improving liver function (7/8 vs. 2/7, p = 0.035), but also caused significant lower extremety edema ( p = 0.034). Both groups developed adrenal insufficiency (AI) during glucocorticoid withdrawal, with no significant difference regarding the incidence rate (7/20 vs. 10/22) or severity. Most AI symptoms were relieved by resuming the prior oral doses, while two severe cases were hospitalized. The withdrawal process may last longer time for hydrocortisone than prednisone. In conclusion, our data supports the use of both hydrocortisone and prednisone in the glucocorticoid replacement therapy post-adrenalectomy for patients of adrenal adenoma or Cushing's disease. Hydrocortisone showed advantages over prednisone in improving liver function, and prednisone exhibited significantly lower risk of edema. A comparative study of QT prolongation with serotonin reuptake inhibitors. PubMed Ojero-Senard, Ana; Benevent, Justine; Bondon-Guitton, Emmanuelle; Durrieu, Geneviève; Chebane, Leila; Araujo, Melanie; Montastruc, Francois; Montastruc, Jean-Louis 2017-10-01 QT interval prolongations were described with citalopram and escitalopram. However, the effects of the other serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SRIs) remained discussed. In order to identify a putative signal with other SRIs, the present study investigates the reports of QT interval prolongation with SRIs in two pharmacovigilance databases (PVDB). Two kinds of investigations were performed: (1) a comparative study in VigiBase®, the WHO PVDB, where notifications of QT prolongation with six SRIs (citalopram, escitalopram, fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, paroxetine, sertraline) were selected. Cases with overdose or pregnancy were excluded. The relationship between the "suspected" SRI and occurrence of QT prolongation was assessed by calculating reporting odds ratio (ROR) in a case/non-case design. (2) A descriptive study of QT prolongation reports with citalopram and escitalopram in the French FPVD. In VigiBase®, 855 notifications were identified (mean age 56.2 years, mainly women 73%). Among them, 172 (20.1%) were associated to escitalopram; 299 (35.0%), to citalopram; 186 (21.8%), to fluoxetine; 94 (11.0%), to sertraline; 66 (7.7%), to paroxetine; and 38 (4.4%) to fluvoxamine. A significant ROR value (higher than 1) was only found for citalopram (3.35 CI95% [2.90-3.87]) or escitalopram (2.50 [2.11-2.95]). In the FPVD, eight reports of QT prolongation were found with citalopram and 27 with escitalopram, mainly in women (77.1%) with a mean age of 73.2 years. In 23 cases (66%), SRIs were associated with other suspected drugs, mainly cardiotropic or psychotropic ones.  Hypokalemia  was associated in six patients. This study, performed in real conditions of life, shows a clear signal of QT prolongation with only two SRIs, citalopram and escitalopram, indicating that QT prolongation is not a SRI class effect. Full recovery from a potentially lethal dose of mercuric chloride. PubMed Beasley, D Michael G; Schep, Leo J; Slaughter, Robin J; Temple, Wayne A; Michel, Jonathan M 2014-03-01 Mercuric chloride poisoning is rare yet potentially life-threatening. We report a case of poisoning with a potentially significant amount of mercuric chloride which responded to aggressive management. A 19-year-old female presented to the Emergency Department with nausea, abdominal discomfort, vomiting of blood-stained fluid, and diarrhea following suicidal ingestion of 2-4 g of mercuric chloride powder. An abdominal radiograph showed radio-opaque material within the gastric antrum and the patient's initial blood mercury concentration was 17.9 μmol/L (or 3.58 mg/L) at 3 h post-ingestion. Given the potential toxicity of inorganic mercury, the patient was admitted to the intensive care unit and chelation with dimercaprol was undertaken. Further clinical effects included mild hemodynamic instability, acidosis,  hypokalemia , leukocytosis, and fever. The patient's symptoms began to improve 48 h after admission and resolved fully within a week. Mercuric chloride has an estimated human fatal dose of between 1 and 4 g. Despite a reported ingestion of a potentially lethal dose and a high blood concentration, this patient experienced mild to moderate poisoning only and she responded to early and appropriate intervention. Mercuric chloride can produce a range of toxic effects including corrosive injury, severe gastrointestinal disturbances, acute renal failure, circulatory collapse, and eventual death. Treatment includes close observation and aggressive supportive care along with chelation, preferably with 2,3-dimercapto-1-propane sulfonate or 2,3-meso-dimercaptosuccinic acid. Subcutaneous regular insulin for the treatment of diabetic ketoacidosis in children. PubMed Cohen, Michal; Leibovitz, Noa; Shilo, Smadar; Zuckerman-Levin, Nehama; Shavit, Itai; Shehadeh, Naim 2017-06-01 Diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) treatment protocols vary, however low-dose intravenous administration of regular insulin is the standard care for replacing insulin in most centers. Few studies, the majority in adults, demonstrated subcutaneous injection of rapid-acting insulin every 1-2 hours to be a valid alternative. To evaluate the efficacy and safety of subcutaneous regular insulin administered every 4 hours in pediatric DKA in a clinical setting. A retrospective chart review was conducted. Charts of all children treated with subcutaneous regular insulin for DKA and pH ≥ 7.0, between 2007 and 2010, were reviewed. Seventy-six DKA episodes in 52 patients were included. Data regarding clinical characteristics, response to treatment, and the occurrence of complications were analyzed. DKA episodes in patients with new-onset diabetes and in those with established diabetes were compared. Mean age was 11.6 ± 4.0 yr. Eighteen episodes occurred in children with new-onset diabetes. In all episodes, our protocol resulted in recovery from DKA. Median time to DKA resolution (pH > 7.30, HCO3 > 15) was 10.3 (5.5, 14.2) h. The median total insulin dose was 0.05 (0.04, 0.06) (unit/kg/h). During DKA treatment, hypoglycemia occurred in one episode and  hypokalemia , mostly mild, was documented in 14. No cardiac arrhythmias, incidents of cerebral edema, or mortality occurred. Subcutaneous regular insulin administered every 4 hours is an effective and safe alternative for the insulin treatment of DKA with pH > 7.0 in children. Such treatment has the potential to simplify insulin administration when compared to either intravenous regular insulin or q1-2 hour subcutaneous rapid insulin and reduce both patient inconvenience and admission costs. © 2016 John Wiley  &  Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley  &  Sons Ltd. Management of Diarrhoeal Dehydration in Childhood: A Review for Clinicians in Developing Countries PubMed Central Anigilaje, Emmanuel Ademola 2018-01-01 The survival of a child with severe volume depletion at the emergency department depends on the competency of the first responder to recognize and promptly treat hypovolemic shock. Although the basic principles on fluid and electrolytes therapy have been investigated for decades, the topic remains a challenge, as consensus on clinical management protocol is difficult to reach, and more adverse events are reported from fluid administration than for any other drug. While the old principles proposed by Holliday and Segar, and Finberg have stood the test of time, recent systematic reviews and meta-analyses have highlighted the risk of hyponatraemia, and hyponatraemic encephalopathy in some children treated with hypotonic fluids. In the midst of conflicting literature on fluid and electrolytes therapy, it would appear that isotonic fluids are best suitable for the correction of hypotonic, isonatraemic, and hypernatraemic dehydration. Although oral rehydration therapy is adequate to correct mild to moderate isonatraemic dehydration, parenteral fluid therapy is safer for the child with severe dehydration and those with changes in serum sodium. The article reviews the pathophysiology of water and sodium metabolism and, it uses the clinical case examples to illustrate the bed-side approach to the management of three different types of dehydration using a pre-mixed isotonic fluid solution (with 20 or 40 mmol/L of potassium chloride added depending on the absence or presence of  hypokalemia , respectively). When 3% sodium chloride is unavailable to treat hyponatraemic encephalopathy, 0.9% sodium chloride becomes inevitable, albeit, a closer monitoring of serum sodium is required. The importance of a keen and regular clinical and laboratory monitoring of a child being rehydrated is emphasized. The article would be valuable to clinicians in less-developed countries, who must use pre-mixed fluids, and who often cannot get some suitable rehydrating solutions. PMID:29527518 A retrospective study of 77 cats with severe hepatic lipidosis: 1975-1990. PubMed Center, S A; Crawford, M A; Guida, L; Erb, H N; King, J 1993-01-01 The physical, clinicopathologic, and survival rates of 77 cats with severe spontaneous hepatic lipidosis are detailed in this report. Cats were subdivided into groups designated as idiopathic lipidosis if no other disease process was recognized, or secondary lipidosis if another disease process was diagnosed. Cats were also subdivided into groups designated as survivors or nonsurvivors on the basis of successful recuperation at 4 months after initial diagnosis. Differences between disease and survival groups were evaluated for significance. Overall, more female cats and middle-aged cats were affected. Presenting complaints of vomiting, anorexia, weakness, and weight loss were common. Physical assessment of most cats showed obvious hepatomegaly, jaundice, dehydration, and a weight loss > or = 25% of usual body weight. Neurobehavioral signs indicative of hepatic encephalopathy, other than ptyalism and depression, were rare. Clinicopathologic features are characterized by hyperbilirubinemia and increased activities of serum ALT, AST, and ALP, with only small if any increase in gamma GT activity. Clinical features distinguishing cats with hepatic lipidosis from those with other serious cholestatic disorders include absence of hyperglobulinemia and low gamma GT activity relative to ALP activity. Although coagulation tests were abnormal in 45% of cats tested (n = 44), few cats showed clinical bleeding tendencies. Most cats received prophylactic vitamin K1 therapy. Forty two cats received aggressive nutritional and supportive care and of these 55% survived. Cats with idiopathic disease were significantly younger, had significantly higher ALP activity and bilirubin concentration, and had a slightly better survival rate than cats with secondary lipidosis. Low PCV,  hypokalemia , and an older age were significantly related to nonsurvival. Because of the variety of diets and food supplements used in case management, the influence of nutritional factors on survival could not be Safety, Correlative Markers, and Clinical Results of Adjuvant Nivolumab in Combination with Vaccine in Resected High-Risk Metastatic Melanoma PubMed Central Gibney, Geoffrey T.; Kudchadkar, Ragini R.; DeConti, Ronald C.; Thebeau, Melissa S.; Czupryn, Maria P.; Tetteh, Leticia; Eysmans, Cabell; Richards, Allison; Schell, Michael J.; Fisher, Kate J.; Horak, Christine E.; Inzunza, H. David; Yu, Bin; Martinez, Alberto J.; Younos, Ibrahim; Weber, Jeffrey S. 2015-01-01 Purpose The anti-programmed death-1 (PD-1) antibody nivolumab (BMS-936558) has clinical activity in patients with metastatic melanoma. Nivolumab plus vaccine was investigated as adjuvant therapy in resected stage IIIC and IV melanoma patients. Experimental Design HLA-A*0201 positive patients with HMB-45, NY-ESO-1, and/or MART-1 positive resected tumors received nivolumab (1 mg/kg, 3 mg/kg, or 10 mg/kg i.v.) with a multi-peptide vaccine (gp100, MART-1, and NY-ESO-1 with Montanide ISA 51 VG) every 2 weeks for 12 doses followed by nivolumab maintenance every 12 weeks for 8 doses. Primary objective was safety and determination of a maximum tolerated dose (MTD). Secondary objectives included relapse-free survival (RFS), overall survival (OS), and immunologic correlative studies. Results Thirty-three patients were enrolled. Median age was 47 years; 55% were male. Two patients had stage IIIC disease; 31 patients had stage IV disease. Median follow-up was 32.1 months. MTD was not reached. Most common related adverse events (>40%) were vaccine injection site reaction, fatigue, rash, pruritus, nausea, and arthralgias. Five related grade 3 adverse events [ hypokalemia  (1), rash (1), enteritis (1), and colitis (2)] were observed. Ten of 33 patients relapsed. Estimated median RFS was 47.1 months; median OS was not reached. Increases in CTLA-4+/CD4+, CD25+Treg/CD4+, and tetramer specific CD8+ T-cell populations were observed with treatment (P  <  0.05). Trends for lower baseline myeloid-derived suppressor cell and CD25+Treg/CD4+ populations were seen in nonrelapsing patients; PD-L1 tumor status was not significantly associated with RFS. Conclusions Nivolumab with vaccine is well tolerated as adjuvant therapy and demonstrates immunologic activity with promising survival in high-risk resected melanoma, justifying further study. PMID:25524312 Safety, correlative markers, and clinical results of adjuvant nivolumab in combination with vaccine in resected high-risk metastatic melanoma. PubMed Gibney, Geoffrey T; Kudchadkar, Ragini R; DeConti, Ronald C; Thebeau, Melissa S; Czupryn, Maria P; Tetteh, Leticia; Eysmans, Cabell; Richards, Allison; Schell, Michael J; Fisher, Kate J; Horak, Christine E; Inzunza, H David; Yu, Bin; Martinez, Alberto J; Younos, Ibrahim; Weber, Jeffrey S 2015-02-15 The anti-programmed death-1 (PD-1) antibody nivolumab (BMS-936558) has clinical activity in patients with metastatic melanoma. Nivolumab plus vaccine was investigated as adjuvant therapy in resected stage IIIC and IV melanoma patients. HLA-A*0201 positive patients with HMB-45, NY-ESO-1, and/or MART-1 positive resected tumors received nivolumab (1 mg/kg, 3 mg/kg, or 10 mg/kg i.v.) with a multi-peptide vaccine (gp100, MART-1, and NY-ESO-1 with Montanide ISA 51 VG) every 2 weeks for 12 doses followed by nivolumab maintenance every 12 weeks for 8 doses. Primary objective was safety and determination of a maximum tolerated dose (MTD). Secondary objectives included relapse-free survival (RFS), overall survival (OS), and immunologic correlative studies. Thirty-three patients were enrolled. Median age was 47 years; 55% were male. Two patients had stage IIIC disease; 31 patients had stage IV disease. Median follow-up was 32.1 months. MTD was not reached. Most common related adverse events (>40%) were vaccine injection site reaction, fatigue, rash, pruritus, nausea, and arthralgias. Five related grade 3 adverse events [ hypokalemia  (1), rash (1), enteritis (1), and colitis (2)] were observed. Ten of 33 patients relapsed. Estimated median RFS was 47.1 months; median OS was not reached. Increases in CTLA-4(+)/CD4(+), CD25(+)Treg/CD4(+), and tetramer specific CD8(+) T-cell populations were observed with treatment (P  <  0.05). Trends for lower baseline myeloid-derived suppressor cell and CD25(+)Treg/CD4(+) populations were seen in nonrelapsing patients; PD-L1 tumor status was not significantly associated with RFS. Nivolumab with vaccine is well tolerated as adjuvant therapy and demonstrates immunologic activity with promising survival in high-risk resected melanoma, justifying further study. ©2014 American Association for Cancer Research. Heart Toxicity Related to Herbs and Dietary Supplements: Online Table of Case Reports. Part 4 of 5. PubMed Brown, Amy C 2017-10-05 The purpose of this review was to create an online research summary table of heart toxicity case reports related to dietary supplements (DS; includes herbs). Documented PubMed case reports of DS appearing to contribute to heart-related problems were used to create a "Toxic Table" that summarized the research (1966 to April, 2016, and cross-referencing). Keywords included "herb," "dietary supplement," and cardiac terms. Case reports were excluded if they were herb combinations (some exceptions), Chinese herb mixtures, teas of mixed herb contents, mushrooms, poisonous plants, self-harm (e.g. suicide), excess dose (except vitamins/minerals), drugs or illegal drugs, drug-herbal interactions, and confounders of drugs or diseases. The spectrum of heart toxicities included hypertension, hypotension,  hypokalemia , bradycardia, tachycardia, arrhythmia, ventricular fibrillation, heart attack, cardiac arrest, heart failure, and death. Heart related problems were associated with approximately seven herbs: Four traditional Chinese medicine herbs - Don quai (Angelica sinensis), Jin bu huan (Lycopodium serratum), Thundergod vine or lei gong teng (Tripterygium wilfordii Hook F), and Ting kung teng (Erycibe henryi prain); one an Ayruvedic herb - Aswagandha, (Withania somnifera); and two North American herbs - blue cohosh (Caulophyllum thalictroides), and Yohimbe (Pausinystalia johimbe). Aconitum and Ephedra species are no longer sold in the United States. The DS included, but are not limited to five DS - bitter orange, caffeine, certain energy drinks, nitric oxide products, and a calming product. Six additional DS are no longer sold. Licorice was the food related to heart problems. The online "Toxic Table" forewarns clinicians, consumers and the DS industry by listing DS with case reports related to heart toxicity. It may also contribute to Phase IV post marketing surveillance to diminish adverse events that Government officials use to regulate DS. Vital signs, QT prolongation, and newly diagnosed cardiovascular disease during severe hypoglycemia in type 1 and type 2 diabetic patients. PubMed Tsujimoto, Tetsuro; Yamamoto-Honda, Ritsuko; Kajio, Hiroshi; Kishimoto, Miyako; Noto, Hiroshi; Hachiya, Remi; Kimura, Akio; Kakei, Masafumi; Noda, Mitsuhiko 2014-01-01 OBJECTIVE To assess vital signs, QT intervals, and newly diagnosed cardiovascular disease during severe hypoglycemia in diabetic patients. RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS From January 2006 to March 2012, we conducted a retrospective cohort study to assess type 1 and type 2 diabetic patients with severe hypoglycemia at a national center in Japan. Severe hypoglycemia was defined as the presence of any hypoglycemic symptoms that could not be resolved by the patients themselves in prehospital settings. RESULTS A total of 59,602 cases that visited the emergency room by ambulance were screened, and 414 cases of severe hypoglycemia were analyzed. The median (interquartile range) blood glucose levels were not significantly different between the type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) (n = 88) and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) (n = 326) groups (32 [24-42] vs. 31 [24-39] mg/dL, P = 0.59). During severe hypoglycemia, the incidences of severe hypertension (≥180/120 mmHg),  hypokalemia  ( < 3.5 mEq/L), and QT prolongation were 19.8 and 38.8% (P = 0.001), 42.4 and 36.3% (P = 0.30), and 50.0 and 59.9% (P = 0.29) in the T1DM and T2DM groups, respectively. Newly diagnosed cardiovascular disease during severe hypoglycemia and death were only observed in the T2DM group (1.5 and 1.8%, respectively). Blood glucose levels between the deceased and surviving patients in the T2DM group were significantly different (18 [14-33] vs. 31 [24-39] mg/dL, P = 0.02). CONCLUSIONS T1DM and T2DM patients with severe hypoglycemia experienced many critical problems that could lead to cardiovascular disease, fatal arrhythmia, and death. Investigation of aldosterone-synthase inhibition in rats. PubMed Ménard, Joël; Gonzalez, Marie-Françoise; Guyene, Thanh-Tam; Bissery, Alvine 2006-06-01 In-vivo investigation of aldosterone-synthase inhibitors requires experimental models to characterize the biological effects of these compounds. Seven successive experiments were performed in groups of 2-month-old male spontaneously hypertensive rats. Urinary free aldosterone was the main end-point measured during two contrasted diets: low sodium-high potassium (LS), inducing high urinary aldosterone (839 pmol/24 h, 95% confidence interval 654-1077), and high sodium-normal potassium (HS), inducing low urinary aldosterone (38.1 pmol/24 h; 95% confidence interval, 32.4-44.9). FAD 286 A (10 and 30 mg/kg) decreased urinary free aldosterone by 53 and 87% on the LS diet, and 50 and 75% on the HS. Plasma renin concentration increased three-fold after a 4-week treatment of 30 mg/kg FAD 286 A on the LS diet and did not change on the HS. The combination of FAD 286 A (30 mg/kg) and spironolactone (30 mg/kg) on the LS diet induced a biological picture of severe hypoaldosteronism and was not tolerated, whereas the HS diet prevented these abnormalities. The combination of FAD 286 A (30 mg/kg) and furosemide (30 mg/kg) on the HS diet corrected the diuretic-induced  hypokalemia  (4.1 +/- 0.2 versus 3.7 +/- 2.2 mEq/l, P  <  0.033). This experimental model will be useful to screen future aldosterone-synthase inhibitors and study their biological effects in various experimental conditions. Safe refeeding management of anorexia nervosa inpatients: an evidence-based protocol. PubMed Hofer, Michael; Pozzi, Antonio; Joray, Maya; Ott, Rebecca; Hähni, Florence; Leuenberger, Michéle; von Känel, Roland; Stanga, Zeno 2014-05-01 Anorexia nervosa is associated with several serious medical complications related to malnutrition, severe weight loss, and low levels of micronutrients. The refeeding phase of these high-risk patients bears a further threat to health and potentially fatal complications. The objective of this study was to examine complications due to refeeding of patients with anorexia nervosa, as well as their mortality rate after the implementation of guidelines from the European Society of Clinical Nutrition and Metabolism. We analyzed retrospective, observational data of a consecutive, unselected anorexia nervosa cohort during a 5-y period. The sample consisted of 65 inpatients, 14 were admitted more than once within the study period, resulting in 86 analyzed cases. Minor complications associated with refeeding during the first 10 d (replenishing phase) were recorded in nine cases (10.5%), four with transient pretibial edemas and three with organ dysfunction. In two cases, a severe  hypokalemia  occurred. During the observational phase of 30 d, 16 minor complications occurred in 14 cases (16.3%). Six infectious and 10 non-infectious complications occurred. None of the patients with anorexia nervosa died within a follow-up period of 3 mo. Our data demonstrate that the seriousness and rate of complications during the replenishment phase in this high-risk population can be kept to a minimum. The findings indicate that evidence-based refeeding regimens, such as our guidelines are able to reduce complications and prevent mortality. Despite anorexia nervosa, our sample were affected by serious comorbidities, no case met the full diagnostic criteria for refeeding syndrome. Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved. A case of osmotic demyelination syndrome occurred after the correction of severe hyponatraemia in hyperemesis gravidarum PubMed Central 2014-01-01 Background Osmotic demyelination syndrome (ODS) may be observed as a result of a rapid change in serum osmolarity, such as that induced by an overly rapid correction of serum sodium levels in hyponatraemic patients. Case presentation We describe the case of a 21-year-old woman who was hospitalized at week 10 of gestation because of severe hyperemesis. At admission the patient appeared restless and confused and severe hyponatraemia (serum sodium 107 mmol/L) and  hypokalemia  (serum potassium 1.1 mmol/L) were detected. Active and simultaneous correction of these imbalances led to an overly rapid increase of serum sodium levels (17 mmol/L in the first 24 hours). Isotonic saline solution was stopped and replaced by 5% dextrose solution infusion. However, the neurological alterations worsened and the radiological features were consistent with the diagnosis of extra-pontine ODS. Steroids were administered intravenously with progressive improvement of biochemical and clinical abnormalities. At the time of discharge, 20 days later, the patient was able to walk and eat autonomously with only minimal external support. Conclusions This report illustrates an unusual case of ODS, occurred after an excessive rate of correction of hyponatraemia obtained with isotonic saline infusion. Hypokaliemia and its active correction very likely played a crucial role in facilitating the onset of ODS. This interesting aspect will be explained in detail in the article. A more cautious and thoughtful correction of electrolyte alterations, would have probably prevented the onset of ODS in this patient. Physicians should be aware of the possibly fatal consequences that an exceedingly rapid change of serum osmolarity may have and should strictly follow the known safety measures in order to prevent it to occur. PMID:24725751 Evidence for an increased rate of cardiovascular events in patients with primary aldosteronism. PubMed Milliez, Paul; Girerd, Xavier; Plouin, Pierre-François; Blacher, Jacques; Safar, Michel E; Mourad, Jean-Jacques 2005-04-19 The aim of this report was to show that the rate of cardiovascular events is increased in patients with either subtype of primary aldosteronism (PA). Primary aldosteronism involves hypertension (HTN),  hypokalemia , and low plasma renin. The two major PA subtypes are unilateral aldosterone-producing adenoma (APA) and bilateral adrenal hyperplasia. During a three-year period, the diagnosis of PA was made in 124 of 5,500 patients referred for comprehensive evaluation and management. Adenomas were diagnosed in 65 patients and idiopathic hyperaldosteronism in 59 patients. During the same period, clinical characteristics and cardiovascular events of this group were compared with those of 465 patients with essential hypertension (EHT) randomly matched for age, gender, and systolic and diastolic blood pressure. A history of stroke was found in 12.9% of patients with PA and 3.4% of patients with EHT (odds ratio [OR] = 4.2; 95% confidence interval [CI] 2.0 to 8.6]). Non-fatal myocardial infarction was diagnosed in 4.0% of patients with PA and in 0.6% of patients with EHT (OR = 6.5; 95% CI 1.5 to 27.4). A history of atrial fibrillation was diagnosed in 7.3% of patients with PA and 0.6% of patients with EHT (OR = 12.1; 95% CI 3.2 to 45.2). The occurrence of cardiovascular complications was comparable in both subtypes of PA. Patients presenting with PA experienced more cardiovascular events than did EHT patients independent of blood pressure. The presence of PA should be detected, not only to determine the cause of HTN, but also to prevent such complications. A Novel Phenotype of Familial Hyperaldosteronism Type III: Concurrence of Aldosteronism and Cushing's Syndrome PubMed Central Liu, Guanghua; Wang, Fen; Jiang, Jun; Yan, Zhaoli; Zhang, Dianxi; Zhang, Yinsheng 2016-01-01 Context: To date, all the familial hyperaldosteronism type III (FH-III) patients reported presenting with typical primary aldosteronism (PA), without showing other adrenal hormone abnormalities. Objective: This study characterized a novel phenotype of FH-III and explored the possible pathogenesis. Patients and Methods: A male patient presented with severe hypertension and  hypokalemia  at the age of 2 years and developed Cushing's syndrome at 20 years. He was diagnosed with PA and Cushing's syndrome on the basis of typical biochemical findings. He had massive bilateral adrenal hyperplasia and underwent left adrenalectomy. KCNJ5 was sequenced, and secretion of aldosterone and cortisol were observed both in vivo and in vitro. Results: A heterozygous germline p.Glu145Gln mutation of KCNJ5 was identified. ARMC5, PRKAR1A, PDE8B, PDE11A, and PRKACA genes and β-catenin, P53 immunoactivity were normal in the adrenal. CYP11B2 was highly expressed, whereas mRNA expression of CYP11B1, CYP17A1, and STAR was relatively low in the hyperplastic adrenal, compared with normal adrenal cortex and other adrenal diseases. In the primary cell culture of the resected hyperplastic adrenal, verapamil and nifedipine, two calcium channel blockers, markedly inhibited the secretion of both aldosterone and cortisol and the mRNA expression of CYP11B1, CYP11B2, CYP17A1, and STAR. Conclusions: We presented the first FH-III patient who had both severe PA and Cushing's syndrome. Hypersecretion of cortisol might be ascribed to overly large size of the hyperplastic adrenal because CYP11B1 expression was relatively low in his adrenal. Like aldosterone, synthesis and secretion of cortisol in the mutant adrenal may be mediated by voltage-gated Ca2+ channels. PMID:27403928 A phase 1 dose-escalation study of the oral histone deacetylase inhibitor abexinostat in combination with standard hypofractionated radiotherapy in advanced solid tumors PubMed Central Deutsch, Eric; Moyal, Elizabeth Cohen-Jonathan; Gregorc, Vanesa; Zucali, Paolo Andrea; Menard, Jean; Soria, Jean-Charles; Kloos, Ioana; Hsu, Jeff; Luan, Ying; Liu, Emily; Vezan, Remus; Graef, Thorsten; Rivera, Sofia 2017-01-01 Current treatments for advanced solid tumors tend to be only palliative. Although radiotherapy is administered with a curative intent, radioresistance and dose-limiting toxicities pose limitations to treatment. Abexinostat, an oral pan-histone deacetylase inhibitor, demonstrated enhanced sensitivity to radiation in various solid tumor cell lines. We conducted an exploratory, phase 1, dose-escalation study of abexinostat in combination with standard hypofractionated radiotherapy in patients with advanced solid tumors treated in a palliative setting. Among 58 treated patients, the median age was 61.5 years (range, 20-82); 47% of the patients had M1 stage disease, and 95% had received previous chemotherapy alone or chemotherapy in combination with surgery and/or radiotherapy. The recommended phase 2 dose was determined to be 90 mg/m2 (140 mg). Of the 51 patients evaluable for response, best overall response was 8% (1 complete response [CR], 3 partial responses [PRs]), and best loco-regional response was 12% (1 CR and 5 PRs) at a median follow-up of 16 weeks. Of note, patients with target or non-target brain lesions showed encouraging responses, with 1 patient achieving a best loco-regional response of CR. Treatment-emergent grade ≥3 adverse events (AEs) were few, with most common being thrombocytopenia (17%), lymphopenia (12%), and  hypokalemia  (7%). Six patients (10%) discontinued treatment due to AEs. No grade ≥3 prolongation of the QTc interval was observed, with no treatment discontinuations due to this AE. Oral abexinostat combined with radiotherapy was well tolerated in patients with advanced solid tumors. The combination may have potential for treatment of patients with brain lesions. PMID:28915584 Phase I Study of Daily Irinotecan as a Radiation Sensitizer for Locally Advanced Pancreatic Cancer SciTech Connect Fouchardiere, Christelle de la, E-mail: delafo@lyon.fnclcc.f; Negrier, Sylvie; Labrosse, Hugues 2010-06-01 Purpose: The study aimed to determine the maximum tolerated dose of daily irinotecan given with concomitant radiotherapy in patients with locally advanced adenocarcinoma of the pancreas. Methods and Materials: Between September 2000 and March 2008, 36 patients with histologically proven unresectable pancreas adenocarcinoma were studied prospectively. Irinotecan was administered daily, 1 to 2 h before irradiation. Doses were started at 6 mg/m{sup 2} per day and then escalated by increments of 2 mg/m{sup 2} every 3 patients. Radiotherapy was administered in 2-Gy fractions, 5 fractions per week, up to a total dose of 50 Gy to the tumor volume. Inoperabilitymore » was confirmed by a surgeon involved in a multidisciplinary team. All images and responses were centrally reviewed by radiologists. Results: Thirty-six patients were enrolled over a period of 8 years through eight dose levels (6 mg/m{sup 2} to 20 mg/m{sup 2} per day). The maximum tolerated dose was determined to be 18 mg/m{sup 2} per day. The dose-limiting toxicities were nausea/vomiting, diarrhea, anorexia, dehydration, and  hypokalemia . The median survival time was 12.6 months with a median follow-up of 53.8 months. The median progression-free survival time was 6.5 months, and 4 patients (11.4%) with very good responses could undergo surgery. Conclusions: The maximum tolerated dose of irinotecan is 18 mg/m{sup 2} per day for 5 weeks. Dose-limiting toxicities are mainly gastrointestinal. Even though efficacy was not the aim of this study, the results are very promising, with a median survival time of 12.6 months.« less Poor phenotype-genotype association in a large series of patients with Type III Bartter syndrome PubMed Central Pérez de Nanclares, Gustavo; Madariaga, Leire; Aguirre, Mireia; Madrid, Álvaro; Chocrón, Sara; Nadal, Inmaculada; Navarro, Mercedes; Lucas, Elena; Fijo, Julia; Espino, Mar; Espitaletta, Zilac; García Nieto, Víctor; Barajas de Frutos, David; Loza, Reyner; Pintos, Guillem; Castaño, Luis; Ariceta, Gema 2017-01-01 Introduction Type III Bartter syndrome (BS) is an autosomal recessive renal tubule disorder caused by loss-of-function mutations in the CLCNKB gene, which encodes the chloride channel protein ClC-Kb. In this study, we carried out a complete clinical and genetic characterization in a cohort of 30 patients, one of the largest series described. By comparing with other published populations, and considering that 80% of our patients presented the p.Ala204Thr Spanish founder mutation presumably associated with a common phenotype, we aimed to test the hypothesis that allelic differences could explain the wide phenotypic variability observed in patients with type III BS. Methods Clinical data were retrieved from the referral centers. The exon regions and flanking intronic sequences of the CLCNKB gene were screened for mutations by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) followed by direct Sanger sequencing. Presence of gross deletions or duplications in the region was checked for by MLPA and QMPSF analyses. Results Polyuria, polydipsia and dehydration were the main common symptoms. Metabolic alkalosis and  hypokalemia  of renal origin were detected in all patients at diagnosis. Calciuria levels were variable: hypercalciuria was detected in 31% of patients, while 23% had hypocalciuria. Nephrocalcinosis was diagnosed in 20% of the cohort. Two novel CLCNKB mutations were identified: a small homozygous deletion (c.753delG) in one patient and a small deletion (c.1026delC) in another. The latter was present in compound heterozygosis with the already previously described p.Glu442Gly mutation. No phenotypic association was obtained regarding the genotype. Conclusion A poor correlation was found between a specific type of mutation in the CLCNKB gene and type III BS phenotype. Importantly, two CLCNKB mutations not previously described were found in our cohort. PMID:28288174 A phase I open-label dose-escalation study of the anti-HER3 monoclonal antibody LJM716 in patients with advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus or head and neck and HER2-overexpressing breast or gastric cancer. PubMed Reynolds, Kerry Lynn; Bedard, Philippe L; Lee, Se-Hoon; Lin, Chia-Chi; Tabernero, Josep; Alsina, Maria; Cohen, Ezra; Baselga, José; Blumenschein, George; Graham, Donna M; Garrido-Laguna, Ignacio; Juric, Dejan; Sharma, Sunil; Salgia, Ravi; Seroutou, Abdelkader; Tian, Xianbin; Fernandez, Rose; Morozov, Alex; Sheng, Qing; Ramkumar, Thiruvamoor; Zubel, Angela; Bang, Yung-Jue 2017-09-12 Human epidermal growth factor receptor 3 (HER3) is important in maintaining epidermal growth factor receptor-driven cancers and mediating resistance to targeted therapy. A phase I study of anti-HER3 monoclonal antibody LJM716 was conducted with the primary objective to identify the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and/or recommended dose for expansion (RDE), and dosing schedule. Secondary objectives were to characterize safety/tolerability, pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and preliminary antitumor activity. This open-label, dose-finding study comprised dose escalation, followed by expansion in patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck or esophagus, and HER2-overexpressing metastatic breast cancer or gastric cancer. During dose escalation, patients received LJM716 intravenous once weekly (QW) or every two weeks (Q2W), in 28-day cycles. An adaptive Bayesian logistic regression model was used to guide dose escalation and establish the RDE. Exploratory pharmacodynamic tumor studies evaluated modulation of HER3 signaling. Patients received LJM716 3-40 mg/kg QW and 20 mg/kg Q2W (54 patients; 36 patients at 40 mg/kg QW). No dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) were reported during dose-escalation. One patient experienced two DLTs (diarrhea,  hypokalemia  [both grade 3]) in the expansion phase. The RDE was 40 mg/kg QW, providing drug levels above the preclinical minimum effective concentration. One patient with gastric cancer had an unconfirmed partial response; 17/54 patients had stable disease, two lasting >30 weeks. Down-modulation of phospho-HER3 was observed in paired tumor samples. LJM716 was well tolerated; the MTD was not reached, and the RDE was 40 mg/kg QW. Further development of LJM716 is ongoing. Clinicaltrials.gov registry number NCT01598077 (registered on 4 May, 2012). Confirmatory testing in primary aldosteronism: extensive medication switching is not needed in all patients PubMed Central Solar, Miroslav; Malirova, Eva; Ballon, Marek; Pelouch, Radek; Ceral, Jiri 2012-01-01 Objective Confirmatory testing of suspected primary aldosteronism (PA) requires an extensive medication switch that can be difficult for patients with severe complicated hypertension and/or refractory  hypokalemia . For this reason, we investigated the effect of chronic antihypertensive medication on confirmatory testing results. To allow the results to be interpreted, the reproducibility of confirmatory testing was also evaluated. Design and methods The study enrolled 114 individuals with suspected PA who underwent two confirmatory tests. The patients were divided into two groups. In Group A, both tests were performed on the guidelines-recommended therapy, i.e. not interfering with the renin–angiotensin–aldosterone system. In Group B, the first test was performed on chronic therapy with the exclusion of thiazides, loop diuretics, and aldosterone antagonists; and the second test was performed on guidelines-recommended therapy. Saline infusion, preceded by oral sodium loading, was used to suppress aldosterone secretion. Results Agreement in the interpretation of the two confirmatory tests was observed in 84 and 66% of patients in Groups A and B respectively. For all 20 individuals in Group A who ever had end-test serum aldosterone levels ≥240 pmol/l, aldosterone was concordantly nonsuppressible during the other test. Similarly, for all 16 individuals in Group B who had end-test serum aldosterone levels ≥240 pmol/l on modified chronic therapy, aldosterone remained nonsuppressible with guidelines-recommended therapy. Conclusion Confirmatory testing performed while the patient is on chronic therapy without diuretics and aldosterone antagonists can confirm the diagnosis of PA, provided serum aldosterone remains markedly elevated at the end of saline infusion. PMID:22253400 Sodium polystyrene sulfonate for the treatment of acute hyperkalemia: a retrospective study. PubMed Hagan, Amanda E; Farrington, Crystal A; Wall, Geoffrey C; Belz, Mark M 2016-01-01 Hyperkalemia is a common problem in hospitalized patients, especially those with underlying chronic kidney disease, but evidence-based guidelines for its treatment are lacking. Sodium polystyrene sulfonate (SPS), a cation exchange resin first approved by the FDA for the treatment of hyperkalemia in 1958, is frequently used alone or in conjunction with other medical therapies to lower serum potassium. Recently, the safety and efficacy of SPS have come into question based on multiple reported cases of bowel necrosis associated with SPS administration. The primary objective of this study was to evaluate the use of SPS for the treatment of hyperkalemia, at a large tertiary community teaching hospital, to determine its effectiveness and the incidence of related adverse side effects. A retrospective chart review was performed on all adult inpatients receiving single-dose SPS at a 466-bed tertiary community teaching hospital over a 3-year period. 501 patients received SPS for the treatment of hyperkalemia during their index hospital stay. Serum potassium levels decreased by 0.93 mEq/L on average at first recheck after SPS administration, with or without additional medical treatments. Our study identified 10 cases of hypernatremia (greater than 145 mEq/L), 31 cases of  hypokalemia  (less than 3.5 mEq/L), and 2 cases of bowel necrosis related to the administration of SPS. Our results suggest a serum potassium reduction of less than 1 mEq/L after administration of SPS for the treatment of acute hyperkalemia. Additionally, this study offers some evidence that the use of SPS may be associated with harm. We further note the need for standardized guidelines for the treatment of hyperkalemia at our institution. True rate of mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists-related hyperkalemia in placebo-controlled trials: A meta-analysis. PubMed Vukadinović, Davor; Lavall, Daniel; Vukadinović, Aleksandra Nikolovska; Pitt, Bertram; Wagenpfeil, Stefan; Böhm, Michael 2017-06-01 Mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists (MRA) improve survival in heart failure with reduced ejection fraction but are often underused, mostly due to concerns of hyperkalemia. Because hyperkalemia occurs also on placebo, we aimed to determine the truly MRA-related rate of hyperkalemia. We performed a meta-analysis including randomized, placebo-controlled trials reporting hyperkalemia on MRAs in patients after myocardial infarction or with chronic heart failure. We evaluated the truly MRA-related rate of hyperkalemia that represents hyperkalemia on MRA, corrected for hyperkalemia on placebo (Pla), according to the equation: True MRA (%)=(MRA (%) - Pla (%))/MRA (%). A total number of 16,065 patients from 7 trials were analyzed. Hyperkalemia was more frequently observed on MRA (9.3%) vs placebo (4.3%) (risk ratio 2.17, 95% CI 1.92-2.45, P < .0001). Truly MRA-related hyperkalemia was 54%, whereas 46% were non-MRA related. In trials using eplerenone, hyperkalemia was documented in 5.0% on eplerenone and in 2.6% on placebo (P < .0001). In spironolactone trials, hyperkalemia was documented in 17.5% and in 7.5% of patients on placebo (P=.0001).  Hypokalemia  occurred less frequently in patients on MRA (9.3%) compared with placebo (14.8%) (risk ratio 0.58, CI 0.47-0.72, P < .0001). This meta-analysis shows that in clinical trials, 54% of hyperkalemia cases were specifically related to the MRA treatment and 46% to other reasons. Therefore, non-MRA-related rises in potassium levels might be underestimated and should be rigorously explored before cessation of the evidence-based therapy with MRAs. Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved. Acid-base and electrolyte disorders in patients with diabetes mellitus. PubMed Sotirakopoulos, Nikolaos; Kalogiannidou, Irini; Tersi, Maria; Armentzioiou, Karmen; Sivridis, Dimitrios; Mavromatidis, Konstantinos 2012-01-01 Diabetes mellitus is the most common metabolic disorder in the community. The diabetics may suffer from acid-base and electrolyte disorders due to complications of diabetes mellitus and the medication they receive. In this study, acid-base and electrolyte disorders were evaluated among outpatient diabetics in our hospital. The study consisted of patients with diabetes mellitus who visited the hospital as outpatients between the period January 1, 2004 to December 31, 2006. The patients' medical history, age and type of diabetes were noted, including whether they were taking diuretics and calcium channel blockers or not. Serum creatinine, proteins, sodium, potassium and chloride and blood gases were measured in all patients. Proteinuria was measured by 24-h urine collection. Two hundred and ten patients were divided in three groups based on the serum creatinine. Group A consisted of 114 patients that had serum creatinine  <  1.2 mg/dL, group B consisted of 69 patients that had serum creatinine ranging from 1.3 to 3 mg/dL and group C consisted of 27 patients with serum creatinine > 3.1 mg/dL. Of the 210 patients, 176 had an acid-base disorder. The most common disorder noted in group A was metabolic alkalosis. In groups B and C, the common disorders were metabolic acidosis and alkalosis, and metabolic acidosis, respectively. The most common electrolyte disorders were hypernatremia (especially in groups A and B), hyponatremia (group C) and hyperkalemia (especially in groups B and C). It is concluded that: (a) in diabetic outpatients, acid-base and electrolyte disorders occurred often even if the renal function is normal, (b) the most common disorders are metabolic alkalosis and metabolic acidosis (the frequency increases with the deterioration of the renal function) and (c) the common electrolyte disorders are hypernatremia and  hypokalemia . Serum and Dietary Potassium and Risk of Incident Type 2 Diabetes: The Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC) Study PubMed Central Chatterjee, Ranee; Yeh, Hsin-Chieh; Shafi, Tariq; Selvin, Elizabeth; Anderson, Cheryl; Pankow, James S.; Miller, Edgar; Brancati, Frederick 2012-01-01 Background Serum potassium levels affect insulin secretion by pancreatic beta-cells, and  hypokalemia  associated with diuretic use has been associated with dysglycemia. We hypothesized that adults with lower serum potassium levels and lower dietary potassium intake are at higher risk for incident diabetes, independent of diuretic use. Methods We analyzed data from 12,209 participants from the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC) Study, an on-going prospective cohort study beginning in 1986, with 9 years of in-person follow-up and 17 years of telephone follow-up. Using multivariate Cox proportional hazard models, we estimated the relative hazard (RH) of incident diabetes associated with baseline serum potassium levels. Results During 9 years of in-person follow-up, 1475 participants developed incident diabetes. In multivariate analyses, we found an inverse association between serum potassium and risk of incident diabetes. Compared to those with a high-normal serum potassium (5.0-5.5 mEq/l), adults with serum potassium levels of  <  4.0, 4.0- < 4.5, and 4.5- < 5.0, (mEq/L) had adjusted relative hazards (RH) (95% CI) of incident diabetes of 1.64 (1.29-2.08), 1.64 (1.34-2.01), and 1.39 (1.14-1.71) respectively. An increased risk persisted during an additional 8 years of telephone follow-up based on self-report with RHs of 1.2-1.3 for those with a serum potassium less than 5.0 mEq/L. Dietary potassium intake was significantly associated with risk of incident diabetes in unadjusted models but not in multivariate models. Conclusions Serum potassium is an independent predictor of incident diabetes in this cohort. Further study is needed to determine if modification of serum potassium could reduce the subsequent risk of diabetes. PMID:20975023 Mixed acid-base disorders, hydroelectrolyte imbalance and lactate production in hypercapnic respiratory failure: the role of noninvasive ventilation. PubMed Terzano, Claudio; Di Stefano, Fabio; Conti, Vittoria; Di Nicola, Marta; Paone, Gregorino; Petroianni, Angelo; Ricci, Alberto 2012-01-01 Hypercapnic Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) exacerbation in patients with comorbidities and multidrug therapy is complicated by mixed acid-base, hydro-electrolyte and lactate disorders. Aim of this study was to determine the relationships of these disorders with the requirement for and duration of noninvasive ventilation (NIV) when treating hypercapnic respiratory failure. Sixty-seven consecutive patients who were hospitalized for hypercapnic COPD exacerbation had their clinical condition, respiratory function, blood chemistry, arterial blood gases, blood lactate and volemic state assessed. Heart and respiratory rates, pH, PaO(2) and PaCO(2) and blood lactate were checked at the 1st, 2nd, 6th and 24th hours after starting NIV. Nine patients were transferred to the intensive care unit. NIV was performed in 11/17 (64.7%) mixed respiratory acidosis-metabolic alkalosis, 10/36 (27.8%) respiratory acidosis and 3/5 (60%) mixed respiratory-metabolic acidosis patients (p = 0.026), with durations of 45.1 ± 9.8, 36.2 ± 8.9 and 53.3 ± 4.1 hours, respectively (p = 0.016). The duration of ventilation was associated with higher blood lactate (p < 0.001), lower pH (p = 0.016), lower serum sodium (p = 0.014) and lower chloride (p = 0.038). Hyponatremia without hypervolemic hypochloremia occurred in 11 respiratory acidosis patients. Hypovolemic hyponatremia with hypochloremia and  hypokalemia  occurred in 10 mixed respiratory acidosis-metabolic alkalosis patients, and euvolemic hypochloremia occurred in the other 7 patients with this mixed acid-base disorder. Mixed acid-base and lactate disorders during hypercapnic COPD exacerbations predict the need for and longer duration of NIV. The combination of mixed acid-base disorders and hydro-electrolyte disturbances should be further investigated. Mixed Acid-Base Disorders, Hydroelectrolyte Imbalance and Lactate Production in Hypercapnic Respiratory Failure: The Role of Noninvasive Ventilation PubMed Central Terzano, Claudio; Di Stefano, Fabio; Conti, Vittoria; Di Nicola, Marta; Paone, Gregorino; Petroianni, Angelo; Ricci, Alberto 2012-01-01 Background Hypercapnic Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) exacerbation in patients with comorbidities and multidrug therapy is complicated by mixed acid-base, hydro-electrolyte and lactate disorders. Aim of this study was to determine the relationships of these disorders with the requirement for and duration of noninvasive ventilation (NIV) when treating hypercapnic respiratory failure. Methods Sixty-seven consecutive patients who were hospitalized for hypercapnic COPD exacerbation had their clinical condition, respiratory function, blood chemistry, arterial blood gases, blood lactate and volemic state assessed. Heart and respiratory rates, pH, PaO2 and PaCO2 and blood lactate were checked at the 1st, 2nd, 6th and 24th hours after starting NIV. Results Nine patients were transferred to the intensive care unit. NIV was performed in 11/17 (64.7%) mixed respiratory acidosis–metabolic alkalosis, 10/36 (27.8%) respiratory acidosis and 3/5 (60%) mixed respiratory-metabolic acidosis patients (p = 0.026), with durations of 45.1±9.8, 36.2±8.9 and 53.3±4.1 hours, respectively (p = 0.016). The duration of ventilation was associated with higher blood lactate (p < 0.001), lower pH (p = 0.016), lower serum sodium (p = 0.014) and lower chloride (p = 0.038). Hyponatremia without hypervolemic hypochloremia occurred in 11 respiratory acidosis patients. Hypovolemic hyponatremia with hypochloremia and  hypokalemia  occurred in 10 mixed respiratory acidosis–metabolic alkalosis patients, and euvolemic hypochloremia occurred in the other 7 patients with this mixed acid-base disorder. Conclusions Mixed acid-base and lactate disorders during hypercapnic COPD exacerbations predict the need for and longer duration of NIV. The combination of mixed acid-base disorders and hydro-electrolyte disturbances should be further investigated. PMID:22539963 [Cardiac arrest in chronic metabolic alkalosis due to sodium bicarbonate abuse]. PubMed Niewiński, Grzegorz; Korta, Teresa; Debowska, Małgorzata; Kosiński, Cezary; Kubik, Tomasz; Romanik, Wojciech; Kański, Andrzej 2008-01-01 Moderate metabolic alkalosis has not been considered as a life-threatening situation by many authors, but when it persists and pH increases above 7.65, the situation may become critical. We present a case of a 61-yr-old alcoholic male patient, who had been consuming approximately 200 g of sodium bicarbonate daily for twenty years, due to persisitent heartburn and abdominal pains. The patient was admitted to the ITU after home cardiac arrest and resuscitation. On admission he was unconscious and in respiratory distress, with a GCS of 5. Blood gases revealed that his pH was 7.64, HCO3 44 mmol L(-1), K+ 2.4 mmol L(-1)l, Cl- 44 mmol L(-1), and lactate concentration over 15 mmol L(-1). He was treated with controlled hypercapnia, up to a PaCO2 of 63 mm Hg, sedation, and administration of a large amount of chloride (864 mmol during the first day). The patient regained consciousness after 48 h, was extubated and transferred to the internal medicine department where he died 3 days later. Chronic alkali abuse can lead to various metabolic disturbances, neurologic disturbances and cardiovascular compromise. In the described case, the exact cause of cardiac arrest remained unknown, but may have been caused by alkalosis combined with hypoxia,  hypokalemia  and poor general condition. The extreme metabolic alkalosis (pH 7.8) could also have been enhanced by the administration of i.v. sodium bicarbonate during resuscitation. The treatment of choice in such cases should consist of vigorous chloride containing fluid resuscitation, ammonium chloride and hemodialysis. Acute kidney injury in HIV-infected children: comparison of patients according to the use of highly active antiretroviral therapy. PubMed Soares, Douglas de Sousa; Cavalcante, Malena Gadelha; Ribeiro, Samille Maria Vasconcelos; Leitão, Rayana Café; Vieira, Ana Patrícia Freitas; Pires Neto, Roberto da Justa; Silva Junior, Geraldo Bezerra da; Daher, Elizabeth de Francesco To assess clinical and laboratory data, and acute kidney injury (AKI) in HIV-infected children using and not using highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) prior to admission. A retrospective study was conducted with HIV-infected pediatric patients ( < 16 years). Children who were using and not using HAART prior to admission were compared. Sixty-three patients were included. Mean age was 5.3±4.27 years; 55.6% were females. AKI was observed in 33 (52.3%) children. Patients on HAART presented lower levels of potassium (3.9±0.8 vs. 4.5±0.7mEq/L, p=0.019) and bicarbonate (19.1±4.9 vs. 23.5±2.2mEq/L, p=0.013) and had a higher estimated glomerular filtration rate (102.2±36.7 vs. 77.0±32.8mL/min/1.73m 2 , p=0.011) than those not on HAART. In the multivariate analysis, the use of HAART prior to the admission was a protective factor for AKI (p=0.036; OR=0.30; 95% CI=0.097-0.926). AKI is a common complication of pediatric HIV infection. Use of HAART prior to the admission preserved glomerular filtration and was a protective factor for AKI, but increased medication side effects, such as  hypokalemia  and renal metabolic acidosis. Copyright © 2016 Sociedade Brasileira de Pediatria. Published by Elsevier Editora Ltda. All rights reserved. Aquaporin-2 Regulation in Health and Disease PubMed Central Radin, M. Judith; Yu, Ming-Jiun; Stoedkilde, Lene; Miller, R. Lance; Hoffert, Jason D.; Frokiaer, Jorgen; Pisitkun, Trairak; Knepper, Mark A. 2012-01-01 Aquaporin-2 (AQP2), the vasopressin-regulated water channel of the renal collecting duct, is dysregulated in numerous water balance disorders in humans and animals including those associated with polyuria (e.g. urinary tract obstruction,  hypokalemia , inflammation, and lithium toxicity) and dilutional hyponatremia (e.g. SIADH). Normal regulation of AQP2 by vasopressin involves two independent regulatory mechanisms: 1) short-term regulation of AQP2 trafficking to and from the apical plasma membrane, and 2) long term regulation of the total abundance of the AQP2 protein in the cells. Most water balance disorders are the result of dysregulation of processes that regulate the total abundance of AQP2 in collecting duct cells. In general, the level of AQP2 in a collecting duct cell is determined by a balance between production via translation of AQP2 mRNA and removal via degradation and/or secretion into the urine in exosomes. AQP2 abundance increases in response to vasopressin chiefly due to increased translation subsequent to increases in AQP2 mRNA. Vasopressin-mediated regulation AQP2 gene transcription is poorly understood, although several transcription factor binding elements in the 5’ flanking region of the AQP2 gene have been identified and candidate transcription factors corresponding to these element have been discovered in proteomics studies. Here we review progress in this area and discuss elements of vasopressin signaling in the collecting duct that may impinge on regulation of AQP2 in health and in the context of examples of polyuric diseases. PMID:23130944 Differential roles of WNK4 in regulation of NCC in vivo. PubMed Yang, Yih-Sheng; Xie, Jian; Yang, Sung-Sen; Lin, Shih-Hua; Huang, Chou-Long 2018-05-01 The Na + -Cl - cotransporter (NCC) in distal convoluted tubule (DCT) plays important roles in renal NaCl reabsorption. The current hypothesis for the mechanism of regulation of NCC focuses on WNK4 and intracellular Cl - concentration ([Cl - ] i ). WNK kinases bind Cl - , and Cl - binding decreases the catalytic activity. It is believed that  hypokalemia  under low K + intake decreases [Cl - ] i to activate WNK4, which thereby phosphorylates and stimulates NCC through activation of SPAK. However, increased NCC activity and apical NaCl entry would mitigate the fall in [Cl - ] i. Whether [Cl - ] i in DCT under low-K + diet is sufficiently low to activate WNK4 is unknown. Furthermore, increased luminal NaCl delivery also stimulates NCC and causes upregulation of the transporter. Unlike low K + intake, increased luminal NaCl delivery would tend to increase [Cl - ] i . Thus we investigated the role of WNK4 and [Cl - ] i in regulating NCC. We generated Wnk4-knockout mice and examined regulation of NCC by low K + intake and by increased luminal NaCl delivery in knockout (KO) and wild-type mice. Wnk4-KO mice have marked reduction in the abundance, phosphorylation, and functional activity of NCC vs. wild type. Low K + intake increases NCC phosphorylation and functional activity in wild-type mice, but not in Wnk4-KO mice. Increased luminal NaCl delivery similarly upregulates NCC, which, contrary to low K + intake, is not abolished in Wnk4-KO mice. The results reveal that modulation of WNK4 activity by [Cl - ] i is not the sole mechanism for regulating NCC. Increased luminal NaCl delivery upregulates NCC via yet unknown mechanism(s) that may override inhibition of WNK4 by high [Cl - ] i . Potassium intake modulates the thiazide-sensitive sodium-chloride cotransporter (NCC) activity via the Kir4.1 potassium channel. PubMed Wang, Ming-Xiao; Cuevas, Catherina A; Su, Xiao-Tong; Wu, Peng; Gao, Zhong-Xiuzi; Lin, Dao-Hong; McCormick, James A; Yang, Chao-Ling; Wang, Wen-Hui; Ellison, David H 2018-04-01 Kir4.1 in the distal convoluted tubule plays a key role in sensing plasma potassium and in modulating the thiazide-sensitive sodium-chloride cotransporter (NCC). Here we tested whether dietary potassium intake modulates Kir4.1 and whether this is essential for mediating the effect of potassium diet on NCC. High potassium intake inhibited the basolateral 40 pS potassium channel (a Kir4.1/5.1 heterotetramer) in the distal convoluted tubule, decreased basolateral potassium conductance, and depolarized the distal convoluted tubule membrane in Kcnj10flox/flox mice, herein referred to as control mice. In contrast, low potassium intake activated Kir4.1, increased potassium currents, and hyperpolarized the distal convoluted tubule membrane. These effects of dietary potassium intake on the basolateral potassium conductance and membrane potential in the distal convoluted tubule were completely absent in inducible kidney-specific Kir4.1 knockout mice. Furthermore, high potassium intake decreased, whereas low potassium intake increased the abundance of NCC expression only in the control but not in kidney-specific Kir4.1 knockout mice. Renal clearance studies demonstrated that low potassium augmented, while high potassium diminished, hydrochlorothiazide-induced natriuresis in control mice. Disruption of Kir4.1 significantly increased basal urinary sodium excretion but it abolished the natriuretic effect of hydrochlorothiazide. Finally,  hypokalemia  and metabolic alkalosis in kidney-specific Kir4.1 knockout mice were exacerbated by potassium restriction and only partially corrected by a high-potassium diet. Thus, Kir4.1 plays an essential role in mediating the effect of dietary potassium intake on NCC activity and potassium homeostasis. Copyright © 2017 International Society of Nephrology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved. Drug-Associated Adverse Events and Their Relationship with Outcomes in Patients Receiving Treatment for Extensively Drug-Resistant Tuberculosis in South Africa PubMed Central Shean, Karen; Streicher, Elizabeth; Pieterson, Elize; Symons, Greg; van Zyl Smit, Richard; Theron, Grant; Lehloenya, Rannakoe; Padanilam, Xavier; Wilcox, Paul; Victor, Tommie C.; van Helden, Paul; Groubusch, Martin; Warren, Robin; Badri, Motasim; Dheda, Keertan 2013-01-01 Background Treatment-related outcomes in patients with extensively drug-resistant tuberculosis (XDR-TB) are poor. However, data about the type, frequency and severity of presumed drug-associated adverse events (AEs) and their association with treatment-related outcomes in patients with XDR-TB are scarce. Methods Case records of 115 South-African XDR-TB patients were retrospectively reviewed by a trained researcher. AEs were estimated and graded according to severity [grade 0 = none; grade 1–2 = mild to moderate; and grade 3–5 = severe (drug stopped, life-threatening or death)]. Findings 161 AEs were experienced by 67/115(58%) patients: 23/67(34%) required modification of treatment, the offending drug was discontinued in 19/67(28%), reactions were life-threatening in 2/67(3.0%), and 6/67(9.0%) died. ∼50% of the patients were still on treatment at the time of data capture. Sputum culture-conversion was less likely in those with severe (grade 3–5) vs. grade 0–2 AEs [2/27(7%) vs. 24/88(27%); p = 0.02]. The type, frequency and severity of AEs was similar in HIV-infected and uninfected patients. Capreomycin, which was empirically administered in most cases, was withdrawn in 14/104(14%) patients, implicated in (14/34) 41% of the total drug withdrawals, and was associated with all 6 deaths in the severe AE group (renal failure in five patients and  hypokalemia  in one patient). Conclusion Drug-associated AEs occur commonly with XDR-TB treatment, are often severe, frequently interrupt therapy, and negatively impact on culture conversion outcomes. These preliminary data inform on the need for standardised strategies (including pre-treatment counselling, early detection, monitoring, and follow-up) and less toxic drugs to optimally manage patients with XDR-TB. PMID:23667572 The Safety and Efficacy of Irreversible Electroporation for Large Hepatocellular Carcinoma. PubMed Zeng, Jianying; Liu, Guifeng; Li, Zhong-Hai; Yang, Yi; Fang, Gang; Li, Rong-Rong; Xu, Ke-Cheng; Niu, Lizhi 2017-02-01 This study aimed to investigate the safety and effectiveness of irreversible electroporation ablation for unresectable large liver cancer. Fourteen patients were enrolled: 8 with large hepatocellular carcinoma (tumor diameter: 5.1-11.5 cm) and 6 with medium hepatocellular carcinoma (tumor diameter: 3.0-4.1 cm). All patients received percutaneous irreversible electroporation ablation. Ablation time and the incidence of complications were assessed by a t test. Post-irreversible electroporation and regular contrast-enhanced computerized tomography scans were performed to investigate the effect of tumor size (large vs medium) on irreversible electroporation treatment efficacy; 4-table data were assessed using a Fisher exact test. The 14 patients completed irreversible electroporation ablation successfully. In the large hepatocellular carcinoma group, no major complications occurred in the perioperative period. Minor complications comprised bloating,  hypokalemia , edema, low white blood cells, and blood clotting abnormalities. All complications were mild and improved after symptomatic treatment. The frequency of minor complications was not significantly different ( P > .05) compared with the medium hepatocellular carcinoma group. The average follow-up time was 2.8 ± 2.1 months and complete ablation was achieved in 25% (2/8; residual = 75%). For the patients with medium hepatocellular carcinoma, the mean follow-up time was 4.3 ± 3.2 months; the rate of complete ablation was 66.6% (4/6; residual rate = 33.3%). The complete ablation rate was not statistically different between the 2 groups ( P > .05). Irreversible electroporation ablation for unresectable large hepatocellular carcinoma is safe, with no major complications. Short-term efficacy is relatively good; however, long-term efficacy remains to be explored. A phase 1 study of eribulin mesylate (E7389), a novel microtubule-targeting chemotherapeutic agent, in children with refractory or recurrent solid tumors: A Children's Oncology Group Phase 1 Consortium study (ADVL1314). PubMed Schafer, Eric S; Rau, Rachel E; Berg, Stacey; Liu, Xiaowei; Minard, Charles G; D'Adamo, David; Scott, Rachael; Reyderman, Larisa; Martinez, Gresel; Devarajan, Sandhya; Reid, Joel M; Fox, Elizabeth; Weigel, Brenda J; Blaney, Susan M 2018-05-02 Eribulin mesylate is a novel anticancer agent that inhibits microtubule growth, without effects on shortening, and promotes nonproductive tubulin aggregate formation. We performed a phase 1 trial to determine the dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs), maximum tolerated or recommended phase 2 dose (MTD/RP2D), and pharmacokinetics (PK) of eribulin in children with refractory or recurrent solid (excluding central nervous system) tumors. Eribulin was administered intravenously on days 1 and 8 in 21-day cycles. Three dose levels (1.1, 1.4, and 1.8 mg/m 2 /dose) were evaluated using the rolling six design with additional patients enrolled into a PK expansion cohort at the MTD. PK samples were obtained following the day 1, cycle 1 dose. Twenty-three patients, ages 3-17 (median 14) years were enrolled; 20 were evaluable for toxicity. DLTs occurred in 0/6 and 1/6 subjects at the 1.1 and 1.4 mg/m 2 /dose, respectively. One subject at the 1.4 mg/m 2 /dose had grade 4 neutropenia and grade 3 fatigue. At the 1.8 mg/m 2 /dose, 2/5 subjects experienced dose-limiting (grade 4) neutropenia. Grade 3/4 non-DLTs included lymphopenia and  hypokalemia , while low-grade toxicities included anorexia and nausea. No episodes of grade > 2 corrected QT interval prolongation or peripheral neuropathy were reported. Eribulin pharmacokinetic parameters were highly variable; the median elimination half-life was 39.6 (range 24.2-96.4) hr. A partial response was observed in one patient (Ewing sarcoma). Eribulin was well tolerated in children with refractory or recurrent solid tumors with neutropenia identified as the primary DLT. The RP2D of eribulin is 1.4 mg/m 2 /dose on days 1 and 8 of a 21-day cycle. © 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Electrolyte and mineral disturbances in septic acute kidney injury patients undergoing continuous renal replacement therapy PubMed Central Jung, Su-Young; Kim, Hyunwook; Park, Seohyun; Jhee, Jong Hyun; Yun, Hae-Ryong; Kim, Hyoungnae; Kee, Youn Kyung; Yoon, Chang-Yun; Oh, Hyung Jung; Chang, Tae Ik; Park, Jung Tak; Yoo, Tae-Hyun; Kang, Shin-Wook; Lee, Hajeong; Kim, Dong Ki; Han, Seung Hyeok 2016-01-01 Abstract Electrolyte and mineral disturbances remain a major concern in patients undergoing continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT); however, it is not clear whether those imbalances are associated with adverse outcomes in patients with septic acute kidney injury (AKI) undergoing CRRT. We conducted a post-hoc analysis of data from a prospective randomized controlled trial. A total of 210 patients with a mean age of 62.2 years (136 [64.8%] males) in 2 hospitals were enrolled. Levels of sodium, potassium, calcium, and phosphate measured before (0 hour) and 24 hours after CRRT initiation. Before starting CRRT, at least 1 deficiency and excess in electrolytes or minerals were observed in 126 (60.0%) and 188 (67.6%) patients, respectively. The excess in these parameters was greatly improved, whereas  hypokalemia  and hypophosphatemia became more prevalent at 24 hours after CRRT. However, 1 and 2 or more deficiencies in those parameters at the 2 time points were not associated with mortality. However, during 28 days, 89 (71.2%) deaths occurred in patients with phosphate levels at 0 hour of ≥4.5 mg/dL as compared with 49 (57.6%) in patients with phosphate levels  < 4.5 mg/dL. The 90-day mortality was also significantly higher in patients with hyperphosphatemia. Similarly, in 184 patients who survived at 24 hours after CRRT, hyperphosphatemia conferred a 2.2-fold and 2.6-fold increased risk of 28- and 90-day mortality, respectively. The results remained unaltered when the serum phosphate level was analyzed as a continuous variable. Electrolyte and mineral disturbances are common, and hyperphosphatemia may predict poor prognosis in septic AKI patients undergoing CRRT. PMID:27603344 Low extracellular potassium prolongs repolarization and evokes early afterdepolarization in human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes. PubMed Kuusela, Jukka; Larsson, Kim; Shah, Disheet; Prajapati, Chandra; Aalto-Setälä, Katriina 2017-06-15 Long QT syndrome (LQTS) is characterized by a prolonged QT-interval on electrocardiogram and by increased risk of sudden death. One of the most common and potentially life-threatening electrolyte disturbances is  hypokalemia , characterized by low concentrations of K + Using a multielectrode array platform and current clamp technique, we investigated the effect of low extracellular K + concentration ([K + ] Ex ) on the electrophysiological properties of hiPSC-derived cardiomyocytes (CMs) generated from a healthy control subject (WT) and from two symptomatic patients with type 1 of LQTS carrying G589D (LQT1A) or IVS7-2A>G mutation (LQT1B) in KCNQ1 The baseline prolongations of field potential durations (FPDs) and action potential durations (APDs) were longer in LQT1-CMs than in WT-CMs. Exposure to low [K + ] Ex prolonged FPDs and APDs in a concentration-dependent fashion. LQT1-CMs were found to be more sensitive to low [K + ] Ex compared to WT-CMs. At baseline, LQT1A-CMs had more prolonged APDs than LQT1B-CMs, but low [K + ] Ex caused more pronounced APD prolongation in LQT1B-CMs. Early afterdepolarizations in the action potentials were observed in a subset of LQT1A-CMs with further prolonged baseline APDs and triangular phase 2 profiles. This work demonstrates that the hiPSC-derived CMs are sensitive to low [K + ] Ex and provide a platform to study acquired LQTS. © 2017. Published by The Company of Biologists Ltd. Comparison of long-term safety of fixed-dose combinations azilsartan medoxomil/chlorthalidone vs olmesartan medoxomil/hydrochlorothiazide. PubMed Neutel, Joel M; Cushman, William C; Lloyd, Eric; Barger, Bruce; Handley, Alison 2017-09-01 This 52-week, randomized, open-label study evaluated long-term safety/tolerability of fixed-dose combination azilsartan medoxomil/chlorthalidone (AZL-M/CLD) vs fixed-dose combination olmesartan medoxomil/hydrochlorothiazide (OLM/HCTZ) in patients with essential hypertension (stage 2; clinic systolic blood pressure 160-190 mm Hg). Initial AZL-M/CLD 40/12.5 mg/d (n=418) or OLM/HCTZ 20/12.5 mg/d (n=419) could be uptitrated during weeks 4 to 52 (AZL-M/CLD to 80/25 mg; OLM/HCTZ to 40/25 mg [United States] or 20/25 mg [Europe]) to meet blood pressure targets. Treatment-emergent adverse events/serious adverse events occurred in 78.5%/5.7% of patients taking AZL-M/CLD vs 76.4%/6.2% taking OLM/HCTZ. The most frequent adverse events were dizziness (16.3% vs 12.6%), blood creatinine increase (21.5% vs 8.6%), headache (7.4% vs 11.0%), and nasopharyngitis (12.2% vs 11.5%).  Hypokalemia  was uncommon (1.0% vs 0.7%). Greater blood pressure reductions with AZL-M/CLD by week 2 were maintained throughout the study, despite less uptitration (32.3% vs 48.9% with OLM/HCTZ). Fixed-dose combination AZL-M/CLD showed an encouraging benefit-risk profile when used per standard clinical practice in a titrate-to-target strategy. ©2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Renal Dysfunction Induced by Kidney-Specific Gene Deletion of Hsd11b2 as a Primary Cause of Salt-Dependent Hypertension. PubMed Ueda, Kohei; Nishimoto, Mitsuhiro; Hirohama, Daigoro; Ayuzawa, Nobuhiro; Kawarazaki, Wakako; Watanabe, Atsushi; Shimosawa, Tatsuo; Loffing, Johannes; Zhang, Ming-Zhi; Marumo, Takeshi; Fujita, Toshiro 2017-07-01 Genome-wide analysis of renal sodium-transporting system has identified specific variations of Mendelian hypertensive disorders, including HSD11B2 gene variants in apparent mineralocorticoid excess. However, these genetic variations in extrarenal tissue can be involved in developing hypertension, as demonstrated in former studies using global and brain-specific Hsd11b2 knockout rodents. To re-examine the importance of renal dysfunction on developing hypertension, we generated kidney-specific Hsd11b2 knockout mice. The knockout mice exhibited systemic hypertension, which was abolished by reducing salt intake, suggesting its salt-dependency. In addition, we detected an increase in renal membrane expressions of cleaved epithelial sodium channel-α and T53-phosphorylated Na + -Cl - cotransporter in the knockout mice. Acute intraperitoneal administration of amiloride-induced natriuresis and increased urinary sodium/potassium ratio more in the knockout mice compared with those in the wild-type control mice. Chronic administration of amiloride and high-KCl diet significantly decreased mean blood pressure in the knockout mice, which was accompanied with the correction of  hypokalemia  and the resultant decrease in Na + -Cl - cotransporter phosphorylation. Accordingly, a Na + -Cl - cotransporter blocker hydrochlorothiazide significantly decreased mean blood pressure in the knockout mice. Chronic administration of mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist spironolactone significantly decreased mean blood pressure of the knockout mice along with downregulation of cleaved epithelial sodium channel-α and phosphorylated Na + -Cl - cotransporter expression in the knockout kidney. Our data suggest that kidney-specific deficiency of 11β-HSD2 leads to salt-dependent hypertension, which is attributed to mineralocorticoid receptor-epithelial sodium channel-Na + -Cl - cotransporter activation in the kidney, and provides evidence that renal dysfunction is essential for developing the Drug-induced Inhibition and Trafficking Disruption of ion Channels: Pathogenesis of QT Abnormalities and Drug-induced Fatal Arrhythmias PubMed Central Cubeddu, Luigi X. 2016-01-01 Risk of severe and fatal ventricular arrhythmias, presenting as Torsade de Pointes (TdP), is increased in congenital and acquired forms of long QT syndromes (LQTS). Drug-induced inhibition of K+ currents, IKs, IKr, IK1, and/or Ito, delay repolarization, prolong QT, and increase the risk of TdP. Drug-induced interference with IKr is the most common cause of acquired LQTS/TdP. Multiple drugs bind to KNCH2-hERG-K+ channels affecting IKr, including antiarrythmics, antibiotics, antivirals, azole-antifungals, antimalarials, anticancer, antiemetics, prokinetics, antipsychotics, and antidepressants. Azithromycin has been recently added to this list. In addition to direct channel inhibition, some drugs interfere with the traffic of channels from the endoplasmic reticulum to the cell membrane, decreasing mature channel membrane density; e.g., pentamidine, geldalamicin, arsenic trioxide, digoxin, and probucol. Other drugs, such as ketoconazole, fluoxetine, norfluoxetine, citalopram, escitalopram, donepezil, tamoxifen, endoxifen, atazanavir, and roxitromycin, induce both direct channel inhibition and impaired channel trafficking. Although many drugs prolong the QT interval, TdP is a rare event. The following conditions increase the risk of drug-induced TdP: a) Disease states/electrolyte levels (heart failure, structural cardiac disease, bradycardia,  hypokalemia ); b) Pharmacogenomic variables (presence of congenital LQTS, subclinical ion-channel mutations, history of or having a relative with history of drug-induced long QT/TdP); c) Pharmacodynamic and kinetic factors (high doses, women, elderly, metabolism inhibitors, combining two or more QT prolonging drugs, drugs that prolong the QT and increase QT dispersion, and drugs with multiple actions on ion channels). Because most of these conditions are preventable, careful evaluation of risk factors and increased knowledge of drug use associated with repolarization abnormalities are strongly recommended. PMID:26926294 Worsening heart failure in the setting of dronedarone initiation. PubMed Coons, James C; Plauger, Kara M; Seybert, Amy L; Sokos, George G 2010-09-01 To describe a challenging patient case in which dronedarone was selected for a patient with atrial fibrillation and heart failure; the drug may have been associated with worsening heart failure, leading to acute renal and hepatic failure. A 47-year-old male with a history of heart failure with New York Heart Association class III-IV symptoms presented to our institution with ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia storm. Torsade de pointes secondary to a combination of dofetilide and  hypokalemia  was determined to be the etiology. Upon stabilization, the patient was initiated on dronedarone 400 mg orally twice daily by the electrophysiology service for atrial fibrillation. The patient had a questionable history of amiodarone intolerance. By hospital day 9 (day 4 of dronedarone therapy), the patient demonstrated a clinical picture consistent with acute renal and hepatic failure possibly due to worsening heart failure. Dronedarone was discontinued on hospital day 10. He was subsequently transferred to an outside hospital where he required milrinone therapy for cardiogenic shock. Laboratory markers of renal and hepatic function improved over the remainder of his hospitalization and he was discharged on hospital day 20. Dronedarone is a newly approved antiarrhythmic agent with multichannel blocking properties similar to amiodarone. Use of the Naranjo probability scale determined that this patient's worsening heart failure leading to acute renal and hepatic failure was possibly caused by dronedarone. The implication from the ANDROMEDA trial as well as our experience in this case is that dronedarone should be used cautiously in patients with heart failure and avoided in patients specifically outlined in the product labeling. This case report, to our knowledge, represents the first published postmarketing report of worsening heart failure complicated by multiorgan dysfunction in the setting of dronedarone initiation. Dronedarone use must be approached with Outcome of adrenal vein sampling performed during concurrent mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist therapy. PubMed Haase, Matthias; Riester, Anna; Kröpil, Patric; Hahner, Stefanie; Degenhart, Christoph; Willenberg, Holger S; Reincke, Martin 2014-12-01 Pharmacological inhibition of mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) signaling in patients with primary aldosteronism (PA) reestablishes aldosterone synthesis by nondiseased zona glomerulosa cells through activation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system. In this context, current guidelines recommend discontinuing MR blockade for diagnostic procedures, including adrenal vein sampling (AVS). Discontinuation of MR blockade in high-risk patients may be harmful because of uncontrolled hypertension and severe  hypokalemia . We hypothesize that MR antagonist therapy can be continued during AVS as long as renin levels remain suppressed. The objective of this study was to assess the validity of AVS results in the context of MR antagonistic therapy. We retrospectively analyzed all AVS studies in Munich (since 2008) and Düsseldorf (since 2011) and identified four of 237 (1.7%) patients with PA who underwent AVS while treated with an MR antagonist. Adrenalectomy was recommended based on the results of AVS in all four patients. After adrenalectomy, follow-up data were obtained to confirm improvement or remission of PA. Main outcome measures included blood pressure values, daily defined doses of antihypertensive medication, as well as levels of aldosterone, renin, and potassium, and the aldosterone/renin ratio. In all patients, renin remained low or suppressed during AVS despite MR antagonist treatment. AVS clearly demonstrated unilateral aldosterone excess in each case. After adrenalectomy, all patients showed remission of PA as demonstrated by blood pressure values, potassium levels, and the aldosterone/renin ratio. In selected cases of PA, MR antagonist therapy might be continued during AVS, provided that renin values remain low. [Role of adrenal vein sampling in differential diagnosis of primary aldosteronism subtypes]. PubMed Li, H Y; Li, P; Shen, S M; Zhang, X B; Feng, W H; Huang, H; Chen, W; Zhu, D L 2017-11-14 Objective: To investigate the role of adrenal vein sampling (AVS) in identifying the subtype of primary aldosteronism (PA). Methods: AVS was performed in 50 patients who were confirmed as PA between September 2010 and September 2016 in Nanjing Drum Tower Hospital. Clinical, biochemical and follow-up data were reviewed retrospectively. Bilaterally simultaneous catheterization without cosyntropin stimulation and contemporaneous cortisol measurement during AVS were used. Selectivity index (SI)≥1.5 suggested that the sample was from the adrenal vein.Lateralization index (LI) ≥2 suggested unilateral disease.Clinical data was further compared and the AVS findings were analyzed. Results: AVS was successful performed in 41 cases of 50 patients, and the success rate was 82%. According to the results of AVS and postoperative pathology, 41 cases were divided into aldosterone-producing adenoma (APA)/unilateral adrenal hyperplasia (UAH) group (24 cases) and idiopathic hyperaldosteronism (IHA) group (17 cases). Compared with IHA group, patients with APA/UAH showed longer duration of hypertension[10.0 (5.0, 13.0) y vs 4.0 (2.0, 8.0) y, P =0.046], higher proportion of  hypokalemia  (95.8% vs 64.7%, P =0.009). Furthermore, patients with APA/UAH demonstrated lower plasma renin activity ( P =0.089), higher plasma aldosterone concentration and aldosterone to renin ratio (ARR) (both P  < 0.05). The diagnostic concordance between CT and adrenal vein sampling was only 48.8%(20/41). Conclusions: The application of bilaterally simultaneous catheterization and contemporaneous cortisol measurement improves success rate and diagnostic accuracy of AVS. AVS is useful in subtype diagnosis of PA with equivocal imaging findings. Clinical, biochemical, and hematological characteristics, disease prevalence, and prognosis of dogs presenting with neutrophil cytoplasmic toxicity. PubMed Aroch, Itamar; Klement, Eyal; Segev, Gilad 2005-01-01 Neutrophil cytoplasmic toxicity is manifested as an abnormality in cell size or the cytoplasmic content upon examination of Romanowsky-stained blood smears, and is traditionally associated with infection and inflammation. The purpose of this retrospective study was to investigate the association of such changes with clinical and clinicopathologic characteristics, diseases, and prognoses in dogs. Dogs with neutrophil toxicity (n = 248) were compared with negative controls (n = 248). Statistical analyses included chi-square tests, independent t-tests, nonparametric Mann-Whitney tests, the chi-square trend test, and survival analysis. Dogs with neutrophil toxicity had a significantly higher prevalence of pale mucous membranes, tachycardia, fever, abdominal organomegaly, icterus, melena, and hematuria. Most mean hematologic variables were significantly different between groups. Dogs with neutrophil toxicity had a significantly (P  <  .05) higher prevalence of leukocytosis, leukopenia, neutrophilia, neutropenia, anemia, hyponatremia,  hypokalemia , hypoproteinemia, hypoalbuminemia, and hypocalcemia. The prevalence of pyometra, parvovirus infection, acute renal failure, peritonitis, immune-mediated hemolytic anemia, disseminated intravascular coagulation, pancreatitis, septicemia, and neoplastic disorders was significantly higher among these dogs. Case fatality, hospitalization length, and treatment cost were significantly (P  <  .001) higher in dogs with neutrophil toxicity. Neutrophil toxicity severity was significantly (P  <  .0035) and positively associated with neutropenia, and negatively associated with leukocytosis and neutrophilia. A significant trend (P = .05) toward increasing case fatality with an increase of neutrophil toxicity was observed. In the neutrophil toxicity group, dogs with leukopenia ( < 5.0 X 10(3)/mm3) had a significantly (P  <  .0001) higher case fatality compared to dogs with normal or high leukocyte counts. We conclude that evaluation of blood smears for Introducing a change in hospital policy using FMEA methodology as a tool to reduce patient hazards. PubMed Ofek, Fanny; Magnezi, Racheli; Kurzweil, Yaffa; Gazit, Inbal; Berkovitch, Sofia; Tal, Orna 2016-01-01 Intravenous potassium chloride (IV KCl) solutions are widely used in hospitals for treatment of  hypokalemia . As ampoules of concentrated KCL must be diluted before use, critical incidents have been associated with its preparation and administration. Currently, we have introduced ready-to-use diluted KCl infusion solutions to minimize the use of high-alert concentrated KCl. Since this process may be associated with considerable risks, we embraced a proactive hazard analysis as a tool to implement a change in high-alert drug usage in a hospital setting. Failure mode and effect analysis (FMEA) is a systematic tool to analyze and identify risks in system operations. We used FMEA to examine the hazards associated with the implementation of the ready-to-use solutions. A multidisciplinary team analyzed the risks by identifying failure modes, conducting a hazard analysis and calculating the criticality index (CI) for each failure mode. A 1-day survey was performed as an evaluation step after a trial run period of approximately 4 months. Six major possible risks were identified. The most severe risks were prioritized and specific recommendations were formulated. Out of 28 patients receiving IV KCl on the day of the survey, 22 received the ready-to-use solutions and 6 received the concentrated solutions as instructed. Only 1 patient received inappropriate ready-to-use KCl. Using the FMEA tool in our study has proven once again that by creating a gradient of severity of potential vulnerable elements, we are able to proactively promote safer and more efficient processes in health care systems. This article presents a utilization of this method for implementing a change in hospital policy regarding the routine use of IV KCl. Hematological, biochemical, and histopathological impacts of barium chloride and barium carbonate accumulation in soft tissues of male Sprague-Dawley rats. PubMed Mohammed, Amany Tharwat; Ismail, Hager Tarek H 2017-12-01 The present study was designed to investigate the hematotoxicity, sero-biochemical and histological changes due to the accumulation of BaCl 2 and BaCO 3 , the most important barium salts in our daily lives, in different soft tissues including the liver, kidney, heart, and spleen of adult rats after an oral exposure for 30 consecutive days, and to explain the different mechanisms by which this metal can exert these impacts. For this purpose, adult male rats were divided into three main groups of 15 animals each: group I, serving as controls, group II, receiving BaCl 2 orally in a dose of 179 mg barium/kg b.wt, and group III, receiving BaCO 3 orally in a dose of 418 mg barium/kg b.wt. for 30 consecutive days. Obviously, normocytic normochromic anemia was evident in both barium groups. Serum biochemical analysis revealed significant declines in glutathione peroxidase, catalase, superoxide dismutase, and urea with significant elevations in malondialdehyde, lactate dehydrogenase, and creatine kinase levels. Hyperphosphatemia,  hypokalemia , hypocalcemia, and hypochloremia were also evident in both barium groups. Besides, residual analysis of both barium salts in different body organs revealed significantly abundant barium residues in the liver, spleen, heart, and kidney, respectively in both barium salts groups. Moreover, splenic tissue showed hemosiderosis, peritubular congestion, and necrotic glomeruli with intratubular hemorrhage. Sever subepicardial congestion with intramuscular edema was evident in the heart. In conclusion, BaCl 2 and BaCO 3 were able to deliver mortalities, antioxidant enzymes exhaustion, and a sort of normocytic normochromic anemia, as well as marked disturbances in cardiac, hepatic, and renal functions due to the accumulation of these two salts in the soft tissues. Therefore, these results demonstrate the unrecognized toxicity of those two barium salts due to their accumulation in various soft tissues of the body and so, this needs to reconsider Hypertensive crisis with 2 target organ impairment induced by glycyrrhizin PubMed Central Li, Jing; Fan, Xiaoli; Wang, Qin 2018-01-01 Abstract Rationale: Glycyrrhizin is the main active component of licorice. Licorice and glycyrrhizin induced hypertension has been widely reported, yet licorice and glycyrrhizin induced hypertensive crisis has been rarely known. Patient concerns: The case of this report was a 47-year-old woman, who took 225 mg of glycyrrhizin daily for 3 years due to primary biliary cholangitis. She was found to have a dramatically elevated blood pressure of about 230/110 mmHg without a history of hypertension and was referred to the emergency department. Diagnoses:  Hypokalemia , hypertensive retinopathy, and nephropathy were found during the following work-up. Since no other risk factors of hypertension were identified, she was suspected to have glycyrrhizin induced pseudo-hyperaldosteronism. Interventions: Glycyrrhizin was discontinued. Intravenous sodium nitroprusside was used during the first few days. Nifedipine and irbesartan were taken after discharge, and the dosage was reduced gradually under supervision. Outcomes: She stopped all the anti-hypertensive drugs 6 months since glycyrrhizin was stopped. Her blood pressure was about 110/60 mmHg after repetitive measurement. Her serum potassium and urine albumin/creatinine ratio were also normalized. Lessons: Licorice and glycyrrhizin induced hypertension due to pseudo-hyperaldosteronism has been widely reported, yet only 3 cases reported that excessive consumption of licorice could lead to hypertensive emergencies. This is the first case that glycyrrhizin induced hypertensive crisis with target organ impairment. By presenting this case, we remind clinicians of glycyrrhizin induced hypertension, a condition which could lead to medical emergencies. PMID:29538199 Continuous infusion of amphotericin B: preliminary experience at Faculdade de Medicina da Fundação ABC. PubMed Uehara, Roberto Palermo; Sá, Victor Hugo Lara de; Koshimura, Erika Tae; Prudente, Fernanda Vilas Boas; Tucunduva, Luciana Tomanik Cardozo de Mello; Gonçalves, Marina Sahade; Samano, Eliana Sueco Tibana; del Giglio, Auro 2005-09-01 Intravenous amphotericin B deoxycholate (AmB-D) infusions, usually given over 4 hours, frequently induce nephrotoxicity and undesirable infusion-related side effects such as rigors and chills. There is evidence in the literature that the use of AmB-D in the form of continuous 24-hour infusion is less toxic than the usual four-hour infusion of this drug. Our objective was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of continuous infusion of AmB-D for the treatment of persistent fever in neutropenic patients with hematological malignancies after chemotherapy. Observational retrospective analysis of our experience with continuous infusion of AmB-D, at Faculdade de Medicina da Fundação ABC and Hospital Estadual Mário Covas in Santo André. From October 2003 to May 2004, 12 patients with hematological malignancies and chemotherapy-induced neutropenia received 13 cycles of continuous infusion of AmB-D. The median dose of AmB-D was 0.84 mg/kg/day (0.33 to 2.30 mg/kg/day). Concomitant use of nephrotoxic medications occurred in 92% of the cycles. Nephrotoxicity occurred in 30.76% of the cycles,  hypokalemia  in 16.67%, hepatotoxicity in 30% and adverse infusion-related events in 23%. All patients survived for at least seven days after starting continuous infusion of AmB-D, and clinical resolution occurred in 76% of the cycles. Continuous infusion of AmB-D can be used in our Institution as an alternative to the more toxic four-hour infusion of AmB-D and possibly also as an alternative to the more expensive liposomal formulations of the drug. Phase I North Central Cancer Treatment Group Trial-N9923 of escalating doses of twice-daily thoracic radiation therapy with amifostine and with alternating chemotherapy in limited stage small-cell lung cancer SciTech Connect Garces, Yolanda I.; Okuno, Scott H.; Schild, Steven E. Purpose: The primary goal was to identify the maximum tolerable dose (MTD) of thoracic radiation therapy (TRT) that can be given with chemotherapy and amifostine for patients with limited-stage small-cell lung cancer (LSCLC). Methods and Materials: Treatment began with two cycles of topotecan (1 mg/m{sup 2}) Days 1 to 5 and paclitaxel (175 mg/m{sup 2}) Day 5 (every 3 weeks) given before and after TRT. The TRT began at 6 weeks. The TRT was given in 120 cGy fractions b.i.d. and the dose escalation (from 4,800 cGy, dose level 1, to 6,600 cGy, dose level 4) followed the standard 'cohortsmore » of 3' design. The etoposide (E) (50 mg/day) and cisplatin (C) (3 mg/m{sup 2}) were given i.v. before the morning TRT and amifostine (500 mg/day) was given before the afternoon RT. This was followed by prophylactic cranial irradiation (PCI). The dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) were defined as Grade {>=}4 hematologic, febrile neutropenia, esophagitis, or other nonhematologic toxicity, Grade {>=}3 dyspnea, or Grade {>=}2 pneumonitis. Results: Fifteen patients were evaluable for the Phase I portion of the trial. No DLTs were seen at dose levels 1 and 2. Two patients on dose level 4 experienced DLTs: 1 patient had a Grade 4 pneumonitis, dyspnea, fatigue,  hypokalemia , and anorexia, and 1 patient had a Grade 5 hypoxia attributable to TRT. One of 6 patients on dose level 3 had a DLT, Grade 3 esophagitis. The Grade {>=}3 toxicities seen in at least 10% of patients during TRT were esophagitis (53%), leukopenia (33%), dehydration (20%), neutropenia (13%), and fatigue (13%). The median survival was 14.5 months. Conclusion: The MTD of b.i.d. TRT was 6000 cGy (120 cGy b.i.d.) with EP and amifostine.« less Prevalence of and risk factors for primary aldosteronism among patients with resistant hypertension in China. PubMed Sang, Xiaojing; Jiang, Yiran; Wang, Weiqing; Yan, Li; Zhao, Jiasheng; Peng, Yongde; Gu, Wei; Chen, Gang; Liu, Wei; Ning, Guang 2013-07-01 It is estimated that there are more than 16 million adults with drug-resistant hypertension in China. Nevertheless, the prevalence of and risk factors for primary aldosteronism, a highly curable condition among adults with drug-resistant hypertension, has not been fully investigated. Between January 2010 and October 2011, a multicenter epidemiologic study was conducted among 1656 patients with resistant hypertension in 11 provinces of China. Serum aldosterone and plasma renin activity were measured in every participant and aldosterone-to-renin ratio (ARR) was calculated. Patients with ARR more than 20 underwent an intravenous (i.v.) sodium infusion test, and diagnosis of primary aldosteronism was established by the presence of unsuppressed postinfusion aldosterone (>8 ng/dl). Patients with biochemically proved primary aldosteronism then underwent adrenal computed tomography (CT) scanning and adrenal vein sampling (AVS) for subtype classification. Among the 1656 patients, 494 (29.8%) had ARR greater than 20 and underwent i.v. sodium infusion. Of these 494, 118 were diagnosed as primary aldosteronism, yielding a prevalence of 7.1% (95% confidential interval 5.9-8.3%). Seventy of the 118 patients were categorized into unilateral (39) and bilateral (31) by AVS. Generalized additive regression analysis revealed that among all the factors investigated (age of hypertension onset, BMI, family history of hypertension, cigarette smoking, alcohol consumption, diabetes, serum potassium, hyperlipidemia, and creatinine), only age of hypertension onset and serum potassium were independently associated with the presence of primary aldosteronism. The prevalence of primary aldosteronism among Chinese patients with resistant hypertension is relatively lower than that reported previously for other ethnic populations. The screening for primary aldosteronism should be focused on those with early onset hypertension and/or  hypokalemia . Idarucizumab for Reversing Dabigatran-Induced Anticoagulation: A Systematic Review. PubMed Thibault, Nathan; Morrill, Amanda M; Willett, Kristine C The approval of the oral direct thrombin inhibitor, dabigatran etexilate, gave patients an alternative to oral anticoagulation with warfarin. Like all anticoagulants, the primary adverse event (AE) associated with dabigatran is bleeding. Until the FDA approval of idarucizumab, there had been no reversal agent for dabigatran-induced anticoagulation in patients with life-threatening or uncontrollable bleeding, or those requiring emergent procedures. The primary purpose of this review is to summarize the safety and efficacy of idarucizumab, a monoclonal antibody fragment, and its use as a reversal agent for dabigatran. A literature search was conducted through MEDLINE (1946 to November week 1 2015) and Embase (1980-2015 week 46) using the search term idarucizumab. Clinicaltrials.gov was consulted for a comprehensive list of ongoing and completed studies. Additional studies were identified through bibliographical citations. Clinical trials in animals and humans published in English evaluating the safety and efficacy of idarucizumab for reversal of anticoagulant treatment with dabigatran were included for review. Idarucizumab has been shown to significantly reverse the anticoagulant effects of dabigatran in both healthy volunteers and patients requiring a reversal agent because of either overt bleeding or an emergency surgery or invasive procedure. The most common AEs were headache, nasopharyngitis, back pain, skin irritation,  hypokalemia , delirium, constipation, pyrexia, and pneumonia. Deaths reported in idarucizumab studies were attributed to either the index event or a preexisting comorbidity. Most adverse effects were minor, but 21 serious AEs have been reported in the published data including thrombotic events. Given the increased use of direct oral anticoagulants, such as dabigatran, a need for specific reversal agents exists. Idarucizumab has been shown to be safe and effective in the reversal of dabigatran-induced anticoagulation in patients requiring emergent Pediatric Phase I Trial and Pharmacokinetic Study of Vorinostat: A Children's Oncology Group Phase I Consortium Report PubMed Central Fouladi, Maryam; Park, Julie R.; Stewart, Clinton F.; Gilbertson, Richard J.; Schaiquevich, Paula; Sun, Junfeng; Reid, Joel M.; Ames, Matthew M.; Speights, Roseanne; Ingle, Ashish M.; Zwiebel, James; Blaney, Susan M.; Adamson, Peter C. 2010-01-01 Purpose The purpose of this study was to determine the maximum-tolerated dose (MTD), dose-limiting toxicities (DLT), and pharmacokinetics of vorinostat administered as a single agent and in combination 13-cis retinoic acid (13cRA) in children with refractory solid tumors; to evaluate the tolerability of the solid tumor MTD in children with refractory leukemias; and to characterize the pharmacokinetics of a vorinostat suspension in children. Patients and Methods Vorinostat was administered orally daily starting at 180 mg/m2/d with escalations planned in 30% increments. Pharmacokinetic studies were performed with the initial dose. Acetyl-histone (H3) accumulation was assessed by Western blotting of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC). Results Sixty-four patients were enrolled on this multipart trial. In patients with solid tumors, the MTD was 230 mg/m2/d with dose-limiting neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, and  hypokalemia  at 300 mg/m2/d. DLTs observed with the combination of 13cRA and vorinostat included thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, anorexia, and hypertriglyceridemia, resulting in a MTD of vorinostat 180 mg/m2/d 4 times per week and 13cRA 80 mg/m2/dose twice per day, days 1 through 14 every 28 days. Wide interpatient variability was noted in vorinostat disposition, with area under the concentration-time curves at 230 mg/m2/d for the capsule (range, 1,415 to 9,291 ng/mL × hr) and oral suspension (range, 1,186 to 4,780 ng/mL × hr). Significant accumulation of acetylated H3 histone in PBMC was observed after administration of vorinostat, particularly at higher doses. One patient with neuroblastoma experienced a complete response to the combination. Conclusion In children with recurrent solid tumors, vorinostat is well-tolerated at 230 mg/m2/d, with a modest dose reduction being required when combining vorinostat with 13cRA. Drug disposition is similar to that observed in adults. PMID:20606092 ["Re-evaluation upon suspected event" is an approach for post-marketing clinical study: lessons from adverse drug events related to Bupleuri Radix preparations]. PubMed Wu, Shu-Xin; Sun, Hong-Feng; Yang, Xiao-Hui; Long, Hong-Zhu; Ye, Zu-Guang; Ji, Shao-Liang; Zhang, Li 2014-08-01 We revisited the "Xiao Chaihu Decoction event (XCHDE)" occurred in late 1980s in Japan and the Bupleuri Radix related adverse drug reaction (ADR) reports in China After careful review, comparison, analysis and evaluation, we think the interstitial pneumonitis, drug induced Liver injury (DILI) and other severe adverse drug envents (ADEs) including death happened in Japan is probably results from multiple factors, including combinatory use of XCHDE with interferon, Kampo usage under modern medicine theory guidance, and use of XCHD on the basis of disease diagnosis instead of traditional Chinese syndrome complex differentiation. There are less ADE case reports related to XCHD preparation in China compared to Japan, mostly manifest with hypersensitivity responses of skin and perfuse perspiration. The symptoms of Radix Bupleuri injection related ADEs mainly manifest hypersensitivity-like response, 2 cases of intravenous infusion instead of intramuscular injection developed  hypokalemia  and renal failure. One case died from severe hypersensitivity shock. In Chinese literatures, there is no report of the interstitial pneumonitis and DILI associated with XCHDG in Japan. So far, there is no voluntary monitoring data and large sample clinical research data available. The author elaborated the classification of "reevaluation" and clarified "re-evaluation upon events" included the reaction to the suspected safety and efficacy events. Based on the current status of the clinical research on the Radix Bupleuri preparations, the author points out that post-marketing "re-evaluation upon suspected event" is not only a necessity of continuous evaluation of the safety, efficacy of drugs, it is also a necessity for providing objective clinical research data to share with the international and domestic drug administrations in the risk-benefit evaluation. It is also the unavoidable pathway to culture and push the excellent species and famous brands of TCM to the international market, in Prevalence and Risk Factors Associated with Use of QT-Prolonging Drugs in Hospitalized Older People. PubMed Franchi, C; Ardoino, I; Rossio, R; Nobili, A; Biganzoli, E M; Marengoni, A; Marcucci, M; Pasina, L; Tettamanti, M; Corrao, S; Mannucci, P M 2016-01-01 The objective of this study was to evaluate the prevalence of the prescription of QT-prolonging drugs at hospital admission and discharge and the risk factors associated with their use in older people (aged 65 years and older). Data were obtained from the REPOSI (REgistro POliterapie SIMI [Società Italiana di Medicina Interna]) registry, which enrolled 4035 patients in 2008 (n = 1332), 2010 (n = 1380), and 2012 (n = 1323). Multivariable logistic regression was performed to determine the risk factors independently associated with QT-prolonging drug use. QT-prolonging drugs were classified by the risk of Torsades de Pointes (TdP) (definite, possible, or conditional) according to the Arizona Center for Education and Research on Therapeutics (AzCERT) classification. Specific drug combinations were also assessed. Among 3906 patients prescribed at least one drug at admission, 2156 (55.2%) were taking at least one QT-prolonging drug. Risk factors independently associated with the use of any QT-prolonging drugs were increasing age (odds ratio [OR] 1.02, 95% CI 1.01-1.03), multimorbidity (OR 2.69, 95% CI 2.33-3.10),  hypokalemia  (OR 2.79, 95% CI 1.32-5.89), atrial fibrillation (OR 1.66, 95% CI 1.40-1.98), and heart failure (OR 3.17, 95% CI 2.49-4.05). Furosemide, alone or in combination, was the most prescribed drug. Amiodarone was the most prescribed drug with a definite risk of TdP. Both the absolute number of QT-prolonging drugs (2890 vs. 3549) and the number of patients treated with them (2456 vs. 2156) increased at discharge. Among 1808 patients not prescribed QT-prolonging drugs at admission, 35.8% were prescribed them at discharge. Despite their risk, QT-prolonging drugs are widely prescribed to hospitalized older persons. The curriculum for both practicing physicians and medical students should be strengthened to provide more education on the appropriate use of drugs in order to improve the management of hospitalized older people. Effectiveness of patiromer in the treatment of hyperkalemia in chronic kidney disease patients with hypertension on diuretics PubMed Central Weir, Matthew R.; Mayo, Martha R.; Garza, Dahlia; Arthur, Susan A.; Berman, Lance; Bushinsky, David; Wilson, Daniel J.; Epstein, Murray 2017-01-01 Objective: Recurrent hyperkalemia frequently limits use of renin–angiotensin–aldosterone system inhibitors (RAASi) in chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients with hypertension, diabetes, and/or heart failure. Patiromer is a sodium-free, nonabsorbed potassium (K+)-binding polymer approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of hyperkalemia. This post-hoc analysis of OPAL-HK examined the effectiveness and safety of patiromer in reducing serum K+ in hyperkalemic CKD patients on RAASi, with hypertension, receiving diuretic therapy versus those not on diuretics. Methods: Depending on the degree of hyperkalemia at baseline, CKD patients with serum K+ from 5.1 to less than 6.5 mmol/l on RAASi (n = 243) were assigned to a patiromer of total dose 8.4 or 16.8 g, divided twice daily. Changes in serum K+, and tolerability and safety were assessed over 4 weeks in patients on and not on diuretics. Results: At baseline, 132 patients used diuretics and 111 were not on diuretics, mean age was 64.3 and 64.0 years, respectively, and 63 and 51% were men. Similar reductions in serum K+ were seen over 4 weeks in both subgroups. At week 4, serum K+ fell by −0.95 ± 0.04 mmol/l with any diuretic and −1.04 ± 0.05 mmol/l with no diuretic. Patiromer was well tolerated, with mild-to-moderate constipation reported as the most common adverse event (7.6 and 14.4% of patients on any diuretic or no diuretic, respectively).  Hypokalemia  (s-K+  < 3.5 mEq/l) was reported in 2.3% of patients on any diuretic and in 3.7% not on diuretics. Conclusion: The serum K+-lowering efficacy and safety profile of patiromer in hyperkalemia patients with CKD was not compromised by diuretic therapy. PMID:28129247 Cushing's syndrome due to ectopic production of corticotropin-releasing hormone in an infant with ganglioneuroblastoma. PubMed Zangeneh, Farhad; Young, William F; Lloyd, Ricardo V; Chiang, Myra; Kurczynski, Elizabeth; Zangeneh, Fereydoun 2003-01-01 To report the first recognized case of Cushing's syndrome due to a corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH)-secreting ganglioneuroblastoma, which was found in an 18-month-old boy with hypertensive encephalopathy. The clinical, biochemical, and immunohistochemical characteristics of this rare syndrome are described, and the relevant literature is reviewed. An 18-month-old boy with a history of recent weight gain was admitted because of sudden onset of right fixed esotropia and left facial palsy after episodes of emesis. Magnetic resonance imaging showed old left frontal lobe and right hypothalamic infarcts. The patient had generalized obesity, decelerated linear growth, hypertrichosis, hypertension (144/103 mm Hg),  hypokalemia , and proteinuria. The 24-hour urinary excretion of free cortisol, catecholamines, and metanephrines was increased. The serum cortisol concentration after a 1-mg overnight dexamethasone suppression test (DST) was 53.7 mg/dL (normal,  < 5). The serum adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) concentration was 7 pg/mL (normal, 10 to 60), and the CRH level was 439 pg/mL (normal, 24 to 40). An overnight high-dose DST (8 mg) failed to suppress serum cortisol; however, both cortisol and ACTH were responsive to ovine CRH stimulation. Despite discordant dynamic endocrine testing and negative somatostatin receptor scintigraphy, computed tomography showed a right 3.6- by 3.0-cm extra-adrenal retroperitoneal mass with central calcification extending 7 cm cephalocaudally. The patient underwent exploratory laparotomy, followed by chemotherapy. Findings on light microscopic and immunohistochemical examination of the retroperitoneal mass were consistent with a ganglioneuroblastoma that expressed CRH, pro-opiomelanocortin, and ACTH. The evaluation of Cushing's syndrome is one of the most complex endocrine challenges. In this case, it was due to ectopic production of CRH by a ganglioneuroblastoma. Because most CRH-producing tumors also secrete ACTH, the ectopic production Mutations in ATP6V1B1 and ATP6V0A4 genes cause recessive distal renal tubular acidosis in Mexican families. PubMed Escobar, Laura I; Simian, Christopher; Treard, Cyrielle; Hayek, Donia; Salvador, Carolina; Guerra, Norma; Matos, Mario; Medeiros, Mara; Enciso, Sandra; Camargo, María Dolores; Vargas-Poussou, Rosa 2016-05-01 Autosomal recessive distal renal tubular acidosis (dRTA) is a rare disease characterized by a hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis with normal anion gap,  hypokalemia , hypercalciuria, hypocitraturia, nephrocalcinosis, and conserved glomerular filtration rate. In some cases, neurosensorial deafness is associated. dRTA is developed during the first months of life and the main manifestations are failure to thrive, vomiting, dehydration, and anorexia. Nine unrelated families were studied: seven children, a teenager, and an adult with dRTA. Hearing was preserved in four children. Coding regions of the genes responsible for recessive dRTA were analysed by Sanger sequencing. Molecular defects were found in the genes ATP6V1B1 and ATP6V0A4. We identified three homozygous variants in ATP6V1B: a frameshift mutation (p.Ile386Hisfs*56), a nucleotide substitution in exon 10 (p.Pro346Arg), and a new splicing mutation in intron 5. Three patients were homozygous for one novel (p.Arg743Trp) and one known (p.Asp411Tyr) missense mutations in the ATP6V0A4 gene. Three patients were compound heterozygous: one proband displayed two novel mutations, the frameshift mutation p.Val52Metfs*25, and a large deletion of exons 18-21; two probands showed the missense mutation p.Asp411Tyr and as a second mutation, p.Arg194Ter and c.1691+2dup, respectively. ATP6V0A4 and ATP6V1B1 genes were involved in recessive dRTA of Mexican families. All ATP6V1B1 mutations detected were homozygous and all patients developed sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL) early in infancy. ATP6V0A4 mutations were found in one infant and three children without SNHL, and in one teenager and one adult with SNHL confirming the phenotypic variability in this trait. The mutation p.Asp411Tyr detected in four Mexican families was due to a founder effect. Screening of these mutations could provide a rapid and valuable tool for diagnosis of dRTA in this population. The effect of intravenous insulin infusion on renal blood flow in conscious sheep is partially mediated by nitric oxide but not by prostaglandins. PubMed Tebot, I; Bonnet, J-M; Paquet, C; Ayoub, J-Y; Da Silva, S M; Louzier, V; Cirio, A 2012-04-01 To test the effect of insulin on renal perfusion and the participation of NO and PG as mediators of this response, renal blood flow (RBF) was measured in sheep (n = 8) implanted with ultrasonic flow probes around renal arteries and with a systemic arterial pressure (SAP, n = 4) telemetry device. Three protocols were performed: 1) RBF and SAP were recorded (0800 to 1800 h) in fed and fasted sheep, with the latter receiving intravenous (i.v.) infusions (0.5 mL/min) of insulin at 2 or 6 mU/(kg·min); 2) fasted sheep received i.v. infusions of either an inhibitor of NO synthesis (N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester, L-NAME) alone [0.22 mg/(kg·min), 1000 to 1200 h] or L-NAME (1000 to 1200 h) + insulin during the second hour (6 mU/(kg·min), 1100 to 1200 h); and 3) the same protocol was followed as in protocol 2, substituting L-NAME with ketoprofen [0.2 mg/(kg·min)], a cyclooxygenase inhibitor. In all protocols, plasma insulin and glucose were determined. During insulin administration, euglycemia was maintained and  hypokalemia  was prevented by infusing glucose and KCl solutions. After the onset of meals, a long-lasting 18% increase in RBF and a 48% insulin increase were observed (P  <  0.05), without changes in SAP. Low- and high-dose insulin infusions increased RBF by 19 and 40%, respectively (P  <  0.05). As after meals, the increases in RBF lasted longer than the insulin increase (P  <  0.05). The L-NAME infusion decreased RBF by 15% (P  <  0.05); when insulin was added, RBF increased to preinfusion values. Ketoprofen decreased RBF by 9% (P  <  0.05); when insulin was added, RBF increased to 13% above preinfusion values (P  <  0.05). In no case was a modification in SAP or glucose noted during the RBF changes. In conclusion, insulin infusion mimics the meal-dependent increase in RBF, independent of SAP, and lasts longer than the blood insulin plateau. The RBF increase induced by insulin was only partially prevented by L-NAME. Ketoprofen failed to prevent the insulin Balanced Fluid Versus Saline-Based Fluid in Post-operative Severe Traumatic Brain Injury Patients: Acid-Base and Electrolytes Assessment PubMed Central Hassan, Mohamad Hasyizan; Hassan, Wan Mohd Nazaruddin Wan; Zaini, Rhendra Hardy Mohd; Shukeri, Wan Fadzlina Wan Muhd; Abidin, Huda Zainal; Eu, Chong Soon 2017-01-01 Background Normal saline (NS) is a common fluid of choice in neurosurgery and neuro-intensive care unit (ICU), but it does not contain other electrolytes and has the potential to cause hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis with prolonged infusion. These problems may be reduced with the availability of balanced fluid (BF), which becomes a more physiological isotonic solution with the presence of complete electrolyte content. This study aimed to compare the changes in electrolytes and acid–base between NS and BF (Sterofundin® ISO) therapy for post-operative severe traumatic brain injury (TBI) patients in neuro-ICU. Methods Sixty-six severe TBI patients who required emergency craniotomy or craniectomy and were planned for post-operative ventilation were randomised into NS (n = 33) and BF therapy groups (n = 33). The calculation of maintenance fluid given was based on the Holliday-Segar method. The electrolytes and acid–base parameters were assessed at an 8 h interval for 24 h. The data were analysed using repeated measures ANOVA. Results The NS group showed a significant lower base excess (−3.20 versus −1.35, P = 0.049), lower bicarbonate level (22.03 versus 23.48 mmol/L, P = 0.031), and more hyperchloremia (115.12 versus 111.74 mmol/L, P  <  0.001) and  hypokalemia  (3.36 versus 3.70 mmol/L, P  <  0.001) than the BF group at 24 h of therapy. The BF group showed a significantly higher level of calcium (1.97 versus 1.79 mmol/L, P = 0.003) and magnesium (0.94 versus 0.80 mmol/L, P  <  0.001) than the NS group at 24 h of fluid therapy. No significant differences were found in pH, pCO2, lactate, and sodium level. Conclusion BF therapy showed better effects in maintaining higher electrolyte parameters and reducing the trend toward hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis than the NS therapy during prolonged fluid therapy for postoperative TBI patients. PMID:29386975 Balanced Fluid Versus Saline-Based Fluid in Post-operative Severe Traumatic Brain Injury Patients: Acid-Base and Electrolytes Assessment. PubMed Hassan, Mohamad Hasyizan; Hassan, Wan Mohd Nazaruddin Wan; Zaini, Rhendra Hardy Mohd; Shukeri, Wan Fadzlina Wan Muhd; Abidin, Huda Zainal; Eu, Chong Soon 2017-10-01 Normal saline (NS) is a common fluid of choice in neurosurgery and neuro-intensive care unit (ICU), but it does not contain other electrolytes and has the potential to cause hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis with prolonged infusion. These problems may be reduced with the availability of balanced fluid (BF), which becomes a more physiological isotonic solution with the presence of complete electrolyte content. This study aimed to compare the changes in electrolytes and acid-base between NS and BF (Sterofundin® ISO) therapy for post-operative severe traumatic brain injury (TBI) patients in neuro-ICU. Sixty-six severe TBI patients who required emergency craniotomy or craniectomy and were planned for post-operative ventilation were randomised into NS ( n = 33) and BF therapy groups ( n = 33). The calculation of maintenance fluid given was based on the Holliday-Segar method. The electrolytes and acid-base parameters were assessed at an 8 h interval for 24 h. The data were analysed using repeated measures ANOVA. The NS group showed a significant lower base excess (-3.20 versus -1.35, P = 0.049), lower bicarbonate level (22.03 versus 23.48 mmol/L, P = 0.031), and more hyperchloremia (115.12 versus 111.74 mmol/L, P  <  0.001) and  hypokalemia  (3.36 versus 3.70 mmol/L, P  <  0.001) than the BF group at 24 h of therapy. The BF group showed a significantly higher level of calcium (1.97 versus 1.79 mmol/L, P = 0.003) and magnesium (0.94 versus 0.80 mmol/L, P  <  0.001) than the NS group at 24 h of fluid therapy. No significant differences were found in pH, pCO 2 , lactate, and sodium level. BF therapy showed better effects in maintaining higher electrolyte parameters and reducing the trend toward hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis than the NS therapy during prolonged fluid therapy for postoperative TBI patients. Abiraterone acetate, exemestane or the combination in postmenopausal patients with estrogen receptor-positive metastatic breast cancer. PubMed O'Shaughnessy, J; Campone, M; Brain, E; Neven, P; Hayes, D; Bondarenko, I; Griffin, T W; Martin, J; De Porre, P; Kheoh, T; Yu, M K; Peng, W; Johnston, S 2016-01-01 Androgen receptor (AR) signaling and incomplete inhibition of estrogen signaling may contribute to metastatic breast cancer (MBC) resistance to a nonsteroidal aromatase inhibitor (NSAI; letrozole or anastrozole). We assessed whether combined inhibition of androgen biosynthesis with abiraterone acetate plus prednisone and estradiol synthesis with exemestane (E) may be of clinical benefit to postmenopausal patients with NSAI-pretreated estrogen receptor-positive (ER+) MBC. Patients (N = 297) were stratified by the number of prior therapies for metastatic disease (0-1 versus 2) and by prior NSAI use (adjuvant versus metastatic), and randomized (1 : 1 : 1) to receive oral once daily 1000 mg abiraterone acetate plus 5 mg prednisone (AA) versus AA with 25 mg E (AAE) versus 25 mg E alone (E). Each treatment arm was well balanced with regard to the proportion of patients with AR-positive breast cancer. The primary end point was progression-free survival (PFS). Secondary end points included overall survival, clinical benefit rate, duration of response, and overall response rate. There was no significant difference in PFS with AA versus E (3.7 versus 3.7 months; hazard ratio [HR] = 1.1; 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.82-1.60; P = 0.437) or AAE versus E (4.5 versus 3.7 months; HR = 0.96; 95% CI 0.70-1.32; P = 0.794). Increased serum progesterone concentrations were observed in both arms receiving AA, but not with E. Grade 3 or 4 treatment-emergent adverse events associated with AA, including  hypokalemia  and hypertension, were less common in patients in the E (2.0% and 2.9%, respectively) and AA arms (3.4% and 1.1%, respectively) than in the AAE arm (5.8% for both). Adding AA to E in NSAI-pretreated ER+ MBC patients did not improve PFS compared with treatment with E. An AA-induced progesterone increase may have contributed to this lack of clinical activity. NCT01381874. © The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European Society for Medical Abiraterone acetate, exemestane or the combination in postmenopausal patients with estrogen receptor-positive metastatic breast cancer† PubMed Central O'Shaughnessy, J.; Campone, M.; Brain, E.; Neven, P.; Hayes, D.; Bondarenko, I.; Griffin, T. W.; Martin, J.; De Porre, P.; Kheoh, T.; Yu, M. K.; Peng, W.; Johnston, S. 2016-01-01 Background Androgen receptor (AR) signaling and incomplete inhibition of estrogen signaling may contribute to metastatic breast cancer (MBC) resistance to a nonsteroidal aromatase inhibitor (NSAI; letrozole or anastrozole). We assessed whether combined inhibition of androgen biosynthesis with abiraterone acetate plus prednisone and estradiol synthesis with exemestane (E) may be of clinical benefit to postmenopausal patients with NSAI-pretreated estrogen receptor-positive (ER+) MBC. Patients and methods Patients (N = 297) were stratified by the number of prior therapies for metastatic disease (0–1 versus 2) and by prior NSAI use (adjuvant versus metastatic), and randomized (1 : 1 : 1) to receive oral once daily 1000 mg abiraterone acetate plus 5 mg prednisone (AA) versus AA with 25 mg E (AAE) versus 25 mg E alone (E). Each treatment arm was well balanced with regard to the proportion of patients with AR-positive breast cancer. The primary end point was progression-free survival (PFS). Secondary end points included overall survival, clinical benefit rate, duration of response, and overall response rate. Results There was no significant difference in PFS with AA versus E (3.7 versus 3.7 months; hazard ratio [HR] = 1.1; 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.82–1.60; P = 0.437) or AAE versus E (4.5 versus 3.7 months; HR = 0.96; 95% CI 0.70–1.32; P = 0.794). Increased serum progesterone concentrations were observed in both arms receiving AA, but not with E. Grade 3 or 4 treatment-emergent adverse events associated with AA, including  hypokalemia  and hypertension, were less common in patients in the E (2.0% and 2.9%, respectively) and AA arms (3.4% and 1.1%, respectively) than in the AAE arm (5.8% for both). Conclusions Adding AA to E in NSAI-pretreated ER+ MBC patients did not improve PFS compared with treatment with E. An AA-induced progesterone increase may have contributed to this lack of clinical activity. ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01381874. PMID:26504153 Randomized Phase III Trial of Concurrent Accelerated Radiation Plus Cisplatin With or Without Cetuximab for Stage III to IV Head and Neck Carcinoma: RTOG 0522 PubMed Central Ang, K. Kian; Zhang, Qiang; Rosenthal, David I.; Nguyen-Tan, Phuc Felix; Sherman, Eric J.; Weber, Randal S.; Galvin, James M.; Bonner, James A.; Harris, Jonathan; El-Naggar, Adel K.; Gillison, Maura L.; Jordan, Richard C.; Konski, Andre A.; Thorstad, Wade L.; Trotti, Andy; Beitler, Jonathan J.; Garden, Adam S.; Spanos, William J.; Yom, Sue S.; Axelrod, Rita S. 2014-01-01 Purpose Combining cisplatin or cetuximab with radiation improves overall survival (OS) of patients with stage III or IV head and neck carcinoma (HNC). Cetuximab plus platinum regimens also increase OS in metastatic HNC. The Radiation Therapy Oncology Group launched a phase III trial to test the hypothesis that adding cetuximab to the radiation-cisplatin platform improves progression-free survival (PFS). Patients and Methods Eligible patients with stage III or IV HNC were randomly assigned to receive radiation and cisplatin without (arm A) or with (arm B) cetuximab. Acute and late reactions were scored using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (version 3). Outcomes were correlated with patient and tumor features and markers. Results Of 891 analyzed patients, 630 were alive at analysis (median follow-up, 3.8 years). Cetuximab plus cisplatin-radiation, versus cisplatin-radiation alone, resulted in more frequent interruptions in radiation therapy (26.9% v 15.1%, respectively); similar cisplatin delivery (mean, 185.7 mg/m2 v 191.1 mg/m2, respectively); and more grade 3 to 4 radiation mucositis (43.2% v 33.3%, respectively), rash, fatigue, anorexia, and  hypokalemia , but not more late toxicity. No differences were found between arms A and B in 30-day mortality (1.8% v 2.0%, respectively; P = .81), 3-year PFS (61.2% v 58.9%, respectively; P = .76), 3-year OS (72.9% v 75.8%, respectively; P = .32), locoregional failure (19.9% v 25.9%, respectively; P = .97), or distant metastasis (13.0% v 9.7%, respectively; P = .08). Patients with p16-positive oropharyngeal carcinoma (OPC), compared with patients with p16-negative OPC, had better 3-year probability of PFS (72.8% v 49.2%, respectively; P  <  .001) and OS (85.6% v 60.1%, respectively; P  <  .001), but tumor epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) expression did not distinguish outcome. Conclusion Adding cetuximab to radiation-cisplatin did not improve outcome and hence should not be prescribed routinely. PFS and OS Efficacy and tolerability of chemotherapy with modified dose-dense TCF regimen (TCF-dd) in locally advanced or metastatic gastric cancer: final results of a phase II trial. PubMed Tomasello, Gianluca; Liguigli, Wanda; Poli, Rossana; Lazzarelli, Silvia; Brighenti, Matteo; Negri, Federica; Curti, Alessandra; Martinotti, Mario; Olivetti, Lucio; Rovatti, Massimo; Donati, Gianvito; Passalacqua, Rodolfo 2014-10-01 We previously studied a dose-dense TCF (TCF-dd) regimen demonstrating its feasibility and an activity comparable to epirubicin-based chemotherapy and TCF q3w in terms of overall survival and time to progression (TTP). We report here the final results of a phase II study of chemotherapy with a modified TCF-dd regimen in locally advanced or metastatic gastric cancer (MGC). Patients with histologically confirmed measurable MGC, not previously treated for advanced disease, received docetaxel 70 mg/m(2) day 1, cisplatin 60 mg/m(2) day 1, l-folinic acid 100 mg/m(2) days 1 and 2, followed by 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) 400 mg/m(2) bolus days 1 and 2, and then 600 mg/m(2) as a 22-h continuous infusion days 1 and 2, every 14 days, plus pegfilgrastim 6 mg on day 3. Patients aged ≥65 years received the same schedule with a dose reduction of 30 %. Study duration: December 2007-November 2010. Forty-six consecutive patients were enrolled (78 % male, 22 % female; median age, 66 years, range, 38-76 years; ECOG PS: 0, 48 %, 1, 46 %). Primary endpoint was overall response rate (ORR). A median of four cycles (range, one to six) was administered. Forty-three patients were evaluated for response (93.5 %) and all for toxicity: 3 complete response (CR), 25 partial response (PR), 10 stable disease (SD), and 5 progressive disease (PD) were observed, for an ORR by intention to treat (ITT) of 61 % (95 % CI 47-75). Median overall survival (OS) was 17.63 months (95 % CI, 13.67-20.67); median progression-free survival was 8.9 months (95 % CI, 6.5-13.4). Twenty-one patients (46.0 %) were treated at full doses without any delay, thus respecting the dose-dense criterion. Most frequent grade 3-4 toxicities were neutropenia (20 %), leukopenia (4 %), thrombocytopenia (2 %), anemia (2 %), febrile neutropenia (6 %), asthenia (22 %), diarrhea (4 %), nausea/vomiting (11 %), and  hypokalemia  (6 %). Overall, TCF-dd was shown to be safe. The TCF-dd regimen in locally advanced or MGC Major new developments affecting treatment and prognosis in hypertension. PubMed Gubner, R S 1990-01-01 Joint studies of the ALIMDA and Society of Actuaries, notably those of 1935, 1959 and 1979, established that there is a progressive rise in cardiovascular mortality with successive increments in blood pressure. This has provided the basis of underwriting. The converse is not true, or at least has not been true until very recently. Drugs that effectively reduce blood pressure have been available for several decades, but reduction and maintenance of blood pressure is still accomplished in only a minority of hypertensives. Long-term trials employing a combination of drugs, i.e., diuretics, vasodilators and reserpine and subsequently beta-blockers, almost without fail have not shown that treatment with these agents significantly reduces heart disease mortality and sudden death. This has been attributed, perhaps without basis, to an unfavorable countering effect of increased lipid levels, aggravating this risk factor, and other undesirable metabolic effect of diuretics, such as  hypokalemia  and depletion of body magnesium, increasing the propensity to ventricular arrhythmias, hyperglycemia, worsening diabetes, and hyperuricemia. A survey of 674 persons with hypertension seen personally during the period 1985-89, who were under the care of approximately that many physicians, reveals striking changes in drug prescription and use during this brief period that portend a major change in the outlook of hypertension. Two classes of drugs have increased rapidly in popularity: these are the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) and the calcium blockers. Both classes of drugs effectively lower blood pressure and have minimal side effects with good compliance. They act not only to reduce peripheral vascular resistance, but also locally in the heart muscle to directly cause left ventricular hypertrophy to regress, an effect of great consequence. The drugs used in former trials such as the vasodilators and diuretics have no effect on left ventricular hypertrophy Phase I/Phase II Study of Blinatumomab in Pediatric Patients With Relapsed/Refractory Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia. PubMed von Stackelberg, Arend; Locatelli, Franco; Zugmaier, Gerhard; Handgretinger, Rupert; Trippett, Tanya M; Rizzari, Carmelo; Bader, Peter; O'Brien, Maureen M; Brethon, Benoît; Bhojwani, Deepa; Schlegel, Paul Gerhardt; Borkhardt, Arndt; Rheingold, Susan R; Cooper, Todd Michael; Zwaan, Christian M; Barnette, Phillip; Messina, Chiara; Michel, Gérard; DuBois, Steven G; Hu, Kuolung; Zhu, Min; Whitlock, James A; Gore, Lia 2016-12-20 Purpose Blinatumomab is a bispecific T-cell engager antibody construct targeting CD19 on B-cell lymphoblasts. We evaluated the safety, pharmacokinetics, recommended dosage, and potential for efficacy of blinatumomab in children with relapsed/refractory B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (BCP-ALL). Methods This open-label study enrolled children  <  18 years old with relapsed/refractory BCP-ALL in a phase I dosage-escalation part and a phase II part, using 6-week treatment cycles. Primary end points were maximum-tolerated dosage (phase I) and complete remission rate within the first two cycles (phase II). Results We treated 49 patients in phase I and 44 patients in phase II. Four patients had dose-limiting toxicities in cycle 1 (phase I). Three experienced grade 4 cytokine-release syndrome (one attributed to grade 5 cardiac failure); one had fatal respiratory failure. The maximum-tolerated dosage was 15 µg/m 2 /d. Blinatumomab pharmacokinetics was linear across dosage levels and consistent among age groups. On the basis of the phase I data, the recommended blinatumomab dosage for children with relapsed/refractory ALL was 5 µg/m 2 /d for the first 7 days, followed by 15 µg/m 2 /d thereafter. Among the 70 patients who received the recommended dosage, 27 (39%; 95% CI, 27% to 51%) achieved complete remission within the first two cycles, 14 (52%) of whom achieved complete minimal residual disease response. The most frequent grade ≥ 3 adverse events were anemia (36%), thrombocytopenia (21%), and  hypokalemia  (17%). Three patients (4%) and one patient (1%) had cytokine-release syndrome of grade 3 and 4, respectively. Two patients (3%) interrupted treatment after grade 2 seizures. Conclusion This trial, which to the best of our knowledge was the first such trial in pediatrics, demonstrated antileukemic activity of single-agent blinatumomab with complete minimal residual disease response in children with relapsed/refractory BCP-ALL. Blinatumomab may represent an Characterization of Mesoamerican Nephropathy in a Kidney Failure Hotspot in Nicaragua. PubMed Kupferman, Joseph; Amador, Juan José; Lynch, Katherine E; Laws, Rebecca L; López-Pilarte, Damaris; Ramírez-Rubio, Oriana; Kaufman, James S; Lau, Jorge Luis; Weiner, Daniel E; Robles, Ninoska Violeta; Verma, Karina P; Scammell, Madeleine K; McClean, Michael D; Brooks, Daniel R; Friedman, David J 2016-11-01 Mesoamerican nephropathy (MeN) is a kidney disease of unknown cause that mainly affects working-age men in Central America. Despite being a major cause of morbidity and mortality in this region, its clinical characteristics have not been well defined. Cross-sectional family-based study. 266 members of 24 families with high chronic kidney disease (CKD) burdens in a MeN hotspot in Northwestern Nicaragua. We compared clinical and biochemical characteristics of affected individuals first with their unaffected relatives and then with NHANES (National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey) participants with CKD in order to reveal identifying features of MeN. CKD defined as serum creatinine level ≥ 1.5mg/dL in men and ≥1.4mg/dL in women. Clinical and biochemical parameters, including serum sodium, potassium, bicarbonate, calcium, magnesium, phosphorus, and uric acid. Hyperuricemia, in many cases severe, was common among patients with MeN. Uric acid levels in patients with MeN were higher than those in NHANES participants (mean, 9.6 vs 7.4mg/dL for men in each group) despite more frequent use of uric acid-lowering medications in Nicaraguan individuals (71.7% vs 11.2%). In multivariable linear mixed-effects regression analysis, uric acid levels were 2.0mg/dL (95% CI, 1.0-3.0; P < 0.001) higher in patients with MeN compared with their NHANES counterparts after adjusting for age, estimated glomerular filtration rate, and uric acid-lowering therapies. In contrast to prior reports, hyponatremia and  hypokalemia  were not common. CKD defined by single serum creatinine measurement; population likely not representative of full MeN phenotype spectrum across Central America; major differences between MeN and NHANES groups in important characteristics such as age, ancestry, and recruitment method. Hyperuricemia out of proportion to the degree of decreased kidney function was common among Nicaraguan patients with MeN. Our results suggest that rather than being solely a consequence The Two-Bag Method for Treatment of Diabetic Ketoacidosis in Adults. PubMed Haas, Nathan L; Gianchandani, Roma Y; Gunnerson, Kyle J; Bassin, Benjamin S; Ganti, Arun; Hapner, Christopher; Boyd, Caryn; Cranford, James A; Whitmore, Sage P 2018-05-01 The "two-bag method" of management of diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) allows for titration of dextrose delivery by adjusting the infusions of two i.v. fluid bags of varying dextrose concentrations while keeping fluid, electrolyte, and insulin infusion rates constant. We aimed to evaluate the feasibility and potential benefits of this strategy in adult emergency department (ED) patients with DKA. This is a before-and-after comparison of a protocol using the two-bag method operationalized in our adult ED in 2015. A retrospective electronic medical record search identified adult ED patients presenting with DKA from January 1, 2013 to June 30, 2016. Clinical and laboratory data, timing of medical therapies, and safety outcomes were collected and analyzed. Sixty-eight patients managed with the two-bag method (2B) and 107 patients managed with the one-bag method (1B) were identified. The 2B and 1B groups were similar in demographics and baseline metabolic derangements, though significantly more patients in the 2B group received care in a hybrid ED and intensive care unit setting (94.1% vs. 51.4%; p  <  0.01). 2B patients experienced a shorter interval to first serum bicarbonate ≥ 18 mEq/L (13.4 vs. 20.0 h; p  <  0.05), shorter duration of insulin infusion (14.1 vs. 21.8 h; p  <  0.05), and fewer fluid bags were charged to the patient (5.2 vs. 29.7; p  <  0.01). Frequency of any measured hypoglycemia or  hypokalemia  trended in favor of the 2B group (2.9% vs. 10.3%; p = 0.07; 16.2% vs. 27.1%; p = 0.09; respectively), though did not reach significance. The 2B method appears feasible for management of adult ED patients with DKA, and use was associated with earlier correction of acidosis, earlier discontinuation of insulin infusion, and fewer i.v. fluid bags charged than traditional 1B methods, while no safety concerns were observed. Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved. Phase I study of liposome-encapsulated c-raf antisense oligodeoxyribonucleotide infusion in combination with radiation therapy in patients with advanced malignancies. PubMed Dritschilo, Anatoly; Huang, Chao H; Rudin, Charles M; Marshall, John; Collins, Brian; Dul, Jeanne L; Zhang, Chuanbo; Kumar, Deepak; Gokhale, Prafulla C; Ahmad, Ateeq; Ahmad, Imran; Sherman, Jeffrey W; Kasid, Usha N 2006-02-15 Raf proteins are key elements of growth-related cellular signaling pathways and are a component of cancer cell resistance to radiation therapy. Antisense oligonucleotides to c-raf-1 permit highly selective inhibition of the gene product and offer a strategy for sensitizing cancer cells to radiation therapy. In this dose escalation study, we evaluated the safety of combined liposomal formulation of raf antisense oligonucleotide (LErafAON) and radiation therapy in patients with advanced malignancies. Patients with advanced solid tumors were treated with LErafAON in a phase I dose escalation study while receiving palliative radiation therapy. Drug-related and radiation-related toxicities were monitored. Pharmacokinetics and expression of c-raf-1 mRNA and Raf-1 protein were determined in peripheral blood mononuclear cells. Seventeen patients with palliative indications for radiation therapy were entered into this study. Thirteen patients received daily infusions of LErafAON and four received twice-weekly infusions. Radiation therapy was delivered in daily 300-cGy fractions over 2 weeks. Patients tolerated radiation, and no unexpected radiation-related side effects were observed. Drug-related reactions (grade > or =2), such as back pain, chills, dyspnea, fatigue, fever, flushing, and hypertension, were observed in most patients and were managed by premedication with corticosteroids and antihistamines. Serious adverse events occurred in five patients, including acute infusion-related symptoms, abnormal liver function tests, hypoxia, dehydration, diarrhea, esophagitis, fever,  hypokalemia , pharyngitis, and tachypnea. Twelve of 17 patients were evaluable for tumor response at completion of treatment; four showed partial response, four showed stable disease, and four experienced progressive disease. The intact rafAON was detected in plasma for 30 minutes to several hours. Six patients with partial response or stable disease were evaluable for c-raf-1 mRNA and/or Raf-1 [Analysis of clinical characteristics of the 12 cases of neonatal dengue fever in Guangzhou in 2014 and literatures review]. PubMed Tan, Limei; Wang, Junping; Zeng, Fansen; Zhang, Yong; Fang, Chunxiao; Nie, Chuan; Xu, Yi; Yang, Jie 2015-12-01 To explore the clinical manifestations and laboratory examination characteristics of neonatal dengue fever. A retrospective analysis of 12 cases of neonatal dengue fever treated in the Guangdong Women and Children's Hospital and Guangzhou Women and Children's Medical Center was conducted, and related literature was reviewed. Twelve cases of neonatal dengue fever included 9 males and 3 females; their age was 30 min after birth to 29 d, the age of onset was 30 min-24 d. (1) CLINICAL FEATURES: fever was present in 11 cases, rash in 6 cases, bleeding in 1 case, jaundice in 5 cases, cough in 1 case, coagulopathy in 2 cases. (2) Mothers' perinatal conditions: 7 mothers were confirmed to have dengue fever, 2 mothers had suspected dengue fever, and in 3 mothers the dengue fever was excluded. Eight mothers prenatally had fever. (3) LABORATORY TESTS: Thrombocytopenia was found in 11 cases (19×10(9)-156×10(9)/L), activated partial thromboplastin time prolonged in 11 cases (44.0-89.8 s), fibrinogen decreased in 5 cases (1.17-3.02 g/L), aspartate aminotransferase (AST) increased in 5 cases (28-78 U/L), creatine kinase (CK-MB) increased in 4 cases (13-86 U/L),  hypokalemia  in 1 case (2.8-5.1 mmol/L ), C- reactive protein (CRP) increased in 6 cases (0.04-46.05 mg/L). (4) Treatment and prognosis: platelet transfusion was used in 2 cases, anti-infective therapy was given to 6 cases, intravenous gamma globulin treatment was used in 5 cases, hospitalization was 4-17 d, 10 cases were cured, 2 cases were discharged after condition was improved. Literature search was performed with "neonatal dengue" as keywords at Wanfang, Weipu, and CNKI, no relevant reports were found. Pubmed search was done with "neonatal dengue" and "case report" as keywords, 15 reports were retrieved during 1990 and 2014, which reported 30 cases, all acquired the disease via vertical transmission; the main clinical manifestations were fever, rash, petechiae, anemia, jaundice, tachycardia, and hepatomegaly Feasibility study of the RenalGuard™ balanced hydration system: a novel strategy for the prevention of contrast-induced nephropathy in high risk patients. PubMed Dorval, Jean-Francois; Dixon, Simon R; Zelman, Richard B; Davidson, Charles J; Rudko, Robert; Resnic, Frederic S 2013-06-20 Contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN) is a frequent complication following angiographic procedures with significant impact on healthcare costs, and long-term outcomes. Multiple reno-protective strategies have been studied but few have shown benefit in prospective randomized studies beyond limiting the exposure to iodinated contrast and adequate intravenous. We studied the performance and safety of a novel system designed to achieve precise real-time high volume fluid balance using a closed loop hydration monitoring and infusion system. This prospective, multi-center, FDA approved phase II feasibility study was designed to evaluate the safety and the performance of the RenalGuard matched hydration system. Between October 2006 and November 2007, twenty-three subjects at high risk for CIN (with an estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) < 50ml/min/1.73m(2)) undergoing diagnostic or therapeutic catheterization were treated with the system. The primary endpoint of the study was defined as the ability of the system to effectively dynamically match fluid administration to urine output. The 23 subjects at high risk for CIN enrolled had a mean±SD eGFR of 39±9.3. Patients achieved an hourly urine flow rate of 620±400ml/h. The system had a mean effectiveness rate of 99.9% over the duration of therapy with an average saline volume infused of 3825ml closely matched, minute to minute, to urine output of 3579ml. There were no major device-related complications from the experimental therapy, though one patient developed  hypokalemia  requiring replacement. Two subjects (9.5%) developed CIN as defined by >0.5mg/dl or >25% rise in serum creatinine at 48-60h post contrast administration when compared with the baseline. The study confirmed that the RenalGuard(TM) system is safe and dynamically balances volume hydration with urine production. Further randomized studies are needed to confirm the efficacy of the system in reducing the incidence of CIN. Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ireland Comparison of Adverse Events and Hospital Length of Stay Associated With Various Amphotericin B Formulations PubMed Central Wade, Rolin L.; Chaudhari, Paresh; Natoli, Jaime L.; Taylor, Robert J.; Nathanson, Brian H.; Horn, David 2013-01-01 Purpose: Patients with invasive fungal infections are often treated initially with conventional amphotericin B deoxycholate (CAB), followed by a switch to lipid-based formulations of amphotericin B (LF-AMB). Our study examined adverse events and hospital length of stay (LOS) among adults who received LF-AMB exclusively or CAB followed by LF-AMB (CAB/LF-AMB). Methods: Data were extracted from the Cerner Health Facts database. The study included adults with evidence of infection by Aspergillus, Candida, or Cryptococcus in addition to either renal insufficiency, a clinical condition suggesting intolerance to CAB, or CAB exposure within 90 days of admission. Nephrotoxicity was defined as a serum creatinine (SCr) level exceeding a 100% increase from baseline and an absolute level above 1.2 mg/dL. We used a hierarchical mixed-effect logistic regression model with nephrotoxicity as the outcome for the multivariate analysis. Results: The study included 327 LF-AMB and 81 CAB/LF-AMB patients with similar demographics and baseline SCr values. The mean pre-to-post percentage increase in SCr levels was greater for CAB/LF-AMB (122.9%) compared with LF-AMB (62.2%) (P  <  0.001). The multivariate-adjusted odds ratio of nephrotoxicity was 5.93, for a 95% confidence interval of 2.92 to 12.05 (P  <  0.001) for CAB/LF-AMB compared with LF-AMB.  Hypokalemia , hypomagnesemia, and infusion-related reactions were more frequent with CAB/LF-AMB. Compared with the LF-AMB group, the CAB/LF-AMB patients had a longer post-amphotericin B LOS (24.1 days vs. 15.7 days, respectively; P  <  0.001), with a marginal effect of 4.5 days longer for those receiving CAB/LF-AMB (P = 0.016). Conclusion: In this retrospective study, we noted a significantly longer post-amphotericin B LOS and a greater frequency of adverse events, including nephrotoxicity, for patients whose initial treatment was CAB and who were switched to LF-AMB, compared with patients who received LF-AMB only. PMID:23946621 Adverse events associated with poor neurological outcome during targeted temperature management and advanced critical care after out-of-hospital cardiac arrest. PubMed Kim, Young-Min; Youn, Chun Song; Kim, Soo Hyun; Lee, Byung Kook; Cho, In Soo; Cho, Gyu Chong; Jeung, Kyung Woon; Oh, Sang Hoon; Choi, Seung Pill; Shin, Jong Hwan; Cha, Kyoung-Chul; Oh, Joo Suk; Yim, Hyeon Woo; Park, Kyu Nam 2015-07-22 The aim of this study was to investigate the association of adverse events (AEs) during targeted temperature management (TTM) and other AEs and concomitant treatments during the advanced critical care period with poor neurological outcome at hospital discharge in adult out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA) patients. This was a retrospective study using Korean Hypothermia Network registry data of adult OHCA patients treated with TTM in 24 teaching hospitals throughout South Korea from 2007 to 2012. Demographic characteristics, resuscitation and post-resuscitation variables, AEs, and concomitant treatments during TTM and the advanced critical care were collected. The primary outcome was poor neurological outcome, defined as a cerebral performance category (CPC) score of 3-5 at hospital discharge. The AEs and concomitant treatments were individually entered into the best multivariable predictive model of poor neurological outcome to evaluate the associations between each variable and outcome. A total of 930 patients, including 704 for whom a complete dataset of AEs and covariates was available for multivariable modeling, were included in the analysis; 476 of these patients exhibited poor neurological outcome [CPC 3 = 50 (7.1%), CPC 4 = 214 (30.4%), and CPC 5 = 212 (30.1%)]. Common AEs included hyperglycemia (45.6%),  hypokalemia  (31.3%), arrhythmia (21.3%) and hypotension (29%) during cooling, and hypotension (21.6%) during rewarming. Bleeding (5%) during TTM was a rare AE. Common AEs during the advanced critical care included pneumonia (39.6%), myoclonus (21.9%), seizures (21.7%) and hypoglycemia within 72 hours (23%). After adjusting for independent predictors of outcome, cooling- and rewarming-related AEs were not significantly associated with poor neurological outcome. However, sepsis, myoclonus, seizure, hypoglycemia within 72 hours and anticonvulsant use during the advanced critical care were associated with poor neurological outcome [adjusted odds Spironolactone for heart failure with preserved ejection fraction. PubMed Pitt, Bertram; Pfeffer, Marc A; Assmann, Susan F; Boineau, Robin; Anand, Inder S; Claggett, Brian; Clausell, Nadine; Desai, Akshay S; Diaz, Rafael; Fleg, Jerome L; Gordeev, Ivan; Harty, Brian; Heitner, John F; Kenwood, Christopher T; Lewis, Eldrin F; O'Meara, Eileen; Probstfield, Jeffrey L; Shaburishvili, Tamaz; Shah, Sanjiv J; Solomon, Scott D; Sweitzer, Nancy K; Yang, Song; McKinlay, Sonja M 2014-04-10 Mineralocorticoid-receptor antagonists improve the prognosis for patients with heart failure and a reduced left ventricular ejection fraction. We evaluated the effects of spironolactone in patients with heart failure and a preserved left ventricular ejection fraction. In this randomized, double-blind trial, we assigned 3445 patients with symptomatic heart failure and a left ventricular ejection fraction of 45% or more to receive either spironolactone (15 to 45 mg daily) or placebo. The primary outcome was a composite of death from cardiovascular causes, aborted cardiac arrest, or hospitalization for the management of heart failure. With a mean follow-up of 3.3 years, the primary outcome occurred in 320 of 1722 patients in the spironolactone group (18.6%) and 351 of 1723 patients in the placebo group (20.4%) (hazard ratio, 0.89; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.77 to 1.04; P=0.14). Of the components of the primary outcome, only hospitalization for heart failure had a significantly lower incidence in the spironolactone group than in the placebo group (206 patients [12.0%] vs. 245 patients [14.2%]; hazard ratio, 0.83; 95% CI, 0.69 to 0.99, P=0.04). Neither total deaths nor hospitalizations for any reason were significantly reduced by spironolactone. Treatment with spironolactone was associated with increased serum creatinine levels and a doubling of the rate of hyperkalemia (18.7%, vs. 9.1% in the placebo group) but reduced  hypokalemia . With frequent monitoring, there were no significant differences in the incidence of serious adverse events, a serum creatinine level of 3.0 mg per deciliter (265 μmol per liter) or higher, or dialysis. In patients with heart failure and a preserved ejection fraction, treatment with spironolactone did not significantly reduce the incidence of the primary composite outcome of death from cardiovascular causes, aborted cardiac arrest, or hospitalization for the management of heart failure. (Funded by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Clinical Management of Ebola Virus Disease in the United States and Europe. PubMed Uyeki, Timothy M; Mehta, Aneesh K; Davey, Richard T; Liddell, Allison M; Wolf, Timo; Vetter, Pauline; Schmiedel, Stefan; Grünewald, Thomas; Jacobs, Michael; Arribas, Jose R; Evans, Laura; Hewlett, Angela L; Brantsaeter, Arne B; Ippolito, Giuseppe; Rapp, Christophe; Hoepelman, Andy I M; Gutman, Julie 2016-02-18 Available data on the characteristics of patients with Ebola virus disease (EVD) and clinical management of EVD in settings outside West Africa, as well as the complications observed in those patients, are limited. We reviewed available clinical, laboratory, and virologic data from all patients with laboratory-confirmed Ebola virus infection who received care in U.S. and European hospitals from August 2014 through December 2015. A total of 27 patients (median age, 36 years [range, 25 to 75]) with EVD received care; 19 patients (70%) were male, 9 of 26 patients (35%) had coexisting conditions, and 22 (81%) were health care personnel. Of the 27 patients, 24 (89%) were medically evacuated from West Africa or were exposed to and infected with Ebola virus in West Africa and had onset of illness and laboratory confirmation of Ebola virus infection in Europe or the United States, and 3 (11%) acquired EVD in the United States or Europe. At the onset of illness, the most common signs and symptoms were fatigue (20 patients [80%]) and fever or feverishness (17 patients [68%]). During the clinical course, the predominant findings included diarrhea, hypoalbuminemia, hyponatremia,  hypokalemia , hypocalcemia, and hypomagnesemia; 14 patients (52%) had hypoxemia, and 9 (33%) had oliguria, of whom 5 had anuria. Aminotransferase levels peaked at a median of 9 days after the onset of illness. Nearly all the patients received intravenous fluids and electrolyte supplementation; 9 (33%) received noninvasive or invasive mechanical ventilation; 5 (19%) received continuous renal-replacement therapy; 22 (81%) received empirical antibiotics; and 23 (85%) received investigational therapies (19 [70%] received at least two experimental interventions). Ebola viral RNA levels in blood peaked at a median of 7 days after the onset of illness, and the median time from the onset of symptoms to clearance of viremia was 17.5 days. A total of 5 patients died, including 3 who had respiratory and renal Abiraterone plus Prednisone in Metastatic, Castration-Sensitive Prostate Cancer. PubMed Fizazi, Karim; Tran, NamPhuong; Fein, Luis; Matsubara, Nobuaki; Rodriguez-Antolin, Alfredo; Alekseev, Boris Y; Özgüroğlu, Mustafa; Ye, Dingwei; Feyerabend, Susan; Protheroe, Andrew; De Porre, Peter; Kheoh, Thian; Park, Youn C; Todd, Mary B; Chi, Kim N 2017-07-27 Abiraterone acetate, a drug that blocks endogenous androgen synthesis, plus prednisone is indicated for metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer. We evaluated the clinical benefit of abiraterone acetate plus prednisone with androgen-deprivation therapy in patients with newly diagnosed, metastatic, castration-sensitive prostate cancer. In this double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase 3 trial, we randomly assigned 1199 patients to receive either androgen-deprivation therapy plus abiraterone acetate (1000 mg daily, given once daily as four 250-mg tablets) plus prednisone (5 mg daily) (the abiraterone group) or androgen-deprivation therapy plus dual placebos (the placebo group). The two primary end points were overall survival and radiographic progression-free survival. After a median follow-up of 30.4 months at a planned interim analysis (after 406 patients had died), the median overall survival was significantly longer in the abiraterone group than in the placebo group (not reached vs. 34.7 months) (hazard ratio for death, 0.62; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.51 to 0.76; P < 0.001). The median length of radiographic progression-free survival was 33.0 months in the abiraterone group and 14.8 months in the placebo group (hazard ratio for disease progression or death, 0.47; 95% CI, 0.39 to 0.55; P < 0.001). Significantly better outcomes in all secondary end points were observed in the abiraterone group, including the time until pain progression, next subsequent therapy for prostate cancer, initiation of chemotherapy, and prostate-specific antigen progression (P < 0.001 for all comparisons), along with next symptomatic skeletal events (P=0.009). These findings led to the unanimous recommendation by the independent data and safety monitoring committee that the trial be unblinded and crossover be allowed for patients in the placebo group to receive abiraterone. Rates of grade 3 hypertension and  hypokalemia  were higher in the abiraterone group. The addition of abiraterone Heparin free dialysis in critically sick children using sustained low efficiency dialysis (SLEDD-f): A new hybrid therapy for dialysis in developing world PubMed Central Khare, Anshika; Dhaliwal, Maninder; Raghunathan, Veena; Wadhwani, Nikita; Nandwani, Ashish; Yadav, Dinesh Kumar; Mahapatra, Amit Kumar; Raina, Rupesh 2018-01-01 Background In critically sick adults, sustained low efficiency dialysis [SLED] appears to be better tolerated hemodynamically and outcomes seem to be comparable to CRRT. However, there is paucity of data in critically sick children. In children, two recent studies from Taiwan (n = 11) and India (n = 68) showed benefits of SLED in critically sick children. Aims and objectives The objective of the study was to look at the feasibility and tolerability of sustained low efficiency daily dialysis-filtration [SLEDD-f] in critically sick pediatric patients. Material and methods Design: Retrospective study Inclusion criteria: All pediatric patients who had undergone heparin free SLEDD-f from January 2012 to October 2017. Measurements: Data collected included demographic details, vital signs, PRISM III at admission, ventilator parameters (where applicable), number of inotropes, blood gas and electrolytes before, during, and on conclusion of SLED therapy. Technical information was gathered regarding SLEDD-f prescription and complications. Results Between 2012–2017, a total of 242 sessions of SLEDD-f were performed on 70 patients, out of which 40 children survived. The median age of patients in years was 12 (range 0.8–17 years), and the median weight was 39 kg (range 8.5–66 kg). The mean PRISM score at admission was 8.77±7.22. SLEDD-f sessions were well tolerated, with marked improvement in fluid status and acidosis. Premature terminations had to be done in 23 (9.5%) of the sessions. There were 21 sessions (8.6%) terminated due to hypotension and 2 sessions (0.8%) terminated due to circuit clotting. Post- SLEDD-f hypocalcemia occurred in 15 sessions (6.2%), post- SLEDD-f hypophosphatemia occurred in 1 session (0.4%), and post- SLEDD-f  hypokalemia  occurred in 17 sessions (7.0%). Conclusions This study is the largest compiled data on pediatric SLEDD-f use in critically ill patients. Our study confirms the feasibility of heparin free SLEDD-f in a larger pediatric Gitelman syndrome manifesting in early childhood and leading to delayed puberty: a case report. PubMed Raza, Farhan; Sultan, Mubashar; Qamar, Khola; Jawad, Ali; Jawa, Ali 2012-10-02 Gitelman syndrome is an inherited autosomal recessive renal salt-wasting disorder. It presents with variable clinical symptoms including muscle weakness and fatigue, and the diagnosis is based on metabolic alkalosis,  hypokalemia , hypomagnesemia and hypocalciuria. It is usually diagnosed incidentally in early adulthood. There are rare cases of Gitelman syndrome presenting in early childhood; however, to the best of our knowledge it has not previously been associated with delayed puberty. A 17-year-old South Asian man with recurrent episodes of generalized muscle weakness, fatigue and cramps from the age of two years was admitted for further workup. Before the age of 12 years, the episodes had been mild, but they then got progressively worse. Other symptoms include polyuria, polydipsia, nocturia, paresthesia and occasional watery diarrhea. He also had a history of short stature, poor weight gain and delayed developmental landmarks. His family history was unremarkable except for the consanguineous marriage of his parents. An examination revealed a thin and lean man with blood pressure of 95/60mmHg. His height and weight were below the third percentile and his sexual development was at Tanner Stage II. Laboratory work revealed serum sodium of 124mmol/L, potassium 2.4mmol/L, calcium 6.5mmol/L and magnesium of 1.2mg/dL. His testosterone level was low (0.85ng/mL, normal for his age 2.67 to 10.12ng/mL) with normal levels of luteinizing hormone and follicle-stimulating hormone. The sex hormone findings were attributed to delayed puberty. A 24-hour urinary analysis revealed decreased excretion of calcium (25.9mg/24 hours). Based on the findings of hypokalemic metabolic alkalosis without hypertension, severe hypomagnesemia and hypocalciuria, a diagnosis of Gitelman syndrome was made. Treatment was started with oral supplementation of potassium, magnesium and calcium along with spironolactone and liberal salt intake. Diagnosis of Gitelman syndrome is usually made incidentally [The clinical characteristics of 26 cases of hypophosphatemia osteomalacia misdiagnosed as spondyloarthritis]. PubMed Jin, Jingyu; Sun, Fei; Wang, Gang; Yang, Jinshui; Luo, Gui; Ma, Hua; Zhao, Zheng; Feng, Lixia; Wang, Yanyan; Zhao, Wei; Zhang, Jianglin; Zhu, Jian; Huang, Feng 2014-11-01 To study and summarize the clinical features of hypophosphatemia osteomalacia (HO) misdiagnosed as spondyloarthritis (SpA), aiming to analyze the reasons of misdiagnosis and improve the prognosis of such patients. A total of 26 cases of HO misdiagnosed as SpA were selected. Clinical features, laboratory tests, and image presentations were analyzed. Related literatures were reviewed. (1) Clinical characters: 26 patients were included (12 males and 14 females) with a median age of 38 years (range 20-60). The mean disease duration was 3.2 years (range 0.75 to 10 years). Of all the patients, 15 were diagnosed as tumor-induced HO, 4 were long-term oral adefovir dipivoxil-related HO, 3 were associated with Fanconi syndrome, 2 were related to hyperparathyroidism, while 2 were Sjogren's syndrome complicated with renal tubular acidosis. All of the 26 patients presented with low back pain including 15 with night pain. The time of morning stiffness was about 30 minutes. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs were given to each patient whereas with poor efficacy, neither did other agents work well, such as glucocorticoids, disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs and biologics. (2) LABORATORY FINDINGS: the platelet count and inflammatory markers such as erythrocyte sedimentation rate, C-reactive protein (CRP) were usually normal. The level of serum calcium was normal or slightly lower, nevertheless, all patients had hypophosphatemia and increased level of alkaline phosphatase (ALP). Patients with adefovir dipivoxil-related HO, Fanconi syndrome or Sjogren's syndrome complicated with renal tubular acidosis were characterized by  hypokalemia , hyperchloremia and alkaline urine. Patients with hyperparathyroidism had elevated parathyroid hormone (PTH). Positive antinuclear antibodies (ANA) (titer ≥ 1: 320), anti-SSA/SSB antibodies were found in patients with Sjogren's syndrome. (3) Radiographic features: sacroiliac joint lesions were found in X-ray, CT, positron emission tomography Osteomalacia complicating renal tubular acidosis in association with Sjogren's syndrome. PubMed El Ati, Zohra; Fatma, Lilia Ben; Boulahya, Ghada; Rais, Lamia; Krid, Madiha; Smaoui, Wided; Maiz, Hedi Ben; Beji, Soumaya; Zouaghi, Karim; Moussa, Fatma Ben 2014-09-01 Renal involvement in Sjogren's syndrome (SS) is not uncommon and may precede other complaints. Tubulointerstitial nephritis is the most common renal disease in SS and may lead to renal tubular acidosis (RTA), which in turn may cause osteomalacia. Nevertheless, osteomalacia rarely occurs as the first manifestation of a renal tubule disorder due to SS. We herewith describe a 43-year-old woman who was admitted to our hospital for weakness, lumbago and inability to walk. X-ray of the long bones showed extensive demineralization of the bones. Laboratory investigations revealed chronic kidney disease with serum creatinine of 2.3 mg/dL and creatinine clearance of 40 mL/min,  hypokalemia  (3.2 mmol/L), hypophosphatemia (0.4 mmol/L), hypocalcemia (2.14 mmol/L) and hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis (chlorine: 114 mmol/L; alkaline reserve: 14 mmol/L). The serum alkaline phosphatase levels were elevated. The serum levels of 25-hydroxyvitamin D and 1,25-dihydroxy vitamin D were low and borderline low, respectively, and the parathyroid hormone level was 70 pg/L. Urinalysis showed inappropriate alkaline urine (urinary PH: 7), glycosuria with normal blood glucose, phosphaturia and uricosuria. These values indicated the presence of both distal and proximal RTA. Our patient reported dryness of the mouth and eyes and Schirmer's test showed xerophthalmia. An accessory salivary gland biopsy showed changes corresponding to stage IV of Chisholm and Masson score. Kidney biopsy showed diffuse and severe tubulo-interstitial nephritis with dense lymphoplasmocyte infiltrates. Sicca syndrome and renal interstitial infiltrates indicated SS as the underlying cause of the RTA and osteomalacia. The patient received alkalinization, vitamin D (Sterogyl ®), calcium supplements and steroids in an initial dose of 1 mg/kg/day, tapered to 10 mg daily. The prognosis was favorable and the serum creatinine level was 1.7 mg/dL, calcium was 2.2 mmol/L and serum phosphate was 0.9 mmol/L. Safety and Efficacy of the Off-Label Use of Milrinone in Pediatric Patients with Heart Diseases PubMed Central Lee, Joowon; Kwon, Hye Won; Kwon, Bo Sang; Bae, Eun Jung; Noh, Chung Il; Lim, Hong Gook; Kim, Woong Han; Lee, Jeong Ryul; Kim, Yong Jin 2014-01-01 Background and Objectives Milrinone is often used in children to treat acute heart failure and prevent low cardiac output syndrome after cardiac surgery. Due to the lack of studies on the long-term milrinone use in children, the objective of this study was to assess the safety and efficacy of the current patterns of milrinone use for ≥3 days in infants and children with heart diseases. Subjects and Methods We retrospectively reviewed the medical records of patients aged  < 13 years who received milrinone for ≥3 days from January 2005 to December 2012. Patients' characteristics including age, sex, height, weight, and body surface area were recorded. The following parameters were analyzed to identify the clinical application of milrinone: initial infusion rate, maintenance continuous infusion rate, total duration of milrinone therapy, and concomitantly infused inotropes. The safety of milrinone was determined based on the occurrence of adverse events such as hypotension, arrhythmia, chest pain, headache,  hypokalemia , and thrombocytopenia. Results We assessed 730 admissions (684 patients) during this period. Ventricular septal defects were the most common diagnosis (42.4%) in these patients. Milrinone was primarily used after cardiac surgery in 715 admissions (97.9%). The duration of milrinone treatment varied from 3 to 64.4 days (≥7 days in 149 admissions). Ejection fraction and fractional shortening of the left ventricle improved in patients receiving milrinone after cardiac surgery. Dose reduction of milrinone due to hypotension occurred in only 4 admissions (0.5%). Although diverse arrhythmias occurred in 75 admissions (10.3%), modification of milrinone infusion to manage arrhythmia occurred in only 3 admissions (0.4%). Multivariate analysis indicated that the development of arrhythmia was not influenced by the pattern of milrinone use. Conclusion Milrinone was generally administered for ≥3 days in children with heart diseases. The use of milrinone for ≥3 Severe hyperkalemia following adrenalectomy for aldosteronoma: prediction, pathogenesis and approach to clinical management- a case series. PubMed Tahir, A; McLaughlin, K; Kline, G 2016-07-27 As the field of Primary Aldosteronism (PA) becomes ever expanded, diagnosis of PA is increasingly diagnosed by endocrinologists. With increased PA screening, many of the cases are now found in patients with complex co-morbidities in addition to their hypertension. Post adrenalectomy renal impairment with hyperkalemia is now increasingly seen in these complex patients, as evidenced by the numerous reports on this issue that have appeared within the past 3 years. We present a small case series to illustrate the breadth of the problem, along with a discussion about how such CKD/hyperkalemic events may be predicted. We present three cases of primary aldosteronism with long standing hypertension (more than 10 years)  hypokalemia  (2.0-3.0 mmol/l). Serum aldosterone was high with low renin activity leading to high aldosterone to renin ratio (ARR). They underwent abdominal CT scan revealing adrenal mass and adrenal vein sample confirmed lateralization. None of the patients had evidence of renal disease before surgery (as evident by normal eGFR and serum creatinine). Post adrenalectomy they had reduction in the blood pressure and became eukalemic. Serum aldosterone and renin activity were low leading to a low ARR. Case 1 developed hyperkalemia and increased serum creatinine 6 weeks post operatively which resolved with initiation of fludrocortisone and every attempt to discontinue fludrocortisone resulted in hyperkalemia and rising creatinine. Her hyperkalemia is under control with oral sodium bicarbonate. Case 2 developed hyperkalemia and increasing creatinine 2 months post operatively transiently requiring fludrocortisone and later on managed with furosemide for hyperkalemia. Case 3 developed renal impairment and hyperkalemia 2 weeks post operatively requiring fludrocortisone. Post APA resection severe hyperkalemia may be a common entity and screening should be actively considered in high risk patients. Older age, longer duration of hypertension, impaired pre-op and Serum and dietary potassium and risk of incident type 2 diabetes mellitus: The Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC) study. PubMed Chatterjee, Ranee; Yeh, Hsin-Chieh; Shafi, Tariq; Selvin, Elizabeth; Anderson, Cheryl; Pankow, James S; Miller, Edgar; Brancati, Frederick 2010-10-25 Serum potassium levels affect insulin secretion by pancreatic β-cells, and  hypokalemia  associated with diuretic use has been associated with dysglycemia. We hypothesized that adults with lower serum potassium levels and lower dietary potassium intake are at higher risk for incident diabetes mellitus (DM), independent of diuretic use. We analyzed data from 12 209 participants from the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC) Study, an ongoing prospective cohort study, beginning in 1986, with 9 years of in-person follow-up and 17 years of telephone follow-up. Using multivariate Cox proportional hazard models, we estimated the hazard ratio (HR) of incident DM associated with baseline serum potassium levels. During 9 years of in-person follow-up, 1475 participants developed incident DM. In multivariate analyses, we found an inverse association between serum potassium and risk of incident DM. Compared with those with a high-normal serum potassium level (5.0-5.5 mEq/L), adults with serum potassium levels lower than 4.0 mEq/L, 4.0 to lower than 4.5 mEq/L, and 4.5 to lower than 5.0 mEq/L had an adjusted HR (95% confidence interval [CI]) of incident DM of 1.64 (95% CI, 1.29-2.08), 1.64 (95% CI, 1.34-2.01), and 1.39 (95% CI, 1.14-1.71), respectively. An increased risk persisted during an additional 8 years of telephone follow-up based on self-report with HRs of 1.2 to 1.3 for those with a serum potassium level lower than 5.0 mEq/L. Dietary potassium intake was significantly associated with risk of incident DM in unadjusted models but not in multivariate models. Serum potassium level is an independent predictor of incident DM in this cohort. Further study is needed to determine if modification of serum potassium could reduce the subsequent risk of DM. Lower serum potassium associated with increased mortality in dialysis patients: A nationwide prospective observational cohort study in Korea PubMed Central Lee, Sunhwa; Kang, Eunjeong; Yoo, Kyung Don; Choi, Yunhee; Kim, Dong Ki; Joo, Kwon Wook; Yang, Seung Hee; Kim, Yong-Lim; Kang, Shin-Wook; Yang, Chul Woo; Kim, Nam Ho; Kim, Yon Su; Lee, Hajeong 2017-01-01 Background Abnormal serum potassium concentration has been suggested as a risk factor for mortality in patients undergoing dialysis patients. We investigated the impact of serum potassium levels on survival according to dialysis modality. Methods A nationwide, prospective, observational cohort study for end stage renal disease patients has been ongoing in Korea since August 2008. Our analysis included patients whose records contained data regarding serum potassium levels. The relationship between serum potassium and mortality was analyzed using competing risk regression. Results A total of 3,230 patients undergoing hemodialysis (HD, 64.3%) or peritoneal dialysis (PD, 35.7%) were included. The serum potassium level was significantly lower (P  <  0.001) in PD (median, 4.5 mmol/L; interquartile range, 4.0–4.9 mmol/L) than in HD patients (median, 4.9 mmol/L; interquartile range, 4.5–5.4 mmol/L). During 4.4 ± 1.7 years of follow-up, 751 patients (23.3%) died, mainly from cardiovascular events (n = 179) and infection (n = 120). In overall, lower serum potassium level less than 4.5 mmol/L was an independent risk factor for mortality after adjusting for age, comorbidities, and nutritional status (sub-distribution hazard ratio, 1.30; 95% confidence interval 1.10–1.53; P = 0.002). HD patients showed a U-shaped survival pattern, suggesting that both lower and higher potassium levels were deleterious, although insignificant. However, in PD patients, only lower serum potassium level ( < 4.5 mmol/L) was an independent predictor of mortality (sub-distribution hazard ratio, 1.35; 95% confidence interval 1.00–1.80; P = 0.048). Conclusion Lower serum potassium levels ( < 4.5 mmol/L) occur more commonly in PD than in HD patients. It represents an independent predictor of survival in overall dialysis, especially in PD patients. Therefore, management of dialysis patients should focus especially on reducing the risk of  hypokalemia , not only that of hyperkalemia. PMID:28264031 Multiple episodes of aspirin overdose in an individual patient: a case report. PubMed Ghosh, Debasish; Williams, Kenneth M; Graham, Garry G; Nair, Priya; Buscher, Hergen; Day, Richard O 2014-11-19  aspirin overdose. Correction of  hypokalemia  is recommended. Repeated doses of charcoal may be a worthwhile intervention when there is no risk of aspiration. Our experience in this case also revealed considerable unexplained variation in management despite the availability of guidelines. It is, therefore, important to monitor the implementation of available guidelines. [Clinical study on the treatment of acute paraquat poisoning with sequential whole gastric and bowel irrigation]. PubMed Zhao, Bo; Dai, Jingbin; Li, Jun; Xiao, Lei; Sun, Baoquan; Liu, Naizheng; Zhang, Yanmin; Jian, Xiangdong 2015-03-01 To explore the clinical efficacy of early application of sequential gastrointestinal lavage in patients with acute paraquat poisoning by analyzing the clinical data of 97 patients. A total of 97 eligible patients with acute paraquat poisoning were divided into conventional treatment group (n = 48) and sequential treatment group (n = 49). The conventional treatment group received routine gastric lavage with water. Then 30 g of montmorillonite powder, 30 g of activated charcoal, and mannitol were given to remove intestinal toxins once a day for five days. The sequential treatment group received 60 g of montmorillonite powder for oral administration, followed by small-volume low-pressure manual gastric lavage with 2.5%bicarbonate liquid. Then 30 g of activated charcoal, 30 g of montmorillonite powder, and polyethylene glycol electrolyte lavage solution were given one after another for gastrointestinal lavage once a day for five days. Both groups received large doses of corticosteroids, blood perfusion, and anti-oxidation treatment. The levels of serum potassium, serum amylase (AMY) alanine aminotransferase (ALT), total bilirubin (TBIL), blood urea nitrogen (BUN), creatinine (Cr), lactate (Lac), and PaO₂of patients were determined at 1, 3, 5, 7, and 10 days. Laxative time, mortality, and survival time of dead cases were evaluated in the two groups. The incidence rates of  hypokalemia  ( < 3.5 mmol/L) and AMY (>110 U/L) were significantly lower in the sequential treatment group than in the conventional treatment group (P  <  0.05). There were no significant differences in the incidence of ALT (>80 U/L), TBIL (>34.2 µmol/L), BUN (>7.2 mmol/L), and Cr (>177 µmol/L) between the two groups (P>0.05). However, the highest levels of ALT, TBIL, BUN, Cr, and Lac were significantly lower in the sequential treatment group than in the conventional treatment group (P  <  0.05). Moreover, the sequential treatment group had significantly lower incidence of PaO₂( < 60 mmHg), shorter Patiromer in patients with kidney disease and hyperkalemia receiving RAAS inhibitors. PubMed Weir, Matthew R; Bakris, George L; Bushinsky, David A; Mayo, Martha R; Garza, Dahlia; Stasiv, Yuri; Wittes, Janet; Christ-Schmidt, Heidi; Berman, Lance; Pitt, Bertram 2015-01-15 );  hypokalemia  occurred in 3%. In patients with chronic kidney disease who were receiving RAAS inhibitors and who had hyperkalemia, patiromer treatment was associated with a decrease in serum potassium levels and, as compared with placebo, a reduction in the recurrence of hyperkalemia. (Funded by Relypsa; OPAL-HK ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01810939.). The Management of Primary Aldosteronism: Case Detection, Diagnosis, and Treatment: An Endocrine Society Clinical Practice Guideline. PubMed Funder, John W; Carey, Robert M; Mantero, Franco; Murad, M Hassan; Reincke, Martin; Shibata, Hirotaka; Stowasser, Michael; Young, William F 2016-05-01 To develop clinical practice guidelines for the management of patients with primary aldosteronism. The Task Force included a chair, selected by the Clinical Guidelines Subcommittee of the Endocrine Society, six additional experts, a methodologist, and a medical writer. The guideline was cosponsored by American Heart Association, American Association of Endocrine Surgeons, European Society of Endocrinology, European Society of Hypertension, International Association of Endocrine Surgeons, International Society of Endocrinology, International Society of Hypertension, Japan Endocrine Society, and The Japanese Society of Hypertension. The Task Force received no corporate funding or remuneration. We searched for systematic reviews and primary studies to formulate the key treatment and prevention recommendations. We used the Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development, and Evaluation group criteria to describe both the quality of evidence and the strength of recommendations. We used "recommend" for strong recommendations and "suggest" for weak recommendations. We achieved consensus by collecting the best available evidence and conducting one group meeting, several conference calls, and multiple e-mail communications. With the help of a medical writer, the Endocrine Society's Clinical Guidelines Subcommittee, Clinical Affairs Core Committee, and Council successfully reviewed the drafts prepared by the Task Force. We placed the version approved by the Clinical Guidelines Subcommittee and Clinical Affairs Core Committee on the Endocrine Society's website for comments by members. At each stage of review, the Task Force received written comments and incorporated necessary changes. For high-risk groups of hypertensive patients and those with  hypokalemia , we recommend case detection of primary aldosteronism by determining the aldosterone-renin ratio under standard conditions and recommend that a commonly used confirmatory test should confirm/exclude the condition. We Antihypertensive efficacy of hydrochlorothiazide vs chlorthalidone combined with azilsartan medoxomil. PubMed Bakris, George L; Sica, Domenic; White, William B; Cushman, William C; Weber, Michael A; Handley, Alison; Song, Eric; Kupfer, Stuart 2012-12-01  different between groups (9.3% vs 7.3%, P = .38), and  hypokalemia  was uncommon in both groups. Chlorthalidone combined with azilsartan medoxomil provides better blood pressure reduction and a higher likelihood of achieving blood pressure control than hydrochlorothiazide combined with azilsartan medoxomil. This benefit occurred without a difference in safety measurements. Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved. External Beam Radiation Therapy and Abiraterone in Men With Localized Prostate Cancer: Safety and Effect on Tissue Androgens SciTech Connect Cho, Eunpi; Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, Washington; Mostaghel, Elahe A. Purpose: Optimizing androgen suppression may provide better control of localized prostate cancer (PCa). Numerous trials have supported the benefit of combining androgen deprivation therapy with definitive radiation therapy in men with locally advanced or high-grade disease. Addition of abiraterone to luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone agonist (LHRHa) with radiation has not been reported. We examined the safety of this combination as well as its impact on androgen suppression. Methods and Materials: A prospective, phase 2 study was conducted in men with localized PCa treated with 6 months of neoadjuvant and concurrent abiraterone with LHRHa and radiation. Duration of adjuvant LHRHa was at themore » discretion of the treating clinician. Prostate biopsy assays were obtained prior to the start of therapy and prior to radiation. Sera and tissue androgen levels were measured by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Results: A total of 22 men with intermediate- (n=3) and high-risk PCa (n=19) received study therapy. Sixteen men completed the intended course of abiraterone, and 19 men completed planned radiation to 77.4 to 81 Gy. Radiation to pelvic nodes was administered in 20 men. The following grade 3 toxicities were reported: lymphopenia (14 patients), fatigue (1 patient), transaminitis (2 patients), hypertension (2 patients), and  hypokalemia  (1 patient). There were no grade 4 toxicities. All 21 men who complied with at least 3 months of abiraterone therapy had a preradiation prostate-specific antigen (PSA) concentration nadir of  < 0.3 ng/mL. Median levels of tissue androgen downstream of CYP17A were significantly suppressed after treatment with abiraterone, and upstream steroids were increased. At median follow-up of 21 months (range: 3-37 months), only 1 patient (who had discontinued abiraterone at 3 months) had biochemical relapse. Conclusions: Addition of abiraterone to LHRHa with radiation is safe and achieves effective prostatic androgen Retrospective evaluation of acute liver failure in dogs (1995-2012): 49 cases. PubMed Lester, Carrie; Cooper, Johanna; Peters, Rachel M; Webster, Cynthia R L 2016-07-01 To characterize the clinical presentation and outcome of dogs with acute liver failure (ALF). Retrospective case series from January 1995 to December 2012. University teaching hospital. Forty-nine dogs were diagnosed with ALF defined as the acute onset of clinical signs accompanied by serum hyperbilirubinemia and coagulopathy (prothrombin time >1.5 times the upper limit of the reference interval) with or without signs of hepatic encephalopathy. Medical records were retrospectively analyzed for clinical presentation, history, physical examination findings, clinicopathologic data, diagnostic imaging findings, hepatic histopathology, treatment, and outcome. Presenting signs included anorexia (28/49, 57%), vomiting (25/49, 51%), neurologic abnormalities (17/49, 35%), and polydipsia/polyuria (10/49, 20%). Neurologic impairment compatible with hepatic encephalopathy occurred at some point during hospitalization in 28/49 (57%) of dogs. Common clinicopathologic abnormalities on presentation other than hyperbilirubinemia and increased serum liver enzyme activity included thrombocytopenia (25/49, 51%), hypoalbuminemia (23/49, 46%), leukocytosis (17/49, 34%), anemia (14/49, 29%),  hypokalemia  (13/49, 27%), and hypoglycemia (10/49, 20%). The causes of ALF included neoplasia (13/49, 27%), presumptive leptosporosis (4/49, 8%), and ischemia (1/49, 2%). The remaining cases were idiopathic although 15 of these dogs had exposure to possible hepatotoxins. Common lesions in the 35/49 (71%) dogs that had hepatic histopathology were necrosis (19/39, 48%), lipidosis (16/39, 41%), vacuolar change (7/49, 14%), and inflammation (4/49, 8%). Complications included ascites (20/49, 41%), bleeding tendencies (14/49, 29%), pancreatitis (12/49, 24%), and acute tubular necrosis (11/49, 22%). Seven (14%) dogs survived to discharge. Survivors had higher alanine aminotransferase activity, and were more likely to maintain normal albumin concentrations and not develop clinical bleeding or ascites during Nanonization increases the antileishmanial efficacy of amphotericin B: an ex vivo approach. PubMed Manandhar, Krishna Das; Yadav, Thakur Prasad; Prajapati, Vijay Kumar; Basukala, Om; Aganja, Ram Prasad; Dude, Anuradha; Shrivastav, Onkar Nath; Sundar, Shyam 2014-01-01 With widespread resistance to pentavalent antimonial in the endemic eastern terai belt of Nepal and Bihar, India, Amphotericin B deoxycholate is now the first-line antileishmanial drug for the treatment of visceral leishmaniasis (VL). However, universal occurrence of infusion-related fever and rigors with amphotericin B (AmB), occasional serious life-threatening toxicities like cardiotoxicity, anaphylaxis,  hypokalemia , and nephrotoxicity are major barriers to its use in areas with limited medical facilities. Liposomal amphotericins, however, are devoid of adverse effects, high cost makes it unaffordable. We had formulated nanoparticles (10-20 nm) from amphotericin B deoxycholate (1-2 μm) applying high pressure (150 atm) milling homogenization in argon atmosphere and tested its ex vivo efficacy in Leishmania infected J774A cell line and peritoneal macrophage. The ex vivo ED50 for intracellular amastigotes in peritoneal macrophage by nano-amphotericin was 0.0027 ± 0.001 μg/mL which was significantly less (p = 0.0029) than the required dose of amphotericin B (0.0426 ± 0.003 μg/mL). Similarly, in J774A cell line, 50 % of intracellular amastigotes were cleared by 0.0038 ± 0.001 μg/mL of nano-amphotericin while the dose was a bit more for AmB (0.0196 ± 0.001 μg/mL) illustrating the significant difference (p value, 0.0122). The nanoformulation has also shown high efficacy (ED50, 0.0028-0.0035 μg/mL) in inhibition of infected macrophage count. The new formulation accumulated to spleen, the targeted organ, 7 days after inoculation of drug to the infected hamster as traced in vivo by TEM convincing it as potential drug. Given a favorable safety profile and very low cost of production contemplated, it may prove to be a feasible alternative for conventional amphotericin B. Randomized phase III trial of concurrent accelerated radiation plus cisplatin with or without cetuximab for stage III to IV head and neck carcinoma: RTOG 0522. PubMed Ang, K Kian; Zhang, Qiang; Rosenthal, David I; Nguyen-Tan, Phuc Felix; Sherman, Eric J; Weber, Randal S; Galvin, James M; Bonner, James A; Harris, Jonathan; El-Naggar, Adel K; Gillison, Maura L; Jordan, Richard C; Konski, Andre A; Thorstad, Wade L; Trotti, Andy; Beitler, Jonathan J; Garden, Adam S; Spanos, William J; Yom, Sue S; Axelrod, Rita S 2014-09-20 Combining cisplatin or cetuximab with radiation improves overall survival (OS) of patients with stage III or IV head and neck carcinoma (HNC). Cetuximab plus platinum regimens also increase OS in metastatic HNC. The Radiation Therapy Oncology Group launched a phase III trial to test the hypothesis that adding cetuximab to the radiation-cisplatin platform improves progression-free survival (PFS). Eligible patients with stage III or IV HNC were randomly assigned to receive radiation and cisplatin without (arm A) or with (arm B) cetuximab. Acute and late reactions were scored using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (version 3). Outcomes were correlated with patient and tumor features and markers. Of 891 analyzed patients, 630 were alive at analysis (median follow-up, 3.8 years). Cetuximab plus cisplatin-radiation, versus cisplatin-radiation alone, resulted in more frequent interruptions in radiation therapy (26.9% v. 15.1%, respectively); similar cisplatin delivery (mean, 185.7 mg/m2 v. 191.1 mg/m2, respectively); and more grade 3 to 4 radiation mucositis (43.2% v. 33.3%, respectively), rash, fatigue, anorexia, and  hypokalemia , but not more late toxicity. No differences were found between arms A and B in 30-day mortality (1.8% v. 2.0%, respectively; P = .81), 3-year PFS (61.2% v. 58.9%, respectively; P = .76), 3-year OS (72.9% v. 75.8%, respectively; P = .32), locoregional failure (19.9% v. 25.9%, respectively; P = .97), or distant metastasis (13.0% v. 9.7%, respectively; P = .08). Patients with p16-positive oropharyngeal carcinoma (OPC), compared with patients with p16-negative OPC, had better 3-year probability of PFS (72.8% v. 49.2%, respectively; P  <  .001) and OS (85.6% v. 60.1%, respectively; P  <  .001), but tumor epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) expression did not distinguish outcome. Adding cetuximab to radiation-cisplatin did not improve outcome and hence should not be prescribed routinely. PFS and OS were higher in patients with p16 Diabetic ketoacidosis: clinical characteristics, precipitating factors and outcomes of care. PubMed Barski, Leonid; Nevzorov, Roman; Rabaev, Elena; Jotkowitz, Alan; Harman-Boehm, Ilana; Zektser, Miri; Zeller, Lior; Shleyfer, Elena; Almog, Yaniv 2012-05-01 Diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) is a common and serious complication of diabetes mellitus (DM). To evaluate the clinical characteristics, hospital management and outcomes of patients with DKA. We performed a retrospective cohort study of patients hospitalized with DKA during the period 1 January 2003 to 1 January 2010. Three groups were compared: patients with mild DKA, with moderate DKA, and with severe DKA. The primary outcome was in-hospital all-cause mortality. The secondary outcomes were 30 days all-cause mortality, length of hospital stay, and complication rate. The study population comprised 220 patients with DKA. In the mild (78 patients) and moderate (116 patients) groups there was a higher proportion of patients with type 1 DM (75.6%, 79.3%) compared with 57.7% in the severe group (26 patients, P = 0.08). HbA1c levels prior to admission were high in all three groups, without significant difference (10.9 +/- 2.2, 10.7 +/- 1.9, and 10.6 +/- 2.4 respectively, P = 0.9). In all groups the most frequent precipitating factors were related to insulin therapy and infections. The patients with severe DKA had more electrolyte abnormalities ( hypokalemia , hypomagnesemia, hypophosphatemia) compared with the mild and moderate forms of the disease. While 72.7% of the entire cohort was hospitalized in the general medical ward, 80.8% of those with severe DKA were admitted to the intensive care unit. The in-hospital mortality rate for the entire cohort was 4.1%, comparable with previous data from experienced centers. Advanced age, mechanical ventilation and bedridden state were independent predictors associated with 30 day mortality: hazard ratio (HR) 1.1, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.02-1.11; HR 6.8, 95% CI 2.03-23.1; and HR 3.8, 95% CI 1.13-12.7, respectively. Patients with DKA in our study were generally poorly controlled prior to their admission, as reflected by high HbA1c levels. Type 2 DM is frequently associated with DKA including the severe form of the disease. The An Unusual Case of Licorice-Induced Hypertensive Crisis. PubMed Ottenbacher, Ronovan; Blehm, Julie 2015-08-01  mineralocorticoid receptors resulting in excess mineralocorticoid activity or pseudohyperaldosteronism. The patient may present with findings similar to primary aldosteronism: hypertension with sodium retention, edema,  hypokalemia , metabolic alkalosis and low plasma renin activity. Plasma aldosterone levels would be low (in primary aldosteronism it is elevated). Specific testing can be performed, but resolution of symptoms after the patient stops eating licorice strongly suggests the diagnosis. Impact of long-term potassium supplementation on thiazide diuretic-induced abnormalities of glucose and uric acid metabolisms. PubMed Zhang, Jian-Liang; Yu, Hui; Hou, Ying-Wei; Wang, Ke; Bi, Wen-Shan; Zhang, Liang; Wang, Qian; Li, Pan; Yu, Man-Li; Zhao, Xian-Xian 2018-04-01 Treatment of hypertension with thiazide diuretics may trigger  hypokalemia , hyperglycemia, and hyperuricemia. Some studies suggest simultaneous potassium supplementation in hypertensive patients using thiazide diuretics. However, few clinical studies have reported the impact of long-term potassium supplementation on thiazide diuretic-induced abnormalities in blood glucose and uric acid (UA) metabolisms. One hundred hypertensive patients meeting the inclusion criteria were equally randomized to two groups: IND group receiving indapamide (1.25-2.5 mg daily) alone, and IND/KCI group receiving IND (1.25-2.5 mg daily) plus potassium chloride (40 mmol daily), both for 24 weeks. At the end of 24-week follow-up, serum K + level in IND group decreased from 4.27 ± 0.28 to 3.98 ± 0.46 mmol/L (P  <  0.001), and fasting plasma glucose (FPG) and UA increased from 5.11 ± 0.52 to 5.31 ± 0.57 mmol/L (P  <  0.05), and from 0.404 ± 0.078 to 0.433 ± 0.072 mmol/L (P  <  0.05), respectively. Serum K + level in IND/KCl group decreased from 4.27 ± 0.36 to 3.89 ± 0.28 mmol/L (P  <  0.001), and FPB and UA increased from 5.10 ± 0.41 to 5.35 ± 0.55 mmol/L (P  <  0.01), and from 0.391 ± 0.073 to 0.457 ± 0.128 mmol/L (P  <  0.001), respectively. The difference value between the serum K + level and FPG before and after treatment was not statistically significant between the two groups. However, the difference value in UA in IND/KCl group was significantly higher than that in IND group (0.066 (95% confidence interval (CI): 0.041-0.090)  mmol/L vs. 0.029 (95% CI: 0.006-0.058) mmol/L, P  <  0.05). The results showed that long-term routine potassium supplementation could not prevent or attenuate thiazide diuretic-induced abnormalities of glucose metabolism in hypertensive patients; rather, it may aggravate the UA metabolic abnormality. Plitidepsin Has a Safe Cardiac Profile: A Comprehensive Analysis PubMed Central Soto-Matos, Arturo; Szyldergemajn, Sergio; Extremera, Sonia; Miguel-Lillo, Bernardo; Alfaro, Vicente; Coronado, Cinthya; Lardelli, Pilar; Roy, Elena; Corrado, Claudia Silvia; Kahatt, Carmen 2011-01-01 Plitidepsin is a cyclic depsipeptide of marine origin in clinical development in cancer patients. Previously, some depsipeptides have been linked to increased cardiac toxicity. Clinical databases were searched for cardiac adverse events (CAEs) that occurred in clinical trials with the single-agent plitidepsin. Demographic, clinical and pharmacological variables were explored by univariate and multivariate logistic regression analysis. Forty-six of 578 treated patients (8.0%) had at least one CAE (11 patients (1.9%) with plitidepsin-related CAEs), none with fatal outcome as a direct consequence. The more frequent CAEs were rhythm abnormalities (n = 31; 5.4%), mostly atrial fibrillation/flutter (n = 15; 2.6%). Of note, life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias did not occur. Myocardial injury events (n = 17; 3.0%) included possible ischemic-related and non-ischemic events. Other events (miscellaneous, n = 6; 1.0%) were not related to plitidepsin. Significant associations were found with prostate or pancreas cancer primary diagnosis (p = 0.0017), known baseline cardiac risk factors (p = 0.0072), myalgia present at baseline (p = 0.0140), hemoglobin levels lower than 10 g/dL (p = 0.0208) and grade ≥2  hypokalemia  (p = 0.0095). Treatment-related variables (plitidepsin dose, number of cycles, schedule and/or total cumulative dose) were not associated. Electrocardiograms performed before and after plitidepsin administration (n = 136) detected no relevant effect on QTc interval. None of the pharmacokinetic parameters analyzed had a significant impact on the probability of developing a CAE. In conclusion, the most frequent CAE type was atrial fibrillation/atrial flutter, although its frequency was not different to that reported in the age-matched healthy population, while other CAEs types were rare. No dose-cumulative pattern was observed, and no treatment-related variables were associated with CAEs. Relevant risk factors identified were related to the patient’s condition Antimalarial Activity of KAF156 in Falciparum and Vivax Malaria. PubMed White, Nicholas J; Duong, Tran T; Uthaisin, Chirapong; Nosten, François; Phyo, Aung P; Hanboonkunupakarn, Borimas; Pukrittayakamee, Sasithon; Jittamala, Podjanee; Chuthasmit, Kittiphum; Cheung, Ming S; Feng, Yiyan; Li, Ruobing; Magnusson, Baldur; Sultan, Marc; Wieser, Daniela; Xun, Xiaolei; Zhao, Rong; Diagana, Thierry T; Pertel, Peter; Leong, F Joel 2016-09-22 KAF156 belongs to a new class of antimalarial agents (imidazolopiperazines), with activity against asexual and sexual blood stages and the preerythrocytic liver stages of malarial parasites. We conducted a phase 2, open-label, two-part study at five centers in Thailand and Vietnam to assess the antimalarial efficacy, safety, and pharmacokinetic profile of KAF156 in adults with acute Plasmodium vivax or P. falciparum malaria. Assessment of parasite clearance rates in cohorts of patients with vivax or falciparum malaria who were treated with multiple doses (400 mg once daily for 3 days) was followed by assessment of the cure rate at 28 days in a separate cohort of patients with falciparum malaria who received a single dose (800 mg). Median parasite clearance times were 45 hours (interquartile range, 42 to 48) in 10 patients with falciparum malaria and 24 hours (interquartile range, 20 to 30) in 10 patients with vivax malaria after treatment with the multiple-dose regimen and 49 hours (interquartile range, 42 to 54) in 21 patients with falciparum malaria after treatment with the single dose. Among the 21 patients who received the single dose and were followed for 28 days, 1 had reinfection and 7 had recrudescent infections (cure rate, 67%; 95% credible interval, 46 to 84). The mean (±SD) KAF156 terminal elimination half-life was 44.1±8.9 hours. There were no serious adverse events in this small study. The most common adverse events included sinus bradycardia, thrombocytopenia,  hypokalemia , anemia, and hyperbilirubinemia. Vomiting of grade 2 or higher occurred in 2 patients, 1 of whom discontinued treatment because of repeated vomiting after receiving the single 800-mg dose. More adverse events were reported in the single-dose cohort, which had longer follow-up, than in the multiple-dose cohorts. KAF156 showed antimalarial activity without evident safety concerns in a small number of adults with uncomplicated P. vivax or P. falciparum malaria. (Funded by Novartis and Predictive Analytics for Identification of Patients at Risk for QT Interval Prolongation - A Systematic Review. PubMed Tomaselli Muensterman, Elena; Tisdale, James E 2018-06-08 Prolongation of the heart rate-corrected QT (QTc) interval increases the risk for torsades de pointes (TdP), a potentially fatal arrhythmia. The likelihood of TdP is higher in patients with risk factors, which include female sex, older age, heart failure with reduced ejection fraction,  hypokalemia , hypomagnesemia, concomitant administration of ≥ 2 QTc interval-prolonging medications, among others. Assessment and quantification of risk factors may facilitate prediction of patients at highest risk for developing QTc interval prolongation and TdP. Investigators have utilized the field of predictive analytics, which generates predictions using techniques including data mining, modeling, machine learning, and others, to develop methods of risk quantification and prediction of QTc interval prolongation. Predictive analytics have also been incorporated into clinical decision support (CDS) tools to alert clinicians regarding patients at increased risk of developing QTc interval prolongation. The objectives of this paper are to assess the effectiveness of predictive analytics for identification of patients at risk of drug-induced QTc interval prolongation, and to discuss the efficacy of incorporation of predictive analytics into CDS tools in clinical practice. A systematic review of English language articles (human subjects only) was performed, yielding 57 articles, with an additional 4 articles identified from other sources; a total of 10 articles were included in this review. Risk scores for QTc interval prolongation have been developed in various patient populations including those in cardiac intensive care units (ICUs) and in broader populations of hospitalized or health system patients. One group developed a risk score that includes information regarding genetic polymorphisms; this score significantly predicted TdP. Development of QTc interval prolongation risk prediction models and incorporation of these models into CDS tools reduces the risk of QTc interval Therapeutic hypothermia for out-of-hospital ventricular fibrillation survivors: a feasibility study comparing time to achieve target core temperature using conventional conductive cooling versus combined conductive plus pericranial convective cooling. PubMed Wass, C Thomas; White, Roger D; Schroeder, Darrell R; Mirzoyev, Sultan A; Warfield, Karen T 2013-04-01  (Medivance, Inc, Louisville, CO). However, patients enrolled in the combined TH group also received forced-air pericranial cooling with an ambient temperature of approximately 13°C. Only patients admitted after January 1, 2008, were included in the analysis (28 combined TH group patients v 55 conventional TH group patients). Demographic data were similar between groups. When compared with the conventional TH group, time to achieve 33°C was significantly shorter in the combined TH group: 207 minutes (173 and 286 min) [median (25th, 75th percentile)] v 181 minutes (63 and 247 min). The magnitude and frequency of hypothermia-mediated physiologic perturbations (eg,  hypokalemia ) were similar for both groups. Both TH cooling paradigms effectively achieved 33°C; however, the combined TH technique significantly decreased the time required to achieve the target temperature. Although not evaluated in this study, such an effect may further improve postresuscitative neurologic outcomes beyond that previously described using conventional TH. Although a positive result (ie, abbreviated time taken to achieve target temperature) was observed, we maintain guarded enthusiasm for this evolving adjunctive technique until corroborative outcome-based evidence is available. Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved. Effect of sodium zirconium cyclosilicate on potassium lowering for 28 days among outpatients with hyperkalemia: the HARMONIZE randomized clinical trial. PubMed Kosiborod, Mikhail; Rasmussen, Henrik S; Lavin, Philip; Qunibi, Wajeh Y; Spinowitz, Bruce; Packham, David; Roger, Simon D; Yang, Alex; Lerma, Edgar; Singh, Bhupinder 2014-12-03  vs placebo). Adverse events were comparable between zirconium cyclosilicate and placebo, although edema was more common in the 15-g group (edema incidence: 2/85 [2%], 1/45 [2%], 3/51 [6%], and 8/56 [14%] patients in the placebo, 5-g, 10-g, and 15-g groups).  Hypokalemia  developed in 5/51 (10%) and 6/56 patients (11%) in the 10-g and 15-g zirconium cyclosilicate groups, vs none in the 5-g or placebo groups. Among outpatients with hyperkalemia, open-label sodium zirconium cyclosilicate reduced serum potassium to normal levels within 48 hours; compared with placebo, all 3 doses of zirconium cyclosilicate resulted in lower potassium levels and a higher proportion of patients with normal potassium levels for up to 28 days. Further studies are needed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of zirconium cyclosilicate beyond 4 weeks and to assess long-term clinical outcomes. clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT02088073. [Complex ventricular arrhythmias and carvedilol: efficacy in hemodialyzed uremic patients]. PubMed Cice, G; Tagliamonte, E; Ferrara, L; Di Benedetto, A; Iacono, A 1998-06-01  patients have a chronic increase in adrenergic tone, with a direct correlation between norepinephrine plasmatic concentration and frequence of premature ventricular contractions. Beta-blockers are very important in these patients because of their modulation on the adrenergic system. They also reduce potassium flow, from extracellular to intracellular fluid. Therefore carvedilol can affect the sudden  hypokalemia  occurring in the first phase of hemodialysis treatment, that may be an important cause of intradialytic arrhythmias. Effect of Patiromer on Serum Potassium Level in Patients With Hyperkalemia and Diabetic Kidney Disease: The AMETHYST-DN Randomized Clinical Trial. PubMed Bakris, George L; Pitt, Bertram; Weir, Matthew R; Freeman, Mason W; Mayo, Martha R; Garza, Dahlia; Stasiv, Yuri; Zawadzki, Rezi; Berman, Lance; Bushinsky, David A 2015-07-14 -dose group. In those with moderate hyperkalemia, the reduction was 0.87 (95% CI, 0.60-1.14) mEq/L for the 8.4 g twice daily starting-dose group, 0.97 (95% CI, 0.70-1.23) mEq/L for the 12.6 g twice daily starting-dose group, and 0.92 (95% CI, 0.67-1.17) mEq/L for the 16.8 g twice daily starting-dose group (P  <  .001 for all changes vs baseline by hyperkalemia starting-dose groups within strata). From week 4 through week 52, statistically significant mean decreases in serum potassium levels were observed at each monthly point in patients with mild and moderate hyperkalemia. Over the 52 weeks, hypomagnesemia (7.2%) was the most common treatment-related adverse event, mild to moderate constipation (6.3%) was the most common gastrointestinal adverse event, and  hypokalemia  ( < 3.5 mEq/L) occurred in 5.6% of patients. Among patients with hyperkalemia and diabetic kidney disease, patiromer starting doses of 4.2 to 16.8 g twice daily resulted in statistically significant decreases in serum potassium level after 4 weeks of treatment, lasting through 52 weeks. clinicaltrials.gov Identifier:NCT01371747. Treatment for calcium channel blocker poisoning: A systematic review PubMed Central Dubé, P.-A.; Gosselin, S.; Guimont, C.; Godwin, J.; Archambault, P. M.; Chauny, J.-M.; Frenette, A. J.; Darveau, M.; Le sage, N.; Poitras, J.; Provencher, J.; Juurlink, D. N.; Blais, R. 2014-01-01  the initial search, 216 were selected for analysis, including 117 case reports. The kappa on the quality analysis tools was greater than 0.80 for all study types. Results The only observational study in humans examined high-dose insulin and extracorporeal life support. The risk of bias across studies was high for all interventions and moderate to high for extracorporeal life support. High-dose insulin. High-dose insulin (bolus of 1 unit/kg followed by an infusion of 0.5–2.0 units/kg/h) was associated with improved hemodynamic parameters and lower mortality, at the risks of hypoglycemia and  hypokalemia  (low quality of evidence). Extracorporeal life support. Extracorporeal life support was associated with improved survival in patients with severe shock or cardiac arrest at the cost of limb ischemia, thrombosis, and bleeding (low quality of evidence). Calcium, dopamine, and norepinephrine. These agents improved hemodynamic parameters and survival without documented severe side effects (very low quality of evidence). 4-Aminopyridine. Use of 4-aminopyridine was associated with improved hemodynamic parameters and survival in animal studies, at the risk of seizures. Lipid emulsion therapy. Lipid emulsion was associated with improved hemodynamic parameters and survival in animal models of intravenous verapamil poisoning, but not in models of oral verapamil poisoning. Other studies. Studies on decontamination, atropine, glucagon, pacemakers, levosimendan, and plasma exchange reported variable results, and the methodologies used limit their interpretation. No trial was documented in humans poisoned with calcium channel blockers for Bay K8644, CGP 28932, digoxin, cyclodextrin, liposomes, bicarbonate, carnitine, fructose 1,6-diphosphate, PK 11195, or triiodothyronine. Case reports were only found for charcoal hemoperfusion, dialysis, intra-aortic balloon pump, Impella device and methylene blue. Conclusions The treatment for calcium channel blocker poisoning is supported by low 