11 Best Adult Easter Basket Gift Ideas - Grown Up Easter Baskets Artboard 1 We may earn money from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. Why trust us? Because grown-ups also love chocolate, candy, and gifts. Just because adults are busy (as a bunny!) on Easter setting up  egg hunts , preparing  brunch , and putting together  baskets for kids , it doesn't mean that they shouldn't be showered with  candy  and gifts, too. These curated bushels touch on every personality: the night owl home from college, your beauty-obsessed daughter-in-law, and yes, even you! Bonus: You can cherry pick your faves in case the adult you're shopping for doesn't fit in one basket.  And since you're already shopping online, take a look at these Easter gifts for  kids ,  toddlers , and  babies . Easter = done! These tools are a step up from his original bar set. The cocktail kit makes long flights more fun, while the shot glasses look sophisticated. Test his Beer IQ against yours, then clean up with wine wipes. RELATED:  40+ Gifts Every Wine Lover Needs Forget about Peeps and jelly beans, these decadent treats are for true sweets enthusiasts. We're talking glittery eggs, sprinkle-covered chocolate bars, and sugary-sweet taffy. RELATED:  20+ Best Easter Candies to Buy in 2019 Even the biggest beauty lovers would lust over these trendy picks. Pack up this adorable bag with everything she needs for glowing skin, silky smooth hair, and shimmery eyes.  RELATED:  12 Prettiest Spring Nail Polish Colors for 2019 With a new tea blend, ice cream spoon, and sleep mask, she'll always have the perfect excuse to stay in. The best companion for her Netflix binge: a candle that offers a cozy ambiance for a night of R & R.  RELATED:  Wellness Gift Ideas to Help You Practice Self-Care With Amazon's best-selling reading stand and literary-inspired candle, you'll give her the makings for the perfect book club. When someone wants to borrow one of her reads, the personal library kit will help her keep tabs on where her books are vacationing. With these useful picks, don't be surprised if she immediately books her next getaway. Best of all: Get her vacation started as soon as she boards the plane with this TSA-approved margarita kit. RELATED:  The Best Travel Gifts, According to People Always on the Go No, buying electronics doesn't have to be pricey. In fact, these inexpensive finds   a smartphone lens kit, charging stand, and headphones  accentuate  pricier gadgets. Most important: The Tile, a GPS tag that can be attached to, well, anything to make sure it never goes missing. It'll always feel like game day with a tumblr or glass of chilled whiskey in hand. Pack everything in this NFL storage bin and he'll be chanting that  you're  number one. RELATED:  Gifts for Dads Who Love Sports The family member who shines after dark will appreciate the glow these string lights bring. And once they put their slippers and lavender face mask on, they'll be ready to catch some ZZZs. RELATED:  11 Genius Products to Help You Get to Sleep Because Mom hasn't slept past 7 a.m. since before you were born: A mini griddle makes the perfect breakfast sammie for one, and coffee-infused scrub will wake up her whole body. Once she's finished with breakfast, it's to-do list time. This fun notepad will make her  want  to check things off. Since their movie collection is already complete, MoviePass lets them binge as many theater showings as they want. For the at-home viewing: The popcorn popper also functions as a bowl, so it can go straight from the microwave to the couch.  