The association between major complications of immobility during hospitalization and quality of life among bedridden patients: A 3 month prospective multi-center study. Wu X(1), Li Z(1), Cao J(1), Jiao J(1), Wang Y(2), Liu G(1), Liu Y(1), Li F(1),Song B(3), Jin J(4), Liu Y(5), Wen X(6), Cheng S(7), Wan X(8). >< Author information:  >(1)Department of Nursing, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences &amp; Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, China.<br >(2)Operation center, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences  &  Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, China. >(3)Department of Nursing, Henan Provincial People's Hospital, Zhengzhou, China.<br >(4)Department of Nursing, The Second Affiliated Hospital Zhejiang University School of Medicine, Hangzhou, China. >(5)Department of Nursing, Union Hospital of Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, China.<br >(6)Department of Nursing, Sichuan Provincial People's Hospital, Chengdu, China. >(7)Department of Nursing, The First Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China.<br >(8)Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and School of Basic Medicine, Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, China. >< PURPOSE: To describe the association between major complications of immobility(pressure ulcer, pneumonia, deep vein thrombosis and urinary tract infection)during hospitalization and the patients' health-related quality of life afterdischarge.METHODS: The data were obtained from a multi-center study conducted in 2015.Complications of immobility during hospitalization was measured by case reportform and quality of life after discharge was measured using the EQ-5D scale bytelephone interview. Multilevel mixed-effects models were used to explore theassociation of complications and responses in the EQ-5D dimensions aftercontrolling for important covariates.RESULTS: Among the 20,515 bedridden patients, 2,601(12.72%) patients experienced at least one of the major complications of immobility during hospitalization,including pressure ulcer (527, 2.57%), deep vein thrombosis (343, 1.67%),pneumonia (1647, 8.16%), and urinary tract infection (265, 1.29%). Patients with any of the four complications during hospitalization reported more problems inall EQ-5D dimensions except for pain/discomfort, and had lower mean EQ-VAS scoresthan those without any complications. The four complications all showedsignificant associations with the proportion of reported problems in certaindimensions after adjustment for confounding variables.CONCLUSIONS: Major complications of immobility were significantly associated withreduced health related quality of life. Prevention of complications is criticalto reduce the burden of decreased quality of life for bedridden patients. PMCID: PMC6185860 