C-Section Scar Care Basics As a mom, your goal is for your baby to arrive to the world healthy and safe. And if that means it s by C-section, the resulting incision represents a miracle of life   your beautiful baby. Still, it s natural to want to do everything you can to ensure that the resulting wound heals well and scar tissue is minimized. The good news: Most C-section scars heal nicely, resulting in a faint line just above the pubic hair line that's easily covered up by clothing, underwear and bathing suits. During a C-section , your doctor makes two incisions: The first is through the skin of your lower abdomen, about an inch or two above your pubic hair line. The second is into the uterus, which is where the doctor will reach in to deliver your baby. The type of cut on your abdomen may not be the same as the one on your uterus. Each will be either: The incision on the uterus is always closed with dissolvable stitches, but there are three ways doctors close your skin: Most times, C-section scars heal properly. But sometimes your body s healing process goes into overdrive, which can lead to problems with scarring   especially if you re younger (under 30) and have darker skin. The issues that could crop up include: Following these common-sense tips will help your C-section scar to heal better: If you experience any of the following symptoms, contact your doctor immediately: By two weeks, your scar should look and feel much better. That said, it can take anywhere from six weeks to three months before you re fully healed. Though the C-section scar will fade on its own over time, a few simple tricks can help improve its appearance: Maybe your scar didn t heal like you thought it would, or maybe you just want it gone. While there s no way to erase a scar completely, there are a few options that can improve its look and feel. With these procedures, there s not a long waiting period before you can get started: Because a scar s appearance may improve, doctors generally won t do any repairs before six to 12 months after a C-section. If you re still interested in surgical options then, talk to your doctor about whether any of the following options could work for you: Is it normal for the incision to itch?  Itching is very common since the nerves in the area have been disrupted. Avoid scratching. To calm itchy skin, you can apply a minimal amount of OTC sunburn cream to the skin around the scar. Or hold an ice pack (or ice) wrapped in a towel to the area for about five to 10 minutes. Is it normal for it to smell?  As long as you keep it clean, the area shouldn t smell   so if it does, check with your doctor as it could be a sign of infection. From the What to Expect editorial team and  Heidi Murkoff , author of  What to Expect the First Year .  Health information on this site is based on peer-reviewed medical journals and highly respected health organizations and institutions including  ACOG  (American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists),  CDC  (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) and  AAP  (American Academy of Pediatrics), as well as the  What to Expect  books by Heidi Murkoff. Please whitelist our site to get all the best deals and offers from our partners. The educational health content on What To Expect is  reviewed by our team of experts  to be up-to-date and in line with the latest evidence-based medical information and accepted health guidelines, including the medically reviewed What to Expect books by Heidi Murkoff. This site  complies with the HONcode standard  for trustworthy health information. This educational content is not medical or diagnostic advice. Use of this site is subject to our  terms of use  and  privacy policy . © 2019 Everyday Health, Inc 