Last-minute exemption to save Brisbane scooter riders from hefty fines People will escape hefty fines for trying out electric scooters in Brisbane after transport authorities offered a last-minute exemption. Scooter-sharing start-up Lime has been working with state government and council authorities to  bring hundreds of its dockless scooters to Brisbane . US company Lime plans to introduce an electric scooter-share scheme to Brisbane. However, Transport and Main Roads wrote to Lime to warn users would be breaking several laws if they took one of the  " illegal "  scooters for a spin during a planned trial this weekend, and could be fined up to $10,444. Lime had planned to go ahead with its pilot of its electric dockless scooters, which can travel at speeds of up to 27km/h. Queensland road rules state motorised scooters must not be able to travel faster than 10km/h and must have an electric motor of 200 watts output or less. On Wednesday night, a Palaszczuk government spokesman said Lime had applied for exemptions from regulations in other locations to run trials but chose not to take that approach in Queensland. " As it stands their eScooters are illegal, "  he said. However, on Thursday morning, Transport Minister Mark Bailey told Parliament he would intervene. " The Palaszczuk government is keen to facilitate and fast-track this new mobility service, "  he said. " I will be inviting Lime to meet with my department today to discuss options including offering a temporary exemption from our regulations so we can support their pilot. " People will be keen to give Lime a go so we urge people who use the service to wear a helmet, stay safe and to respect other commuters. " Mr Bailey said electric scooters would give people another travel option, particularly on the last section of their journey. He said the government was reviewing current laws and regulations and expected the review would be completed before Christmas. LNP leader Deb Frecklington said the Palaszczuk government had  " backflipped " . " I &# x27;m delighted that Labor has finally seen sense on scooters, "  she said. " I wish the Palaszczuk government could come up with some innovative transport solutions of its own instead of threatening to fine anyone who tries something new. " Brisbane deputy mayor Adrian Schrinner had expressed his disappointment at the state government &# x27;s earlier stance. " We &# x27;d like to see a more can do approach from the government when it comes to this new technology, "  he said. Lime &# x27;s electric scooters, which have been introduced into more than 120 cities worldwide, can be hired on demand via a mobile app, with users finding the devices on a map. Unlike CityCycles which require a docking station, users can leave the scooters anywhere within a certain area. They will cost $1 to unlock and 30 cents a minute, and in New Zealand they can be ridden on the road, footpath and cycling paths. Felicity Caldwell is state political reporter at the Brisbane Times Copyright ©  2019 