20 Best Easter Gift Ideas for Toddlers - Fun Toddler Easter Basket Toys Ages 3+ Toddlers can collect all of their Easter goodies in this bunny-themed backpack. Complete with side pockets for a drink and an insulated pouch for snacks, it makes a great companion for road trips and outings. Ages 1+ Kids can color in their own Easter eggs between the bold lines in this 50 page coloring book. This trendy piece from Target is easy on the wallet and perfect for spring. They also have fun  boy options too (hello suspenders!). Ages 2+ Welcome spring with a proper tea party. This set includes everything from the teapot to the sugar bowl. Bonus: Green Toys manufactures these dishes entirely from recycled plastic. Ages 3+ Each of these plastic figures is hand-painted, making them super realistic. Tiny animal lovers can dream up their own adventures for these three little pigs. 18 months+ Kids can help \"prep\" Easter brunch with this waffle maker that comes with all inclusive waffle maker. It comes complete with syrup, plates, play food and even forks. Ages 3+ Consider packing these activity pads for travel on Easter Sunday. Little ones fill in the lines as they \"color\" the water-activated pages with the included pen. You'll get arts and crafts on the go with much less mess. Ages 2+ If you're over plastic eggs filled with candy, these springtime colors packed with dough offer something new for your toddler (and you get to avoid sugar-crash meltdowns). These cozy PJs from Gap are perfect for awaiting the Easter bunny's morning arrival. The collection offers a other bunny-themed options too. Ages 2+ Enjoy your toddler's favorite song all on Easter morning. This plush sings one of four versions of Baby Shark every time you squeeze it. Ages 2+ Players roll die on their turn to move Bunny closer and closer toward bed. Fingers crossed it makes going to sleep seem more fun for them too. 6 months+ These shells crack open to reveal adorable baby chicks. If she presses lightly on their heads, she'll even hear them chirp. Ages 3+ Practice his ABC's with these pastel-colored flash cards. The re-closable ring lets you shuffle them up for a bigger challenge once he memorizes the order. Ages 3+ Perfect for planting pretend tulips in the garden (and real ones too!). Ages 2+ A twist on the classic nursery rhyme  Itsy Bitsy Spider , this book swaps out spiders for the adventures of a bunny. 18 months + Help kids practice counting and sorting with Spike's bright quills. The pieces tuck away under the shell for easy cleanup. Add some PAW Patrol fun to any basket with Marshall's fire truck. The ladder lifts and lowers and has a moveable hose ready to handle any mission. Ages 3+ Introduce them to the Hopscotch Rabbit family, one of many in the Calico Critter village. The miniature set can be played with alone or pair with others from the brand. Ages 3+ Using the included markers, scrub brush, and tub, kids can draw all over these two fuzzy figurines and rinse them off to start over again. Ages 3+ Just as cute with much less work than the real thing! This bunny makes the perfect sidekick all Easter long. Artboard 1 We may earn money from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. Why trust us? If they're PAW Patrol-obsessed, we've got you covered.  First comes the  Easter egg hunt , then comes a  basket  or gift filled with cheer. These bunny-themed  games , Easter books, and cute chicks are perfect for the 4-and-under crowd, but don't miss our favorite festive picks for  babies  and  older kids  as well.  Ages 3+ Just as cute with much less work than the real thing! This bunny makes the perfect sidekick all Easter long. Ages 3+ Using the included markers, scrub brush, and tub, kids can draw all over these two fuzzy figurines and rinse them off to start over again. Ages 3+ Introduce them to the Hopscotch Rabbit family, one of many in the Calico Critter village. The miniature set can be played with alone or pair with others from the brand. Add some PAW Patrol fun to any basket with Marshall's fire truck. The ladder lifts and lowers and has a moveable hose ready to handle any mission. 18 months + Help kids practice counting and sorting with Spike's bright quills. The pieces tuck away under the shell for easy cleanup. Ages 2+ A twist on the classic nursery rhyme  Itsy Bitsy Spider , this book swaps out spiders for the adventures of a bunny. Ages 3+ Perfect for planting pretend tulips in the garden (and real ones too!). Ages 3+ Practice his ABC's with these pastel-colored flash cards. The re-closable ring lets you shuffle them up for a bigger challenge once he memorizes the order. 6 months+ These shells crack open to reveal adorable baby chicks. If she presses lightly on their heads, she'll even hear them chirp. Ages 2+ Players roll die on their turn to move Bunny closer and closer toward bed. Fingers crossed it makes going to sleep seem more fun for them too. Ages 2+ Enjoy your toddler's favorite song all on Easter morning. This plush sings one of four versions of Baby Shark every time you squeeze it. These cozy PJs from Gap are perfect for awaiting the Easter bunny's morning arrival. The collection offers a other bunny-themed options too. Ages 2+ If you're over plastic eggs filled with candy, these springtime colors packed with dough offer something new for your toddler (and you get to avoid sugar-crash meltdowns). Ages 3+ Consider packing these activity pads for travel on Easter Sunday. Little ones fill in the lines as they "color" the water-activated pages with the included pen. You'll get arts and crafts on the go with much less mess. 18 months+ Kids can help "prep" Easter brunch with this waffle maker that comes with all inclusive waffle maker. It comes complete with syrup, plates, play food and even forks. Ages 3+ Each of these plastic figures is hand-painted, making them super realistic. Tiny animal lovers can dream up their own adventures for these three little pigs. Ages 2+ Welcome spring with a proper tea party. This set includes everything from the teapot to the sugar bowl. Bonus: Green Toys manufactures these dishes entirely from recycled plastic. This trendy piece from Target is easy on the wallet and perfect for spring. They also have fun  boy options too (hello suspenders!). Ages 1+ Kids can color in their own Easter eggs between the bold lines in this 50 page coloring book. Ages 3+ Toddlers can collect all of their Easter goodies in this bunny-themed backpack. Complete with side pockets for a drink and an insulated pouch for snacks, it makes a great companion for road trips and outings. 