Five Amazing Videos That Show Why Science is Awesome | MindShift | KQED News KQED Mindshift Search X Share-FB Share-Twitter Share-Email Guru Magazine 160 subscribers Subscribe Where ' s the Octopus? - Video removed at request of Science Friday Info Shopping Tap to unmute If playback doesn ' t begin shortly, try restarting your device. Your browser does not currently recognize any of the video formats available.  Click here to visit our frequently asked questions about HTML5 video. More videos on YouTube More videos Share Include playlist An error occurred while retrieving sharing information. Please try again later. Watch later Share Copy link An error occurred. Try watching this video on www.youtube.com , or enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser. Science teachers looking for fun videos to show how shockingly exciting science can be, look no further. Molly Michelson, who produces the  Science in Action  videos for the  California Academy of Sciences , has seen a lot of videos explaining the science in everyday life. She's put together her top five favorite science videos. 1. This Science Friday video,  Where's the Octopus , explains how cephalopods like squid and octopus camouflage themselves in the wild. Known as the masters of optical illusion, this video has cool shots of an octopus going in and out of camouflaged states. 2. This  Distillations Explainer  uses Abraham Lincoln's head and accompanying top hat to explain how hemoglobin carries oxygen in the blood and why it's so efficient. 3. The NPR video " A Mystery: Why Can't We Walk Straight ," narrated by Robert Krulwich of Radio Lab fame, raises more questions than it answers about a topic researchers are still studying. Kids will invariably start wondering and maybe even hoping to solve the mystery! Sponsored 4. The Academy of Sciences takes us behind the headlines of big scientific discoveries with  How  Science Works , a video about the process of researching. How are scientific discoveries actually made? It turns out it's not simple or easy and lots of people are involved. Sponsored 5. The short and catchy " 7,000 Kinds of Amphibians " video by the Academy of Sciences explains through song what makes amphibians unique. Watch out, the tune might stick in your head! Mindshift Subscribe to receive weekly updates of MindShift stories every Sunday. You’ll also receive a carefully curated list of content from teacher-trusted sources. Trending Search 