Jeju Itinerary 3 Days | What To Do 3 Days In Jeju Island | Be Marie Korea  Last Updated  November 9, 2018 THIS POST CONTAINS AFFILIATE LINKS Contents  [ hide ] When not travelling around Jeju by car, it is advised to book bus tours. These take you to the best tourist sites without wasting time waiting for the bus. On the first day of the 3 days itinerary focus on visiting Jeju city and sights on the North East coast. Jeju city is the capital of Jeju Island, and also the biggest city on the island. There are lots of things to do in the city itself. The best way to explore the city is by taking the  hop-on hop-off  tour bus. The best sites and attractions are listed below. This stunning beach is located 15 kilometers east from Jeju city. It is world famous for its clear sky blue water, making this a popular destination during the summer months. The combination of the black basalt stones, a picturesque arching bridge and the white sand is just amazing! A must go on Jeju Island, don t leave this out of your Jeju Island itinerary 3 days. Entrance Fee:  Free Opening Times:  Always Address:  Sinbuk-ro, Jochon-eup, Cheju, Jeju-do A bit further from Hamdeok Beach lies the Mangjaggul cave, the world largest known lava cave. It is around 5 meters wide, and 13 000 meters in length. Visitors can walk about 1 kilometer into the cave and come out at the same exit. It is regarded as UNESCO world heritage site since 2007. The cave is a 20 minute walk away from the bus stop, if you are lucky, you can get a taxi. If limited on time when traveling by bus, consider skipping this site. Entrance Fee:  2000 krw Opening Times:  09 AM   6 PM Address:  182 Manjanggul-gil, Gujwa-eup, Cheju, Jeju-do The Haenyeo Museum is dedicated to the female divers that go out early every day to collect shellfish, fish and seaweed. The divers are known to no use any diving equipment except for a pair of goggles, a diving suit, weights, an orange boye and a basket. This is extremely hard work and these woman started this job when being a teenager and will continue until their bodies can t handle the hard work anymore. Different exhibitions in the museum showcase the culture, their daily life and routines. Entrance Fee:  1100 krw Opening Times:  09 AM   6 PM Address:  26, Haenyeobangmulgwan-gil, Gujwa-eup, Jeju-si, Jeju-do This sunrise peak rose from under the sea during the volcanic eruptions 100 000 years ago. It is a huge crater which rises up to 182 meters above sea level. The top of the crater looks like a giant bowl and is definitely worth the small hike to enjoy the stunning view. A fun thing to do is riding a horse. There is a very popular horse riding park located in this area. Check more info about  horse riding in Jeju Island  here. Entrance Fee:  2000 krw Opening Times:  07 AM   7 PM Address:  284-12, Ilchul-ro, Seongsan-eup, Seogwipo-si, Jeju-do On your second day in Jeju, go west and enjoy the beautiful beaches, scenery and delicious food. This Jeju 3d2n itinerary is filled with beaches and museums, especially on the 2nd day! The Mysterious Road in Jeju island is a magnetic hill, which is a downhill slope, but it looks like an uphill road. When putting objects on the road, the optical illusion makes it look like the object are rolling uphill. Entrance Fee:  Free Opening Times:  Always Address:  2894-63 1100(Cheonbaek)-ro, Nohyeong-dong, Cheju, Jeju-do A stunning beach on the west side of the island. The white sand, black lava formations and beautiful views make this a great strolling and relaxing beach. This stunning beach is a must visit and not to be forgotten in your Jeju Island 3 days itinerary. Sites and activities closes to the beach are the  Hallim Park , which is a subtropical arboretum. Hyeopjaegul and Ssangyonggul Cave are smaller lava tube caves. Entrance Fee:  Free Opening Times:  Always Address:  Hallim-ro, Jeju-si, Jeju-do Jeju is full of wanders, and this tiny village is another one. Thousands of cacti are growing on the black lava rocks along the shore. These plants are not native from Korea and are expected to have drifted here from Mexico through the Kuroshio stream. A couple of cozy coffee shops and accommodations are located in the village. Entrance Fee:  Free Opening Times:  Always Address:  440 Wolryeong-ri, Hallim-eub, Cheju, Jeju-do, South Korea The Seogwang Tea Garden or O Sulloc Green Tea Plantation is the largest tea plantation in Korea. It is known all over the world and the tea produced from this farm is of very high quality. On the ground of the garden is the O Sulloc Tea Museum, the first tea museum in Korea. The museum aims to introduce the Korean tea culture, history and culture. If you love cosmetics than you ll be excited about the Innisfree Jeju House. Here visitors can experience everything about this famous Korean brand. Cosmetics and food sold here were made with high quality local ingredients. This is one of the most popular tourist attractions in Jeju! Entrance Fee:  Free Opening Times:  9 AM   6 PM Address:  446, Sinhwayeoksa-ro, Andeok-myeon, Seogwipo-si, Jeju-do The 2nd largest chocolate museum in the world! It was built using the volcanic lava rocks which makes it look like an ancient fortress or castle. The museum itself has three floors, each focusing on a different aspect of the chocolate making process. At the various exhibition it is possible to sample some great chocolate and purchase it later in the gift shop. Entrance Fee:  2500 krw Opening Times:  9 AM   7 PM Address:  132, Cheonjeyeon-ro, Seogwipo-si, Jeju-do On the last day of the Jeju 3 days 2 nights itinerary, visit the south of the island and Hallasan mountain. On your last day in Jeju, get up early and make your way to the Halla Mountain, ready to hike. Hallasan is an active volcano, considered as UNESCO heritage. There are  different trails  to reach the top of the mountain, each different distances and difficulties. In the south of the island are 3 major waterfalls, Cheonjeyeon falls is the largest of the three and is names after the pond of heaven. Legend says that fairies used to bathe in this waterfall. Entrance Fee:  2500 krw Opening Times:  9 AM   7 PM Address:  132, Cheonjeyeon-ro, Seogwipo-si, Jeju-do These vertical cliffs are unique rock formations that can mainly be found in Jeju but also in  Gyeongju  on mainland Korea. The cliffs are basaltic lava rocks and during high tide rise 20 meters above the sea level. Entrance Fee:  2000 krw Opening Times:  9 AM   7 PM Address:  36-30, Ieodo-ro, Seogwipo-si, Jeju-do This impressive coastal temple was constructed during the Silla Dynasty and is part of the main Buddhist order in Korea. Unfortunately little is known about the history of this temple. Entrance Fee:  Free Opening Times:  always Address:  293-28, Ieodo-ro, Seogwipo-si, Jeju-do One of the top 3 waterfalls in Jeju island and the only in Asia which falls directly into the ocean. At the top of the waterfalls, trees are growing and leaning towards the ocean. This is a stunning waterfall and a popular tourist destinations during summer. Entrance Fee:  2000 krw Opening Times:  09 AM   7 PM Address:  Chilsimni-ro 214beon-gil, Seogwipo-si, Jeju-do The teddy bear museum is a museum that have different branches all over Korea, including Jeju,  Gyeongju  and  Seoul . The branch in Jeju houses the most expensive teddy bear worth $2.1 million! If time allows it in your Jeju itinerary 3 days, this is cool museum, especially for kids. Entrance Fee: Special foreigner discount available online Opening Times:  09 AM   10 PM Address:  31, Jungmungwangwang-ro110beon-gil, Seogwipo-si, Jeju-do Jeju is a huge island, people often underestimate the size of the island. The only ways to get around is by public transport or by car. Obviously the latter one is the most convenient one as it saves travelers time getting from one place to another. Read on to find… Planning a holiday to the beautiful Jeju Island in South Korea? You ' ll be in for a treat, as the island filled with stunning white sand beaches, hiking trails and waterfalls. What first time visitors often forget is that the island is massive! You can ' t go around the island by bus… Jeju Island, the Hawaii of Korea, has its own breed of horse, namely the Jeju Horse. Jeju is not only the island of black pigs but also of horses. Wherever you go, you ' ll eventually stumble upon some horse grazing in the beautiful Jeju fields. They are absolutely beautiful and it… September 3, 2018 April 10, 2019 September 12, 2018 I d love to try visiting the chocolate museum too! I tried different activities and jeju and I really enjoyed that island. A lot of very useful information here about Jeju Island. There are a few places I missed last time and will bookmark your page for reference, thanks for sharing. These are the places I went to the last time I was there: Look forward to reading more of your posts 🙂 Hello i really need help on how to make an itinerary going to jeju for 4 days -3 nights trip.. And any tip for a first time traveler like me? Plan your trip in advance: rent a car or figure out how to use public transport. Pick things to visit that lie close to each other as Jeju is a huge island. Book a hotel in Jeju City, which is close to the airport and is well connected to the rest of the island. Your email address will not be published.  Required fields are marked  * Comment Name  * Email  * Website Notify me of follow-up comments by email. Notify me of new posts by email. Follow: © Be Marie Korea 2017. All rights reserved. 