Lord Jaraxxus OP - Card Discussion - Hearthstone General - HearthPwn Forums - HearthPwn  This site works best with JavaScript enabled. Please enable JavaScript to get the best experience from this site. Descent of Dragons Card List  &  Guide Lord Jaraxxus , the most OP card in the game. Anyone else think it needs a nerf? Lord Jaraxxus , the most OP card in the game. Anyone else think it needs a nerf? What makes you think he's so good? Go ahead...hehe...  ...nya...  ...hmm...make my day. trifling gnome! 9-drop that puts you at max 15 health from which you can't gain more so are in burst finisher range.  You have a 3-damage multi use weapon that's vulnerable to  Harrison Jones  and  Acidic Swamp Ooze .  You can be insta-killed by  Sacrificial Pact .  You have no other form of board control on the 9-drop, you don't even have crystal left over to put a minion on the field (unless you're using  Summoning Portal  which is another whole story of being difficult to use.) Is it useful?  Yeah of course, but it's situational.  I think a load of cards are nastier than Lord Jaraxxus. If you see a post that you find objectionable, report it, it helps keep the forum clean.  But be aware people are allowed a lot of latitude. If you find my posts to be rude, objectionable, or whatever, well, I got tired of writing polite TL; DR (Too Long, Didn't Read) posts at crybaby whiners.  So now I just make it short and nasty. If you find that funny, well and good.  If you find that sad, that's even better. if jarraxus gets hit by harrison, swamp ooze, repentence, or sacrificial pact. its just not a good time. granted no one really runs pact or repentence but still he has so many weaknesses. also being stuck at 15 max hp means you  cant drop molten giants anymore and you can be easily comboed out I'm just going to steal the thread and ask for something since i'm sorry but like the 2 posts above me say, jaraxxus its not overpowered So to anyone with experience in handlock, what do you replace Alexstraza in a handlock deck? (i don't have any other legendary) I've replaced it with deathwing, because i like the card overall and also i've thought it could be usefull if i play Jaraxxus one turn, then the oponent puts 15 dmg minions on the board and i survive by clearing everything with deathwing. What are your thoughts? I'm just going to steal the thread and ask for something since i'm sorry but like the 2 posts above me say, jaraxxus its not overpowered So to anyone with experience in handlock, what do you replace Alexstraza in a handlock deck? (i don't have any other legendary) I've replaced it with deathwing, because i like the card overall and also i've thought it could be usefull if i play Jaraxxus one turn, then the oponent puts 15 dmg minions on the board and i survive by clearing everything with deathwing. What are your thoughts? if your going with that route you might as well use twisting nether instead. it wipes the board like death wing and you get 2 mana leftover to make a 6/6. deathwing dumps your hand and leaves you defenceless if it gets bghed I'm just going to steal the thread and ask for something since i'm sorry but like the 2 posts above me say, jaraxxus its not overpowered So to anyone with experience in handlock, what do you replace Alexstraza in a handlock deck? (i don't have any other legendary) I've replaced it with deathwing, because i like the card overall and also i've thought it could be usefull if i play Jaraxxus one turn, then the oponent puts 15 dmg minions on the board and i survive by clearing everything with deathwing. What are your thoughts? if your going with that route you might as well use twisting nether instead. it wipes the board like death wing and you get 2 mana leftover to make a 6/6. deathwing dumps your hand and leaves you defenceless if it gets bghed I thought of that but 3 things. Surelly after playing 4 giants any hard removal of my opponent has been used, unless he topdecks. Deathwing can win the game by itself before playing Jaraxxus and Twisting nether can't I DE my 2 twisting nethers a while back to make the giants so i don't have any :P thx for the reply "Nerf Jaraxxus, I keep dying to him" No. Jaraxxus is  powerful against any deck incapable of playing large minions or generating burst damage. However, the answer is not to nerf Jaraxxus, it's to put some form of burst or massive minion into your own deck (or build a deck that can kill a handlock in 8 turns or less). Sign In Help Terms of Service Privacy Policy © 2019 MagicFind, Inc. All rights reserved. Ads by Fandom. 