OneStop - Events - Streetlight Banners - City of New Orleans Home One Stop Shop Home Event/Film Permits  &  Licenses Streetlight Banners The purpose of this program is to allow organizations to promote local civic and community events, occasions or special events in the City that have a direct and substantial civic or community benefit. The event or occasion should be of such a nature that its promotion, via appropriate messaging displayed on City property, will benefit the citizens of New Orleans. Political campaigning is not permitted under this policy. Permits may be granted by the City pursuant to this program for promoting business districts within the City, hospital districts within the City and educational institutions within the City. Sponsors may hold permits if they are acting as the agent providing insurance, management, etc. for a local organization. The City may regulate the content of the banners to ensure that they effectuate the purpose of promoting local events or occasions that have a direct and substantial civic or community benefit, and impose other time, place and manner restrictions necessary to protect City property, City benefits, welfare of the citizenry, and public safety. More information about these permits and related rules are available for  download here . Applications must be filed 45 days prior to the display start date. The maximum duration of banner displays per permit is 60 days. Additionally durations require additional applications.  Application Fee: $40  Banner Fee: $125 (each per pole) Apply online at onestopapp.nola.gov or fill out and submit the  PDF Application All applications must contain the following attachments: Streetlight Banner Program Rules Streetlight Banner Permit Application 7th Floor 1300 Perdido St New Orleans, LA 70112 Monday Thursday 8am 5pm Friday  8:00am 3:30pm (504) 658-7100 City of New Orleans Property Viewer Last updated: 7/31/2018 7:08:54 PM Type an address to get zoning, district, and service information for your location Hint: For directional streets, use S for South and N for North 1300 Perdido St, New Orleans, LA 70112 (504) 658-4000 Contact Us Subscribe to email updates All Contents. "Copyright © 2019 The City of New Orleans" | Report Fraud | Site Policies  &  Information 