Cinematic Play : XWingTMG use the following search parameters to narrow your results: e.g. subreddit:aww site:imgur.com dog see the search faq for details. advanced search: by author, subreddit... 171 users here now No getting bent out of shape Don ' t post squad lists without a short discussion.  Content should be X-Wing related Excessive shitposting may be removed at mod discretion  No bot accounts without pre approval  YASB 2.0 FFG Official Squadbuilder 2E Stop Gapp Official Rules and FAQ X-wing Wiki Official Rulings Yet Another X-Wing Miniatures Squad Builder Voidstate ' s Squad Builder Fab ' s Squadrons Generator Vassal League and Tech Slack Slack Discord ##xwingtmg irc the front page of the internet. and subscribe to one of thousands of communities. Cinematic Play ( self.XWingTMG ) submitted 3 years ago by ajpl I ' m the only one of my friends who owns any models and haven ' t really been able to get Epic Play games together so far, so I hadn ' t previously considered the huge ships to be worth the purchase. However, I just discovered that the huge ships come with cinematic campaign missions, and now I ' m super intrigued (hopefully my group will be too!). So I ' m wondering what I would need to own in order to play the cinematic missions from the huge expansions, particularly the Imperial Raider and the Corvette. Does each mission come with a set starfighter complement that you need to own the right models for? Or is it just  " build two lists "  with specific objectives? Also, do we know anything about the missions in the Imperial Assault Carrier? I couldn ' t find anything. Post a comment! [–] tavernkeep Everyone gets a focus token! 6 points 7 points 8 points 3 years ago (1 child) this site has all the missions and required ships posted: http://xwing-miniatures.wikia.com/wiki/Missions [–] ajpl [ S ] 2 points 3 points 4 points 3 years ago (0 children) Brilliant! I looked all over for something like this, but I guess my search-fu is weak.  [–] Cheeriosdust Waiting on a Jan promo 2 points 3 points 4 points 3 years ago (1 child) I don ' t own the Corvette yet but the Raider campaign requires a Lambda, a spare TIE Advanced, as well as enough spare ships for 160pts Rebels and 80pts Imperial iirc.     [–] ajpl [ S ] 0 points 1 point 2 points 3 years ago (0 children) Perfect. Thanks! [–] [deleted] 0 points 1 point 2 points 3 years ago (3 children) I ' ve played through the transport campaign twice because it was so much fun, and have also played the Raider campaign.  I ' ve gotten reports that the Tantive campaign isn ' t as good.   I like the transport campaign a lot.  The rebels make a small list of limited resources that they have to use for all three missions.  If a named character dies, they ' re gone.  The imperials need to plan out which ships they are using for all missions ahead of time.  There are nice bonuses for winning a mission that makes it feel like it really matters in the next one.   The Raider campaign seems to do a decent job with theme.  In one mission the Imperial goal was to capture rebel ships.  If they were successful, the next mission hput Rebel Captive on the Raider for the next mission, which was a really nice touch.  If they were unsuccessful a completely different mission showed up next. [–] ajpl [ S ] 0 points 1 point 2 points 3 years ago (2 children) Oohh, cool. The one thing I ' ve heard about the transport mission is that you need three(!) GR-75s to play it. Is that true? [–] [deleted] 0 points 1 point 2 points 3 years ago (1 child) No, there ' s a crazy standalone mission in the book with three but it ' s not part of the campaign. [–] ajpl [ S ] 0 points 1 point 2 points 3 years ago (0 children) Oh good, haha. I had written that one off completely, so that ' s great to hear.  Posts are automatically archived after 6 months. We are unable to post your link or media unless you can verify to us that you own the rights to it. And if you’re just a small-time creator and not a big media conglomerate, good luck with that. ><br >JUST KIDDING (your post is fine). But we won’t be kidding if the new EU Copyright Directive passes the European Parliament. Learn more about how to contact your MEP and what else you can do to #saveyourinternet. Posts are automatically archived after 6 months. We are unable to post your link or media unless you can verify to us that you own the rights to it. And if you’re just a small-time creator and not a big media conglomerate, good luck with that. ><br >JUST KIDDING (your post is fine). But we won’t be kidding if the new EU Copyright Directive passes the European Parliament. Learn more about how to contact your MEP and what else you can do to #saveyourinternet. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy .   2019 reddit inc. All rights reserved. REDDIT and the ALIEN Logo are registered trademarks of reddit inc. By having a Reddit account, you can subscribe, vote, and comment on all your favorite Reddit content. Sign up in just seconds. Already have an account? Log In Skip for now Reddit is filled with interest based communities, offering something for everyone. Check out some communities and we recommend you subscribe to at least 5. Your username is how other community members will see you. This name will be used to credit you for things you share on Reddit. What should we call you? Having a hard time picking a name? Here are some available suggestions. Rendered by PID 20286 on  r2-app-0481361392cd8560b  at 2019-05-04 12:03:01.379896+00:00 running 2d7d752 country code: US. 