Augmented Reality: An Emerging Technologies Guide to AR: Greg Kipper, Joseph Rampolla: 9781597497336: Amazon.com: Books With the explosive growth in mobile phone usage and rapid rise in search engine technologies over the last decade, augmented reality (AR) is poised to be one of this decade's most disruptive technologies, as the information that is constantly flowing around us is brought into view, in real-time, through augmented reality. In this cutting-edge book, the authors outline and discuss never-before-published information about augmented reality and its capabilities. With coverage of mobile, desktop, developers, security, challenges, and gaming, this book gives you a comprehensive understanding of what augmented reality is, what it can do, what is in store for the future and most importantly: how to benefit from using AR in our lives and careers. With the explosive growth in mobile phone usage and rapid rise in search engine technologies over the last decade, augmented reality (AR) is poised to be one of this decade ' s most disruptive technologies, as the information that is constantly flowing around us is brought into view, in real-time, through augmented reality. In this cutting-edge book, the authors outline and discuss never-before-published information about augmented reality and its capabilities. With coverage of mobile, desktop, developers, security, challenges, and gaming, this book gives you a comprehensive understanding of what augmented reality is, what it can do, what is in store for the future and most importantly: how to benefit from using AR in our lives and careers. Enter your mobile number or email address below and we'll send you a link to download the free Kindle App. Then you can start reading Kindle books on your smartphone, tablet, or computer - no Kindle device required.  To get the free app, enter your mobile phone number. "Augmented Reality is not the stuff of science fiction any more, and we should all be at least familiar with its current and likely future uses. This book aims to be an easy-to-digest guide on the subject matter…If you are not familiar with the concept of AR, this book will be an eye-opener. It is a quick and fascinating read, and the authors don't get bogged down in unnecessary details."  --Help Net Security online, January 2013 "Kipper and Rampolla explain what augmented reality (AR) is, how it can be used in a variety of industries and applications, and concepts for new applications in business and crime-fighting."  --Reference and Research Book News, August 2013 "If you want to see the future, look here. The product of years of research,  Augmented Reality  is a comprehensive overview of this stunning disruptive technology - a type of ‘reality on steroids’. A must read for venture capitalists, cyber-security professionals, policy makers, and entrepreneurs."  --Edward M. Roche, Grenoble Ecole de Management With the explosive growth in mobile phone usage and rapid rise in search engine technologies over the last decade, augmented reality (AR) is poised to be one of this decade's most disruptive technologies, as the information that is constantly flowing around us is brought into view, in real-time, through augmented reality. In this cutting-edge book, the authors outline and discuss never-before-published information about augmented reality and its capabilities. With coverage of mobile, desktop, developers, security, challenges, and gaming, this book gives you a comprehensive understanding of what augmented reality is, what it can do, what is in store for the future and most importantly: how to benefit from using AR in our lives and careers. There's a problem loading this menu right now. Learn more about Amazon Prime.  Your Shopping Cart is empty.  Give it purpose fill it with books, DVDs, clothes, electronics, and more.  If you already have an account,  sign in .  There's a problem previewing your cart right now.  Check your Internet connection and  go to your cart , or  try again . < #= biaTitle #> 