Culture of Kerala - Wikipedia The  culture of  Kerala  has developed over the past millennia, influences from other parts of India and abroad. [ 1 ] [ 2 ]  It is defined by its antiquity and the organic continuity sustained by the  Malayali people . [ 3 ]  Modern Kerala society took shape owing to migrations from different parts of India and abroad throughout  Classical Antiquity . [ 2 ] [ 4 ] [ 5 ] Kerala traces its non-prehistoric cultural genesis to its membership (around the AD 3rd century) in a vaguely defined historical region known as  Thamizhagom  a land defined by a common  Tamil culture  and encompassing the Chera, Chola, and Pandya kingdoms. At that time, the music, dance, language (first  Dravida Bhasha  "Dravidian language" [ 6 ]  then Tamil), and  Sangam  (a vast corpus of Tamil literature composed between 1,500 2,000 years ago) found in Kerala were all similar to that found in the rest of  Thamizhagom  (today's Tamil Nadu). The culture of Kerala evolved through the  Sanskritization  of Dravidian ethos,  revivalism  of religious movements and  reform movements  against  caste discrimination . [ 7 ] [ 8 ] [ 9 ]  Kerala showcases a culture unique to itself developed through accommodation, acculturation and assimilation of various faculties of civilized lifestyle. Native traditions of classical  performing arts  include  koodiyattom , a form of  Sanskrit drama  or  theatre  and a  UNESCO -designated Human Heritage Art. Kathakali (from  katerumbu  ("story") and  kali  ("performance")) is a 500-year-old form of  dance - drama  that interprets ancient epics; a popularized offshoot of  kathakali  is  Kerala natanam  (developed in the 20th century by  dancer Guru Gopinath ). Meanwhile,  koothu  is a more light-hearted performance mode, akin to modern  stand-up comedy ; an ancient art originally confined to temple sanctuaries, it was later popularized by  Mani Madhava Chakyar . Other Keralite performing arts include  mohiniyaattam  ("dance of the enchantress"), which is a type of graceful  choreographed  dance performed by women and accompanied by musical vocalizations.  Thullal ,  Thirayattam ,  padayani , and  theyyam  are other important Keralite performing arts.  Thirayattam  is one of the most outstanding Ethnic art of  Kerala . This vibrant ritualistic annual performing art form enacted in courtyards of "Kaavukal"(sacred groves) and village shrine. [ 10 ] Kerala also has several tribal and folk art forms. For example,  Kummattikali  is the famous colorful mask-dance of South Malabar, performed during the festival of Onam. The  Kannyar Kali  dances (also known as Desathukali) are fast moving, militant dances attuned to rhythmic devotional folk songs and asuravadyas.  Also important are various performance genres that are  Islam - or Christianity-themed. These include  oppana , which is widely popular among Keralite Muslims and is native to Malabar.  Oppana  incorporates group dance accompanied by the beat of rhythmic hand clapping and  ishal  vocalizations. Margam Kali  is one of the ancient round group dance of Kerala practiced by  Saint Thomas Christians . [ 11 ] However, many of these native art forms largely play to tourists or at youth festivals, and are not as popular among ordinary Keralites. Thus, more contemporary forms   including those heavily based on the use of often risqué and  politically incorrect mimicry  and  parody  have gained considerable mass appeal in recent years. [ citation needed ]  Indeed, contemporary artists often use such modes to mock socioeconomic elites. In recent decades,  Malayalam cinema , yet another mode of widely popular artistic expression, have provided a distinct and indigenous Keralite alternative to both  Bollywood  and  Hollywood . The  ragas  and  talas  of lyrical and devotional  Carnatic music  another native product of South India   dominates Keralite classical musical genres.  Swathi Thirunal Rama Varma , a 19th-century king of Travancore and patron and composer of music, was instrumental in popularising carnatic music in early Kerala. [ 12 ] [ 13 ]  Additionally, Kerala has its own native music system,  sopanam , which is a lugubrious and step-by-step rendition of raga-based songs. It is  Sopanam , for example, that provides the background music used in  Kathakali . The wider  traditional music of Kerala  also includes  melam  (including the  paandi  and  panchari  variants), as style of  percussive  music performed at  temple -centered festivals using an instrument known as the  chenda . Up to 150 musicians may comprise the ensembles staging a given performance; each performance, in turn, may last up to four hours.  Panchavadyam  is a differing type of percussion ensemble consisting of five types of percussion instruments; these can be utilised by up to one hundred artists in certain major festivals. In addition to these, percussive music is also associated with various uniquely Keralite folk arts forms. Lastly, the  popular music  of Kerala   as in the rest of India   is dominated by the  filmi  music of  Indian cinema .The most remembered name in kerala music culture is of Great Indian musician Sri  K. J. Yesudas . Malayalam literature  is ancient in origin, and includes such figures as the 14th century  Niranam poets  (Madhava Panikkar, Sankara Panikkar and Rama Panikkar), whose works mark the dawn of both modern Malayalam language and indigenous Keralite poetry. The  Triumvirate of poets  ( Kavithrayam :  Kumaran Asan ,  Vallathol Narayana Menon  and  Ulloor S. Parameswara Iyer ) are recognized for moving keralian poetry away from archaic  sophistry  and  metaphysics  and towards a more  lyrical  mode. Poets like  Changampuzha ,  Cherusseri ,  Pallathu Raman , and  Edappally Raghavan Pillai  also contributed to bring  Malayalam  poetry to the common man. Later, such contemporary writers as  Booker Prize  winner  Arundhati Roy  (whose 1996 semi- autobiographical  bestseller  The God of Small Things  is set in the  Kottayam  town of Ayemenem) have garnered international recognition. From 1970 to early 1990s, a lot of Malayalam Novelists and story writers contributed to the Literature of Kerala. The contributions from  Thakazhi Sivashankara Pillai ,Vaikom Muhammed Basheer  P. Kesavadev ,  Uroob ,  OV Vijayan ,  T Padmanabhan ,  Sethu ,  Perumbadavam Sreedharan ,  Kovilan ,  M. Mukundan ,  Kakkanadan ,  Anand  and  Paul Zacharia ,   have been remarkable. Significant contributions from poets and songwriters such as  Vayalar Rama Varma ,  P. Bhaskaran  and  ONV Kurup  have influenced contemporary literature. Critics such as  Kuttikrishna Marar  and  M.P. Paul  till the sixties and later,  M Krishnan Nair ,  S. Gupthan Nair ,  M. K. Sanu ,  Sukumar Azhikode ,  K.P. Appan ,  Narendra Prasad  and  M. Leelavathy   have added value by providing critical analysis of the books written during the recent past. The folklore of Kerala includes elements from the traditional lifestyle of the people of Kerala. The traditional beliefs, customs, rituals etc. are reflected in the folkart and songs of Kerala.Kerala has a rich tradition of Folklore. [ 14 ]  Folklore in this region is a spontaneous expression of human behavior and thoughts. Generally speaking, Folklore could be defined as the lore of the common people who had been marginalized during the reign of feudal Kings. The Keralites have their culture and lore which were mostly part of agricultural. Sowing, planting of nharu (seedling), clearing out the weeds, harvests etc. are the different stages of agriculture which have their typical rituals. Numerous songs and performing arts are accompanied with them. Kanyar Kali,  Padayani ,  Mudiyettu ,  Thirayattam , Malavayiyattam,  Theyyam , Kothamooriyattam, Nira, Puthari, etc. are some of the ritual folklore of Kerala. It was under the rule of  Kolathiris , the Kings of  Kolathunadu , and they codified the rituals, beliefs, taboos and folk performing arts. Even the dates of specific fertility rituals and folk performances were decided by the Kolathiris of which many are continuing even today.The  Theyyam  festivals, even now, are conducted as per the dates once fixed by the King. The folk arts of Kerala can be broadly classified under two heads: [ 15 ]  ritualistic and non-ritualistic. Ritualistic folk arts can be further divided into two: devotional and magical.Devotional folk arts are performed to propitiate a particular God or Goddess.  Theyyam ,  thirayattam , poothamthira, kanyarkali,  kummatti , etc., are some of them. Forms like panappattu and thottampattu are composed in the form of songs. In kolkali,  margamkali ,  daffumuttukkali , etc., the ritualistic element is not very strong. Magical folk arts seek to win general prosperity for a community or exorcise evil spirits or to beget children.  Gandharvas  and  nagas  are worshipped in order to win these favours. The magical folk arts include pambinthullal, pooppadathullal, kolamthullal, malayankettu, etc. (Malayalam: ഓണം) Onam is a harvest festival celebrated extravagantly by the people of Kerala, India. It is also the state festival of Kerala with State holidays on 4 days starting from Onam Eve (Uthradom) to the 4th Onam Day. Onam Festival falls during the  Malayalam  month of Chingam (Aug - Sep) and marks the commemoration of  Vamana  avatara of Vishnu and the subsequent homecoming of King  Mahabali , who Malayalees consider to be just and fair King who was exiled to the underworld. Onam is reminiscent of Kerala's agrarian past, as it is considered to be a harvest festival. It is one of the festivals celebrated with most number of cultural elements. Some of them are Vallam Kali, Pulikkali, Pookkalam, Onatthappan, Thumbi Thullal,  Onavillu , Kazhchakkula, Onapottan, Atthachamayame etc. Another distinct feature of the festival is 'Ona Sadhya' (Onam Feast) and consists of numerous dishes served on banana leaf and 'Ona Kodi' (new dress for the special occasion). Usual the Ona Sadhya consist of numerous side dishes along with rice and Ona Kodi is traditional dress. Both are eagerly observed by the youth with excitement. The people of Kerala are very fond of politics. Majority of keralites belong to either one of the political alliances namely  United Democratic Front  (UDF) or  Left Democratic Front  (LDF).  Bharatiya Janatha Party  (BJP), a national party, also has good following. Regional parties such as  Indian Union Muslim League  (IUML), various factions of  Kerala Congress , various factions of  Revolutionary Socialist Party  and a host of smaller parties add spice to Kerala political scene. Religious leaders have high influence in Kerala political movements. For many Keralites it's nostalgic to remember the political discussions and debates they had done in the ' chaya kada ' (local tea shops were youngsters go to sip a cup and read newspapers) in their younger ages. Being the state with the highest literacy rate and education level in the country, the Kerala society has moved from its agricultural background. Although Kerala remains fairly liberal in its outlook and open to modern ideas, and technological changes, the State largely remains conservative on social issues. Kerala also has its own indigenous form of  martial art  -  Kalarippayattu , derived from the words  kalari  ("place", "threshing floor", or "battlefield") and  payattu  ("exercise" or "practice"). Influenced by both Kerala's Brahminical past and Ayurvedic medicine,  kalaripayattu  is attributed by oral tradition to Parasurama. After some two centuries of suppression by British colonial authorities, it is now experiencing strong comeback among Keralites while also steadily gaining worldwide attention. Other popular ritual arts include  theyyam  and  poorakkali  these originate from northern Malabar, which is the northernmost part of Kerala. Nevertheless, these have in modern times been largely supplanted by more popular sports such as  cricket ,  kabaddi ,  soccer ,  badminton , and others. ' Kochi Tuskers Kerala ' playing in the Indian Premier League (IPL) is from Kerala. Kerala is home of the football clubs  Kerala Blasters ,  Gokulam Kerala FC ,  Viva Kerala  and  FC Kochin . Kerala also has an indigenous ancient solar calendar   the  Malayalam calendar  which is used in various communities primarily for timing agricultural and religious activities. The  elephants  are an integral part of the culture and daily life in Kerala. These  Indian elephants  are given a prestigious place in the state's culture. They are often christened names by which they're known across the entire state. Elephants in Kerala are often referred to as the 'sons of the  sahya '  and are indispensable for temple festivals. The elephant is the state animal of Kerala and is featured on the emblem of the  Government of Kerala . Sarpa Kavu  (meaning  Sacred Grove of the Serpent ) is a typically small traditional grove of trees seen in the  Kerala  state of  South India . These pristine groves usually have representations of several  Naga Devatas  ( serpent gods ), which were worshipped by the joint families or  taravads .  This was part of  Nagaradhana  (snake worship) which was prevalent among  Keralites  during past centuries. It had been practised by nearly every Hindu community in Kerala ranging from  Nambudiri  Brahmins to tribal communities. Kerala  has a large number of temples. The temples celebrate annual festivals which are not only unique to the region but sometimes have features that are unique to each temple. Each temple describes each interesting history behind its creation. In the Malabar, distinct art form called  Theyyam  attract tourists, and mini carnivals are also held along with temple festivals. Temple festivals are taken up with great pride by the residents and patrons of the temple and celebrated with much ado.  Thrissur pooram  one the most popular among the temple festivals [ 16 ] [ circular reference ] 