Map Editor  &  Menyoo to YMap Converter - GTA5-Mods.com Wähle eine der folgenden Kategorien, um die aktuellen GTA 5 PC Mods zu entdecken. 90.079 Downloads  , 1,14 MB  2. September 2017 @sollaholla  pin me and make love with me 90.079 Downloads  , 1,14 MB  2. September 2017 @sollaholla  can you make a conversion tool that does the opposite? ymap to xml? @FareTub  same dude  @Veranium  For some reason this isn ' t the case anyamore @FareTub  have you downloaded it? is it safe? oh wait nvm its fixed  This used to work about a year ago but I guess some updates broke it. Haven ' t been able to get anything to load up. it ' s not working with menyoo files. rotations get all effed when you convert Established, but, no cars, and no people( Failed to read file... doesn ' t seem to work anymore. Does anyone knows why i don ' t see any npc on my YMAP ? They spawn fine in SP game with the editor using xml, but not ymap in fivem. Tnx Hey man , If you can help in any way this would be so massively appreciated , I made a map edit in map editor , Then when using the converter I get fail to read file ? Could you help please Failed to read file ??????????????????????????????????? not work Help @eltinus  Same Here. Idk if it the map i ' m using or something wrong As comments above, getting  " Failed to read file " . Would highly appreciate a new update to fix this. Good evening, I made a map with es_mapper I would like to put the XML in Ymap, unfortunately me2ym: failed to read file, it does this to me with any XML, blows I ' m stuck, is there another program to convert the file? thank you in advance So to those not being able to get cars to spawn in. You have to make sure the internal name as well as the hash that correlates to it is on the xml file and not the  " in game "  name that Menyoo decides to put as the hash name and model hash. After days of trying to make a custom car gen to work, it finally worked with this method. However the positioning of the vehicles seem to be slightly off (I have no clue so far on how to make it perfect as there ' s barely any tutorial on how to make custom cargen let alone how to properly use the converters like this and Codewalker) Hello, when I try to convert this map  https://www.gta5-mods.com/maps/casino-racetrack-map-editor  I get  " Failed to read "  error @sollaholla @Stryfaar  I tried this program to convert a .xml map file made from Menyoo to .ymap but 80% of objects are not shown on .ymap. Do you know and solutions? Hi, help my  https://imgur.com/phZPLSA @Stryfaar any fix for rain glitch of ymap buildings? 90.079 Downloads  , 1,14 MB  2. September 2017 