Genetic risk of type 2 diabetes in populations of the African continent: A systematic review and meta-analyses - ScienceDirect ScienceDirect • This is a first systematic review and meta-analysis of genetic studies of T2D in Africa. Available genetic studies of T2D in Africa mostly originate in northern Africa. The role of  TCF7L2  and KCNQ SNPs, which showed greatest effect in Europeans and Asians respectively, is unclear in Africans according to our meta-analysis. Larger-scale studies will help understanding the genetic mechanisms of  type 2 diabetes  in Africa. Type 2 diabetes (T2D) is growing faster in Africa than anywhere else, driven by the dual effects of genetic and environmental factors. We conducted a systematic review and meta-analyses of published studies on genetic markers of T2D in populations within Africa. Multiple databases were searched for studies of genetic variants associated with T2D in populations living in Africa. Studies reporting on the association of a genetic marker with T2D or indicators of glycaemia were included. Data were extracted on study design and characteristics, genetic determinants, effect estimates of associations with T2D. Overall, 100 polymorphisms in 57 genes have been investigated in relation with T2D in populations within Africa, in 60 studies. Almost all studies used the candidate gene approach, with  > 88% published during 2006–2014 and 70% (42/60) originating from Tunisia and Egypt. Polymorphisms in  ACE, AGRP ,  eNOS ,  GSTP1, HSP70-2, MC4R ,  MTHFR ,  PHLPP ,  POL1, TCF7L2, and TNF-α  gene were found to be associated with T2D, with overlapping effect on various cardiometabolic traits. The polymorphisms investigated in multiple studies mostly had consistent effects across studies, with only modest or no statistical heterogeneity. Effect sizes were modestly significant [e.g., odd ratio 1.49 (95%CI 1.33–1.66) for  TCF7L2 ( rs7903146)]. Underpowered genome-wide studies revealed no diabetes risk loci specific to African populations. Current evidence on the genetic markers of T2D in African populations mostly originate from North African countries, is overall scanty and largely insufficient to reliably inform the genetic architecture of T2D across Africa. The prevalence of  diabetes  has increased worldwide, including in Africa, where the greatest proportional increase (90%) in the number of diabetes cases is projected to occur by 2030  [1] ,  [2] .  Type 2 diabetes  (T2D) represents more than 90% of diabetes cases in Africa  [1] ,  [2] . The surge in T2D in Africa has been primarily attributed to environmental factors due to  nutrition  transition and  urbanization  that bring about lifestyle changes; however, current understanding of the  pathophysiology  of T2D in populations within Africa remains elusive. From observations among other populations around the world, it is obvious that T2D has a strong genetic component, as evidenced by a high concordance rate (70%) in  monozygotic twins [3]  and the over 40% risk of having T2D for an  offspring  of a T2D patient  [4] . Unlike simple monogenic diseases, the pathophysiology of T2D involves most of the time an interaction of several common  genetic risk  factors of low  penetrance  with environmental factors. Hitherto, the vast majority of T2D-related risk alleles have been identified through  genome-wide association studies , mostly conducted in European Descendants and Asian populations  [5] . These findings can hardly be extrapolated to other ethnic groups due to differences in  biological traits , cultural practices, and lifestyle habits. Indeed, many common loci originally associated with T2D in Caucasians have not been replicated in non-European populations  [6] . Furthermore, Africa is traditionally known to harbor more  genetic variations  than any other continent  [7] ,  [8] . It is therefore important to understand the role of genes in populations within Africa as there may be specific  genetic susceptibility  to T2D in these groups. In addition, studying these populations through genome-wide association and fine mapping has the potential to provide valuable insights into the  genetic architecture  of type 2 diabetes and further explain geographical differences in prevalence. This systematic review and meta-analysis synthesizes existing studies on genetic risk inferred by polymorphisms related to T2D among Africa-based populations; and explores the significance of the overall effects of the tested genes and heterogeneity in those effects across regions and major population groupings. We searched MEDLINE (via PubMed) and EMBASE for articles published until June 2014, without any date or language restriction. We used a combination of relevant search terms presented in appendix pp. 2–3. Two investigators (YYY and MGF) independently identified articles and sequentially (titles, abstracts, and then full texts) screened them for inclusion ( Fig. 1 ). We also scanned the references lists of relevant publications, and identified their citations through the  Web of Science . Any disagreements were solved by consensus or review by a third investigator (APK). Fig. 1 . Selection process for studies included in the systematic review. We included  genetic association  studies conducted on African populations residing in the continent, that include diagnosed  diabetes  and/or markers of  glucose homeostasis  used as an outcome. Studies had to meet the following criteria: (i) original papers containing independent data, (ii) case-control or cohort, (iii) sufficient data to calculate the odds ratio (OR) with a confidence interval (CI). We excluded duplicate publications; studies conducted exclusively on migrant populations of African descent living outside the continent.  Fig. 1  shows the study selection process. Two reviewers (YYY and MGF) independently extracted data from included studies, on settings, design,  populations’ characteristics , and measures of genetic association. There is currently no convincing evidence of specific study characteristics that can be used to assess the validity of genetic studies included in a systematic review. As recommended by Sagoo et al.  [9] , we assessed the presence of bias considering the following: case definition,  population stratification , reporting of methods used (sample size of a  study population ,  genotyping  method and its reliability/accuracy, validation of results, statistical analyses). For the polymorphisms investigated in multiple studies, we derived the pooled estimates of their association with diabetes risk across studies using a random effects model meta-analysis, implemented using STATA software (StataCorp, Texas, USA). We used the Cochran Q statistic which follows the chi square distribution [with  k −1 degrees of freedom ( df )] to assess the heterogeneity within and between included studies, with a  p -value  < 0.05 indicating significant heterogeneity  [10] . Heterogeneity in the measure of association across studies was further quantified with the  I 2  statistic, with value  < 25% indicating low heterogeneity, 25–50% indicating moderate heterogeneity, 50–75% indicating high heterogeneity and  > 75% indicating extreme heterogeneity  [11] . Publication bias was assessed using  funnel plots  and the Egger test of bias  [12] . A funnel plot is a scatter plot of the effect estimates (log odds ratio in the current review) from individual studies against a measure of precision of those effect estimates (standard error of the log odds ratio in the current review). This measure of precision is often plotted on the vertical axis, and in a reverse scale that places large studies at the top and smaller studies at the bottom. Because estimates from larger studies are likely more precise, they will tend to cluster around the overall estimate (central line), while estimates from increasingly smaller and accordingly less precise studies will tend to be more scatter, but symmetrical about the central vertical line, giving an overall inverse funnel shape, when there is no publication bias. An asymmetrical funnel shape indicate a relationship between the effect size and precision in the studies at hands. This is often due to reporting bias (publication bias); although it could also be due to a systematic difference between larger and smaller studies, or to the presence of a subset of studies with a different mean effect size  [13] ,  [14] . Because visual inspection of the symmetry of the funnel plot can be challenging, it is often supplemented by formal statistical tests (Egger test for instance). A total of 3014 published records were identified through searches. Titles and where necessary abstracts/summaries of these records were screened for relevance to the systematic review, and 2951 were excluded by disease,  study population , and study design (mutation analysis, genetic marker/loci  linkage studies, pharmacogenetics , and reviews).  Fig. 2  shows a linear growth over time in the number of genetic studies on  diabetes  in Africa, with over 88% of eligible studies published between 2006 and 2014. Fig. 2 . Time trend in genetic studies of  diabetes  in Africa. The majority of included studies originated from two Northern African countries: Tunisia ( n  = 30) and Egypt ( n  = 11). The remaining studies originated from West Africa [Ghana ( n  = 6), Nigeria ( n  = 5), Mauritania ( n  = 2) and Senegal ( n  = 1)], Morocco ( n  = 5), South Africa ( n  = 4), and Democratic Republic of Congo and Mauritius ( n  = 1 each) ( Table 1 ). The number of participants per study ranged from 30 to 2308, their age varied from 24 to 80 years, and the proportion of men from 13.7% to 61.2%. Diagnosis of diabetes was either based on WHO criteria (22 studies), ADA criteria (21 studies), or clinical diagnosis (three studies). Measures of  glucose metabolism  included fasting  glycaemia  (44 studies), post-prandial glycaemia (12 studies, including 2   h post-load glycaemia in four studies), and  glycated hemoglobin  (31 studies). Table 1 . Characteristics of  genetic association  studies conducted in African populations. ADA, American  Diabetes  Association;  PCR, polymerase chain reaction ;  RFLP ,  restriction fragment length polymorphism ; WHO, Word Health Organisation A total of 100 polymorphisms (including SNP,  indels , and repeats) in 57 genes were investigated across studies. Appendix pp. 4–16 shows the distribution of the polymorphisms in various genes, including six in  ADIPOQ/ACDC  (rs16861194; rs17300539; rs266729; rs822396; rs2241767; rs1063538), five in  CAPN10  (UCSNP19; UCSNP-43; UCSNP-63; UCSNP-110; SNP-56), seven in the  KCNQ1  (rs231361; rs231359; rs151290; rs2237892; rs2283228; rs2237895; rs2237896), and five in  TCF7L2  (rs7903146; rs4506565; rs12243326; rs12255372; DG10S478). Two publications were on genome-wide scan of the Africa America Diabetes Mellitus (AADM) study population to search for  type 2 diabetes  susceptibility genes  [15] ,  [16] . The nearest genetic markers on  chromosomes regions  with suggestion of linkage pick are shown in the appendix pp. 17. As shown in Table S3 (appendix pp. 4–16), 59 SNPs in the  ACE, ADIPOQ/ACDC, Apo A-V, CAPN10, CDKAL1, DSEL, ENPP1, EXT2,  HHEX ,  IFN-γ , IGF2BP2, IL-6,  IRS-1 ,  IRS-2 , KCNJ11, KCNQ1,  MALT1 , MLXIPL, MTHFR, PHLPP, PPARα, PPARG, PPARγ,  PRKAG2 ,  SLC30A8 , TCF7L2, TGF-β1  and  TNF-α  genes, were examined and were not significantly associated with type 2 diabetes or measures of glycaemia across included studies (Table S2). In single studies some polymorphisms, namely the ones in the  ACE, AGRP, eNOS,  GSTP1 , HSP70-2, MC4R, MTHFR, PHLPP ,  POL1 ,  TCF7L2  and  TNF-α  genes were found to be associated with type 2 diabetes in different ethnic groups (appendix pp. 4–16). Of the six SNPs of the  ADIPOQ/ACDC  gene (rs16861194; rs17300539; rs266729; rs822396; rs2241767; rs1063538) investigated in two studies  [17] ,  [18]  including two types of population (one [rs266729] in Blacks South African and the rest in Arabs Tunisian), only two of these (rs1063538, rs2241767) were not associated with T2D in Arabs Tunisians. Among the five SNPs of the  CAPN10  gene (UCSNP19; UCSNP-43; UCSNP-63; UCSNP-110; SNP-56) investigated in five studies  [19] ,  [20] ,  [21] ,  [22] ,  [23]  across three populations (Ghanaian, Tunisian and Nigerian); four (UCSNP19, UCSNP-43, UCSNP-63 and SNP-56) were found to be associated with T2D. However, in the same Arabs population in Tunisia, Ezzidi and coworkers  [21]  found a significant association of UCSNP19 with diabetes risk, while Ouederni and coworkers  [20]  found no association. Of the five SNPs of the  TCF7L2  gene (rs7903146; rs4506565; rs12243326; rs12255372; DG10S478) investigated in eight studies [19] ,  [24] ,  [25] ,  [26] ,  [27] ,  [28] ,  [29] ,  [30]  across four population groups (Ghanaian, Tunisian, Morocco and Nigerians); only one (rs7903146) was associated with type 2 diabetes. Amidst the two SNPs (rs1800630 and rs1800629) of the  TNF-α  gene were investigated in four studies  [31] ,  [32] ,  [33] , in two non-specified populations (Tunisian and Egyptian), rs1800630 was found to be related to type 2 diabetes in a Tunisian population  [32] . In the two genome-wide studies, significant linkage signal regions identified were 10q23 and 4p15, while few other regions had logarithm odds scores considered as suggestive evidence of linkage (appendix pp. 17)  [15] ,  [16] . The pooled estimates of the effect of various genes are shown in  Fig. 3  and appendix pp. 18–21. Across five studies that assessed the effects of the  TCF7L2  gene using additive models, the pooled odd ratio (OR) was 1.49 (95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.33–1.66;  I 2  = 42.5%,  p -heterogeneity = 0.138). Equivalent figures were 1.41 (1.08–1.85; number of studies = 2;  I 2  = 0%,  p -heterogeneity = 0.612) from recessive models, and 1.42 (1.34–1.51; number of studies = 20;  I 2  = 1.8%,  p -heterogeneity =  0.435) from unspecified models. Therefore, regardless of the  genetic model  applied  TCF7L2  appeared to confer a 41%–45% higher odd of diabetes in African populations, with this effect being similar across studies and genetic models. Pooled ORs for the  MTHRF  gene were 1.39 (1.13–1.70; number of studies = 2;  I 2  = 0%,  p -heterogeneity = 0.603) from additive models, 0.99 (0.83–1.18; number of studies = 4;  I 2  = 90.2%,  p -heterogeneity  <  0.001) from dominant models, 1.27 (0.91–1.77; number of studies = 4;  I 2  = 61.1%,  p -heterogeneity = 0.052) from recessive models and 1.43 (1.03–1.99; number of studies = 3;  I 2  = 89.3%,  p -heterogeneity  <  0.001) from unspecified models. These altogether suggested that an effect of  MTHRF  of diabetes risk in African populations, if any, is weak and inconsistent across studies and genetic models. The pooled effects of the  KCNQ1 ,  KCNJ11  and the  ENPP1  genes were non-significant regardless of the genetic models, with little evidence of statistical heterogeneity; suggesting that the contribution of these genes to diabetes occurrence in African populations is either trivial or uncertain based on available studies. Studies from sub-Saharan Africa largely reported estimates from unspecified genetic models, while studies from Northern Africa largely reported estimates from specific genetic model; precluding meaningful regional comparison of the pooled effect estimates. With the exception of dominant genetic models ( p  = 0.025), there was no evidence of publication bias as indicated in appendix pp. 22 (all  p   >  0.262 for the Egger ' s test of bias). Fig. 3 .  Forest plot  for the effects of genes from additive models on the risk of  diabetes  across studies in Africa. For each included study, the solid diamond is for the effect size (odd ratio) of the association of the relevant  genetic marker  with diabetes risk, and the size of the diamond is proportional to the inverse variance of the effect estimate. The horizontal bars about the solid diamond represent the 95% confidence intervals. For each genetic marker, the bottom opened diamond is for the pooled effect size based on random effects models. For each study, the minor allele and its frequency in participants with diabetes (cases) and those without (controls) are shown as well as the odd ratio and the 95% confidence interval for the association of the genetic marker of interest with diabetes risk. For each genetic marker, measures of heterogeneity of the association with diabetes risk across included studies ( I -squared and  p -value) are shown. Our review provides a comprehensive and integrated perspective of replication studies on the genetic of T2D in populations within the African continent. Extant studies have tested several polymorphisms in 57 genes reported to be associated with T2D in other populations. The included studies largely used a  candidate gene  approach, with a trend mostly toward consistent effects for genes tested in multiple studies, with a modest effect size of the variants with a positive signal. Regarding the effects of common variants with the greatest effects on the risk of  type 2 diabetes  in other populations, namely  TCF7L2  in Europeans, and KCNQ in Asians  [34] , their role in Africans is unclear. The two genome-wide studies revealed potential  linkage  signals in  chromosomes regions  harboring (or next to) these genes, while studies of selected SNPs of the two genes mostly found no association of KCNQ with  diabetes  risk. The importance of performing genetic studies of diabetes in African populations to fine map the causal  genetic variants  was recently been emphasized by the work of the MEta-analysis of type 2 diabetes in African Americans (MEDIA) Consortium  [35] . Although the MEDIA Consortium found that a substantial number of previously reported susceptibility loci for T2D were transferable to African Americans, they also identified novel susceptibility loci specific to this population. Furthermore, for those loci shared between African Americans and other populations, the strongest association in African Americans was often found in nearby SNPs and not necessarily the SNPs originally reported in other populations  [35] . Therefore, just like trans-ethnic fine mapping, resequencing efforts are also needed to uncover novel signal and functional coding alleles in transcripts close to loci known to be causally related with T2D in other populations  [36] ,  [37] . In line with findings of the MEDIA Consortium  [35] , meta-analyses of GWAS have consistently demonstrated that some  genetic diabetes  risk signals were transferrable across populations, while others were population specific  [6] ,  [38] . Our review found only two studies that had examined the human genome using GWAS in the same African population, but which were underpowered to possibly uncover those diabetes risk loci that are specific to populations within Africa  [15] ,  [16] . Of the genetic variants reported to confer the strongest risk of diabetes in Europeans ( TCF7L2 ) and Asians (KCNQ) only  TCF7L2  was transferable to populations within Africa. Studies on the heterogeneity of the effects of transferrable  genetic risk  variants across population have been mostly consistent in reporting the similarities of effects estimates  [6] ,  [39] . For a potentially susceptible gene such as  TCF7L2  with a positive signal across a few studies in our review, the pooled odd ratio was essentially within the range of those reported in Asians and Caucasians  [6]  suggesting a homogeneity of the  genetic effects  across population. This homogeneity if confirmed, would tend to project a prominent contribution of differences in environmental factors, to the currently observed variability in diabetes figures across populations. The interest in studying the genetics of diabetes is driven among others by the prospects of  translating  the genetic findings to inform medical practice. Thus far the major contribution of genetic discoveries to medical practice regarding diabetes mellitus, has been limited to the tiny proportion of patients with rare monogenic forms of the disease  [40] . There are suggestions that in these rare forms, the implicated risk alleles tend to affect the coding sequences of the DNA, resulting in predictable effects on the functions of the genes. This knowledge in turn can be used to improve the prognosis and treatment of the disease. In the polygenetic forms of the disease however, susceptibility signals are mostly located outside of the coding sequences the DNA, and may affect more regulation of the transcription and not the functions of the genes  [41] . This makes very challenging the translation efforts of genetic information relating to the large majority of diabetes. However, possible applications include uncovering novel prevention and treatment targets, improving disease risk prediction and diagnosis, and personalized medicine  [34] . With regard to prediction, available evidence suggests that common known alleles associated with T2D add little to disease prediction beyond knowledge from traditional diabetes risk factors  [42] ,  [43] . Interest in investigating further the contribution of genetic information to diabetes prediction and diagnosis in Africa, is motivated by the existence of variants of likely type 2 diabetes with particular phenotypes, treatment and motoring requirements, that are more frequent in African population, yet regularly underdiagnosed in routine clinical setting  [44] . We did not address the overlap of genes associated with T2D with other cardiometabolic traits or long-term complications of the disease, nor did we address monogenic diabetes. Some SNPs known to be associated with obesity, related traits and other cardiometabolic risk factors have been found to increase the risk of type 2 diabetes. Likewise, loci influencing type 2 diabetes risk,  glycemic  traits and  insulin levels  have been reported to be associated with obesity related traits and cardiovascular diseases risk  [45] ,  [46] ,  [47] ,  [48] . In the presence of overlapping associations, uncritical adjustment for the effect of other cardiometabolic factors on type 2 diabetes risk could obscure or attenuate the effects the tested loci  [47] . The strengths of our review are manifold. We comprehensively and rigorously appraised the extant data, including the whole spectrum of evidence from African countries, which was not the case with previous reviews, and addressing issues specific and relevant to the African context and also identifying gaps in research. More importantly, we conducted meta-analyses increasing the likelihood of detecting the effects of variant examined across multiple studies. Our study does have limitations. First, existing studies (genetic association studies) did not always report key methodological information that include testing the HWE, the sample size/power calculations, clear description of controls, consideration and correction for  population stratification , as well as the levels of adjustment conducted. Second, compared to studies conducted elsewhere, sample sizes were less substantial. It is possible that with larger sample sizes and more comprehensive platforms, some additional previously proposed candidate genes may reach statistical significance. The limited sample size indicates that the studied populations may not cover all the scope of human  genetic variations  that exist on the African continent. Third, some variants were investigated in single studies thus precluding a literature-based meta-analysis. Furthermore, we had no access to individual data precluding refined analyses and adjustment for potential confounders and other types of bias. Hence, we could not assess potential sources of bias. Over the last ten years, there has been progress in the investigation of the  genetic architecture  of type 2 diabetes among African populations. However, important gaps are yet to be filled. Existing studies have mainly been confined to certain populations, thus precluding the full examination of the potential genetic variation across the continent. Hitherto, the conducted studies have been replication endeavor, thus it is still unclear whether there may be genetic variants that confer the risk of diabetes exclusively among African populations. Carefully and well-designed larger-scale studies are therefore needed, in which assessment of  gene environment interaction  can also be addressed. However, this would require well-coordinated multi-centered groups working within research consortia to establish large enough cohorts with recruitment in several African countries, especially since  genetic research  on the continent has been hindered by a number of challenges such as limited funding, as well as the lack of infrastructure and local expertise  [49] ,  [50]  Such coordinated efforts would enable going beyond the scope of the extant data, and conduct studies including family-based, gene–environment and gene–gene interactions, and genome-wide association analyses. Such studies may provide further insights in the etiology of type 2 diabetes. In summary, we have presented a systematic and comprehensive assessment of the current evidence on genetic determinants of type 2 diabetes in Africa. The putative genetic risk factors that have emerged from current overview represent the most promising type 2 diabetes susceptibility genes described to date in Africans. However, larger-scale genetic studies will further expand our knowledge of the underlying genetic mechanisms of type 2 diabetes among Africans. Y.Y.Y.: Acquired data; analysed data; interpreted data; drafted and revised the manuscript for intellectual content. M.G.F: Acquired data; analysed data; interpreted data; drafted and revised the manuscript for intellectual content. E.V.B.: Analysed data and interpreted data; and revised the manuscript for intellectual content. N.B.N.: Designed the study, Interpreted data and revised the manuscript for intellectual content T. E. M.: Revised the manuscript for intellectual content. E.S.: Revised the manuscript for intellectual content. R. T. E.: Revised the manuscript for intellectual content. J.B.E: Conceived and designed the study, acquired the data, drafted and revised the manuscript for intellectual content. A.P.K.: Conceived and designed the study; analysed data; interpreted data; drafted the manuscript; supervised the study and revised the manuscript for intellectual content. All authors had full access to the data. A.P.K is the guarantor. None. None. None. Download Word document (320KB) Help with docx files The two authors equally contributed. Elsevier We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content and ads. By continuing you agree to the  use of cookies . Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. or its licensors or contributors. ScienceDirect ® is a registered trademark of Elsevier B.V. 