Chumley ' s, Lafayette - Menu, Prices  &  Restaurant Reviews - TripAdvisor My wife and I went here for dinner. Our waitress had just taken the order for the table next to ours and I asked if she could take our order then. She said “No, she would confuse the orders.”  I said okay. She then disappeared... More Went to chumleys last week. Ordered appetizer..10 minutes later.. " oh we don ' t have that after all  " Tonight.  No pino grigio. Ran out according to owner. Really ? Couldn ' t you go buy some of this very popular wine? Guess the new  Chumleys may not make it. The worst customer service ever! It took a hour and talking to three different people just to track someone down to take our food order and another hour to get our food because it was never put in. I called to talk to a manager... More We went for snacks and mostly drinking.  The drinks were well mixed and served promptly.  We opted for tacos and got a meal out of the deal.  My husbands came prepared wrong, but they were great at adjusting our bill to accommodate.  We stayed and... More The service is terrible, the new menu is weird and overpriced, it ' s just not a good experience. The service has been lacking for about a year now, but instead of fixing that they changed the menu? Go to the 6th Street Dive if you ' re looking... More Fast, friendly service, with a NEW menu of Tacos and Burritos and make your own lunch bowls. The 6 of us got in and out in 30 minutes and were well satisfied. The place has a nice remodel and a great new menu !!  The choices are endless and has really good authentic made from scratch flavors!! Highly recommended for anyone wanting good service and delicious yummy food. I ordered the black and blue salad as a carry-out.  Salad itself was small.  There were 7 tiny slices of steak and no red onions.  I asked if I could have some more meat and was told yes but it would be extra.  $10.00 for... More Hade a couple of Bavarian beers and a Texas Burger.Very delicious.The bartender was intently.Overall the best place in town It ' s a college town, so they seems to cater to the college kids tastes...which isn ' t anything to rave about.  Nothing on the menu stood out to me.  It was quite disappointing.  I asked our very young server what he could recommend.  His recommendations was  " chicken... More 