Top 10 Accessories for your new Motorola Moto G to Buy In India - Gizbot News Indian market is currently filled with imaginable number of mid-range devices. Especially, when it comes to smartphone between Rs. 10,000 and Rs. 15,000, the homegrown manufacturers have a greater hand as they have most of their smartphones in this particular price range. Players like Micromax, Karbonn, Lava, Xolo, among others which are still taking the best out of the same section is now being threatened as Motorola has made a hard-hitting plunge into the market with its latest and most price-sensitive smartphone called Moto G. The device is being exclusively sold by Flipkart in India at Rs. 12,499. Recommended: Motorola Moto G Now on Sale In India: Top 6 Online Deals to Buy The company has launched the device running on Android 4.3 Jelly Bean but has also promised KitKat update soon. Thus getting the latest quad core smartphone with competitive specs overall in such a price range is quite a matter a excitement. Moreover, the device is currently selling like hot cakes. Thus today for Moto G's fans, GizBot has come up with a number of accessories,which will enhance the phone's look by also serving as the protective element. But before heading towards these attractive accessories, take a look at the brief rundown on the specs of the device. Recommended: Valentine's Day Offers 2014: Top 10 Smartphones With Discount Offers Perfect for Gifting Moto G comes with a 4.5-inch screen with an HD resolution of 720 x 1280 pixels and churns out a competitive pixel density of 329 ppi. It is powered by 1.2GHz quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 400 processor coupled with a 1GB RAM and runs on Android 4.3 Jelly Bean. There is a presence of a 5MP rear camera with LED flash, auto-focus and a 1.3MP front-facing snapper. It is available in 2 variants depending on the on-board memory which is 8GB and 16GB. The Moto G is a Dual SIM (GSM + GSM) smartphone and comes with an array of connectivity options like 3G, WiFi, Bluetooth 4.0 and GPS. The device measures 129.9 x 65.9 x 11.6 mm and weighs 143 grams and is powered by 2070 mAh battery, which according to the company will offer a mixed usage of up to 24 hours. Take a look at the accessories and their prices in the sliders below: Click Here For The New Motorola Moto g Smartphone Photos Gallery Click Here To Buy Easy Installation TPU Material Protects from Wear and Tear Cutout Window Resistant to Oil Corrosion and Abrasions Protects from Shock and Elements Protects from Scratches Click Here To Buy S-Line TPU case + Front Screen Protector for Moto G Flexibility of silicone case with the protection of a tough case Cut-outs allow access to all ports and features as per the phone model Designed specifically Flexibility of silicone case with the protection of a tough case Click Here To Buy Anti-scratch Anti-glare Anti-Fingerprint Matte Finish dust proof and waterproof anti-UV high quality PET imported material safe for environment harmless to human body Three layers design keep middle applied layer clean and easy to be applied Can effectively absorb part of the direct impact to protect the display Bubble free and fingerprint free, Washable and reusable Self-adhesive, easy removal without adhesive residual last log and not rub or fall off Precisely and smoothly cut for your screen Non-adhesive backing, will not leave residue Quickly and Easily adhere directly to the screen Click Here To Buy Slim and Form Fitted design Tailor made for the contour of Moto G. Proper cut outs and buttons to prevent dust and debris. Easy to installation and remove. Enhance the appearance of the overall phone. Use this case to reduce the chance of signal loss. Shock absorbent, shatterproof, and anti-scratch material. Quick and easy way to change your handsets appearance. Cut out on upper flip at the place of Ear Piece so as to use it with flip during call also. Complete access to all features of the device including microphone speaker camera and all buttons. Click Here To Buy Protects from Scratches Access to Buttons Cutout Window Protects from Bumps and Drops Click Here To Buy Lightweight and ultra slim Sleep / Wake functionality Integrated stand function Interior slip pockets Made specifically for the Moto G Click Here To Buy Stylish leather style flip cover that protects the front, back, and perimeter of your Moto G Cover is lined with microfibre to protect the Moto G's Screen Case raises your Moto G's camera away from a flat surface in order to protect your lens Designed specifically with the Moto G in mind Click Here To Buy Hybrid design protects your Moto G from damage Crystal clear case emphasises the back of the Moto G Cutouts for the various ports and features of your phone Simple slip on design Click Here To Buy Protects from Scratches Access to Buttons Protects from Bumps and Drops Cutout Window Click Here To Buy Protects from Scratches Protects from Bumps and Drops Cutout Window Smart Sensor Triggers Auto Sleep or Wake Mode Access to Buttons 360 Degree Protection Click Here To Buy 100% Brand new with high quality and slim as pencil. Design: Chunky pencil shape very stylish Lightweight yet durable (Metal construction) Compact design (Pocketable) Sensitive stylus tip gives you the smoothest navigation Keeps your screen free from scratches and fingerprints Safety and flexible Silicone rubber tip keep your screen free from scratching or damaging Rubber tip does not glide across the screen and leaves no residual marking Makes reading writing drawing and working easier Material Recommended: Motorola Moto G: 10 Rivals Motorola Plans to Outperform in India 