Chanel Tutti Frutti Le Vernis (621) Nail Polish Review   Ang Savvy Chanel Tutti Frutti Nail Polish  is one of the nail polishes repromoted as part of the  Chanel Rouge Allure Gloss Collection . It was first released in the  Reflets D Ete de Chanel Summer Collection  together with Chanel  Sweet Lilac ,  Mirabella ,  Pink Tonic  and  Eastern Light  nail polishes. It was the only nail polish from the Summer collection that I didn t get because it was not a Limited Edition item. It was only now that I finally bought it together with  Expression  and  Intention  (2 of 3 Limited Edition nail polishes from the Chanel Rouge Allure Gloss Collection). Chanel  describes  Le Vernis : ☆  Classic and trend-defining shades in an exclusive formula that strengthens and moisturizes nails as it delivers high-shine colour. ☆  Applies evenly without streaking. ☆  All Chanel nail products are formaldehyde-free, toluene-free and DBP-free. Chanel  classifies  Tutti Frutti nail polish  as a soft coral. In the bottle, you can see that there are gold micro shimmers swimming in the wonderful creamy sea of salmon pink. On my nails,  Chanel Tutti Frutti Nail Polish  is a medium coral pink that leans more pink than coral. It seems to be a light watermelon pink with subtle shimmers. The shimmers are barely noticeable unless you really stare closely at it. Because of this, the finish of  Chanel Tutti Frutti Nail Polish  seems to be more like a soft cream. In terms of application,  Chanel Tutti Frutti Nail Polish  is not really that hard to apply. The brush is soft enough that it glides smoothly over my nails. However, the consistency is a little bit thin, so it was kind of streaky at first coat. Applying the second coat is more even, smoother and easier than the first, so I guess I can t complain. Chanel Tutti Frutti Nail Polish  is a little bit on the sheer side, but 2 or 3 coats is enough to achieve an opaque and even color. Chanel Tutti Frutti Nail Polish  has a pretty creamy finish. The finish is a bit shiny, so I didn’t bother applying a top coat over it. I only used Chanel Beaute des Ongles Protective Base Coat before applying Chanel Tutti Frutti to protect my nails. Chanel Tutti Frutti Nail Polish  takes just a few minutes to dry on my nails. Even without a top coat, it doesn t easily chip. It lasts about 4 to 5 days on me before it chips around the edges. Chanel Tutti Frutti nail polish  is a very pretty pink color that is perfect for summer. Imagine lying down on the sandy beach soaking the sun and people are staring admiringly at your nails. Pair your bright pink nails with a bright bikini set and you’ll surely sizzle at the beach!  I bought my  Chanel Tutti Frutti nail polish  for Php1, 250 at Chanel in Rustans Makati. It is also available  here  and  here  for $27. Summer is just around the corner. Is your nail polish collection ready for it? Have you tried  Chanel Tutti Frutti nail polish ? Alyssa Melanie is a certified MUA   a Makeup Addict. While her favorite high-end brands are Chanel and Dior, she just can t resist falling in love with a lot of drugstore brands too, like Revlon and NYX. Her motto:  When I feel good about myself, I feel beautiful. Putting on makeup and taking care of my skin, makes me feel oh-so-good. Yes, add me to your mailing list. This site uses Akismet to reduce spam.  Learn how your comment data is processed . First name  * Email  * First name  * Email  * Some of my posts contain affiliate links which can help you decide further if you would like to purchase the product online. If you do decide to purchase via the affiliate links I have included, I will receive a small commission from it, which will help me purchase new items for review. 