20 Best Island Getaways - Beautiful Islands to Visit Country Living editors select each product featured. If you buy from a link, we may earn a commission. More about us. No shoes, no passport, and no problems eagerly anticipate your arrival at these spectacular island getaways. When it comes to these fantastic and breathtakingly beautiful islands the question isn't "why go?" but "why leave?" Bali. Fiji. Bora Bora. When you think "islands" these are just a few of the exotic destinations that come to mind. But you don't need to grab your passport to get a taste of the island life. We've got everything from historic barrier islands to idyllic coastal getaways  right here in the good ol' US of A  that will have you yearning for just one more vacation day. So dust off your snorkel gear, find that long-lost matching flip flop, and get ready for some toes-in-the-sand bliss. Roll into your vacation state of mind with a cup of joe and homemade doughnuts at  Bennett's Fresh Roast , before exploring the unforgettable  shelling  that Sanibel Island has to offer see if you can find the rare Junonia seashell! (The second annual National Seashell Day happens on June 21st.) Looking to experience more natural wonders? Enlist your crew for a tour with  Tarpon Bay Explorers , where you can see birds, reptiles, and mammals while touring the  J.N. "Ding" Darling National Wildlife Refuge . As energy levels dip, slip into bed at  Casa Ybel  or into a relaxing trance with one of the resort's  in-suite spa treatments . If only every day could be a hot stone massage day. Or water lily facial day. Or walk on a (seashell-studded) beach day! For more information, visit  fortmyers-sanibel.com . Dolphins are regularly spotted in the channel at Wrightsville Beach. We repeat: frequent dolphin sightings. If you're still not sold, remember that bucket list dream of learning to surf? Time to check it off at  WB Surf Camp , where talented instructors will help you navigate beach breaks ideal for beginners.  For a serious dose of "awww," also plan a detour to the recently relocated Karen Beasley's Sea Turtle Rescue  &  Rehabilitation Center . After, toast the perfect beach day with a margarita and fajitas at  Tower 7 Baja Mexican Grill  or craft beers and seafood at  The Dockside . Come nightfall, why stray from that breezy, ocean air? Book a room at  Blockade Runner , where swimming, sailing, and surfing are at your finger and toe-tips. For more information, visit  wilmingtonandbeaches.com . The sixth largest island in the contiguous United States, we're absolutely over the moon for the oh-so-New England town of Bar Harbor. If you're an outdoor enthusiast, revel in the fresh air of Acadia National Park, marvel at  Somes Sound , and journey to  Cadillac Mountain  for an unforgettable sunset. The  Bar Harbor Inn  will satiate stomach growls with mussels, clams, lobster, red potatoes, corn on the cob, and other bites (like a slice of freshly baked blueberry pie) in a beautiful setting by the water at the  Terrace Grille . Luckily, you've got some stellar panoramas to discover as you walk off your meal. Need a siesta? Handsome  accommodations  are steps away Those looking for more rustic digs should consider Acadia Yurts , eco-friendly tents on the "quiet-side" of Mount Desert Island. For more information, visit  barharborinfo.com . Ah, it's hard to capture the summertime glow that casts a friendly halo on all people, places, and things that inhabit this beloved Michigan treasure. First off, the motor vehicle ban makes it easy to remember a simpler, slower pace of life (kids will adore the horse and buggy carriage tours), as does getting lost in local shops brimming with handmade art, old-fashioned toys, and plenty of  fudge shops . The crew can unwind at  Mission Point , situated on Lake Huron's glimmering shores, a sprawling 18-acre resort with over 70 miles of hiking and biking trails, tennis courts, a spa, and the newly opened  Marketplace at Mission Point . For more information, visit  mackinacisland.org . Have you just stumbled into the fields of Elysium? We think so. This may not be your conventional island getaway, but this 140-miles-long island off the coast of Ketchikan is a wildlife utopia with bald eagles, black bears, humpback whales, and more wildlife. You're only 90 minutes from Seattle, but you'll feel light years away from urban life the moment you check into  Waterfall Resort  (yes, there's a waterfall), where talented guides coach anglers of all levels and all rooms have forest or ocean views. In the summer, take a tour with U.S. Forest Service rangers to El Capitan, an impressive cave unlike any other. Recount the day's adventures back at  Lagoon Saloon  with a stiff drink and a round of pool or ping pong before sinking your teeth into the daily catch in the  dining room . For more information, visit  travelalaska.com . Ride the simple high on this restorative, laiback island on Virginia's majestic Eastern shore. On the barrier island known for its wild ponies, enjoy a boat tour with  Captain Dan's  to witness them firsthand before decompressing with a good book on the beautiful beaches in the  Chincoteague National Wildlife Refuge . Skip to dessert first at BYOC (you'd be correct in assuming that stands for "build your own cookie"), a sweet tooth's shangri-la, complete with ice cream and toppings to crown your creation. By your second year in town, the welcoming staff at  Miss Molly's Inn  will likely know your name and will greet you with open arms and your tasty beach lunch picnic already packed. For more information, visit  chincoteaguechamber.com . RELATED: 16 Things We Love About Chincoteague Island Santorini? The British Virgin Islands? Mykonos? We're not quite sure how this dreamy island is only 25 miles away from California's mainland, but we'll go with it. Soak up memories (be sure to take photos) on the scenic ferry ride over. Then, achieve toes-in-the-sand bliss at  Descanso Beach Club  and enjoy a specialty drink like the Buffalo Milk (trust us). It's easy to just stare at the lush, mountain-studded views for an entire afternoon, but consider the equally intoxicating views of a  glass-bottom boat voyage kids will recall this excursion fondly for years to come, and you'll be pretty dazzled too. If you're still feeling the aftermath of a particularly tough work week, beeline to  Island Spa Catalina , where you can downward dog your troubles away with Avalon Bay views. Count your sheep just 14 steps from the beach (they measured) at  Pavilion Hotel , which will also spoil you with a nightly wine and cheese reception. For more information, visit  visitcatalinaisland.com . Pair your Charleston getaway with the timeless charm of nearby Seabrook Island, or forgo city life completely for a few days spent on this idyllic strip of ocean paradise. Scope out available rentals  here  and line up activities like stand-up paddleboarding at  Bohicket Marina , a spa day at  Synergy Day Spa , and horseback riding on the beach or on the trails with the  equestrian center . As the sun sets, live music junkies will enjoy the  Pelican's Nest . Or, tip your hat to Southern tradition and enjoy regional fare at the  Palmetto Room , where the local seafood really shines. And fine, since you're only a 45-minute drive away from Charleston, ease back into reality with a day or two exploring fabled Chucktown. For more information, visit  discoverseabrook.com . Northeast Florida at its finest. On this breathtakingly beautiful barrier island, Fernandina Beach, formerly a bustling Victorian seaport village, still maintains its eclectic charm with a great mix of shops and restaurants, and many original structures dating back to the late 1800s (if you need a sweets fix, check out  Fantastic Fudge ). Once you're done luxuriating in the Americana beauty of downtown, we'd kindly ask you log off all electronic devices and enjoy the  Spa  &  Salon at Omni's Amelia Island Plantation . Under the watchful protection of grand Florida oaks, enjoy treatments like the Plantation Blossom Ritual or simply chill in the meditation class. Feeling rejuvenated,  The Ritz-Carlton, Amelia Island  awaits with kayaking, beach horseback riding, and nightly tasting menus. (Note: Amelia Island is quietest in the fall and winter!) For more information, visit  ameliaisland.com Relaxation is the name of the game at this low-key string of islands with gorgeous beachfront rental homes waiting for you to swoop in for your sun-filled adventure. Before you dive into that world-class seafood, pump up your adrenaline at  Shallotte River Swamp Park , soaring via zipline over the Carolina marshes and 100-year-old cypress trees (there's also an epic aerial adventure park). And back to that seafood: The famed  Calabash -style cuisine is a must-try with waterfront eateries doling out hits like oyster stew and deviled crab (don't miss  Dockside Seafood House ). Trade in Southern-style for a dose of the European fare at  Silver Coast Winery , known for its award-winning wines and Ocean Isle Beach location, where you'll want to taste  toutes les choses . Bedtime? If you don't want to go the rental route,  book your stay  at one of the area's many B & Bs or hotels. For more information, visit  ncbrunswick.com . Whether you seek asylum from a long stretch of sightseeing or just the day's dizzying stream of push notifications, you'd be hard-pressed to find a better spot to unwind than an island that is nearly two-thirds nature reserve. Take in ocean views at the  W Retreat  &  Spa' s "living room" where you could easily hang for hours were it not for the ever-enticing fire pit lounge beckoning with sunset cocktails. You'll also have a hard time prying yourself out of the two-level infinity pool with built-in lounge chairs. And no trip to Vieques is complete without a nighttime adventure to  Mosquito Bay , the world's brightest bioluminescent bay (book a guided tour). If you can time your stay, Glo-Ga, the resort's glow-in-the-dark yoga classes are part body-painted party with DJ, part rejuvenating flow and totally worth it. For more information, visit  vieques.com . The landmark  Jekyll Club  has a certain effortless elegance that instantly transports you to a calmer, happier outlook with its stunning landscape (the handsome architecture and friendly staff also enhance the allure of finding oneself in bygone times). Though you could easily spend your entire vacation on Driftwood Beach, be sure to spend an afternoon biking the island's paths and trails some of which will take you through forests offering gravel roads and bridges. Now that you've earned an indulgent meal at  Tortuga Jack's , embrace the colorful, Tiki vibes and clink glasses honoring your Georgia coastal getaway. New this summer:  Jekyll Ocean Club , a boutique property with a beachside pool, fire pit, and open-air dining. For more information, visit  jekyllisland.com . You know that childhood friend of yours who always went on storybook summer vacations? Well, this is probably where that friend went. Lovingly dubbed the "un-Hamptons," the beach scene here is snootiness-free. Even if you don't stay at the landmark  Ram's Head Inn  perched hillside above Coecles Harbor, you'll want to swing by to see live jazz or a local band in the cocktail lounge,  Harbor Hall . When you're feeling all beached out, grab a bike at  Piccozzi's Bike Rental  and also carve out some time to visit  Mashomack Preserve , a true gift from nature with tidal creeks weaving together with woodlands, fields, wildlife and enough natural beauty to convince even the most hiking-averse types to explore. Hoping to savor a romantic night out with a loved one? No sultry hotspot sets a flame quite like  Vine Street Cafe  (which also has a popular food truck, if that's more your vacation MO). For more information, visit  shelterislandchamber.org . Alright  Hamilton  groupies, we'll let you in on a little secret. Get your off-off-off-off-off Broadway fix with an Alexander Hamilton-focused  walking tour  in the town of Christiansted. Then, take an intermission to hike Goat Hill, one of the highest points on the island (you'll even be able to see Point Udall, the most eastern point of the U.S.). Wipe the sweat off your brow and wrap up the day's programming at  The Buccaneer , the oldest family-operated resort in the entire Caribbean (it also has links to that famous Alexander) and take a free snorkel or scuba lesson. Ready to eat?  The Mermaid's  refreshing vegetable gazpacho hits the spot. For an encore, find adventure in liquid form by touring  Captain Morgan's distillery , or wait for nightfall and try bioluminescent kayaking hours in  Salt River . Trivia tidbit: This March marks the U.S. Virgin Islands' centennial celebration for receiving its charter (previously, it was owned by Denmark). For more information, visit  visitusvi.com . Here, untouched beauty abounds on one of Charleston's most cherished islands with plenty of unique attractions ( moonlit yoga on the beach , anyone?) and opportunities to connect with the great outdoors. Rally up the crew for  a vacation rental that four-bedroom  Surfsong 26  with a sprawling sundeck, hot tub, and private boardwalk to the beach certainly sounds nice right about now! And lest we forget, a family-style meal at  Tomasso at Turtle Point  might just convince you to, you know, buy that vacation rental. For more information, visit  charlestoncvb.com . Lobster shack. Beach. Repeat. About 15 miles south of Brunswick, this 3-mile long island is brimming with fantastic views, whether you set out to  Mackerel Cove , the Bronze Fisherman's Statue at the island's southern tip, or just watch one of the many fishing and lobstering boats drift out to sea. Wander  art galleries  in nearby Harpswell or get lost in natural wonder with a  Casco Bay Lines  cruise. Enjoy your stay at the island's endearing  Driftwood Inn , a staple here for over 100 years, and where choosing between lobster, scallops, and haddock is no easy feat. Don't make plans for a day or two, okay? Instead, take long walks along the shoreline or enjoy the  Giant's Stairs Trail  and relish in total detox in the Pine Tree state. For more information, visit  visitmaine.com . Everything's bigger in Texas, and that holds true for this larger-than-life barrier island on the Texas Gulf Coast. It may only have 32-miles of coastline, but it crams in a dizzying array of activities, from the newly opened  Bryan Museum , featuring unique Southwestern artifacts, to the world's tallest water coaster at  Schlitterbahn Galveston Island Waterpark . You may be close to Galveston proper, but you'll feel like you've been teleported back to an entirely different century here, thanks to one of the country's largest collections of preserved Victorian architecture and the island's jewel The Grand 1894 Opera House . For a remarkable, old-timey experience, book a few nights at  The Tremont House  or equally alluring  Hotel Galvez  &  Spa . The Gatsby-era charm will rub off on you before you mosey on over to  Rudy  &  Paco , an outstanding Latin American bistro, located next to the opera house. For more information, visit  galveston.com . There's a reason so many flock to this string of barrier islands off the coast of North Carolina summer after summer. Diving to shipwrecking sites, browsing  The Waterfront Shops  in the town of Duck, and noshing on fish tacos at  Red Sky Cafe  are just a few of our favorite reasons. Check into bliss at the oceanfront  Sanderling Resort  (it's just north of Duck), where starting your day at the  Beach House Bar  with some homemade pastries and a view of the resplendent beach sure beats the blare of an alarm clock and waiting in a long line at the coffee shop (on at least one day, mix it up and indulge in  Duck Donuts  for breakfast). BFF vacation? Don't forget to book a meal at Kimball's Kitchen , overlooking the Currituck Sound with a sunset that will convince you this trip ought to become a yearly tradition. For more information, visit  outerbanks.org . Hello, old world Florida charm. It may not have the buzzy reputation of the Florida Keys, but those seeking a little more solace (read: less crowds) on their vacation will love this Gulf Coast haven. Spend your time leisurely wandering via bike or foot down Banyan Street, where its namesake trees line the lane with an enchanted canopy. Ready to dine? Check out  The Temptation Restaurant  where hits like tuna drizzled in wasabi ponzu and sriracha aioli will be the thing you will dream of eating every meal for the next month. Find some peace and quiet at  The Gasparilla Inn , a National Historic Landmark property where accommodations include the main building, cottages, and the recently opened  Sharp Houses , ideal for families or if you're vacationing with other couples. For more information, visit  bocagrandechamber.com . A roundup of islands wouldn't be complete without a mention of America's prized volcanic archipelago: Hawaii. On Oahu, prepare to be astounded with geographical wonders, rich history, and a welcoming culture. Perk up from any lingering jet lag with a white-gloved, traditional afternoon tea service at  Moana Surfrider, A Westin Resort  (it's also a lovely place to rest your head as the moon rises). Shoppers will delight in Honolulu's  Ala Moana Center , the world's largest outdoor shopping center, while culture aficionados will marvel at the splendid  Honolulu Museum of Art  (if you can time it properly,  ARTafterDARK  is a real treat). And travelers of all breeds will enjoy a fantastic feast for their eyes at  Sunset Beach , whether you're just sunset viewing or hitting the waters for snorkeling in the summer. Need more of those outstanding views? Probably. Try the  Star of Honolulu  cruises, clutching a Mai Tai in hand and etching the evening brilliance into your soul (and camera lens). For more information, visit  gohawaii.com . 