Complete coverage of Montana's U.S. House race | 406 Politics | missoulian.com © 2019 Lee Enterprises Terms of Service   |   Privacy Policy Considerable clouds this evening. Some decrease in clouds late. Low 19F. Winds light and variable.. Considerable clouds this evening. Some decrease in clouds late. Low 19F. Winds light and variable.  Updated: December 15, 2019 @ 11:00 pm KALISPELL — After months of fighting hard for Matt Rosendale’s U.S. Senate campaign, the Trump administration’s closing pitch to Montana voter Border security and federal migration law have been a point of concern since 2016 when then-candidate Donald Trump began calling for construction of a southern border wall paid for by Mexico. Not surprisingly, Montana’s U.S. House candidates, Democrat Kathleen Williams and incumbent Republican Rep. Greg Gianforte have different views regarding the wall, for which U.S. taxpayers will pay billions of dollars. U.S. Rep. Greg Gianforte is pinning his third campaign in two years on Montana residents being better off economically since President Donald Trump took office and that the voters will give him some of the credit. Improving the economy should be a priority for Congress, both Republican U.S. Rep. Greg Gianforte and Democrat Kathleen Williams agree, but how to improve it is where the candidates differ. Article with images BELGRADE — At a campaign-style rally in an airport hangar just three days before Montanans go to the polls to elect a U.S. senator, President Donald Trump stoked fear in the crowd about a group of migrants moving toward the United States and spent less time than at his previous three rallies in the state going after incumbent U.S. Sen. Jon Tester. Article with images Crow tribal chairman Alvin “A.J.” Not Afraid gave a full-throated endorsement to Rep. Greg Gianforte on Friday, telling Absalooke Nation to abandon partisan labels and vote yes for coal. Both U.S House candidates, Kathleen Williams and incumbent Rep. Greg Gianforte, agree: Civil discourse is lacking in American politics. Article with images Montana Gov. Steve Bullock is leading a Halloween rally for fellow Democrats U.S. Sen. Jon Tester and House candidate Kathleen Williams in the final days before the midterm elections. U.S. Rep. Greg Gianforte and Democrat Kathleen Williams are in a dead heat for Montana's U.S. House race, according to a poll released Monday. Article with images U.S. House candidates Greg Gianforte and Kathleen Williams disagree on the future of health care. U.S. House candidates Greg Gianforte and Kathleen Williams differ sharply on natural resource and conservation issues, which are sure to be taken up in Congress during the next Montana representative's tenure. Article with images ARLEE — Once her guests had filled their Indian tacos, Alissa Snow made sure they got a message.  Article with images The reporter assaulted by U.S. Rep. Greg Gianforte in 2017 is warning the Congressman not to lie about the incident while campaigning. Article with images Republican Rep. Greg Gianforte, R-Mont., has a strong lead in Montana’s House election, a Montana Television Network News poll announced Tuesday. Article with images WINIFRED — In Trump’s Republican Party, where you either ride for the brand or get bucked off, Montana’s Rep. Greg Gianforte is holding on with both hands. U.S. House candidate Kathleen Williams had more money in the bank than incumbent Rep. Greg Gianforte, R-Mont., in the latest filing period, though that will likely change. Article with images EUREKA — It was getting late after a six-hour drive and Kathleen Williams was starting to wonder how many voters in this remote northwest corner of Montana would turn out to support a Democrat running for Congress. Awash with money from secret donors, America’s political campaigns are in need of reform, which Democratic U.S. House candidate Kathleen Williams told a Billings audience she will support if elected. Article with images PABLO — Montana’s U.S. House race came to the Flathead Indian Reservation Monday night, with Democratic candidate Kathleen Williams and Libert On Saturday, Oct. 6, U.S. Rep. Greg Gianforte, a Republican, and former state legislator Kathleen Williams, a Democrat, met in Bozeman for a o Montana's major party candidates for U.S. House squared off Saturday in their final debate, trading barbs over public accountability and health care before midterm election voting begins. Article with images Given the choice between leaving private property and being cited with criminal trespass, seven people chose the latter in order to put their  Article with images HELENA — Montana’s U.S. House candidates went after each other on gun control, government spending and tax reform Saturday during the first general election debate of the midterms. HELENA — U.S. Rep. Greg Gianforte says he voted against an $854 billion spending bill signed Friday by President Donald Trump because the measure included an "irresponsible glut" of spending. Article with images Republican U.S. Rep. Greg Gianforte leads in the latest Montana political poll, while in the Senate Democratic incumbent Jon Tester’s numbers are tightening up. Article with images Congressman Greg Gianforte, Gov. Steve Bullock and Sen. Jon Tester had different messages Wednesday for elected officials gathered in Missoula Montana State University is partnering with the Montana Television Network to conduct a political poll this month. Article with images THREE FORKS — Sen. Jon Tester climbed up onto the bed of a pickup, grabbed a bullhorn, and began to rally the crowd of a couple hundred people supporting locked-out union workers at Imerys Talc. Article with images U.S. Rep. Greg Gianforte went on the attack last week in his first ad against Democrat Kathleen Williams, accusing his challenger of being soft on immigration and a candidate of the radical left. Article with images The future use of Wilderness Study Areas was the topic of a lively discussion at a roundtable in Missoula Wednesday hosted by Kathleen Williams, the Democrat vying to take Republican Rep. Greg Gianforte’s seat in the U.S. House in the November election. This article has been corrected: U.S. Rep. Greg Gianforte, R-Mont., has authored two bills calling for land studied for wilderness, but not recommended for the classification be cleared for other uses.  Article with images MISSOULA — Montana Republican and Democratic candidates for seats in the U.S. House and Senate have agreed to participate in debates this fall. Article with images GREAT FALLS — As Montana Democrats gathered at a convention center near the river here to set their platform, the party’s top candidates in this fall's election rallied the crowd to go out and talk to voters around the state about their campaigns. HELENA — Democratic U.S. House candidate Kathleen Williams says she received a fundraising boost after her primary win, raising $480,000 from the June 5 election through the end of the month. Montana’s lone U.S. Rep. Greg Gianforte on Wednesday praised fellow Republican President Donald Trump for pardoning two Oregon ranchers convicted of arson, whose 2016 imprisonment under terrorism laws triggered an armed occupation of a federal wildlife refuge for more than a month. Article with images It’s been 30 years since the federal government put roughly 800,000 Montana acres into study for wilderness designation. Thursday, Rep. Greg Gianforte told House lawmakers it’s time to see whether these public lands pass the test. Democrat Kathleen Williams is leading Republican Rep. Greg Gianforte in the only public poll so far for Montana’s U.S. House race, while incumbent Sen. Jon Tester outpolls Republican challenger Matt Rosendale. Montana’s congressional delegation doesn’t support an immigration policy that separates children from their parents along the southern U.S. border. It was during one of Kathleen Williams’ marathon trips across Montana’s frozen back roads when Andrew Markoff realized retail politics in the Big Empty was a lot like "Ice Road Truckers." Kathleen Williams has won the Democratic primary in the race for Montana's U.S. House seat. More in  Complete coverage of Montana's 2018 midterm elections  (20 of 21) 1 2 3 Collection Montana voters head to the polls Tuesday, Nov. 6. Here is our coverage from Election Day 2018.  Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device. 