Our Staff Ben Mohr   Executive Director Originally from Northern California, Ben moved to Alaska to obtain a degree in Outdoor Studies from Alaska Pacific University. After working as an ecotourism guide on Prince William Sound, Ben built a career in public and government affairs with the Pebble Project, served as Campaign Manager for Senator Dan Sullivan, then as a Senior Policy Advisor on hunting, fishing and public access to Governor Sean Parnell; he later managed approximately 640,000 acres of private lands on behalf of CIRI. Ben is a Fellow of the National Conservation Leadership Institute and an Alaska Salmon Fellow. Shannon Martin  Office and Events Manager Shannon s the first to admit that she has three passions: her family, fishing, and home brewing. She joined KRSA in April of 2019, after securing funding for new playground equipment and providing leadership of the Soldotna Elementary School PTO. Shannon fishes the Kenai Peninsula year-round with her husband and three children, and loves catching steelhead on her fly rod at secret spots across the state! Natalie Casebeer  Event and Membership Coordinator Natalie joined KRSA in July 2017 as the Event Coordinator. Before joining KRSA, she worked for the Peninsula Clarion as a Graphic Designer for 17 years. She was born and raised on the Kenai Peninsula. Natalie and her husband, Aaron, have been married for 26 years, they have two sons and two grandsons and many family members who live on the Kenai Peninsula. Sarah Douthit  (Seasonal) Auction  &  Banquet Coordinator Sarah is an event planner and avid organizer. She s been planning events for more than six years as well as helping local business with organization and administration. She s worked as a bookkeeper and tax preparer for more than 10 years. She and her husband Alex also own and operate a driving-instruction school. Sarah is a busy mom of four boys and has lived on the Kenai Peninsula for more than 25 years. Kevin Delaney  Fishery Biologist Consultant Kevin Delaney is a fishery biologist consultant with Kenai River Sportfishing Association. Delaney retired in 2000 after 25 years with the Alaska Department of Fish  &  Game. The last position he held there was Director of the Division of Sportfish. Delaney was an active member of the Alaska Sustainable Salmon Fish Policy Committee and he has worked on various committees with the International Association of Fish  &  Wildlife Agencies and the Western Association of Fish  &  Wildlife Agencies. He enjoys spending time with his wife, Karen, who shares his love of fishing. Delaney also enjoys training horses, hiking, snow machining and working on the family cabin in Talkeetna. Ray Beamesderfer  Fish Science Consultant Ray has worked as a contract fish scientist for KRSA since 2001. He is the President of Fish Science Solutions and works on a variety of fish conservation and recovery, fishery management and sustainability, hatchery evaluation, and biological assessment projects for state and federal agencies, Indian tribes, private industry and non-governmental organizations from Alaska to California. He previously worked for 17 years with the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife, and holds bachelor’s and master’s degrees in fish biology and fisheries resources from the University of California at Davis and the University of Idaho. STAY CONNECTED KENAI RIVER SPORTFISHING ASSOCIATION 35093 KENAI SPUR HIGHWAY SOLDOTNA, AK 99669 907.262.8588 LATEST BLOG POSTS © KRSA 2019 