Golden Goblet, Monroeville - Restaurant Reviews, Photos  &  Phone Number - TripAdvisor If you call in a take-out order, please be 100% sure to check your order closely before you leave. The last time we phoned in an order, which was the last time we will ever order from this place, our order was not even close... More My old haunt from the early 80 ' s is still kicking.  This place always had good draft beer.  Not a foodie stop this time.  The staff is friendly and the place is clean. This place is famous for its fish sandwiches and wings---whole wings with the best hot sauce around.  It isn ' t a fancy place but it ' s no longer a dive.  It ' s more of a local bar where most everyone knows someone when they walk in.  If your... More There are many delicious menu items but they ' re most famous for their GIANT fish sandwich. The fish sandwich is also available in small and medium sizes. It is  battered and fried to perfection. The platter includes fries or onion rings and coleslaw. Prices are affordable... More Our fish sandwiches were large and   good. Not good enough to rave about. The hushpuppies were marvelous. The dining are is small , dingy and not well lighted. Service was adequate. We didn ' t frequent the bar because it was crowded with smokers. Decided to stop by for an early diner today after work after seeing the restaurant was near my hotel. I was pleasantly surprised to find this laid back establishment. The staff was fast and friendly and the food was great! Large portions! Once known for the  " biggest fish sandwich "  I was sad to receive two square fish patties on a small bun (looked like a fast food presentation).....not what I expected. The bill for two of these sandwiches and an order of fries was over $21. The... More This is our go-to place for fish sandwiches.  It is our preference to do take out as the dining area/bar is not non smoking.  That said, our meals do not taste like smoke, it ' s just our preference not to eat in a smoke filled enviornment. We have been here a few times for dinner, and like it well enough. Great fish sandwich- what they are famous for! Their food and drinks are decently priced. They have a dining section, and a separate bar with a lottery machine and slot machines... More We tried the fish and Mac n cheese. The fish was very good and you get a big piece. The mac n cheese was just ok. Other people in our party had the lobster mac n cheese which they said was delicious! This place isn ' t... More 