Shopping News Adelaide - BIMBO Online Shopping News Adelaide - BIMBO Online by  Bimbo Online  |  Shopping News Adelaide It’s time for you your family and your friends and pets to become the stars of your art. Instead of featuring other people in the art you hang from your walls why not feature you and yours. Bimbo has always been interested and promoted art for many years because of our interest in promoting artists we have developed a whole new concept for promoting art and artists. Currently there are heaps of different applications that can be used to stylize photos, but the problem is to use the apps well you need to have some artistic talent and lots of practice. We at Bimbo have sourced the best applications and have sourced the best local artists who specialize in the different applications. There are lots of different applications but we think we have found the best of them. To get the best out of your families photos click here  www.wohitsme.com.au by  Bimbo Online  |  Shopping News Adelaide 762mm x 1016mm This stunning mixed media piece is perfect for a living room space, hallway or even in a bedroom. Peta-Ann created this piece using acrylic and other mediums with antique textiles to celebrate movement of colour and design with unique originality. This piece captures the light of its surroundings and glistens in the sunlight. A beautiful and feminine piece, a beautiful gift for that special woman in your life. 609.6mm x 914.4mm  Epiphany is a rich and exotic blend of antique textiles from around the world that are combined with beautiful movements the decorated figures. The female forms capture an essence of infinity and limitless, expressing a timeless beauty that transcends age. 457.2mm x 609.6mm The perfect piece for a home office or living space, Carnival is a mixture of rich colors and textiles from all over the world.Peta- Ann collected these exquisite textiles from the Silk Road during her travels in India and China. 457.2mm x 330.2mm  Two Sisters is a smaller framed piece on Himalayan parchment. It expresses the utmost sophistication, an exquisite piece for an office space, bathroom or study. Peta-Ann’s artwork is widely appreciated due to its adaptability to suit different interiors, creating a beautiful space. These pieces make a beautiful gift for mothers, daughters, sisters or even that special woman in your life. Or, why not spoil yourself by purchasing a stunning piece for your home office or workplace. Adding a touch of sophistication and elegance to any space. by  Bimbo Online  |  Shopping News Adelaide Peter Day sent us in this awesome photo of a wire sculpture he bought from Bimbo in the late 80’s. He saw this piece when he was walking home one night from the Ex and decided he just had to have it. It now sits proudly in the entrance to his home and is one of the first things people see when they walk in. This wire artist had work featured in Bimbo throughout the 80’s but we can’t remember his name. If you have any idea, seriously, drop us a line. Peter Day purchased this wire head sculpture from Bimbo in the late 80 s. Tony Kellie bought this original wooden stool by local Adelaide artist Robin Turner. Robin created amazing sculptures from recycled native timbers. This one of a kind piece has become even better with age and is still one of Tony’s favourite purchases from Bimbo today. With the passing of Robin Turner a few years ago these pieces are now a tribute to an amazing Adelaide artist, who will be sorely missed by the art community and his fans. One of Tony Kellie s favourite gifts is a wooden stool by Adelaide artist Robin Turner. In keeping with tradition, Bimbo still stocks works by a range of amazingly talented Adelaide and Australian artists. New to the store, this stunning mixed media piece, by a local Adelaide Artist, is constructed from exquisite antique textiles. With a rich backstory, this piece is compiled of stunning textiles that the artist collected from the Silk Road during her travels in India and China. New mixed media piece by a local Adelaide artist has a rich history. by  Bimbo Online  |  Shopping News Adelaide Pete started with a great story, about how he had bought a bloody big wooden Balinese statue (of a Duck), with a revolving head that stood close to a metre tall! He bought it to get back into the good books with his then wife who subsequently split and took the duck. Simon Hackett’s favourite gift is a red kids chair in the shape of a hand which he gave to his granddaughter, who loves to sit in it and now her Dad, (his Son-In-Law) has now taken to repose in, all 6ft 3 inches of him. Simon Hackett loves this red hand chair he bought from Bimbo many years ago. On the way home the guys walked past Bimbo and dropped in to say G’day to CB alias Carol Bayer the proprietor and asked her what were some of her all-time favourite gifts. She said immediately said the artist -wire working welder who did some great stuff his sculptural wire stool which Cb still uses behind the counter to this day is featured below . CB couldn’t remember the wire artists name does anybody out there? Carol loves this stunning chair crafted by a local Adelaide artist. by  Bimbo Online  |  Shopping News Adelaide Don’t know what to get for a present, like to buy something is REALLY DIFFERENT and shows you care. Exclusive to BIMBO   Personalized Portraits by Ozzie Artists How about a personalized portrait? EXCLUSIVE to Bimbo we will arrange for an Australian artist to create a portrait of friend, lover, mum, dad even your pet. With just a photo our artists will create a portrait you will love. But HURRY   these are hand created   get in now. To pick a style that suits the recipient visit  www.portraitpaintersonline.com.au Sight, smell, friendly staff + cool tunes all come together to provide you with a unique shopping experience. MORE INFORMATION Secure online transactions for your peace of mind. If you want to pay by credit card, click on "Proceed to PayPal" and you will be given two options - pay via your PayPal Account or pay via credit card. For your convenience, we now also offer the Square Up credit card payment secure system. BIMBO Online   2019 - All Rights Reserved BIMBO Online - Website Design  &  SEO by SEOFast 