WebSMARTT Quick Launch Home > WebSMARTT Quick Launch >  WebSMARTT Quick Launch Once  Load Point of Sale Complete  has been installed at the site, you will have a shortcut on your desktop entitled WebSMARTT Quick Launch. When the site is paired and you get the data to the site, the Home Page and other links work. Double-click on this shortcut to open the 'Quick Launch Bar': The Quick Launch Toolbar remains on top of any other open application. The image of the button appears as the prominent image above the others as you hover over the Quick Launch buttons. Database Backup, Database Viewer and Script Utilities have been added to the WebSMARTT Quick Launch. Right-click on the WebSMARTT Quick Launch portion of the bar to select a utility. Backup Site Database Database Viewer (password protected) Script Utilities  Selecting the WebSMARTT Home Page button opens the Login page for entering the WebSMARTT program. Once you complete the Login page and confirm your default site, the  WebSMARTT Home page  opens.  Selecting the WebSMARTT Help button opens the online help topics for WebSMARTT. From this area, you can locate a specific WebSMARTT topic of your choice.  Selecting the Start Point of Sale button starts a meal session. The first time you use Point of Sale, you will have to enter setup information. Tip:  For more information refer to the Point of Sale section on the  Manager Daily Routine topic .  Selecting the Report Batch Viewer button opens the  Report Batch Viewer  screen, where you generate reports by batch.  Selecting the Heartland School Solutions Support Page button opens directly to the Technician Connection web page. Here you will be prompted to enter your name, District Name and the select the name of the Heartland School Solutions Representative assisting you. Once you have entered that information, click the yellow button. Note:  If your representative gives you a Service Request #, please enter it as well.  Selecting the Heartland School Solutions Home Page button opens the Heartland School Solutions Home page on the website. Here, you find general information on the company and current information on ideas we are working on. Selecting the SLIDE button opens the SLIDE biometric software.  Selecting the Close WebSMARTT Toolbar button closes the WebSMARTT Quick Launch Toolbar. WebSMARTT will time out after 20 minutes, so be sure to save your work before leaving the workstation idle. Home > WebSMARTT Quick Launch >  WebSMARTT Quick Launch Heartland  School Solutions 1620  W Fountainhead Pwky Ste 501 Tempe,  AZ 85282  (800)  423-2113  All  Rights Reserved © Heartland School Solutions, 2014 