About Us   Sri Lanka Thriposha Ltd Follow Us Since Est. 1973 The Thriposha program was initiated in Sri Lanka in the year 1973 with the assistance of CARE organisation in the USA. Having imported as a finished food from the USA, it was packed and distributed in Sri Lanka. This program was undertaken in 1976 by the Ministry of Health with the financial assistance of the CARE institution. Thereafter, the Ceylon Tobacco Company was selected for its management. The Ministry of Health reserved for itself the tasks of supervision and quality inspection etc., of the Thriposha program. This institution which was administered under a private Company, was taken over to the Ministry of Health as a fully government owned Company in the name of Sri Lanka Thriposha Ltd., with effect from 17-09-2010 under the Companies Act no. 07 of 2007 and under the registration no. PB/3873. The Sri Lanka Thriposha Ltd. is situated at P.O.Box 17, Negombo Road, Kapuwatta, Ja-ela. To create a non malnutritious To create a non malnutritious, prosperous, proud and healthy nation out of Sri Lankan general public. To empower the supplier forces that strengthen To empower the supplier forces that strengthen the local farmer with the concurrence of the General Treasury and with the assistance and supervision of the Ministry of Health for the future of a prosperous, grand and quality Sri Lankan nation in our motherland, to produce the Thriposha supplementary food rich with high, proper and standard nutrients and pack and finish and to continuously supply and provide and grant it for the wellbeing of the beneficiaries seeking good health and to be a grand family of Thriposha achieving victories in the nation and in the world through its massive operation, dedicated with the nobility in the pride of service and to be the first and only local company with an excellent dedication for maintenance of a healthy nation of Sri Lanka which meets the universal health index targets. A Board of Directors consisting of 07 members A Board of Directors consisting of 07 members has been appointed for this entity functioning under the supervision of the Ministry of Health. The Board of Directors is responsible for taking policy decisions. The routine administrative and operational duties in the entity are performed by a Management Level permanent staff. The total approved cadre including the Managers is 190 of which the constitution is as follows. The Sri Lanka Thriposha Ltd. performs a prominent role under the supervision of the Ministry of Health in the government sponsored program for eliminating malnutrition from Sri Lanka. Thriposha additional food will be issued free of charge to all beneficiaries including all pregnant mothers and all breast feeding mothers ( Up to completion of 06 months for the infant) who are undergoing nutritious requirements. We Are Expert In Work P.O Box 17, Negombo Road, Kapuwatta, Ja-Ela 0112 - 236588 or 0112 - 237418 or 0112 - 233451 thriposha@gmail.com Copyright © 2016. The Sri Lanka Thriposha Ltd. 