Freddys in Orland Park, IL with Reviews - YP.com What are you looking for? YP - The Real Yellow Pages SM  - helps you find the right local businesses to meet your specific needs. Search results are sorted by a combination of factors to give you a set of choices in response to your search criteria. These factors are similar to those you might use to determine which business to select from a local Yellow Pages directory, including proximity to where you are searching, expertise in the specific services or products you need, and comprehensive business information to help evaluate a business's suitability for you. “Preferred” listings, or those with featured website buttons, indicate YP advertisers who directly provide information about their businesses to help consumers make more informed buying decisions. YP advertisers receive higher placement in the default ordering of search results and may appear in sponsored listings on the top, side, or bottom of the search results page. From Business: Freddys Auto Body of Brookfield, IL offers professional car restoration services. We have experienced and knowledgeable craftsmen that can repair, restore or… Can not wait to taste their beef sandwiches my daugher said this place has mouth watering beef sandwiches so I gave them 5 stars After having tasted the delicious lasagne from Feddy's at my friend house one dinner, I decided to check this place out the other day for a late… I've been coming to this place for the longest time and i can honestly say i can never get enough of their pizza! This will be my fourth  visit went for lunch the first time.  Went back with party of eight, next time party of twelve. Each time everybody raved… We found 29 results Didn't find what you were looking for?  Please help others by helping us do better. 8508 S Cicero Ave, Burbank, IL 60459  2019 Thryv, Inc. All rights reserved. YP, the YP logo and all other YP marks contained herein are trademarks of YP LLC and/or YP affiliated companies. All other marks contained herein are the property of their respective owners. 