Protect your phone from malware attack | Newsmobile Malware is a software that is intentionally planted to damage a computer or a mobile phone. Anybody can be the victim of malware attack. Here is a list on how you can protect your mobile phones from malware attacks and other viruses. If you get the notification of a new update on your mobile software, do not ignore it or delay it. The best way to stay virus-free is to keep your operating system up-to-date and working in best condition. Consider your phone like a home, it needs to be cleared regularly to stop viruses from growing in it. Clear your trash regularly and throw away any software that you are not using anymore. A mobile is personal to every user. We consider it to be our time and whatever we do in it our business. To protect this personal space you should double check the sited you are visiting. It s best to let the phone browser decide if the entered site is good for its health or not. While online storage is a huge blessing but, it can easily become the gateway for malware and viruses to attack your personal information. Never keep anything personal or any sensitive data on online cloud, outlook or one drive etc. Like you are aware of what you are uploading, you should also be aware of what you are downloading from the Internet. Playstore and Appstore have authorized companies that upload malware free apps. Anything you need, you should only download from these stores. Always check and think before downloading any app. As much as we enjoy free wi-fi or hotspot so does malware. It is very easy to hack into peoples personal devices like mobile phones when connected to a public wi-fi. So, if you don’t want to pay a huge price, just pay a little and use your personal internet always. Well obviously you have to protect your phone even after so many cautious steps because humans make mistakes, so trusted anti-malware software is a must for the system. Even after so many precautions if your device gets attacked by malware just crash it throw it in the dustbin and buy another one. JUST KIDDING! Visit a phone doctor, the trusted one and ask him to fix it for you. Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 