Why is iron the most stable element? - Quora a vXkA d kD wvrf b YQA y ifZQR H D AcHb u sSkj c ZW k eKH D QYq u C c NVAr k NHwGD G RcZ o Spz There are two types of stability an atom can posses, chemical and nuclear. Stability basically has to do with minimizing potential energy due the positions of objects. Just like it’s stable for a pendulum to be at the bottom of its swing and unstable for it to be at a higher position due to gravitational forces. For chemical stability it is the arrangement of electrons and electromagnetic forces that determines stability and full valence shells are stable and unfilled valence shells are unstable. The noble gases are the most stable elements chemically with Helium being even more stable than ... There are two types of stability an atom can posses, chemical and nuclear. Stability basically has to do with minimizing potential energy due the positions of objects. Just like it’s stable for a pendulum to be at the bottom of its swing and unstable for it to be at a higher position due to gravitational forces. For chemical stability it is the arrangement of electrons and electromagnetic forces that determines stability and full valence shells are stable and unfilled valence shells are unstable. The noble gases are the most stable elements chemically with Helium being even more stable than the others. For nuclear stability, it is the arrangement of the protons and neutrons and the strong nuclear force which determines the potential energy of the system. Specific isotopes of iron and nickel have the lowest potential energies in their arrangements of protons and neutrons and are therefore the most stable elements with respect to nuclear reactions. That being said, virtually all the elements you run into on a daily basis are so stable that the difference between them and iron is not going to be noticeable in any significant way. A sometimes confusing point though, is that nuclear and chemical stability are unrelated. Iron is quite unstable, chemically, and radon is quite unstable from a nuclear perspective. s A p oi o kuVv n JyFA s ZzHbc o kNBYd r hlhEV e hDGC d hB Squ b D y TEN uq S zTb c XFdHE r rSD i brXUk b J o YrdIL l XI T P g u M b EoCn l H i Op s NT h x i f n rI g MbsH 742 Views 2,205 Views 1,787 Views 58,308 Views 2,948 Views 486 Views 2,767 Views 11,943 Views 2,471 Views 2,031 Views 4,187 Views 58,238 Views 5,854 Views 145,612 Views 36,707 Views 