The 10 best family hotels in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam | Booking.com Loading Pick your preferred language. We speak English and 42 other languages. View vacation packages to District 3, Ho Chi Minh City Orchids Saigon Hotel has a restaurant, fitness centre, a bar and shared lounge in Ho Chi Minh City. Attractively set in the District 3 district, this hotel offers a garden, as well as an indoor pool. The accommodation features a 24-hour front desk, room service and organising tours for guests. All was great. Very comfortable spacious rooms, we required quiet room and we got it so it perfectly met our needs. Good location, walking distance to main attractions, welcoming staff, great choice for breakfast. Perfect pool. Highly recommended. District 1, Ho Chi Minh City Boasting an outdoor swimming pool, fitness centre and views of city, Huong Sen Annex Hotel is situated in Ho Chi Minh City, 400 metres from Saigon Opera House. Among the facilities of this property are a restaurant, a 24-hour front desk and room service, along with free WiFi throughout the property. The hotel features a sauna and luggage storage space. We loved it here, the staff were incredibly helpful and kind, it was way beyond what I would expect from a 3* hotel, ww felt more valued than many 5* hotels we ' ve stayed in, thanks you! P.S we don ' t work for the Hotel:-) District 1, Ho Chi Minh City Featuring classic contemporary interiors and designs, The Myst Dong Khoi offers a sophisticated accommodation in the heart of District 1 in Ho Chi Minh City. Guests can enjoy a relaxing dip in the rooftop pool, or simply enjoy views of city by the Saigon River from the pool deck. Everything, the whole experience was great. District 1, Ho Chi Minh City Located 300 metres from Tao Dan Park in District 1, Fusion Suites Saigon offers contemporary accommodation in the vibrant Ho Chi Minh City. The hotel operates a 24-hour front desk , a fitness centre, and an on-site restaurant. Value for money ratio is just perfect. District 1, Ho Chi Minh City Conveniently located in District 1, Liberty Central Saigon City Point features a rooftop outdoor pool, fitness centre, barber shop and a beauty salon. Operating a 24-hour front desk, it offers luxurious and modern rooms with free WiFi access. The spa and location was great District 1, Ho Chi Minh City Nestled in the heart of Ho Chi Minh City, Silverland Charner Hotel is a stylish accommodation inspired by the tea houses of the French colonial era. Conveniently located within a short stroll from the city's vibrant shopping and entertainment area, the historic Opera House and Notre-Dame Cathedral are just a 5-minute walk from the hotel. The property has an in-house restaurant and provides free WiFi access in all areas. We liked everything, great location in city, all staff happy to help from opening doors, holding umbrellas in the rain to get into taxi, to the service of breakfast and afternoon tea.  Afternoon tea had a different duo playing stringed instruments.  Rooms are spacious, shower was amazing as was the bed. Rooms cleaned everyday.  Pool was nice, sauna a treat and bar staff super friendly. Couldn’t fault it, was an awesome stay. District 1, Ho Chi Minh City Situated on Thu Khoa Huan St, Silverland Yen Hotel is just a 6-minute walk to Ben Thanh Market. The hotel boasts a warm-water outdoor hot tub and sauna/steam bath facility. Guests can enjoy complimentary afternoon high tea every day. Free parking is offered. The hotel is right in the middle of district 1, perfect location for visiting all the main tourist attractions in HCM. The hotel itself is immaculate, perfect conditions and super clean. Still, the real asset of this place is its staff. They pampered us from the day we stepped in to the last minute: they gave us a very nice surprise during the afternoon tea for my birthday, sent us little gifts in the evening and made sure we were always looked after. You can often find good offers at the bar, and we found the computer and printer in the lobby very convenient. District 1, Ho Chi Minh City Conveniently located in the business and shopping district, Somerset Ho Chi Minh City offers resort-style serviced apartments with free high-speed internet access and an outdoor swimming pool with spa tub. Nice place and helpful  &  family friendly staff. District 1, Ho Chi Minh City Situated in Ho Chi Minh City in the Ho Chi Minh Municipality region, with Tan Dinh Market and Diamond Plaza nearby, Estelle Boutique Apartment - Pink Cathedral features accommodation with free WiFi and free private parking. - I like the cosy and quiet feeling the place brought to me. - The staff are always welcoming and helpful. I forgot a pack at the hotel when checking out and they made sure to contact and gave it back to me. - The location is central, even though ~1.7km away from the main centre but it is still District 1 with lots of shopping and food choices in walking distance. Ask the staff, they ' ll tell you all the fun around the hotel - The room is spacious enough for 2 people, there is an elevator so if you have big luggage you should be fine. - It ' s quite clean. The facilities are well-maintained. - It ' s worth the price. Affordable hotel compared to many of its type around district 1 but the quality is good- Totally recommended. I ' d be happy to visit again. Binh Thanh, Ho Chi Minh City Located 2.5 km from Tan Dinh Market, Cozrum Homes - Premier Residence provides accommodation with free WiFi and free private parking. ><br >Diamond Plaza is 2.7 km from the apartment, while Landmark 81 is 2.7 km away. The nearest airport is Tan Son Nhat International Airport, 14 km from Cozrum Homes - Premier Residence. Lovely clean modern apartments in Ho Chi Minh city Family Hotel in Ho Chi Minh City Popular with guests booking family hotels in Ho Chi Minh City Family Hotel in Ho Chi Minh City Popular with guests booking family hotels in Ho Chi Minh City Family Hotel in Ho Chi Minh City Popular with guests booking family hotels in Ho Chi Minh City Family Hotel in Ho Chi Minh City Popular with guests booking family hotels in Ho Chi Minh City Family Hotel in Ho Chi Minh City Popular with guests booking family hotels in Ho Chi Minh City Family Hotel in Ho Chi Minh City Popular with guests booking family hotels in Ho Chi Minh City On average, a family hotel in Ho Chi Minh City costs $76 per night (based on Booking.com prices). The average price of a family hotel in Ho Chi Minh City this evening is $60 (based on Booking.com prices). Travelers who stayed in Ho Chi Minh City near Tan Son Nhat International Airport (SGN) had good things to say about  Ibis Saigon Airport ,  David Homes , and  Private room near Airport . Silverland Yen Hotel ,  Silverland Charner Hotel , and  Fusion Suites Saigon  are some of our most popular family hotels in Ho Chi Minh City. The average price per night for a family hotel in Ho Chi Minh City this weekend is $61 (based on Booking.com prices). Some of the best family hotels in Ho Chi Minh City near Ben Thanh Market include  The Hammock Hotel Fine Arts Museum ,  Silverland Yen Hotel , and  Christina's Saigon - Beatty's City Oasis . District 1 ,  Downtown Ho Chi Minh City , and  Bach Dang Riverside  are popular with other travelers visiting Ho Chi Minh City. For family hotels in Ho Chi Minh City serving highly-rated breakfasts, try  Ben Thanh Retreats Hotel ,  Boholand Hostel and Cafe , and  Maison Royale . 9.3 Awesome 44 reviews I stayed for 3 night with a small kid, La Casita Saigon was located in the residential area of expats, street was not so busy and we could walk around without stress, nearby cafes and restaurants were child friendly, we spent our time in the  swimming pool or nearby cafe with a fantastic play space. I do recommend traveler with small children. 9.1 Awesome 772 reviews Great location, walking distance or short can ride to all main locations. Huge rooms and beautiful lobby. Great kids play area and family friendly pool.  8.9 Excellent 701 reviews The one bedroom apartment was perfect for my family (husband and toddler) as there was enough space for baby cot and use of kitchen and washing machine. Everything was new and clean. 8.6 Excellent 274 reviews Breakfast spread and quality was very good. They had good variety for my whole family [from 2 year old baby to adults]. Location was very central to attractions like War Remnant museum, Notre Dame Cathedral etc. There was an excellent child play area (Tree House) near hotel, where my kids played a lot.Also attitude of staff in restaurant was good. 8.3 Very Good 4,550 reviews Excellent team spirit,  attentive restaurant staff who strive to deliver a good standard of care.  Eggs cooked to perfection. Davis is an excellent restaurant manager and Jacky interacts with all customers,  seeking feedback to improve performance.  Super view from 14th floor restaurant and Skybar.  Family friendly pool and kids friendly internal play and pool area on ground floor.  Large rooms with timely maid service.  9.1 Awesome 621 reviews We were here with our family of four with two teenagers and started our Vietnam journey here.The location is great. Close to the sights and backpacker area but very quiet. Clean, comfy and modern rooms with great atmosphere. Breakfast has wide variety of options to choose from and is good! I had Vietnamese pho while my husband and the kids had bacon and eggs sandwiches.Staff is very friendly, helpful and talk good English. Definitely a recommendation! 8.3 Very Good 4,550 reviews Really excellent location with great facilities for the whole family. The children ' s swimming pool with slides was well used by the kids. Staff were excellent and very helpful, especially the porters - Ben and Antony. And as for the bar on the roof at night - wow! 7.3 Good 600 reviews Family room was big - we were very happyCounter staff was helpfulHotel was very near to the market and lots of halal restaurants aroundVery quiet at night - suitable for family with infant / toddlers Refer a property List your property Booking.com is part of Booking Holdings Inc., the world leader in online travel and related services. We have more than 70 million property reviews, all from  real, verified guests . 1 The only way to leave a review is to first make a booking. That's how we know our reviews come from real guests who have stayed at the property. 2 When guests stay at the property, they check out how quiet the room is, how friendly the staff is, and more. 3 After their trip, guests tell us about their stay. We check for naughty words and verify the authenticity of all guest reviews before adding them to our site. If you booked through us and want to leave a review, please sign in first. Check-in date Check-out date 