So Sad: Big Ang’s Estranged Husband Neil Murphy Breaks Down At Funeral But Her Family Says He Wasn’t Supportive | Bossip Angel  Big Ang  Raiola  recently passed away from from stage-4 throat and brain cancer. According to  TMZ  reports, Ang s estranged husband Neil Murphy broke down in tears at her funeral.  As we reported, Big Ang dumped Neil Murphy for being unsupportive during her cancer battle. Whether he s there for love or forgiveness   Murphy got extremely emotional.   It seems there s a divide in the family, as evidenced by the video. There are 2 camps, and one doesn t support Murphy. TMZ Omarion Finally Breaks Silence On Apryl  &  Fizz Relationship —… What’s Your Return Policy? Fetty Wap’s Wife Of 4 Months… Fans Are Dragging Lil Kim For Rehashing Naturi Naughton ‘Notorious’… Elevate Your Whiskey Drinking Experience With These Diamond-Inspired… Fizzled Out: Fizz Realizing He Has NO Career Without Omarion Is The… So Sad: Cam’ron’s Girlfriend Tawasa Harris Passes Away This Video Of Bow Wow Putting His Paws All Over Tommie Lee’s Lower… Princess Love Asks For Divorce From Ray J…On Instagram…Internet… Bossip Comment Policy >Please read our <a href="https: /ionedigital.com/privacy/">Comment Policy  before commenting. No notifications yet. But Niel didn ' t put Ang ' s pic up of her last days in the hospital, bald, and helpless on the net though! her own niece did... so miss me with these claims! I don ' t think Ang and her family were fine with the death bed photo. It was her own personal PSA to encourage others to stop smoking. The stories this past weekend regarding her services were deplorable.  Karen and Brittany were banned for being  " rats " , twitter wars over who was genuine with grieving (Drita, Carla  &  Renee), who her real bff was (Drita or the Graziano ' s aunt)? People took things too far and Ang would be saddened, may she genuinely rest in peace. Karen should have stayed away she made it about her she wanted to be there but the family didn ' t want Karen ' s drama but she went anyway says a lot about her....... Drita bringing body guards to the wake they both need to get over themselves.......... It was disrespectful for K to show up Angie wasn ' t her mommy she knew her for 5 minutes go away with the drama..... Thank you! I think this was the case too. She emasculated him in that therapy show and he took it because he knew he wasn ' t the bread winner but he showed he loved her. And, cancer brings out the worst in people sometimes... I had a friend who ' s last days were really bad and she was so hateful because of the pain she was going through! Its sad all around for everyone. Oh I agree, if I were them I would ' ve asked to say a private goodbye for my safety. I would ' ve been scared out of my mind wondering when some stranger would approach with a vendetta.  Thanks, but no thanks. Yes, I prefer to remember how they were on Couples Therapy,  she did apologize to him and they seemed very happy. Those co-stars though, Ang would ' ve been angry with each one except for Karen. It was for her safety to stay away. I read in the daily news yesterday that Karen and Brittany weren ' t allowed to attend because their fathers may have been responsible for sending some of the mourners relatives/friends to jail or have been responsible for the murders of some of the mourners family/friends. If thats the case it may have been best for them not to attend just to keep the peace. You know funerals can bring out the best  &  worst in people. I remember Ang saying Neil was there throughout her sickness, very supportive. I think she was hating his guts at the end b/c of money, not for lack of emotional support. The way she spoke to him though? Maybe that pushed him away. cuZ he miss 1 appointment .. sMh .. SIP lovely biG ang ðŸ‘¼ Rest in paradise Big Ang... Her declined health and death was brought on by years of smoking cigarettes and they ' re at the funeral puffing away. I guess they didn ' t listen or see her in her last days to want to stop. I never enjoyed it. I started smoking at 32. 20 I think. Maybe 21 How many cigs in a pack... 8 or 10? That ' s an expensive habit! That ' s fine for the two people you know, I repeat not everyone can do the same. I dont know dont smoke thank god Good for you! My dad did once I was born after smoking for 18 years, and so did my boyfriend 2 years ago after smoking for 30 years. Just quit cold turkey, nothing has more power over you than your own mind. Not everything has to be easy, but everything is doable. WHAT?? R U serious?! How do people afford it? TU I ' ll be praying with you. My neighbor had it. She was like her 60s. MY nephew lived in NYC  &  smoked.  A pack a day. Yea you would be beyond broke. In NY,  theyre $13 a pack. Smh.  See people do it without even realizing their doing it. I wish my mom felt like you I quit cold turkey.   I felt weird for 3 days but after that, OK. Like I said, I never really enjoyed it. It was stupid. LOL, you gave up the ciggs!!! That ' s what I referring too, I don ' t know you but I love to see these types of comments...You should be so proud!! I didn ' t sneeze.................. Congrats! That is a great accomplishment! Bless you!! Me too, I wish my mom would quit, I ' m sure it will be the culprit in her final days..I always pray for her and others and that God removes the taste from them, it ' s horrifying to watch your loved one succumb to such a disease... I ' m an idiot!  I used to hang out at bars  &  everybody else was smokin.  So Stupid! I ' m glad you stopped. But why did you ever start? Especially at such a mature age? My Doctor said I had early signs of Pulmonary Heart Lung Disease.  My Mom had just died from that.  So I quit.  I never enjoyed it anyway.  Maybe if I was drinking, or 1st thing in the morning with a cup of coffee.  Plus the cost.  I think packs were about $3.50 when I quit. I didn ' t start smokin until I was 32.  I quit at 39. I never enjoyed it.  It was stupid. Congrats. ðŸ‘ ðŸ‘ ðŸ‘ , good for you! I did! I quit 20 years ago! I ' m so grateful I never picked up that habit! I hear it ' s really hard to break. Most people can ' t stop smoking cold turkey, just as Ang didn ' t.  After her throat cancer Ang continued to smoke cigarettes on Couples Therapy like nothing had happened, this season on Mobwives she started to use ecigs. To each his or her own I guess. 