Library Display Cases | Holyoke Community College Keyword: Keyword: HCC Library welcomes the opportunity to allow departments and groups from the college community to use the library ' s display cases.  Got a question? Need help finding a resource? HCC librarians are here to help. Ask a Librarian Schedule of Displays Request to use one of the cases.  (sign in with HCC e-mail required) DISPLAY GUIDELINES  HCC Library welcomes the opportunity to allow departments and groups from the college community to use the library's display cases. Space is provided for displays of an educational, cultural, intellectual, charitable or historical nature, and for exhibiting works of art. Display areas may also be used for materials from the Library's collection or to publicize library services, collections, or activities. Exhibit Policy and Purpose Exhibit areas are available on an equitable basis regardless of the beliefs or affiliations of individuals or groups requesting their use. The Library endeavors to present a broad spectrum of opinion and viewpoints. The Library does not endorse content nor imply agreement or disagreement with beliefs or viewpoints expressed in the exhibits or displays. The Library does not accept responsibility for ensuring that all points of view are represented in any single display. Limitations Displays should be appropriate in material, form, and content for the academic community. For example, the Library discourages material containing images that include significant elements of sexually explicit imagery or graphic depictions of violence. In general, the Library does not accept exhibits or displays of a purely commercial nature, unless they have a special educational, informational, or cultural value to the college community.  If the exhibit contains elements that may be of concern under this policy, the exhibitor should discuss it with the Library Dean or her representative in advance of the installation date. Exhibit Guidelines Dimensions of the display cases:  lobby  and  hallway . 303 Homestead Ave., Holyoke, MA 01040 413.538.7000  Holyoke Community College 2019 Directory Contact Us SSTA - Payroll Self Service Emergency Alerts Employment Accessibility 