DT & Z - Sensory Devices Some of the most interesting technical innovations in this field canbe seen in the sensory devices used to gather information from the realworld. The purpose of these devices is to measure the actions of a person,often a performer, and to make the data available to a device that can respondintelligently to what is happening. In terms of commercially available devices, we have attempted to listthe best known and most readily available sensors here. For an exhaustivelist, see Axel Mulder's excellent  HumanMovement Tracking Technology  paper and its  addendum . This page is divided into three sections: There are two reasons that you may need to create your own sensory devices.The first strike against commercial sensors is probably their expense. Weare artists after all, and that means we're usually short on cash. The secondreason is that off-the-shelf objects may not measure the specific actionsthat you are looking for, or may not measure them in the way that you need.This section is designed to help you find the information you need to createsimple and relatively inexpensive interactive sensory systems. If you are a beginner, we strongly encourage you to start at Dan O'Sullivan'sincredible  PhysicalComputing  pages. This  " hands on guide for artists "  goes intogreat detail, from choosing sensors to soldering to interfacing them toa microcontroller. Next, we would like to list a few very simple ideas for beating off-the-shelfcomponents into submission for your own purposes. Many drum controllers (Roland Pad-80) and some drum machines (AlesisHR-16) have inputs for external triggers. These inputs can be connectedto piezo sensors, which respond to vibration or impact. You can purchasethese sensors at Radio Shack very inexpensively, and then hook these upto the inputs on the drum controller or drum machine. Once you have doneso, striking the piezo should generate midi note on / off messages. Becausethey are small and thin, the sensors can be attached to a number of surfaces(walls and floors), embedded in costumes, etc. There are a number of commercially available MIDI Fader Boxes, whichusually sport a number of knobs or sliders. Moving the slider causes somekind of MIDI information (often a continuous controller message) to be sentout of the box. It is fairly easy to crack open these boxes, disconnectthe existing faders and replace them with your own. This requires a bitof courage because it is possible to destroy the object in question if youare unskilled with a soldering iron, etc. The procedure is outlined below. There are a number of possible applications, but obvious choices includemeasuring the angle of joints, how a viewer is touching parts of an installation,etc. Note that we do not assume any responsibility for damage that occurswhen modifying devices in the way described below. If you are at all unsurehow to do the following procedure, either don't do it or find a knowledgeablefriend to help you! That's it. You should be able to turn on power to your device, and useyour new fader to generate MIDI in the same way in which the old fader did. Many artists have created their own sensory systems to suit their specificneeds. These creations range from the simplest hybrids of multiple off-the-shelfitems to systems that were created from the ground up. We have listed severalof the devices that we know of here, in the hopes that they may serve assource of ideas and inspiration. If there is an significant, non-commercially available system that wehave omitted here, please let us know. Because of the small number of creators making use of alternative controllers,many have come and gone. Still, you may find one of these items wanderingabout looking for a home so we felt it was important to mention some ofthese devices here. Sensors  |  InteractiveLanguages  |  Presentation Devices  |  Roll Your Own  |  DT & Z 