Great Manchester Run - Manchester, UK - 5/24/2020 - My BEST Runs - Worlds Best Road Races Admin  Race #  1279 Sunday May 24th, 2020 Manchester, UK Distance: Half Marathon   10K The Great Manchester Run, established in 2003, is an annual 10 kilometer run through Greater Manchester and is the largest 10K in Europe. Usually held in mid-May, it is the third-largest mass participation running event in the United Kingdom behind the Great North Run and the London Marathon. It is part of the Great Runs series of road races in the UK. It was formerly sponsored by Bupa (2003-2014) and Morrisons (2015). More than a quarter of a million people have taken part since 2003. Manchester not only boasts a population of over half a million people but it also offers visitors a wealth of activities to get involved with. You could try a bit of skiing or get your football fix, take a trip to some of the best shops in the UK, or maybe visit a museum or a brewery; there really is something for everyone. Race City Location Map -  zoom in zoom out big map displays approximate race location  Make A Comment The Great Manchester Run Half Marathon is a challenge that takes place annually and fills the vibrant streets of Manchester with thousands of runners and spectators. You can experience the buzzing atmosphere of the Portland Street start line before winding your through the heart of Manchester, past City s Etihad Stadium and finally finishing on Deans gate alongside the Beetham Tower. Sunday September 13th, 2020 Copenhagen, Denmark Distance: Half Marathon The Copenhagen Half Marathon was the first road race in Scandinavia and is one of the fastest half marathons in the world. The Copenhagen Half Marathon has been awarded with the International Association of Athletics Federation ' s (IAAF) most distinguished recognition - the IAAF Road Race Gold Label. Copenhagen Half Marathon was awarded the IAAF Road Race Bronze Label in January 2015 as the first race throughout the Nordic countries. In January 2016 the race obtained the IAAF Road Race Silver Label. After only two race editions, the Copenhagen Half Marathon has received the prestigious IAAF Gold Label, thus claiming a place among the very best races in the world. Friday February 14th, 2020 Ras Al Khaimah, AE Distance: Half Marathon The Ras Al Khaimah Half Marathon is the  ' world ' s fastest half marathon '  because if you take the top 10 fastest times recorded in RAK for men (and the same for women) and find the average (for each) and then do the same with the top ten fastest recorded times across all races (you can reference the IAAF for this), the faster average time for both men AND women will be in RAK; making it the world ' s FASTEST half marathon! Sunday October 25th, 2020 Valencia, Spain Distance: Half Marathon The Trinidad Alfonso Valencia Half Marathon has become one of the top running events in the world in its 25 th  year. For the second year running, Valencia is the fastest half marathon in the world. The race, organized by SD Correcaminos Athletics Club, celebrated its silver anniversary in style with record participation, record crowd numbers, Silver label IAAF accreditation and an atmosphere that you will not find anywhere else in the world. The Trinidad Alfonso Foundation is supporting the event in which many of the world’s best athletes and thousands of members of the public will run on a fast, unique course with the finishing line in the City of Arts and Sciences. The official name of the event will, therefore, be the IAAF/Trinidad Alfonso World Half Marathon Championships Valencia 2018 (or its corresponding name in Spanish, IAAF/Trinidad Alfonso Campeonato del Mundo de Media Maratón Valencia 2018). The Trinidad Alfonso Foundation, a non-profit foundation chaired by Juan Roig, has the aim of promoting values such as a strong work ethic through sports projects that take place in the Valencia region. Saturday March 28th, 2020 Prague, CZECH Distance: Half Marathon Start the RunCzech season with one of the biggest running events in the Central Europe! Every year the Sportisimo Prague Half Marathon excites spectators with performances of elite athletes breaking records. Enjoy a course with incomparable scenery in the heart of historic Prague that follows along the Vltava river and crisscrosses five beautiful bridges. Take in majestic views of the Charles Bridge, Prague Castle, the Rudolfinum Concert Hall, the National Theater, Vyšehrad Castle, and the Dancing House. If you are hoping to improve your time, the Sportisimo Prague Half Marathon offers fantastic speed; in 2012 it set the record as the fastest half marathon in the world! Half distance, full satisfaction! 