Haunted Places in Chautauqua, New York Facebook Twitter Email App Pinterest WhatsApp Print Gmail LinkedIn Google Bookmark AddThis Dewittville Cemetery, aka Poor House Cemetery, was a place to bury the poor folks who were housed here and passed away. The cemetery was in use between 1833 and 1918, although grave markers weren't used until 1869. The cemetery, barn and woods are said to be full of spirits who ... The Village Casino is a teen dance hall rumored to be haunted by the ghost of former teenaged chef Jordan Basile, who died in an explosion due to a malfunctioning oven. The ghost makes himself known by causing food to disappear and dancers to trip over nothing on the dance ... Hotel Lenhart, which dates back to 1880s, was rebuilt in 1890 after a fire and partially restored again in 1941, after another fire. An unknown haunt is said to reside in the building, opening and closing doors and tugging at the hair of visitors. The 1818 mansion that's now the McClurg Museum was originally built by James McClurg, son of a wealthy industrialist, as his stately private residence. It is said to be haunted by the ghost of a maid. Children on a fourth-grade field trip encountered the ghost, whom they described as a ... Tiny Hollenbeck Cemetery, with about 25 graves, hasn't been used since before the turn of the century. But legends abound about the place; folks have witnessed a headless horseman, a woman in white, ghostly babies crying, screams for help, knocking sounds, orbs, and tombstones that are said to have disappeared. ... Located in Lily Dale, NY the heart of the spiritualist movement, Maplewood Hotel is allegedly haunted by numerous spirits. An old hotel, it lacks some of the modern amenities travelers are used to, but it's apparently a good fit for the spook crowd.  Lily Dale Assembly is advertised to be the world’s largest center for spiritualism, offering lectures and other events and experiences. There are two places here that are believed to be haunted. One is the circa-1880s Assembly Hall, where there is an apparition of a bearded man with spectacles and Victorian ... According to rumors, the historic Lucille Ball Little Theatre has been the setting for many reports of ghostly apparitions and other paranormal phenomena. Jaquin's Pond is legendary in local ghost stories. The area is basically a swampy woodland with some narrow dirt roads through it and three bridges. All three bridges are said to be haunted by George, a former school bus driver who killed himself in despair when a little boy died ... SUNY Fredonia State College's Igoe Hall is said to be haunted by a former student named Jimmy Igoe, the hall's namesake, who drowned in Lake Erie on a fishing trip. He is said to slam doors, change TV channels, and tinker with lights, water faucets, and the elevators. The hall ... The Holy Cross Seminary Site was built by the Catholic Church's Passionist Movement in the early 1920s as a preparatory school. It closed in 1968 and by the mid-1980s it had been demolished. Ruins of the building and chapel and the driveway are all that remain. The ghost of a ... Gurnsey Hollow Cemetery has gravesites that date back to the 1800s and a tragic story to boot. Legend has it that long ago, a mentally handicapped girl, age 7, was stoned to death here by a gang of townsfolk. The reason for the witch hunt is unknown. Her body is ... The home that once occupied this area was said to be Erie's first haunted house, but now, only a field remains here. The Crowley family were rich, but plagued with tragedy including murder, illness, and untimely death. One of those who was murdered (by his wife) chose to torment her ... The ghost of a boy, named Tim (who died in his twenties, but appears as a child) and his dog (Dutch) have been seen along the trails. The pair would often hike there until Dutch died; Tim was later killed in a car accident but has been reported here. (Submitted ... J.N. Adam Mermorial Hospital was built as a tuberculosis hospital in 1909 and was used for that purpose until 1960, when it became a developmental disability center. It was abandoned in 1995, and is rumored to be haunted. The Friends of J. N. Adam Historic Landmark and Forest is a ... Before it was Nicky's Pub, this building served as a variety of business venues, even rumored to have mafia and prostitution connections. Nowadays, guests have reported a man in a long coat floating along the East Hallway. Guests have reported the common paranormal phenomenon (disembodied voices, electronic devices acting strangely, ... A girl named Clara fell down the staircase here; staff, visitors, and investigators believe that she is still here, even creating a beer dedicated to the beloved ghost!(Submitted by Chris Berglund) Legend has it that a fraternity costume party had a guest dressed as a cowboy who disappeared upstairs, then was responsible for poltergeist activity inside of the house. While that story is more debatable, students commonly report activity in Schuster Theatre. (Submitted by Chris Berglund) Members of the congregation believe a little girl named Katie still remains here. After her death in a car accident, members would report hearing a jovial laugh similar to Katie's, but also the sound of heavy objects moving around in empty rooms. The church organ has played by itself before ... At this 1826 former hotel building, a restuarant called Sugar 'n Spice occupies the first floor and the second and third floors are a history museum. Mysterious sounds have been reported here, such as voices calling your name when no one is there, and a baby crying. Items are moved ... There's blackened areas as if they have burned; some say that they have been scorched in Satanic rituals. Visitors feel as if they are being followed or like someone is standing behind them. (Submitted by Chris Berglund) General Anthony Wayne was initially buried here, but he was boiled down by his family before being transferred to a family plot. The cauldron itself is still located here and is said to rattle and make noises. A little girl is also said to be seen on the second floor ... Holland Road is nicknamed Pigman Road because of legends of the ghost of a deranged butcher that date back to the 1950s and '60s. Folks said when he was alive, he would put pigs' heads on stakes outside the shop, which was thought to have been located on Holland Road. ...  The library of the 1874 mansion is rumoured to be haunted. The apparition of a woman in an old-fashioned dress, perhaps the wife of the original owner, has appeared to visitors on several occasions.(Submitted by Callum Swift) On the dirt roads and wooded area behind Thomas Rd is where an axe murderer supposedly went on a rampage. One of the victims, a young woman, has been reported running and screaming as if she is being chased.(Submitted by Chris Berglund) A train derailment in 1867 sparked a fire which killed 49 people. Located right by Pigman Road, an energy draws people to the site, but also with the feeling of uneasiness. Many investigators stop by to see if they can catch a glimpse of the victims still present at this ... At this historic 1880s inn, the spirits have been known to crawl into bed with guests, dance in the ballroom to ghostly music, and open and close the doors. Even though the bridge was destroyed by an arsonist in 2008, activity has not stopped. EVP's are picked up; a little girl (believed to be a girl who fell from nearby cliffs) is thought to be one of the voices that is picked up as well other unrecognizable voices. Light ... Western House, which reports say is currently unoccupied, was a hotel and saloon turned into apartments and a restaurant. A ghost called Christine is said to reside here. Folks in the know claim she is the daughter of a former owner. St. Bonaventure University has more than its share of campus ghosts. Francis Hall, once called Christ the King Seminary, is said to be haunted by the spirits of deceased monks. Devereux Hall is famous for stories of its Black Mass. Legend has it that in the 1960s, the students gathered ...  Guests staying at this 1937 hotel have reported a spook haunting the upstairs rooms. The entity is believed to be a poltergeist, as it has been known to move objects around.(Submitted by Callum Swift) Witnesses at this Days Inn have been startled to see apparitions in the main building's kitchen and second-floor hallway. Spirits are said to tamper with the radio and lights, and unexplained footsteps and thumps have been heard from vacant rooms and in the hallways. Doors also have been known to ... At Old Fort Erie, American and British soldiers are said to roam, and battle sounds have been heard: cannon and musket fire, and commanders shouting orders to the troops. Battle scenes have been reenacted by ghosts, and visitors have been touched or pushed and heard an unpleasant voice say "Get ... Buffalo and Erie County Naval and Military Park includes the ship USS The Sullivans, named after five brothers, Albert, Francis, George, Joseph and Madison, who were lost during the battle of Guadalcanal in 1942. The USS The Sullivans is believed to be haunted by George Sullivan. Shea's Performing Arts Center opened in 1926 and is said to be haunted by its namesake, Mr. Michael Shea, who passed away in 1936. Not only does his ghost watch performances from his own special seat, witnesses say they have seen an apparition that matches his portrait. The ghost has ... The Kessler Administration Building at D'Youville College is said to have haunted third and fourth floors. Apparitions of children have been seen by many witnesses, perhaps stemming from the fact that the building used to house an orphanage. Also reported here have been unexplained lights, locked doors that open by ... Mysterious voices, inexplicably moving objects, eerie apparitions, strange sounds... all of these have been reported at the Allendale Theatre. Buffalo Central Terminal, featured on TVs Ghost Hunters, is said to be haunted by apparitions who seem to be waiting for a train and a vanishing black cat. The mid-1800s German Roman Catholic Orphan Asylum closed in 1956, and the buildings were used as a  preparatory seminary until the complex was sold to a private owner in the 1990s. It is said to be haunted by colorful orbs that show up in photos, unexplained noises, and sounds ... This 1895 was originally a church, then a 1950s funeral home. Now a museum of historical items, it also is open for ghost tours. It is believed to be home to the spirit of a young boy whose funeral was once held here, and to the ghosts of an older ... The Roycroft Pavilion, built in 1903, has been used as a theater for the Aurora Players since 1941. According to the pavilion's staff, the theater is haunted by the ghost of a middle-aged woman with dark hair. Footsteps, voices and apparitions are all heard and seen at the Roycroft Inn.  Some people believe that it is haunted by Elbert Hubbard who founded the Roycroft campus and building in an effort to encourage and promote local artistry.  Elbert died on the Lusitania when it was sunk ... At Canisius College's Christ the King Chapel, witness have described unexplained voices in the confessionals and the apparition of an old man in the basement. At Frisch Hall, a ghost of a student who committed suicide has been seen on the 5th floor, and on the 4th floor of Lyons ... Medaille College, formerly called the School for Boys, is said to be haunted by some of its former students. Ghost boys wearing 1940s clothing have been spotted sitting in classrooms. This century-old building was purchased in 2012 and is slated to be renovated into condominiums.  It was once a fashionable hotel, but fell into disrepair and was known as a hang-out for the homeless for several decades.  There are rumors about a "ghost bride" that some believe to ... Goodleburg Cemetery was an active cemetery from 1811 until 1927 and is believed to be haunted. Apparitions and other paranormal occurrences have been reported here, and in fact, on the night of June 21, 2003, a ghost hunter investigating the cemetery was hit by a car and killed. According to ... Several ghosts are said to haunt this hotel including a ghost bride who allegedly died in a fire, a young child who died after falling down the stairs, and even a mad butcher who was dismembered in the kitchen.  If you are looking for a haunted room, the Elizabeth's ... Ralph Crossmire, executed for murdering his mother, haunts his former cell. People who occupied it after his death would report seeing him. Now, as a museum, guests and employees report that Crossmire is more of a prankster than a threat. (Submitted by Chris Berglund) At Elmlawn Cemetery, reports say some drivers have seen orbs and lights when passing by between midnight and 3 a.m. One of the ghostly legends told about the church here is of a young newlywed bride who long ago was run over and killed by another carriage as she was ... This historic hotel is not your average lodging place. Yes, you can spend the night for a fee, but as they will tell you, you won't sleep. The paranormal activity is said to be rich here, because some guests checked in but did not check out. Facebook Twitter Email App Pinterest WhatsApp Print Gmail LinkedIn Google Bookmark AddThis Cemeteries near Chautauqua, NY Find museums in Chautauqua, NY 