Lifeline USA Power Push-Up Plus review, and free giveaway. | Monroe Real Training - Madison, Wisconsin Personal Trainer Kevin and Connie Monroe PO Box 70820, Madison, WI 53707 Email Us The push-up is a staple in many workout routines and perhaps one of the best forms of body-weight exercises. It targets the arms, back, chest and abdominal muscles. However there isn’t an efficient or an easy way of making push-ups progressively more challenging. I tried doing different forms of push-ups such as wide grip, close grip, clapping between individual push-ups, as well as trying to increase the amount that I did   this eventually started to feel more like an endurance workout, rather than muscle building (which was my primary goal). I knew the Lifeline USA product line often seemed to find ways to enhance core exercises. Their  Chest Expander  was an improvement of the steel version; their  Power Wheel  was an improvement of the standard ab wheel and they produced portable handles called the  Power-Up Chin-Up  so that you could do pull-ups without the need of a pull-up bar. I was delighted to discover that Lifeline USA had invented an easy and efficient method of adding a form of progressive overload to push-ups called the  Power Push-Up Plus . This ingenious design consisted of a soft yet hard-wearing back pad which could be adjusted up to 24 levels, and an attachment for each hand that incorporated one of their popular rubber resistance on each side. When doing a push-up, I was no longer only pushing against my own weight, now there was the additional challenge of up to 80lbs of changeable rubber resistance. I found that even the smallest rated band added a great test of strength and stamina, and in the unlikely event that this ever became too easy, you could exchange them for a thicker band in a matter of seconds. Another benefit of this tool was that it allowed for additional routines such as bent over rows, chest pulls, or perhaps a boxer or martial artist could easily use this to increase their punching strength (shadow boxing). The Power Push-Up Plus had transformed the standard push-up into a dynamic one. We are giving one lucky reader a chance to win your very own Lifeline USA Power Push-Up Plus. In our free giveaway – all you have to do is share this article on social media and then show us where it’s featured  here  so it could be your Facebook page, Twitter, whatever you chose, and you’ll be entered in our free draw. If your name is picked (at random) you will win your very own Lifeline USA Power Push-Up Plus. The free giveaway begins Monday June 11th 2018 and ends Monday June 25 2018 (so no more will be added to the list after that date!) Good luck!!! Michael Miller is self-taught in areas of health, philosophy and nutrition.  He studied at West Thames College UK and was awarded Distinction (Higher National Diploma) in Business and I.T. He has studied Counseling skills and accomplished 100% in the final exam.  It was here that he discovered his zeal for writing and philosophy, and coupled with his enthusiasm for fitness, health and functional strength training, he set out to share this philosophy with the world.  Knowledge and self-improvement are the foundation of his life and he hopes you will benefit from all that he has discovered on this exciting journey. Terms of Service  |  Privacy Policy   | Maintained by  JenGraph Designs 