What Is A Round Robin In Basketball Betting And How To Bet One A Recognized Leader And Trusted Name In Sports Handicapping Since 1971 One E-mail A Week Is All You Need! Our weekly newsletter is loaded with exclusive free picks,insight and advice from our expert handicappers What Is A Round Robin In Basketball Betting And How To Bet One by Doc's Sports - 10/10/2014 A  " round robin "  is a simple way to betting multiple  parlays  all at one time, and this is a type of bet that can be done with basketball, either college or NBA. You can create a round robin in basketball by selecting anywhere from three to eight teams that you want to include in this wager. Once the teams are all selected, the bettor can choose to create combinations of parlays between two to six teams. The calculation for the number of bets you will place depends on the total number of teams you initially select for this round robin. Really, the round robin is just a shortcut offered by  sportsbooks  - you can make bets in bulk instead of having to make each bet separately. Books are happy to make it easier for their customers to make bets that all but guarantee the books long-term profit. Time for an example. Let s say it s a busy day of NBA action and there are three teams that stand out for you - the Knicks, Raptors and Hornets. You have $150 to bet, and are considering a pointspread parlay. [That s a bad idea as  true odds  will show you, but that s a debate for another day] You could bet a single three-team parlay, but if only two of your three teams cover the spread then your bet is a loser. Instead, you could make a $50 round robin, which would create three different two-team parlays from the three teams you selected. Let s put some numbers to this: Parlay 1: Knicks -4 Raptors -5 Betting $50 to Profit $130 Parlay 2: Knicks -4 Hornets +4 Betting $50 to Profit $130 Parlay 3: Raptors -5 Hornets +4 Betting $50 to Profit $130 You ' d be betting $150 for a potential profit of $390 if you were correct on all three games. If you won only two of the three games then you would make a small profit of $30. There is a cost on the upside to choosing the round robin over a three-team parlay, though - a $150 three-team parlay would generate a profit of $900 if it was correct. Still, the math suggests that the round robin is a better choice here - both would be expected to lose money over the long term, but the round robin would lose less. Doc ' s Sports is offering $60 worth of handicapper picks absolutely free - no obligation, no sales people - you don ' t even have to enter credit card information. You can use this $60 credit any way you please for any handicapper and any sport on Doc ' s Sports Advisory Board list of expert sports handicappers.   Click here for more details and take advantage of this free $60 picks credit today   . One E-mail A Week Is All You Need! Our weekly newsletter is loaded with exclusive free picks,insight and advice from our expert handicappers 