Hellblade: Senua's Sacrifice Confirmed For Xbox One, Will Have Xbox One X Enhancements Facebook Twitter Youtube Instagram Comicbook Main Logo Arrow Down Arrow, Solid Arrow Down Arrow, Solid Arrow Down Arrow, Solid Arrow Down Arrow, Solid Arrow Down Arrow, Solid Arrow Down Arrow, Solid Arrow Down Arrow, Solid User Icon User Arrow Down Down Arrow Facebook Facebook Register  -  Forgot Password By creating an account, you verify that you are at least 13 years of age, and have read and agree to the Comicbook.com  Terms of Service  and  Privacy Policy Menu Icon Hamburger Menu Search Search Close Search Close Arrow Right Arrow Arrow Right Arrow Arrow Right Arrow Arrow Right Arrow Arrow Right Arrow Arrow Right Arrow Arrow Right Arrow Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Video Video Search Search Search Search Close Search Close By  Robert Workman  - March 25, 2018 02:08 pm EDT Share Facebook Twitter Reddit SMS SMS Mail A little while back, Ninja Theory, the development team behind  DmC: Devil May Cry  and  Enslaved: Odyssey To the West,  decided to make a bold move, self-publishing its next project,  Hellblade: Senua s Sacrifice  for PlayStation 4. The team was well aware of the risks at hand, but went ahead with it anyway. And boy, did the move pay off. The game not only sold well enough to make a strong profit, but also earned many  end of year  awards last year, as well as accolades not only for its cast, but also its emotional themes, far greater than what you d normally see in action games. Well, there s more good news where that came from, as Ninja Theory confirmed today that the game will finally make its way to Xbox One. The team  tweeted out the news earlier today, confirming that the game will arrive on April 11. Furthermore, it will also have enhancements for Xbox One X. The developer didn t break down just what these would be, but, more than likely, we ll see better visuals than ever before, along with 60 frames per second speed. You can probably get a pretty good hint from the debut trailer, which we ve posted below. Hellblade: Senua's Sacrifice is coming to Xbox One  &  Enhanced for One X on April 11th! As a thank you to the patient Ninja Theory Xbox fans, pre-order from Monday or buy in the 1st week on the Xbox Store and save 10%!  pic.twitter.com/YrChZvmPaz In addition to that, those who pre-order the game starting tomorrow through its first week on the Xbox Live Marketplace will score an additional ten percent discount off the game, bringing it down to around $27. That s not too shabby at all, especially considering the impact a game like this really makes. The game has turned quite a few heads since its release, so the more people that get to experience what it s all about, the better. Plus it could also motivate other developers to give the self-publishing thing a try and see what they can accomplish in the same shot. And you get a rich, fulfilling game experience for yourself. Everyone wins. Don t want to wait for April 11? You can also check out  Hellblade: Senua s Sacrifice  on PlayStation 4 and  PC . No matter where you play it, you re in for one hell of an experience. Comicbook Main Logo in Grey  of  Close Right Arrow Left Arrow Close Close Comicbook.com Home Comicbook Main Logo PopCulture.com Home PopCulture.com Logo  Copyright 2018 ComicBook.com. All rights reserved. These cookies are essential for the proper functioning of our properties. In addition, we use the Google and Tealium Tag Managers. Essential cookies cannot be switched off in our systems. You can set your browser or device to block or alert you about these cookies, but some parts of the site will not work.  These cookies allow us to collect information about how visitors use our properties. Some examples include counting visits and traffic sources, so we can measure and improve the performance of our site. If you do not allow these cookies we will not know when users have visited our properties and will not be able to monitor performance. These cookies enable the website to provide enhanced functionality and personalization. They may be set by us or by third party providers whose services we have added to our pages.    If you do not allow these cookies then some or all of these services may not function properly. These cookies may be set by us or through our property by our advertising partners. They may be used by those companies to build a profile of your interests and show you relevant adverts on other properties. If you do not allow these cookies, you will still see ads, but you will experience less relevant advertising.   These cookies are set by a range of social media services that we have added to the site to enable you to share our content with your friends and networks. They are capable of tracking your browser across other sites, building up a profile of your interests to show you relevant content and adverts on properties. If you do not allow these cookies you may not be able to use or see these sharing tools. Back Button Back Search Icon Filter Icon Clear Fliters All Consent Allowed 3 Purposes Arrow Consent Purposes Location Based Ads Consent Allowed Legitimate Interest Purposes Personalize Features Location Based Ads 