How much does it cost to surgically have your dog &# x27;s infected ears cleaned? | Yahoo Answers My German Shepherd has badly infected ears, pus drainage, bleeding, frequent head shaking. He has been treated with antibiotics in the past along with ear drops for yeast infection and the infection has returned. It looks like he will need a surgical procedure to rid the infection. He seems miserable tonight, whining and yelping and tilting his head. I would appreciate any advice that would help him tonight until he sees the vet tomorrow. I really feel for the guy, he is in a lot of pain. Again, what is the approx. cost of this type of surgical procedure? Thanks. The cost of the procedure would vary so much, depending on the region. You can call your local vets and ask what they would charge. They are always happy to give a rough estimate. For tonight, put a few drops of warmed olive oil into his ears. It is very soothing, and will do no harm. I &# x27;ve found Zymox with Hydrocortisone ( over the counter) to be really effective to clean ears and help them heal..... I get mine on ebay or amazon.  I spent hundreds at the vet, and this stuff worked better than what the vet prescribed. It &# x27;s for bacterial, viral, and yeast infections. You can read about it here: http://www.amazon.com/Pet-King-Enzymatic-Solution-... It depends on the type of surgery that needs to be done. If it is an inner ear infection that isn &# x27;t responding to antibiotics, the surgery could very well be over $1000. If they just need to sedate him to clean the ear, then it would probably be around $200-$400. The best thing to do is to have your dog seen by a vet ASAP and get a written estimate for the surgery they recommend. The vet that is going to do the procedure should go over this at length- you should get an estimate with highs and lows.  Asking on the internet is only going to get you a varied range of guesswork as no one on the internet has examined your dog in order to know what his particular situation is- how bad his ears are, how long he will need to be under anesthesia to have his ears flushed out surgically, what type of bloodwork the vet will want in order to determine he is healthy enough for anesthesia, etc. If it is a simple ear cleaning its usually no more than $15. If you are talking about the type of procedure where the dog is anesthetized and the ears are surgically flushed then expect at least a few to several hundred dollars. I would find the cause of the infections as well.  Determine if it &# x27;s allergies or just not drying out after being wet.  Call an emergency vet and see what they suggest to give him some relief tonight.  I had to trim the hair away from my dogs ears so they would get the air in there and not be constantly moist.  If they do get wet make sure to dry properly and use a vet strength ear cleanser it has alcohol in it to dry quickly and aloe to sooth the irritated skin.  Good luck you really have to stay on top of it or it will continue to be chronic.  Just like anything call around and get the best price. You could try an ear wash first.  The vet has to do this.  It deep cleans the ear.  Then you should use steroid drops as well as something like Otomax for the infection.  Be sure to follow the directions and continue the drops as long as recommended.  My dog has chronic ear infections, but has never had to have surgery, so I am sorry I don &# x27;t know how much it would cost.   *You can also give him a baby aspirin for the pain tonight (NO Tylenol it &# x27;s toxic). The ear wash is not expensive, but it really has helped my dog. 