Orthodontist | Orthodontics | Invisalign | Federal Way | Bellevue - Kimandleeortho Serving Federal Way, Tacoma, Auburn, Fife, Bellevue and Issaquah. Dr. Eunkoo Kim and Dr. Hyun Lee are your orthodontic specialists, offering braces and Invisalign for children, teens, and adults. Are you looking for a quality orthodontics practice that combines new technology, time-proven techniques, and individualized approaches to deliver the very best in orthodontics? Then we want you to choose Kim and Lee as your Federal Way orthodontists. We serve the communities of Federal Way, Tacoma, Auburn, Fife, Bellevue, and Issaquah. Who We Are and Who We Serve Dr. Eunkoo Kim and Dr. Hyun Lee are Bellevue orthodontic specialists you can turn to no matter your age, offering braces and Invisalign for children, teens, and adults. Our team works with children as young as seven and adults and teens of all ages. We are confident that we can offer you the care you need. Dedicated Patient Care Our team knows that there is more to being a top Federal Way orthodontics practice than just offering innovative and effective treatments. We must deliver those treatments in an environment that is open and friendly, always taking a patient-forward approach. Every client that works with us is given individualized approaches and focused attention, making certain the care we deliver is precisely what they need. Always Here for You Orthodontic treatment can feel confusing and overwhelming for patients. If you make us your orthodontist in Bellevue, you can rest assured that we will always be here to assist you. We are firm believers that the core of quality treatment is good communication, as it insures understand and cooperation between patient and provider. Our office is ready to answer whatever questions you may have before, during, and after your treatment. Families as Partners in Treatment When a family member, especially a young one, gets braces, successful treatment often means getting the entire household on board. Patients need support with everything from dietary restrictions to learning how to brush and floss with an appliance on. As your Bellevue ortho provider, we welcome the entire family to our practice, going over everything from how to care for braces to what to do if a piece falls off or a wire starts poking. We value your trust and want to make your experience everything it can be. Getting Started Everyone deserves a beautiful smile, and scheduling your initial appointment is the first step in helping yourself or your child achieve that. To schedule your consultation with our experienced and professional orthodontic staff, please contact our office today. We look forward to crafting your custom treatment plan and transforming your smile. To schedule an appointment or consultation with our experienced and professional orthodontic staff, please contact our office today. We look forward to answering any further questions you have during your first appointment. Contact Us Today 1830 S 324th Pl  Federal Way, WA 98003 253-838-1640 253-927-5005  Fax: 253-874-3272  15015 Main Street, 105  Bellevue, WA 98007 425-785-1165  Fax: 253-874-3272 