RWBY x male! Reader - I couldnt think of a title spider-man! Male! Reader x Nora Valkyrie LEMON - Wattpad YOU ARE READING Holy fuck I can finally write RWBY fanfic. WOOH Anyway I hope you enjoy but knowing the shit I create you probably won &# x27;t but whatevs # cancer # romance # rwby # xmalereader A/N: so instead of having spider-man be a super hero, rather he ' s a spray painter and vigilante. Your outfit:     +       +   -(your name) p.o.v Life was hard. Especially if you were like me. I didn ' t want to fight monsters. I didn ' t want a stupid desk job either. I wanted to help the world but I couldn ' t get into those types of schools such as Beacon. So I was a vigilante. I was a spider faunus. So I had the ability to crawl on walls and had heightened senses. I was also super into tech so I created my own webs. I would go around town looking for bad guys to beat up and then leave my signature spider logo. Thing was people saw me as an enemy, Hunters and police alike called me the worst thing to happen to Vale right after Roman Torchwick. Sure every now and then someone would understand and try to help, but that was rare. I was currently jumping on rooftops as the webs were just as back up and I couldn ' t just use them freely, when I got word from the transmitter I used to hack into the police radio that a gang of Whit Fang were attacking near the docks. Knowing I would get there faster than they would, I headed that way. I got there to see a group of people taking down the white gang. A scrawny young kid with a sword and blonde hair. Another man with a green suit and black hair, a girl with orange hair and a giant hammer, and  ' Wait Pyrrha Nikos?! This must be a Beacon team. Don ' t see why I shouldn ' t lend a hand though. ' I thought to myself before jumping down. I landed in front of them and attacked a White Fang member headed for me. " Is that? "   The orange haired girl asked shocked. " Yup it ' s me. "  I said with my voice modifier on. I then saw a huge group of WF head towards us. " Oh sweet a challenge! "  I shouted as I rushed off towards the group. I heard one of the hunters shout something but the fact so many WF member where together in one place for me to pound had my excitement at an almost deafening level. I started to attack the White Fang, attacking and dodging, countering and webbing. As I finished off the last member I webbed them all up for the police to catch and took out my spray paint can and spray paint canvas and painted my spider logo. " Hey! "  I heard one shout. I turned to see them facing me anger in their eyes except for the orange haired girl who was interested. " What? Gonna try and stop me? Good luck. "  I said going back to my art. " You know your breaking the law, we have to take you in. "  Another voice said.  " Try it and you ' ll suffer the same fate as these guys. A knuckle sandwich with a side of webbing. "  I retorted. "  I thought you were a good guy. "  This one took me by surprised I stopped painting and turned to see everyone staring at the orange haired girl. " I thought you stood for justice. "  I almost laughed as I knew what she was doing. " All I ' m doing is leaving a calling card. "  I said finishing my art. " We ' re not talking about how you tag everywhere, were talking about being a vigilante. "  Pyrrha said. " Oh and what are you doing? Last I checked your doing a very similar thing to me. I just don ' t have Ozpin to fall back on when someone calls me out on it. "  I said jumping onto a lamp post. " Fair point. "  The black haired man said.  " Then join us at Beacon, I ' m sure Ozpin has heard of you. Come learn to fight. "  The blonde haired man said. " Pfff, learn to fight, pardon me if I ' m mistaken but who took down that entire group of White Fang over there? "  I said now hanging upside down on the lamp post.  " That ' s not what I meant? "  He said face palming. I began to think,  ' Maybe I should. I ' ll probably gain some allies to help me. " Deal. "  I said jumping down. -timeskip I joined Beacon. I was a one man team called The Web. I know so creative. Anyway I wasn ' t really a team, I was more of a blacksmith. Sure I went on missions but mostly I helped rebuild broken weapons and such. I did do classes and such but luckily I could keep my mask, voice modifier, and web shooter on so. During my time here at Beacon I had grown a crush on the orange haired girl who I found out to be called Nora. While I was lost in thought rebuilding Juane ' s sword for about the third time this month I heard a knock on my door. I stopped and answered it. I saw Nora standing in my door way smiling. " Hey Spidey. Can I come in? "  She asked barging into my room. " Hey Nora. "  I said laughing at her. I went back to the sword. " Juane break his sword again? "  She asked leaning on my shoulder. I blushed at the contact with her. " Not really, I swear if Cardin breaks this sword again, I will have a serious talk with that guy. He has serious issues. "  I say in a annoyed voice. She then makes me face her. " How about you take a break and do something. "  She says seductively. I blush crazily at her actions.  &# x1F34B; &# x1F34B; &# x1F34B;LEMON WARNING &# x1F34B; &# x1F34B; &# x1F34B; She then kissed my mask where my lips would be. As I removed it revealing my face I kissed her. I then felt a hand reach onto my region. I stiffened up at the touch and felt that I was hard. I blushed heavily as she slowly moved my pants off of me along with my underwear. My manhood was now in the open. Nora then began to move towards my cock. I was blushing madly to the point where my face was as red as my mask. I then felt her lips and mouth around my erection causing me to slightly moan. She giggles as she began to suck on it.  " Oh my god. "  Was all I could say. After about a minute I felt it.  " Nora. "  Was all I said before finishing. She licked up all of the jizz as she removed her clothing. She then positioned her vag above my cock. She then quickly and powerfully plowed my dick into her. She screamed in pleasure as she stopped. " You okay? "  I asked. " Y-yeah, j-just gimme a sec. "  she said holding up her index finger. She then slowly began to ride me cowgirl style. After a while of full blown ecstasy I was reaching my climax again. " I ' m gonna. "  Was all I could say. " Yeah, me to. In me, please. "  She said as we finished. She then fell on me passed out as I held her and pulled the covers over our body. I ten began to think  ' Holy shit this lemon sucked. "     +   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I ' m so sorry. I got a request for it, so.     +   