Turkey National Day 2016 Waving the country s flag high, today s Doodle celebrates 93 years since Turkey officially became a republic. To mark the occasion, people across the country come together to enjoy parades, speeches, and poetry readings, often leading up to a nighttime fireworks display. Many people also lay wreaths at monuments dedicated to Mustafa Kemal Atat rk, the republic s founder and first president. He wasn t always called Atat rk, though. The name, which means  Father of the Turks,  was given to Mustafa Kemal in 1934 when surnames were first introduced in Turkey. The revolutionary is revered for his political, economic, and cultural reforms, many of which helped to modernize the country. On Republic Day, the Turkish people not only pay homage to past leaders, but they also celebrate how far the nation has come. Waving the country s flag high, today s Doodle celebrates 93 years since Turkey officially became a republic. To mark the occasion, people across the country come together to enjoy parades, speeches, and poetry readings, often leading up to a nighttime fireworks display. Many people also lay wreaths at monuments dedicated to Mustafa Kemal Atat rk, the republic s founder and first president. He wasn t always called Atat rk, though. The name, which means  Father of the Turks,  was given to Mustafa Kemal in 1934 when surnames were first introduced in Turkey. The revolutionary is revered for his political, economic, and cultural reforms, many of which helped to modernize the country. On Republic Day, the Turkish people not only pay homage to past leaders, but they also celebrate how far the nation has come. Happy Halloween! \r\n Grab your wand and help fend off a ghostly catastrophe. Press play to swipe spells, save your friends, and help restore the peace at the Magic Cat Academy. \r\nThis year s Halloween Doodle follows freshman feline Momo on her mission to rescue her school of magic. Help her cast out mischievous spirits by swiping in the shape of the symbols above the ghosts  heads. And you d better pounce fast the ghost that stole the master spellbook is getting away! \r\n From the team that created the Magic Cat Academy: \r\nThe inspiration for this year s cat spell-casting game came from a real-life black cat named Momo that belongs to Doodler Juliana Chen. It seemed like a good opportunity for a cat hero, since the winner of last year s  Candy Cup  Doodle was Yellow Witch and her black cat. \r\n \r\n Momo the muse The original concept for the game involved a magic cat making a soup that was so good, it raised the dead. Connecting soup to Halloween proved too abstract, so the team shifted to the idea of a wizard school. This opened the door to a more robust world filled with interesting characters and paw-some themes. \r\n Graveyard  concepts included vacuums, candy-eating ghosts, and hiss-worthy exams. \r\nThe game includes five levels set in a school environment: the library, cafeteria, classroom, gym, and the building s rooftop. We had lots of fun ideas for the resident foe of each level, including a chef ghost, a venn diagram ghost, and a big whistle ghost that summons other spirits. \r\n \r\nEarly mock-up of gameplay \r\nDoodling for a whole Doodle game was very exciting for us. We had so many ideas for elaborate symbols to draw, like a witch s hat that would appear on the character s head after it was drawn! In the end we decided that for a short game against the clock, simple was better. Plans like the  Eiffel Tower spell  were abandoned, and similarly, gag spells didn t make the cut. Regardless, we loved the process of dreaming up the possibilities. \r\nCat Hat Spell in a previous concept \r\nThat s all for meow. We hope that every human, creature, and ghost has a purrfectly magical day. \r\n Meow-loween Team \r\n\t\t\t Art Olivia Huynh Juliana Chen Kevin Laughlin Leon Hong Kevin Burke Engineering Kris Hom Jacob Howcroft Mark Ivey Will Knowles \r\n\t\t\t Production My-Linh Le Perla Campos Brian Kaas Ryan Germick \r\n\t\t\t External Help Harmony Music (David Levison  &  Nicole Paul) \r\n\t\t\t \r\n\t\t\tMomo (black cat) Ripley (black cat) Nimbus (black cat) Harley (black cat) Baxter (black cat) \r\n \r\n\u2728 Thanks for playing our game! \u2728 Waving the country s flag high, today s Doodle celebrates 93 years since Turkey officially became a republic. To mark the occasion, people across the country come together to enjoy parades, speeches, and poetry readings, often leading up to a nighttime fireworks display. Many people also lay wreaths at monuments dedicated to Mustafa Kemal Atat rk, the republic s founder and first president. He wasn t always called Atat rk, though. The name, which means  Father of the Turks,  was given to Mustafa Kemal in 1934 when surnames were first introduced in Turkey. The revolutionary is revered for his political, economic, and cultural reforms, many of which helped to modernize the country. On Republic Day, the Turkish people not only pay homage to past leaders, but they also celebrate how far the nation has come. Today ' s Doodle marks the Independent Czechoslovak State Day with a symbol of Czech national resilience, the Linden tree. The Linden tree is known for its ability to live for hundreds of years, and serves as an enduring symbol of the Czech Republic. Following World War I, there was wide support for the territories of the Austrian-Hungarian empire to form their own governments. Czechoslovakia arose from this spirit of independence. In 1918, the Czechoslovak National Council declared independence for a territory that included the countries we now know as the Czech Republic and Slovakia. The Czech Republic still celebrates Independent Czechoslovak State Day today as the formation of their own, sovereign country. Every year on this day, Indonesians remember the powerful declaration of the Youth Pledge (Sumpah Pemuda), dating to October 28, 1928: Firstly, We the sons and daughters of Indonesia, acknowledge one motherland, Indonesia. Secondly, We the sons and daughters of Indonesia, acknowledge one nation, the nation of Indonesia. Thirdly, We the sons and daughters of Indonesia, respect the language of unity, Indonesian. The words were first spoken by a group of young Indonesian nationalists taking part in the nation s Second Youth Congress. The proud tradition of the Youth Congress began in Batavia (now Jakarta) in 1926 to promote the idea of a united Indonesia. The second congress, held two years later in three different locations, closed with a reading of the Youth Pledge, words that endure as a symbol of nationalism today. On October 26th of each year, Austrians come together to celebrate their National Day. Its origins stretch back to post-World War II Austria, when allied forces occupied the country. After negotiations, the Austrian State Treaty was signed in 1955 and the troops moved out in the Autumn, leaving the country as an independent state. National day celebrations in Vienna take place in  Heldenplatz public square  and gardens, overlooked by the Austrian Parliament building and the imperial Hofburg Palace. Many of the city s most popular museums also offer free or cut-price admission in honor of the day. Today s Doodle features an image of Austria s highest mountain, the iconic, black rock Gro glockner in the High Tauern National Park. The area is home to eagles and rare butterflies, and features dramatic waterfalls and glaciers. Happy National Day, Austria! Antoni van Leeuwenhoek, born today in 1632, saw a whole world in a drop of water. Considered the first microbiologist, van Leeuwenhoek designed single-lens microscopes to unlock the mysteries of everything from bits of cheese to complex insect eyes. In a letter to the Royal Society of London, van Leeuwenhoek marveled at what he had seen in a sample of water from a nearby lake:  " little animals "  that we know now as bacteria and other microbes. In his rooms on the Market Square in Delft, Netherlands, van Leeuwenhoek was a DIY-er supreme. Like Galileo, he ground and polished his own lenses. Some of his lenses attained a magnification of more than 200 times, allowing him to examine capillaries, muscle fibers, and other wonders of the microscopic universe. Doodler Gerben Steenks noted,  " I chose to make it an animated Doodle to show the  ' before and after '  experience that Antoni van Leeuwenhoek had   looking through a microscope and seeing a surprising new world. "  Here ' s to celebrating a true visionary! October 23rd is a national holiday in Hungary commemorating the anniversary of the Hungarian Revolution, also known as the Hungarian Uprising of 1956. Sixty years ago today, on the heels of Poland s rebellion, students and workers took to the streets of Budapest, and a spontaneous national revolt against Soviet rule erupted. The movement was suppressed on November 4th with the arrival of Soviet tanks in Budapest. For three decades, public discussion of the uprising was silenced. That changed in 1989 with the fall of communism in eastern Europe and the official declaration of Hungary as a republic. As the tricolor red, white, and green flag is raised today in Budapest s Kossuth Square, Hungarians pay tribute to the brave citzens who fought for Hungary s liberty. Patriotic speeches will fill the air, and celebrations will include folk music, dancing, and cultural events. Today s Doodle depicts Hungary s flag with a hole where the Soviet-style communist symbol was once displayed. Excised by the revolutionaries, the emblem-less flag has became an enduring symbol of freedom in Hungary. In Kamma Rahbek ' s famous salons, the great minds of the Danish Golden Age gathered to discuss and share poetry. Some of Denmark ' s most celebrated Romantic poets frequented these salons, including Bernhard Severin Ingemann, Adam Oehlenschl ger, and Hans Christian Andersen. Here, they encouraged each other in developing works around the history of Denmark and its relationship to nature and the human experience. Rahbek also carried on a rich written correspondence with the great writers and philosophers of the time, including the historian and author Christian Molbech as well as the bishop Jacob Peter Mynster. Though Rahbek grew up when few women had access to education, she studied a multitude of subjects, from botany to astronomy to languages. This cultivated a deep intellectual curiosity that led her to host the salons and later, cemented her position at the center of Copenhagen ' s literary circle. Today ' s Doodle celebrates Rahbek ' s 241st birthday and her famous salons, by portraying her in her most beloved setting: at a desk in her parlor, surrounded by good company, and stimulating conversation. Today we celebrate Mary Seacole, the Jamaican/Scottish nurse widely known to the British Army as  Mother Seacole.  She learned the ways of herbal medicine from her mother, a  doctress  well-versed in traditional Caribbean and African herbal remedies. Despite the challenges she faced as a woman of mixed race in the 1850s, she began experimenting with medicine under her mother s guidance at one of the best facilities in Kingston, Jamaica. She moved to Gorgona, where she briefly ran a women s-only hotel before she set off on a journey that would cement her place in history. When the Crimean War broke out, Mary s application to assist was refused despite her nursing experience. Determined to help, she used her own limited resources to travel and set up a hotel behind the lines in Crimea. Here, she tirelessly tended to the curing and comforting of wounded soldiers coming off the battlefield and people from all walks in need:  The grateful words and smiles which rewarded me for binding up a wound or giving a cooling drink was a pleasure worth risking life for at any time. Here s to Mary s legacy as an empowered healer and humanitarian, which will continue to live on and inspire. Today s Doodle celebrates Edgar Negret, a Colombian sculptor known for depicting abstract nature scenes out of intricate metalwork. The second " o "  in  Google  features some of his signature sculptures. In 1957 Negret created one of his most famous sculpture series,  Aparatos m gicos,  or Magical Apparatuses. The magical realism of these sculptures showcase Negret s style, which would become a major part of Colombia s fine arts scene. \r\n \r\nMany of Negret s sculptures can now be found in his hometown of Popay n, Colombia, in the house where he lived, which now serves as the Negret House Museum. On the 96th anniversary of Negret s birth, we remember his dedication to art, nature, and Colombia. On Japan s annual Health and Sports Day, everyone wins! That spirit inspired today s Doodle, which shows Google-hued characters of all ages crossing the finish line together. First celebrated 50 years ago today, the holiday commemorates the opening of the 1964 Summer Olympics in Tokyo. Since the occasion is all about promoting an active lifestyle, Japanese people both young and old celebrate by going for the gold. Many schools host field days that resemble mini Olympics, featuring events like the relay, long jump, and shot put, along with obstacle courses and tug of war. For decades, Health and Sports Day was held on October 10th, but it was officially moved to the second Monday in October back in 2000. This year, the holiday happens to fall on its original date   just in time for its 50th birthday. From the country s small villages to its big cities, Russia depends on the mighty Trans-Siberian Railway to traverse more than 6,000 miles and seven time zones between Moscow and Vladivostok. In just seven days, the railway transports travelers and cargo from western Russia, across rocky tundra and frequently impassable countryside, all the way to the Pacific Ocean. Built over 26 years and completed a century ago, it remains a critical facet of Russian trade with Europe and China, and is a stalwart example of Russian engineering. Today s Doodle celebrates the railway that helped link a nation with the world. Doodler Matt Cruickshank relied on his first-hand experience traveling the Trans-Siberian Railway in April 2015 to bring the Doodle to life. During the trip, Matt sketched out images of the Russian cities and countryside that would help form the foundation of the animation.  I felt compelled to echo the visual strength of Russian graphics coupled with a folk art style,  Matt explains. The Doodle also features Tchaikovsky s  Serenade for Strings in C Major, Op. 48, II. Waltz  as performed by the Moscow Virtuosi Chamber Orchestra.  The accompanying score gave the short film the momentum and gravitas that brought the whole project together. " Check out scene-by-scene GIFs of today s Trans-Siberian Railway Doodle below. From October 5 October 14, 1582, time was erased. Not literally, of course; just on the calendar. These ten days were declared non-existent by then-pope Gregory XIII as part of a realignment of the Julian calendar, implemented by Julius Caesar in 46 B.C. In the mid-1570s, it was discovered that the Julian calendar was actually 10 days behind the seasons of the year. For example, Easter began falling later in the spring than it should have and eventually would have drifted into summer. The calendar creep was the result of the solar year (the time it takes Earth to make one revolution around the sun) being around 11 minutes shy of the full Julian calendar. To be precise, the solar year is actually 365 days, 5 hours, 48 minutes, and 46 seconds. Pope Gregory saved the day (and season) by appointing a commission to solve the problem. It took five years, but eventually the group, led by physician Aloysius Lilius and astronomer Christopher Clavius, proposed eliminating three leap years every 400 years to keep the calendar on track. To transition to the Gregorian calendar, ten days were declared officially non-existent, with the day after October 4, 1582 declared October 15th. First implemented by Italy, Spain, and Portugal, the Gregorian calendar is today s most widely used system. On this day in 1990, East Germany and West Germany officially joined together as one for the first time since 1945. Though the Berlin Wall separating the two countries fell in 1989, it wasn ' t until 1990 that East and West Germany signed a treaty to re-unify and on October 3, East Germany formally joined West Germany. To celebrate the Day of German Unity, festivals are held all over the country, with traditional food, drink, concerts, and horse racing. In addition to a large celebration at Brandenburg Gate in Berlin, the headquarters of German Unity Day change every year. The headquarters of the celebration always takes place in the state home of the current president of the  Bundesrat , the legislative body of Germany. This year, Saxony hosts the celebration. The artist collective  WRK  collaborated with the Doodle Team today to celebrate the union of East and West Germany. The colors of the German flag come together today, as the country comes together to commemorate this unity. This year on National Day, Nigeria celebrates 56 years of independence. Annual celebrations usually start with the President s speech and continue with patriotic parades and festivities. In Nigeria and all over the world, people host parties festooned with green and white flags, play games, and enjoy traditional, home-cooked foods. Today s Doodle showcases sectors that Nigeria is developing and takes great pride in, such as agriculture, science, literature, engineering, and culture including Naija music and the Nollywood industry. Young people are key to the country s future and are shown here celebrating in patriotic green and white fashions. Happy Independence Day, Nigeria! 