600886.CN | SDIC Power Holdings Co. Ltd. A Stock Price  &  News - WSJ N/A N/A  SDIC Power Holdings Co., Ltd. engages in the construction, investment, and management of energy projects. It operates through the following business divisions: Electric Power and Raw Coal. The Electric Power division undertakes the construction and development of power...  Building 147, Xizhimen South Sreet Beijing Beijing 100034 China Stocks:  Real-time U.S. stock quotes reflect trades reported through Nasdaq only; comprehensive quotes and volume reflect trading in all markets and are delayed at least 15 minutes. International stock quotes are delayed as per exchange requirements. Fundamental company data and analyst estimates provided by FactSet. Copyright  2019  FactSet Research Systems Inc. All rights reserved. Source: FactSet Indexes:  Index quotes may be real-time or delayed as per exchange requirements; refer to time stamps for information on any delays. Source: FactSet Markets Diary:  Data on U.S. Overview page represent trading in all U.S. markets and updates until 8 p.m. See  Closing Diaries  table for 4 p.m. closing data. Sources: FactSet, Dow Jones Stock Movers:  Gainers, decliners and most actives market activity tables are a combination of NYSE, Nasdaq, NYSE American and NYSE Arca listings. Sources: FactSet, Dow Jones ETF Movers:  Includes ETFs  &  ETNs with volume of at least 50,000. Sources: FactSet, Dow Jones Bonds:  Bond quotes are updated in real-time. Sources: FactSet, Tullett Prebon Currencies:  Currency quotes are updated in real-time. Sources: FactSet, Tullett Prebon Commodities  &  Futures:  Futures prices are delayed at least 10 minutes as per exchange requirements. Change value during the period between open outcry settle and the commencement of the next day's trading is calculated as the difference between the last trade and the prior day's settle. Change value during other periods is calculated as the difference between the last trade and the most recent settle. Source: FactSet Data are provided 'as is' for informational purposes only and are not intended for trading purposes. FactSet (a) does not make any express or implied warranties of any kind regarding the data, including, without limitation, any warranty of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose or use; and (b) shall not be liable for any errors, incompleteness, interruption or delay, action taken in reliance on any data, or for any damages resulting therefrom. Data may be intentionally delayed pursuant to supplier requirements. Mutual Funds  &  ETFs:  All of the mutual fund and ETF information contained in this display, with the exception of the current price and price history, was supplied by Lipper, A Refinitiv Company, subject to the following: Copyright  2019  Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Any copying, republication or redistribution of Lipper content, including by caching, framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Lipper. Lipper shall not be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. Cryptocurrencies:  Cryptocurrency quotes are updated in real-time. Sources: CoinDesk (Bitcoin), Kraken (all other cryptocurrencies) Calendars and Economy:  'Actual' numbers are added to the table after economic reports are released. Source: Kantar Media Subscribe Now Sign In WSJ Membership Customer Service Tools  &  Features Ads More 