Laurel Road Student Loan Review: Who Is It Good For? - ValuePenguin Our reviews, guides and tools simplify credit cards and help you get the most out of them. Our research and analyses will help you understand how to best protect your car, house, or apartment at an affordable rate. Find the best rates or the right bank for your checking and savings needs with our guides and tools. Our comparison tool and guides will help you find the best deals for financing your business. Loans are a vital part of your financial life, whether you’re buying a home or car, paying for college or growing a small business. Good for Bad for Editor's Rating  4.0/5.0 on SimpleTuition's secure website Laurel Road stands out from other private lenders by allowing parents to transfer Parent PLUS loans to their children and offering a useful refinancing program for medical residents. If you can't take advantage of either of these features, we recommend checking out other student lenders, such as SoFi. Laurel Road offers similar rates to that of its competitors and doesn't refinance loans for borrowers without at least a four-year degree from a Title IV-accredited school. Laurel Road refinancing is a great option for medical and dental students accepted into residency programs, as it allows you to defer full repayments until six months after the program ends. This refinancing program is not offered by many lenders but can be a huge help for future doctors and dentists, as paying off student loans right after medical school can be a substantial financial burden. Another benefit to using Laurel Road is that parents can transfer their federal Parent PLUS loans over to their children through refinancing, which allows student borrowers to take the debt off their parents’ accounts and hopefully pay a lower interest rate. Parent PLUS loans tend to have higher interest rates than other federal loans and several private lenders, so refinancing can have a significant impact on savings. Unless you can take advantage of the special residency programs or the Parent PLUS refinancing, Laurel Road doesn't stand out otherwise. The main drawback of Laurel Road is that while many other lenders, such as SoFi and Earnest, refinance loans for borrowers with an associate's degree, Laurel Road requires borrowers to have a bachelor's degree or higher. On top of this, SoFi offers employment programs for unemployed borrowers and more options for those facing financial hardships, while still offering similar rates to Laurel Road. Graduates and parent borrowers can qualify for Laurel Road's refinance loan with at least $5,000 in student loan debt. The lender provides relatively low rates and flexible loan terms, allowing you to choose any repayment length between five and 20 years, subject to its underwriting criteria. Similar to most lenders, Laurel Road provides a 0.25% rate discount if you sign up for automatic payments. In addition, borrowers can use the lender's referral program and get up to $400 when the referred borrower refinances their loan. *Rates include 0.25% rate discount with auto-pay Medical and dental students that have been accepted for a residency program or fellowship can put off full loan payments until six months after completing their programs by opting to pay $100 every month while in the programs. Rates tend to be a bit higher than regular refinancing, but this program can help borrowers that are worried about having to pay off loans right after medical school. It is important to note that interest still accrues during your residency, but it doesn't capitalize until after the reduced payment period. *Rates include 0.25% rate discount with auto-pay and assumes three months left in residency If you have a job offer and plan to begin working after graduation, you can apply for student loan refinancing from Laurel Road as early as your final semester in school. Laurel Road will continue any existing grace or in-school deferment periods from your previous lender. Otherwise, the first payment will be due one month from the date of disbursement. Laurel Road does not allow changes in payment date but gives borrowers a grace period of up to 15 days after the due date before the loan is considered late. As stated above, Laurel Road gives all borrowers a grace period of 15 days for each monthly payment but only allows existing deferments from the previous lender. For those who have been matched to a medical or dental residency program, you can refinance your student loans with Laurel Road by choosing to pay $100 each month and defer full payments for up to six months after the residency or fellowship. Borrowers can apply for forbearance if they experience any qualifying economic hardships, including involuntary job loss and unpaid maternity leave. Laurel Road reviews each request and grants full or partial forbearance for borrowers that meet the requirements. You may qualify for one or more three-month periods, up to 12 months during the term of your loan. Laurel Road student loans are available to borrowers who have graduated from a four-year Title IV-accredited school and are currently or soon-to-be employed. The lender requires a monthly debt-to-income ratio less than 43% and a payment-to-income ratio below 30% with no bankruptcy, collections or late payments that exceed 60 days within the last two years. If you are unable to qualify, you can apply with a co-signer, but co-signer release is only considered on a case-by-case basis. Graduates who have less than a bachelor's degree won't even qualify for a loan with Laurel Road, making SoFi and Earnest the best options for those borrowers. Even if you have a bachelor's degree, SoFi may still be a better option as it offers more programs and a lenient forbearance policy compared to Laurel Road. Still, either of the lenders are great options to consider, and we recommend checking your rates from each as it won't affect your credit score. *Rates include 0.25% rate discount with auto-pay SoFi is one of the best student loan refinancing options, and we recommend it to most borrowers over Laurel Road. Unless you are a medical or dental school resident, you should go with SoFi because of what they have to offer. SoFi stands out from Laurel Road and other lenders by offering a job placement service with career coaches, panel sessions and networking opportunities to help unemployed borrowers get back on their feet. Also, unlike Laurel Road, SoFi refinances loans for borrowers with an associate's degree, while Laurel Road student loans are not available to borrowers with less than a bachelor's degree. Laurel Road and Sofi have similar terms and rates but, with the extra features that SoFi offers, SoFi is a better option for most borrowers. If you can qualify, Earnest is a more affordable option compared to Laurel Road for creditworthy borrowers. While Earnest offers lower rates for its student loan refinancing program, many borrowers may not meet its requirements. The lender is not available in Alabama, Delaware, Kentucky, Nevada or Rhode Island and does not allow borrowers to use co-signers on its loans. Unlike most lenders, Earnest looks at your earning potential and financial data other than credit history to determine approval for its loans, creating a more personalized experience. Once approved, you are able to customize your monthly payments and adjust your payments when needed to fit your financial situation. Editorial Note: The content of this article is based on the author’s opinions and recommendations alone. It has not been previewed, commissioned or otherwise endorsed by any of our network partners. Advertiser Disclosure: Some of the offers that appear on this website are from companies which ValuePenguin receives compensation. This compensation may impact how and where offers appear on this site (including, for example, the order in which they appear). The site does not review or include all companies or all available products. For more information please see our  Advertiser Disclosure . 