Amazon.co.uk: Dearlove - Dresses / Women: Clothing You'll find cosy winter styles and gorgeous patterns and colours for the summer months along with a delectable selection of cocktail wear and evening gowns for special occasions. Velvet dresses in lusciously deep colours flatter all figures or bring on the red carpet look with full-length satin and lace designs. Plan ahead for summer holidays in floor-skimming maxis covered in bold tropical blooms, while crisp T-shirt dresses are perfect for city sightseeing trips. Select from our range of delivery options or if you want a speedier delivery, sign up for an Amazon Prime membership. Whether you’re after a floor-sweeping maxi dress, a vibrant printed bodycon dress or a classic LBD, you can choose from our wide selection of brands including French Connection, Lipsy, Esprit, Tommy Hilfiger, Fever, Forever Unique, Great Plains, Desigual, Motel, TFNC and more. Visit our pages of new arrivals regularly to keep ahead of the latest catwalk styles. Whether you want cosy knitted jersey dresses to beat the winter chills or something glamorous for a spring wedding, check out last week's arrivals for the hottest designs. With their vintage summer style finished with glamorous lace or gorgeous summer blooms, dresses are perfect for garden parties and special occasions. With warmer days just around the corner, our Spring and Summer 2018 collection is the place to go for holiday inspiration. Handkerchief hems bring a fresh twist to maxi dresses while sheer fabrics and tropical prints add just the right amount of summer elegance for holiday resort dining. Not what you're looking for? Check out the latest arrivals in women's clothing, where we have everything from jumpsuits, skirts and trousers, to blouses, shirts and swimwear. There's a problem loading this menu at the moment. Learn more about Amazon Prime.  Your Shopping Basket is empty.  Give it purpose -- fill it with books, DVDs, clothes, electronics and more.  If you already have an account,  sign in .  There's a problem previewing your shopping basket at the moment.  Check your Internet connection and  go to your cart , or  try again . < #= biaTitle #> 