FREE Just Can ' t Wait Toilet Card - Bladder  &  Bowel Community Request the original toilet access card from the Bladder and Bowel Community today. We use the universally acknowledged W.C. signage, giving you the benefit of discrete and clear communication for those moments where you just can’t wait to use the toilet. The Just Can’t Wait card is now completely free of charge when ordered online. Fill out a few details and we will post your high quality, durable Just Can’t Wait card to your home. ORDER ONLINE Marion12 Taylor   This idea is wonderful for people like me who need the toilet  &  are really desperate. I find most places are great as long as you ask. Thank you.  Posted 40 minutes ago Kailash Chavda   Absolutely superb service  Posted 1 hour ago Anonymous  no issues, received my card very quickly Posted 10 hours ago Sarah Read   So very helpful, really appreciate having it. Thank you.  Posted 13 hours ago Anonymous  This card will be invaluable to me when faced with long queues. The service was excellent and my card arrived very quickly after I applied for it.  Posted 17 hours ago Caroline Jones   I ' d like to thank you , its helped me a lot.  I can go out shopping now and not worry about finding a toilet before I have a accident  .  Posted 18 hours ago Kerry Walker   I haven ' t needed to use it yet, but I think it ' s a great idea as I ' ve had many times I ' ve needed to use a cafe toilet and been questioned as I ' ve not purchased anything, and I also worry abo… Posted 19 hours ago Jane Taylor   VERY USEFULL CARD USED IT A FEW TIMES AND IT WORKS Posted 21 hours ago Anonymous  Brilliant idea . I just hope the shops ect let me use the loo Posted 22 hours ago Elayne Hounsome   Fast delivery.Thank you. Posted 1 day ago Therese Young   My request for the card was easy to complete. It arrived very quickly. It is a very helpful idea, but it needs to have a higher profile which I ' m sure you ' re working on perhaps something sim… Posted 1 day ago Pamela Scholan   Quick delivery and will help when out and about if needing the toilet in a hurry  Posted 1 day ago Anonymous  Very helpful and efficient thank you.  Posted 1 day ago Anonymous  Brilliant brilliant thanks great card so helpful Posted 1 day ago Neville Colley   Absolutely brilliant  Posted 1 day ago Sammy Humphreys   Makes me feel so much more confident  Posted 1 day ago Anonymous  Excellent, the card takes the panic out of going out  Posted 1 day ago Anonymous  Such a relief !!! Posted 1 day ago Anonymous  Great service  Posted 1 day ago Anonymous  Very helpful in getting everything I needed to me asap. This card will be invaluable to me so I ' m very grateful.  Posted 2 days ago Tanya Buttigieg   Brilliant  Posted 2 days ago Request the original toilet access card online today. If you want to send us your application via post, please download and complete the form. Expected delivery 15 working days. *This doesn t guarantee access to the toilet. However, using our widely recognised card, it has proven to help. **For online orders only. Postal applications will increase delivery by approximately 10 working days. Please note, free delivery of the card is limited to UK residents only. Bladder and Bowel Community  Forward House  17 High Street  Henley-in-Arden  B95 5AA General Enquiries:  01926 357220 Email: help@bladderandbowel.org Home Delivery Service:  0800 031 5406 