The 10 best hostels in Brumadinho, Brazil | Booking.com Loading Choose your preferred language. We speak English and 42 other languages. Some of the best backpacker spots in Brumadinho Hostel LARes Hostel in Brumadinho 9.1 Superb 144 reviews Located in Brumadinho and with Church of San Sebastian reachable within 600 metres,  Hostel  LARes provides a tour desk, non-smoking rooms, a garden, free WiFi and a shared lounge. Featuring a shared kitchen, this property also provides guests with a sun terrace. Show more Show less Brumadinho Hostel Hostel in Brumadinho 9.0 Superb 33 reviews Set in Brumadinho, Minas Gerais region, Brumadinho  Hostel  is located 2.1 km from Church of San Sebastian. The accommodation offers a shared kitchen and free WiFi. ><br >A buffet breakfast is available every morning at the  hostel . Show more Show less Hostel Moreira Hostel in Brumadinho 9.3 Superb 38 reviews Featuring free WiFi throughout the property,  Hostel  Moreira offers accommodation in Brumadinho, 38 km from Belo Horizonte. ><br >Macacos is 33 km from  Hostel  Moreira, while Contagem is 29 km from the property. The nearest airport is Carlos Drummond de Andrade Airport, 42 km from  Hostel  Moreira. Show more Show less Hostel Hari - Brumadinho Hostel in Brumadinho 8.3 Very good 202 reviews Featuring free WiFi and a sun terrace,  Hostel  Hari - Brumadinho offers pet-friendly accommodation in Brumadinho, 39 km from Belo Horizonte. ><br >The  hostel  also offers bike hire. Macacos is 33 km from  Hostel  Hari - Brumadinho, while Contagem is 29 km from the property. The nearest airport is Carlos Drummond de Andrade Airport, 42 km from  Hostel  Hari - Brumadinho. Show more Show less Hostel 70 Hostel in Brumadinho 8.4 Very good 133 reviews Hostel  70 is located in Brumadinho and only 2.8 km from famous Inhotim Cultural Centre and its contemporary art collections. Free WiFi access is available. ><br >Simply furnished rooms at  Hostel  70 offer bed linen and a fan. Private  lockers  and wake-up service are offered in this  hostel . Show more Show less Hostel Pe de Caju Hostel in Brumadinho 8.7 Fabulous 29 reviews Featuring a garden, shared lounge, BBQ facilities and free WiFi,  Hostel  Pe de Caju is located in Brumadinho, 1.2 km from Church of San Sebastian. The property features a hot tub, evening entertainment and a shared kitchen. Show more Show less Hostel Canto do Rio Hostel in Brumadinho 8.5 Very good 24 reviews Located in Brumadinho and with Church of San Sebastian reachable within 500 metres,  Hostel  Canto do Rio provides a bar, non-smoking rooms, free WiFi and a shared lounge. Featuring a shared kitchen, this property also provides guests with a terrace. Show more Show less Popular with guests booking hostels in Brumadinho Popular with guests booking hostels in Brumadinho Popular with guests booking hostels in Brumadinho Popular with guests booking hostels in Brumadinho Popular with guests booking hostels in Brumadinho Popular with guests booking hostels in Brumadinho 8.4 Very good 133 reviews The owner helped us during the brumadinho dam disaster that happened a few kilometers from the town. She waited for us at the gates of inhotim and then took us to her home to safety. Without her, we would be compeltely lost and stranded not knowing what is happening. She did much more than I would expect in this situation so I definitely do recommend the hostel - you will be well taken care of! 9.1 Superb 144 reviews The property was clean, comfortable, and very pretty. The ladies that work at the hostel are a charm, very helpful and gave suggestions on where to go and what to do on free time. I had a blast and even requested to stay longer! Invite hosts List your property Booking.com is part of Booking Holdings Inc., the world leader in online travel and related services. We have more than 70 million property reviews, and they're all from  real, verified guests. 1 The only way to leave a review is to first make a booking. That's how we know our reviews come from real guests who have stayed at the property. 2 When guests stay at the property they check out how quiet the room is, how friendly the staff are and more. 3 After their trip, guests tell us about their stay. We check for naughty words and verify the authenticity of all guest reviews before adding them to our site. If you booked through us and want to leave a review, please sign in first. Check-in date Check-out date 