Amazon launches new range of Fire TV devices | Expert Reviews Sign up for our daily newsletter header-social Secondary menu  If you're an Amazon Prime subscriber with Amazon Instant Video, the  Fire TV  and  Fire TV Stick  were great choices. The latter, at £35, was a bargain budget streamer that gave the  Google Chromecast  and  Roku Streaming Stick  a run for their money. Amazon has now unveiled new 2015 models to both products and both pack in some great new features that make them suitable updates to the existing streamers.  From the 5th of October and available to pre-order today, the Amazon Fire TV now has 4K Ultra HD outputs, so will be able to fully take advantage of today's newer 4K televisions. With both Amazon's own Instant Video, Netflix and YouTube all now churning out 4K content, this is great news indeed. There are already television shows available in 4K including Transparent, Better Call Saul and Orphan Black, as well as movies such as Captain Phillips so you can hit the ground running with content to watch. There's no confirmation that the YouTube app will support 4K for relevant content, however. We asked Amazon about YouTube and received the following response: "we’ve been in conversation with YouTube and they’re excited to bring their 4K content to our platform" so it sounds like it's forthcoming. View latest Amazon discount codes Amazon promises that through its High Efficiency Video Coding (HEVC) the new Amazon Fire TV will also deliver better quality 1080p content from Amazon Video, too. The company says it's twice as efficient at encoding video than H264 so less bandwidth is needed. For those who like to take advantage of the Amazon app store, you'll be pleased to hear that the 8GB of internal storage is now upgradable through a microsD card, up to a maximum of 128GB of additional space. For wireless, 802.11ac is included with MIMO support for better range and performance. There's a new game controller to go with the new streamer, too. This one now voice search and an audio jack for private listening. This will cost £39.99. The New Fire TV with 4K is available for £89.99. The original Fire TV Stick was Amazon's fastest-selling Amazon device to date, so the new model has big boots to fill. The new model, which is now £10 more expensive, now includes a more sophisticated remote control that includes voice search. This was one of the more useful features available on the original full Fire TV streamer, so it's great to see it now available on the Fire TV Stick even if it is a little more. You can stil buy the original Fire TV Stick without the voice remote and it remains the same price at £35. The voice search allows you to find new content easily by saying the name of an actor, movie or director and relevant content shows up, adding a layer of convenience and simplicity. I think voice search makes it worth going for the more slightly more expensive model if you don't already have a Fire TV Stick. The new Fire TV Stick with Voice Remote is available to pre-order today and will start shipping on October 22nd (so a few weeks after the Fire TV). What is seemingly missing from the Amazon Fire TV and Fire TV Stick with Voice Remote designed for the UK market is support for Alexa, which is coming to the US versions. This is the same voice recognition technology that powers Amazon's Echo and provides greater and more fluent voice controls. It's perhaps unsurprising as  Amazon Echo  has yet to make it to the UK market but still a shame its debut wasn't made with these streamers. The best PS4 controllers OnePlus 8: Everything we know so far The best board games for all ages and skill levels Best Samsung phone 2019: Intergalactic warfare The best TVs you can buy right now Samsung TV model numbers: A definitive guide before you buy Our favourite wireless earbuds you can find in the UK  Boost your TV ' s audio with these soundbars and soundbases The best deals on cheap, 4K and Ultra HD TVs  The best DAB radios you can buy from £30 The best tablets you can buy  Huawei P30 Lite review: Cheaper, but less sophisticated Samsung Galaxy A70 review: Samsung ' s best mid-range handset? Xbox Two: Everything we know so far Samsung Galaxy A40: An affordable Samsung stunner Apple TV 4K: Apple TV Plus app arrives in November Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K review: The cheapest 4K streamer  Roku Streaming Stick+: A comprehensive 4K streamer Tidal review: Is this Spotify for audiophiles? Roku Express: The best budget TV streamer? Apple TV 4K: Apple TV Plus app arrives in November Now TV Smart Box: New Now TV hardware goes 4K Roku Premiere review: The cheapest 4K TV streamer Amazon Fire TV Stick (2017) review Best Wi-Fi extenders: Better coverage, faster downloads Copyright  Dennis  Publishing Limited 2019. All rights reserved.   Expert Reviews  is a registered trade mark. We and our partners use technologies, such as cookies and IP address, to collect website performance and usage data in order to provide better experiences and content for our users. This may also include showing you more relevant advertisements. By clicking “Accept” you agree to this. You can learn more via our  privacy policy  and come back to this website at any time to update your consent choices.   