Then and Now: The Cast and Locations of Troop Beverly Hills | Glamour Menu Search Beverly Hills, what a thrill! Who doesn ' t hear that and think back to the best and spunkiest wilderness troop ever?! Not to mention the awesome cameos, most high-end  ' 80s fashion, and girls you wanted to be best friends with? Well, now it ' s our turn to pay homage to the 1989 hit comedy and take a trip back down memory lane! It ' s cookie time! By  Jessica Radlof f Facebook Twitter Email Facebook Twitter Email Beverly Hills, what a thrill! Who doesn &# x27;t hear that and think back to the best and spunkiest wilderness troop ever?! Not to mention the awesome cameos, most high-end  &# x27;80s fashion, and girls you wanted to be best friends with? Well, now it &# x27;s our turn to pay homage to the 1989 hit comedy and take a trip back down memory lane! It &# x27;s cookie time! Troop Beverly Hills : The Movie Locations, Then and Now! The Nefler house, in all its peach-colored glory, is located at 901 N. Camden Drive in Beverly Hills, literally one block over from the Beverly Hills Hotel (no wonder they spent so much time there). Here &# x27;s how it looked in the movie: And, as you can see, it looks pretty much identical now: Next door to the Nefler house is the iconic  Beverly Hills Hotel . It was because of this movie that made me decide (from the age of 9), that one day I would have my bachelorette party in one of those bungalows--complete with movies ( TBH  to be exact), s &# x27;mores, pizza, and all my best girlfriends. I &# x27;m still sticking with it! Here &# x27;s the outside of the bungalows and the hotel itself now. Not much has changed (thank goodness!): Phyllis had to go to the  Beverly Hills Municipal Courthouse  over custody matters concerning Hannah. Here &# x27;s the courthouse then: And here it is now (well, a different view at least). But it hasn &# x27;t changed: Let &# x27;s not forget the  Giorgio  boutique, home of  " Cookie Time. "  It &# x27;s located at 295 N. Rodeo Drive in Beverly Hills: Unfortunately, the bright-yellow Giorgio boutique is no more. Louis Vuitton took over the spot, but as you can tell, it &# x27;s the exact same corner, and it &# x27;s a block away from the Regent Beverly Wilshire, home of  Pretty Woman : Troop Beverly Hills : The Cast Shelley Long  played Beverly Hills society wife, Phyllis Nefler, who is in the middle of a divorce from Freddy Nefler ( Craig T. Nelson ). As a means to putting her life back together, she decides to lead her daughter &# x27;s Wilderness Girl troop--only to find that it &# x27;s not as easy as a walk  in the park  along Rodeo Drive. *By the way, how awesome that Phyllis was rocking the peplum trend way back when! * Now, Shelley Long has a recurring role as Jay Pritchett &# x27;s ex-wife, DeDe, on  Modern Family : Craig T. Nelson  played the somewhat slimy, but ultimately lovable, Freddy Nefler. I don &# x27;t know about you guys, but I was quite upset when Freddy left Phyllis and hooked up with Lisa (played so well by  Karen Kopins ): Now Craig T. Nelson (of course we loved him from  Coach ) plays Zeek Braverman on NBC &# x27;s  Parenthood : Hannah Nefler, Phyllis and Freddy &# x27;s spirited--and mature beyond her years--daughter, was played by  Jenny Lewis , who also had a notable role on  The Golden Girls  as the obnoxious girl that wouldn &# x27;t give Rose back her teddy bear: Jenny, 36, hasn &# x27;t had a starring role in over ten years, but you &# x27;ve most likely heard her musical collaborations on shows like  Grey &# x27;s Anatomy  or  Bones . She &# x27;s the lead singer of  Rilo Kiley  and, more recently, has been making headlines with her solo projects. Emily Schulman  played Tiffany Honigman, the redhead who required her father bribe her in order to attend Troop Wilderness meetings: You &# x27;ll also remember Emily from  Small Wonder . She played the nosy neighbor, Harriet Brindle, from 1985-1989: Here &# x27;s some insider info on Schulman, 35. After she quit performing in front of the camera, she became a commercial talent agent at ACME Talent, where I interned when I was just starting out in L.A. As of 2004 (when I last saw her), she looked exactly the same as you &# x27;d expect and was married with two young sons. I &# x27;ve since heard that she left LA altogether and relocated to Connecticut with her family. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that  supports HTML5 video Meanwhile, who could forget Chica Barnfell, whose parents were too busy with their own lives to remember their daughter &# x27;s birthday. Chica was played by  Carla Gugino , who has worked steadily since  TBH : Gugino, 40, currently stars on USA &# x27;s  Political Animals  and also had a starring role as Ari &# x27;s sometime nemesis/sometime flirt-buddy, Amanda Daniels, on  Entourage : Another familiar face is that of  Kellie Martin , who played the struggling Emily Coleman. If you remember, her Dad was an out of work actor and that made it hard for Emily to pay for certain Wilderness activities: Martin, 36, was most recently seen on six episodes of Lifetime &# x27;s  Army Wives . Before that, she was on  ER  for 36 episodes as Dr. Lucy Knight. She is married with two kids: Ami Foster  and  Stephanie Beacham  played mother-daughter duo, Claire and Vicki Sprantz, respectively. Claire was a child star (with the most gorgeous head of blonde hair I might add), while her Mom was a famous author: Ami Foster, now 37, last appeared on TV in a  CBS After School Special . Of course, you &# x27;ll most remember her as Punky &# x27;s friend, Margaux Kramer, from  Punky Brewster . She taped a special feature in the  Punky Brewster  DVD release (around 2004), where she said she is married and with a baby. As for the elegant Stephanie Beacham, 65, she still acts, but mainly in her native Great Britain. She is divorced with two children: As for the other Wilderness Girls (sans  Tori Spelling , but we &# x27;ll get to her in a minute), they &# x27;ve pretty much all left the business. There was Tessa DiBlasio, played by  Heather Hopper  (who you &# x27;ll also remember from the pre- Saved by the Bell  sitcom,  Good Morning, Miss Bliss ). Her last role was on  Passions  in 2004. She &# x27;ll be 36 next month. By the way, if you look closely, you &# x27;ll notice that on the right in the picture below is  Willie Garson  (Carrie &# x27;s bestie, Stanford from  Sex and the City !), who played Bruce: Here &# x27;s Willie now on USA &# x27;s  White Collar  as Mozzie: Another  " Where Are They Now? "  mystery is  Tasha Scott  (who played Jasmine Shakar), and  Aquilina Soriano  (who played Lily Marcigan). Aquilina was last seen on  Unhappily Ever After  in 1996, while Tasha was on four episodes of  The Parent  &# x27;Hood  in 1996-97: Then there &# x27;s the vengeful Velda Plendor, played so convincingly by  Betty Thomas : Thomas is now a director ( John Tucker Must Die , and  Alvin and the Chipmunks: The Squeakquel , among them): Annie Herman, was Vlenda &# x27;s easily influenced sidekick until she spent time with Phyllis and finally stood up for what she deserved--and wanted out of life. Annie was played by actress  Mary Gross , who also happens to be the sister of__Michael Gross__ of  Family Ties : Gross, 59, has been steadily working since  TBH . She most recently starred on an episode of  Hart of Dixie  on the CW. Here &# x27;s a shot of her on  According to Jim  from 2008: Last but not least, let &# x27;s not forget annoying Red Feather Jamie, played by  Tori Spelling : Anyone know what she &# x27;s up to now? Kidding! Spelling, who featured her family on the reality show,  Tori  &  Dean: Inn Love , is currently hosting  Craft Wars  on TLC, and expecting her fourth child: Before I wrap up, you didn &# x27;t think I could leave out my favorite part of the movie now, could you? It &# x27;s Friday, so you have my permission to blast this in your office! Go! And that, my Wilderness Gals, concludes our trip down  Troop Beverly Hills  lane! Can &# x27;t wait to hear what you guys thought! Leave me comments below! More TV  &  Movie Nostalgia: __ We Went to the Original Locations Seen in  Clueless as they look now--17 years later! The Cast of* 7th Heaven: Where are they now?* Ian Gomez brings back Javier from  Felicity exclusively for us! Take a trip to the iconic locations seen in  Pretty Woman! P.S. Want more Obsessed?  __Sign up for our awesome daily newsletter  that features the latest celebrity gossip, TV news, hilarious internet sensations, and more! Authentic, Accessible, Relevant Facebook Twitter Instagram Pinterest More from Glamour See More Stories ©  2019  Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement (updated  5/25/18 ) and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement (updated  5/25/18 ) and Your California Privacy Rights. Glamour  may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices These cookies are necessary for the website to function and cannot be switched off in our systems. They are usually only set in response to actions made by you which amount to a request for services, such as setting your privacy preferences, logging in or filling in forms.    You can set your browser to block or alert you about these cookies, but some parts of the site will not then work. These cookies do not store any personally identifiable information. These cookies enable the website to provide enhanced functionality and personalisation. They may be set by us or by third party providers whose services we have added to our pages.    If you do not allow these cookies then some or all of these services may not function properly. These cookies allow us to count visits and traffic sources so we can measure and improve the performance of our site. They help us to know which pages are the most and least popular and see how visitors move around the site.    All information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous. If you do not allow these cookies we will not know when you have visited our site, and will not be able to monitor its performance. These cookies may be set through our site by our advertising partners. They may be used by those companies to build a profile of your interests and show you relevant adverts on other sites.    They do not store directly personal information, but are based on uniquely identifying your browser and internet device. If you do not allow these cookies, you will experience less targeted advertising. These cookies are set by a range of social media services that we have added to the site to enable you to share our content with your friends and networks. They are capable of tracking your browser across other sites and building up a profile of your interests. This may impact the content and messages you see on other websites you visit.    If you do not allow these cookies you may not be able to use or see these sharing tools. The collection of information about your use of the content, and combination with previously collected information, used to measure, understand, and report on your usage of the service. This does not include personalisation, the collection of information about your use of this service to subsequently personalise content and/or advertising for you in other contexts, i.e. on other service, such as websites or apps, over time. The collection of information, and combination with previously collected information, to select and deliver advertisements for you, and to measure the delivery and effectiveness of such advertisements. This includes using previously collected information about your interests to select ads, processing data about what advertisements were shown, how often they were shown, when and where they were shown, and whether you took any action related to the advertisement, including for example clicking an ad or making a purchase. This does not include personalisation, which is the collection and processing of information about your use of this service to subsequently personalise advertising and/or content for you in other contexts, such as websites or apps, over time. The storage of information, or access to information that is already stored, on your device such as advertising identifiers, device identifiers, cookies, and similar technologies. The collection of information, and combination with previously collected information, to select and deliver content for you, and to measure the delivery and effectiveness of such content. This includes using previously collected information about your interests to select content, processing data about what content was shown, how often or how long it was shown, when and where it was shown, and whether the you took any action related to the content, including for example clicking on content. This does not include personalisation, which is the collection and processing of information about your use of this service to subsequently personalise content and/or advertising for you in other contexts, such as websites or apps, over time. The collection and processing of information about your use of this service to subsequently personalise advertising and/or content for you in other contexts, such as on other websites or apps, over time. Typically, the content of the site or app is used to make inferences about your interests, which inform future selection of advertising and/or content. Back Button Back Search Icon Filter Icon Clear Fliters All Consent Allowed 3 Purposes Arrow Consent Purposes Location Based Ads Consent Allowed Legitimate Interest Purposes Personalize Features Location Based Ads 