36 Best Makeup Products Ever - Best Makeup Brands and Products \"This is the first high-end beauty product I ever bought, so it holds a special place in my heart. The color is eye-catching, but I still love to wear it for a casual day if I'm feeling fancy.\"\u2014 MF \"This is, hands down, the best setting powder. Aside from smelling like summer, the powder has a unique design that ensures you don't get loose powder all over your vanity and clothes, but rather only along your your T-Zone to mattify.\"\u2014 KR \"My skin tends to be oily and redness prone, so this easy powder is my go-to. It provides light coverage but makes my complexion look that much smoother.\"\u2014 Madison Feller, ELLE.com Staff Writer \"This is the only makeup item I'm genuinely excited to repeat buy. With a truly tenacious formula, an applicator that's firm enough for a smooth line yet flexible enough for those all-important cat-eye flicks, this Stila savior has come home with me over and over again.\"\u2014 ET \"Ruby Woo is the ultimate red matte lip and anyone who says otherwise just doesn't want you to sell this out. The evil geniuses at M.A.C. crafted this color years ago and whenever I want the ultimate sultry shade, I reach for my girl Ruby Woo. It's not drying and lasts all day long. She's perfect.\"\u2014 CH \"This product lives somewhere in the blissful, mythical space between a lipstick and lipgloss. It is the EXACT color of my lips and so it really just enhances what I already have in a pretty, natural way. Without a doubt the best lipstick I've ever used.\"\u2014 Mia Fietel, ELLE.com Associate Art Director \"Who would've thought QVC would be the brow bearer of my dreams? My makeup artist friend gifted me this precious little pot and not a single pencil from my past can compare. I always do my brows first, and use an angled brush to apply where my brow fullness falls short. Although it's a waxy formula, it settles like a powder\u2014and doesn't require a setting powder or mist to stay in place all day.\"\u2014 AL \"Every single time I wear this mascara around our former ELLE writer Mattie Kahn asks, 'Oh my GOD are your lashes FAKE or just super long?' Reader, they are not, I'm just wearing this amazingly underrated product.\"\u2014 JR \"Honest Beauty's Cream Blush is a new addition to my beauty arsenal. I've gotten so many compliments that I threw out my old blush. It's creamy, soft, and shimmery. Meghan Markle is also rumored to have worn this blush during her wedding to Prince Harry. Need I say more?\"\u2014 CH \"For a long time I was shelling out $34 for a YSL eyeliner that I swore was the best, but that was before I discovered Eyeko's $22 version. It's $12 cheaper, and has twice the staying power.\"\u2014 JR \"I never was a foundation girl. I always deemed a base\u2014especially full-coverage\u2014too much of a mask atop my skin and my nine step care routine. I never knew how incomplete I looked, though, with a full face of makeup (brows, eyes, cheeks, highlight) on bare skin. But when I discovered Becca's full coverage formula, I fell in love. Although it's full coverage, when wearing it, I just look like I have amazing skin. My secret: apply a pea-sized amount on a damp foundation brush and massage all over my face. A little bit goes a long way, evens out my tone and texture, and makes for the perfect base for the rest of my kit.\" \u2014AL \"A makeup artist friend recommended this lengthening mascara to me few years ago, and I\u2019ve been using it ever since! I like having long dramatic lashes and this delivers. It stays on at the gym, but washes off easily at home, which is definitely a plus.\" \u2014RM \"I cannot sing MAKE's praises enough. My latest MAKE obsession is its Bronzing Brick. I switch between the Joshua Tree and Marfa shades, depending on how glorious my tan is on any given day. It offers a light contour that works for everyday, and, best of all its vegan, fragrance-free formula never irritates my sensitive skin.\" \u2014  Angel Lenise, ELLE.com Lead Video Producer \"Every beauty bag needs a tinted lip balm for days you don't want to worry about a lipstick, but don't want naked lips. Dior's Lip Glow (a Bella Hadid favorite) is the ultimate, ultimate formula. Its ultra nourishing and adaptable: You can go light with the tint or layer for stronger color payoff. Plus, you don't need a mirror to apply.\"\u2014 KR \"I believe a bright, bold red lip is appropriate no matter the occasion: Work, home, dinner, parties, gym (yes, the gym!). This Maybelline lipstick in endless raisin is my go-to color. It slides on easy, doesn\u2019t smudge, and lasts all.day.long.\" \u2014Rose Minutaglio, ELLE.com Staff Writer \"Morphe\u2019s M439 Brush is a classic. I use this brush to apply my liquid foundation and it blends the product out like a dream so no signs of streaks or patches, just a flawless mug.\" \u2014NP \"Can't! Live! Without! Vaseline! Makeup remover? Check. A lil balm for chapped lips? Check. A dry cuticle? CHECK. Vaseline is my desert island beauty supply. Vas or die.\"\u2014 JR \"If dewy, your-skin-but-better is what you seek, look no further than this heavenly cushion compact from La Prairie. It has buildable, light-to-medium coverage that evens out skin tone, acts like a treatment thanks to its built-in essence, and magically feels like nothing on your face. I've never seen a foundation with such an undetectable finish (most foundations look/feel like masks), and though pricy, this formula can't be beat.\"\u2014 KR \"I love this smoothing primer. It totally minimizes the appearance of all my pores, and doesn\u2019t feel heavy on my face. Plus, a little goes a longggg way. One tiny tube lasted me for almost an entire year.\" \u2014RM \"On the days I don't feel like wearing makeup, this miracle mascara always makes my lashes pop. While the lipstick colors and eye palettes change, it's a steady standby in my beauty arsenal.\"\u2014  Alyssa Bailey, ELLE.com News Editor \"I traded in my powder highlighters for this liquid gem from Lancome and haven\u2019t looked back since. Powder highlighters tend to sit on the surface of my skin but Lancome\u2019s liquid gold seeps into my skin to give me a lit-from-within glow.\" \u2014NP \"If me and NARS Orgasm The Multiple had had a baby, it would be a teenager by now. That's how long it's been in my back pocket\u2014or should that be front pocket? If you want to frost yourself in the most tried and true way, the tiny light-reflective particles of this classic highlighter stick will support that mission. It will never let you down, either; I got complimented on its very glowy but subtle effects just this week.\"\u2014 Estelle Tang, ELLE.com Senior Editor \"As far as drugstore mascaras go it doesn't get any better than Lash Paradise. It lengthens, separates, never clumps, and holds a curl all while coming in under $10. Buy in bulk.\"\u2014 KR \"This palette is my go-to for everyday wear. Charlotte Tilbury's shades are work-appropriate but can be amped up for any after-work hangouts. Plus, the bronzer and blush shades double as extra eyeshadow colors.\" \u2014AY \"Of all the drugstore and high-end eyeliners I\u2019ve glided across my eyes, none comes close to the love I have for L\u2019Oreal\u2019s Infallible Super Slim. The rich pigment, ultra-fine tip, the easy application, and matte black finish\u2014I have no choice but to stan!\" \u2014NP \"I travel often and have recently switched out my liquid foundations for three Flesh Firm Flesh stick foundations and am never looking back. They mix and match and go on with such ease, and at $18 a pop I buy multiple for various parts of my face.\" \u2014NO \"I won't shut up about FAB's Hello Fab Skin Tint. I've talked about it so much all of my friends and family are now also addicted. It's the perfect balance of light sheer coverage that can quickly transform into a full face beat. Beyond the versatility of the product, it's packed with goji berry (an antioxidant that does wonders for the skin!) and SPF 30. This product is the Michael Jordan of beauty; it's the GOAT.\" \u2014 Chloe Hall, Special Projects Editor and Producer \"Precision, pigment, and long-lasting results. That's what you get with Kat Von D's cult-favorite Tattoo Liner. You'll never have to do retouches or worry about smudges.\"\u2014 KR \"I\u2019ve recently gotten back into lip glosses and love the Perfect Shine Hydrating Lip Gloss from Hue Noir. The formula goes on smoothly (not sticky) and smells wonderfully. The All that Glitters shade amps up my natural lip tone without making them over the top! It\u2019s my new go-to.\" \u2014NO \"I feel absolutely naked without mascara. I\u2019ve tried many brands over the years but they either smudge too easily or give me the clumps. Benefit\u2019s They\u2019re Real has always performed like a champ. It gives my barely visible lashes the extra  oomph  they need and, most importantly, stays put!\" \u2014KC \"Carmex lip balm was introduced to me as a child (thanks mom!) and it's been my go-to ever since. No matter dry my lips are, this treatment hydrates and softens skin immediately. I literally have 10 tubes.\" \u2014Ariana Yaptangco, ELLE.com Social Media Editor \"*Nobody*: *Me*: *applies Sephora Ulta Lip Gel for the 50th time* Look, it\u2019s just that good. This \u201clip gel\u201d has a nice glossy finish without feeling sticky and has the perfect amount of pink tint to enhance the natural color of my lip without giving me that ashy pink look. You know the ashy pink look I\u2019m talking about.\" \u2014Nerisha Penrose, ELLE.com Assistant Editor \"Though this is technically a primer, I use it as a light-coverage foundation, and it gives the most candle-lit, non-cakey glow you can possibly imagine.\"\u2014  Jessica Roy, ELLE.com Deputy Editor \"This palette is the holy grail: 12 different shades that work well together to build eye looks that range from simple to sultry depending on how they\u2019re used together. It\u2019s currently limited edition, but I\u2019ll be gutted if it ever leaves!\" \u2014Nikki Ogunnaike, ELLE.com Style Director \"This tiny but powerful tool fills in your brows with the most natural-looking finish. Its super skinny pencil mimics actual individual hairs, and the smudge-proof formula sticks on even without using a gel on top.\"\u2014 Kristina Rodulfo, ELLE.com Senior Beauty Editor \"If I could just apply the 'Subtle by Instagram' filter to my face each morning, I would.  This setting powder is the next best thing\u2014it\u2019s lightweight, silky, blurs my pores and provides just enough glow without being too shiny.\" \u2014Katie Connor, ELLE.com Digital Director ELLE may earn money from the links on this page. Makeup trends come and go, but some products can really stand the test of time. Whether it's your all-time favorite red lipstick or can't-live-without mascara, we all have beauty bag staples we've fallen in love with over and over again. The ELLE.com was very vocal about their favorite makeup products ever, ranging from a pore-erasing primer to a skinny brown pencil that fakes fuller arches. Shop the absolute best of the best, ahead.  "If I could just apply the 'Subtle by Instagram' filter to my face each morning, I would.  This setting powder is the next best thing it s lightweight, silky, blurs my pores and provides just enough glow without being too shiny." Katie Connor, ELLE.com Digital Director "This tiny but powerful tool fills in your brows with the most natural-looking finish. Its super skinny pencil mimics actual individual hairs, and the smudge-proof formula sticks on even without using a gel on top." Kristina Rodulfo, ELLE.com Senior Beauty Editor "This palette is the holy grail: 12 different shades that work well together to build eye looks that range from simple to sultry depending on how they re used together. It s currently limited edition, but I ll be gutted if it ever leaves!" Nikki Ogunnaike, ELLE.com Style Director "Though this is technically a primer, I use it as a light-coverage foundation, and it gives the most candle-lit, non-cakey glow you can possibly imagine."  Jessica Roy, ELLE.com Deputy Editor "*Nobody*: *Me*: *applies Sephora Ulta Lip Gel for the 50th time* Look, it s just that good. This  lip gel  has a nice glossy finish without feeling sticky and has the perfect amount of pink tint to enhance the natural color of my lip without giving me that ashy pink look. You know the ashy pink look I m talking about." Nerisha Penrose, ELLE.com Assistant Editor "Carmex lip balm was introduced to me as a child (thanks mom!) and it's been my go-to ever since. No matter dry my lips are, this treatment hydrates and softens skin immediately. I literally have 10 tubes." Ariana Yaptangco, ELLE.com Social Media Editor "I feel absolutely naked without mascara. I ve tried many brands over the years but they either smudge too easily or give me the clumps. Benefit s They re Real has always performed like a champ. It gives my barely visible lashes the extra  oomph  they need and, most importantly, stays put!" KC "I ve recently gotten back into lip glosses and love the Perfect Shine Hydrating Lip Gloss from Hue Noir. The formula goes on smoothly (not sticky) and smells wonderfully. The All that Glitters shade amps up my natural lip tone without making them over the top! It s my new go-to." NO "Precision, pigment, and long-lasting results. That's what you get with Kat Von D's cult-favorite Tattoo Liner. You'll never have to do retouches or worry about smudges." KR "I won't shut up about FAB's Hello Fab Skin Tint. I've talked about it so much all of my friends and family are now also addicted. It's the perfect balance of light sheer coverage that can quickly transform into a full face beat. Beyond the versatility of the product, it's packed with goji berry (an antioxidant that does wonders for the skin!) and SPF 30. This product is the Michael Jordan of beauty; it's the GOAT." Chloe Hall, Special Projects Editor and Producer "I travel often and have recently switched out my liquid foundations for three Flesh Firm Flesh stick foundations and am never looking back. They mix and match and go on with such ease, and at $18 a pop I buy multiple for various parts of my face." NO "Of all the drugstore and high-end eyeliners I ve glided across my eyes, none comes close to the love I have for L Oreal s Infallible Super Slim. The rich pigment, ultra-fine tip, the easy application, and matte black finish I have no choice but to stan!" NP "This palette is my go-to for everyday wear. Charlotte Tilbury's shades are work-appropriate but can be amped up for any after-work hangouts. Plus, the bronzer and blush shades double as extra eyeshadow colors." AY "As far as drugstore mascaras go it doesn't get any better than Lash Paradise. It lengthens, separates, never clumps, and holds a curl all while coming in under $10. Buy in bulk." KR "If me and NARS Orgasm The Multiple had had a baby, it would be a teenager by now. That's how long it's been in my back pocket or should that be front pocket? If you want to frost yourself in the most tried and true way, the tiny light-reflective particles of this classic highlighter stick will support that mission. It will never let you down, either; I got complimented on its very glowy but subtle effects just this week." Estelle Tang, ELLE.com Senior Editor "I traded in my powder highlighters for this liquid gem from Lancome and haven t looked back since. Powder highlighters tend to sit on the surface of my skin but Lancome s liquid gold seeps into my skin to give me a lit-from-within glow." NP "On the days I don't feel like wearing makeup, this miracle mascara always makes my lashes pop. While the lipstick colors and eye palettes change, it's a steady standby in my beauty arsenal." Alyssa Bailey, ELLE.com News Editor "I love this smoothing primer. It totally minimizes the appearance of all my pores, and doesn t feel heavy on my face. Plus, a little goes a longggg way. One tiny tube lasted me for almost an entire year." RM "If dewy, your-skin-but-better is what you seek, look no further than this heavenly cushion compact from La Prairie. It has buildable, light-to-medium coverage that evens out skin tone, acts like a treatment thanks to its built-in essence, and magically feels like nothing on your face. I've never seen a foundation with such an undetectable finish (most foundations look/feel like masks), and though pricy, this formula can't be beat." KR "Can't! Live! Without! Vaseline! Makeup remover? Check. A lil balm for chapped lips? Check. A dry cuticle? CHECK. Vaseline is my desert island beauty supply. Vas or die." JR "Morphe s M439 Brush is a classic. I use this brush to apply my liquid foundation and it blends the product out like a dream so no signs of streaks or patches, just a flawless mug." NP "I believe a bright, bold red lip is appropriate no matter the occasion: Work, home, dinner, parties, gym (yes, the gym!). This Maybelline lipstick in endless raisin is my go-to color. It slides on easy, doesn t smudge, and lasts all.day.long." Rose Minutaglio, ELLE.com Staff Writer "Every beauty bag needs a tinted lip balm for days you don't want to worry about a lipstick, but don't want naked lips. Dior's Lip Glow (a Bella Hadid favorite) is the ultimate, ultimate formula. Its ultra nourishing and adaptable: You can go light with the tint or layer for stronger color payoff. Plus, you don't need a mirror to apply." KR "I cannot sing MAKE's praises enough. My latest MAKE obsession is its Bronzing Brick. I switch between the Joshua Tree and Marfa shades, depending on how glorious my tan is on any given day. It offers a light contour that works for everyday, and, best of all its vegan, fragrance-free formula never irritates my sensitive skin."  Angel Lenise, ELLE.com Lead Video Producer "A makeup artist friend recommended this lengthening mascara to me few years ago, and I ve been using it ever since! I like having long dramatic lashes and this delivers. It stays on at the gym, but washes off easily at home, which is definitely a plus." RM "I never was a foundation girl. I always deemed a base especially full-coverage too much of a mask atop my skin and my nine step care routine. I never knew how incomplete I looked, though, with a full face of makeup (brows, eyes, cheeks, highlight) on bare skin. But when I discovered Becca's full coverage formula, I fell in love. Although it's full coverage, when wearing it, I just look like I have amazing skin. My secret: apply a pea-sized amount on a damp foundation brush and massage all over my face. A little bit goes a long way, evens out my tone and texture, and makes for the perfect base for the rest of my kit." AL "For a long time I was shelling out $34 for a YSL eyeliner that I swore was the best, but that was before I discovered Eyeko's $22 version. It's $12 cheaper, and has twice the staying power." JR "Honest Beauty's Cream Blush is a new addition to my beauty arsenal. I've gotten so many compliments that I threw out my old blush. It's creamy, soft, and shimmery. Meghan Markle is also rumored to have worn this blush during her wedding to Prince Harry. Need I say more?" CH "Every single time I wear this mascara around our former ELLE writer Mattie Kahn asks, 'Oh my GOD are your lashes FAKE or just super long?' Reader, they are not, I'm just wearing this amazingly underrated product." JR "Who would've thought QVC would be the brow bearer of my dreams? My makeup artist friend gifted me this precious little pot and not a single pencil from my past can compare. I always do my brows first, and use an angled brush to apply where my brow fullness falls short. Although it's a waxy formula, it settles like a powder and doesn't require a setting powder or mist to stay in place all day." AL 