fifth tarot suit? - Forum Library Thread originally posted on the  Aeclectic Tarot Forum  on 15 Mar 2004, and now archived in the  Forum Library .  cartarum 15 Mar 2004 ayone here familiar with a fifth suit of tarot? they might be called lamps or aura? i have a few ideas, but i need some more info... bec 15 Mar 2004 Hi, I know of some calling the majors the suit of spirits - but that is all I know of it :( Donster would have more insight to share, if he reads he may reply for sure. PS: Hi Don ;) this is anja(denmark) Logiatrix 15 Mar 2004 I know that the Daughters of the Moon deck considers the majors to be the fifth suit of Aether. The Healing Earth deck, if I remember correctly, also makes a simillar affiliation. :) Cerulean 15 Mar 2004 Mentioning the trumps as the 'ether' or spiritual integration of all four suits. http://www.innertraditions.com/titles/diyoth.htm Click on Table of Contents in the link above to get the mention...you might be able to search the contents on  Amazon .com about the 'fifth suit of spirit" as it is talked about in that book. I am not certain, but the Deva Tarot, an AG Mueller deck, seemed to have a fifth suit idea?  Pictures in first link, picture and review links in second posted link: www.aeclectic.net/tarot/cards/deva/ [/url] www.learntarot.com/dvdesc.htm Sincerely, Mari H. MeeWah 15 Mar 2004 Deva Tarot has a fifth suit, Triax.  Triax represents the etheric body, the higher self or the soul that serves as the bridge between the two triads of the body, a lower  &  an upper triad.  The lower or earthly triad is viewed as composed of the emotional, physical  &  astral bodies. The upper or higher as of the mental, spiritual  &  divine bodies (I am not sure of the distinction between the spiritual  &  the divine bodies.) The creators of the deck intended the deck for "the serious student of the metaphysical..."  &  not for divination purposes. Kiama 15 Mar 2004 Yep Mari, the Deva Tarot has a fifth Minor Arcana suit called Triaxes. Personally, I see the Major Arcana as the fifth suit and as corresponding to Spirit/Ether. Kiama Khatruman 15 Mar 2004 The first I heard of this fifth suit was Piers Anthony's science fiction tarot trilogy.  He maps out a 100-card deck. I, in fact, have a self-published tarot deck called the New Vision tarot (not the same as the recently published Tarot of the New Vision), which has 100 cards done to the specifications mapped out in Anthony's books. BTW, I would love to read Piers Anthony's books again, but, last I checked, they were out of print. Phoenix Rising 15 Mar 2004 Healing Earth deck has 6 suits Shields - pentacles wands - wands crystals - swords rainbows - cups Pipes - aether feathers - spirit Rusty Neon 17 Mar 2004 Japanese playing cards sometimes had 5 suits. http://l-pollett.tripod.com/cards9.htm Coins, Cups, Batons, Swords, and Whirl Pattern The courts of the Whirl Pattern are interesting, the pip symbol being like a fancier coin. Phoenyx* 18 Mar 2004 Yeah, I've heard of the Majors being considered a fifth suit. The  fifth tarot suit?  thread was originally posted on 15 Mar 2004 in the  Talking Tarot  board, and is now archived in the  Forum Library . Read the threads in    Talking Tarot , or read more  archived threads . Copyright   1996 - 2019  Aeclectic Tarot . All rights reserved.  Privacy Policy .  Contact us .  