Motivation and Inspiration - Ivys Memory Makers ​Copyright @ Ivy's Memory Makers. All rights reserved. 2018 Positive brings Positive thoughts motivation and inspiration,motivational thoughts​ ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Ivy's Memory Makers, Online Magazine, motivational stories, online lifestyle magazines,  Short Stories,  Inspirational,  inspirational quotes,  ​ ​ "I want to inspire you to feel something for your life." Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email AddThis Change ​ In Progress Facebook Twitter Pinterest AddThis Go toward your destination one step at a time, and you will get there. Do you every run into old friends, and think they have nothing good to say about their life?  We should all see the same in our life, when you remember where you use to be and where you are now.  Even if someone says you look the same, there will be many things that have changed in your life over the time.  Everyone changes in life, we all grow-up and it is the hope that we have move forward with the times.  With time you consider yourself smarter, and have done many things over the years.  We have progress happening in everything around us these days, from the way we live to how we use to do the simple things in life.  Very few people hand wash their clothes, can live without a television, or cell phone, there are many was to cook food these days.  It is amazing how many people you can communicate with on Facebook, life's progression is also ours.  When life progressed, so did we, that won't change.  All we can do is to grow with the times. ​  We all are a work in progress? What are the Contents  of your  life? Are there issues that are stopping you from progressing and enjoying life?  You want to see some success in your life. Aim Up A work in progress is what we are, and always striving to do better. There is room to grow and change with the times.  A plant never stays the same.  Our lives can change at any moment.  Do you want to be prepared or accept things as they come to you.  As you watch television or the people around.  Some things will go  Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email AddThis Ivy's Memory Makers Jewelry Things to inspire you. https://www.etsy.com/shop/Ivysmemorymakers?ref=hdr_shop_menu Motivational and Inspirational through the times. ( click the topics ) Life As Time Goes Change Future ​Open you eyes, stay motivated, and Subscribe , it can help you to think upward about life.​  Each Month new inspirational and motivational stories added.  Follow along by  Subscribing , and Stay motivated to change your life.  Completed below: Follow Me one way is through Facebook. Things will happen as we go through life, we Just Have To Keep On Moving Forward.  What's Next? Growth In each part of life, there is something that shows we have changed in some how.  How we manage our lives is an important part of our growth.  Some people move slower then others, and some will go a direction that was never expected.  Progress can be as natural as growth, or it can be what you choose to add along the way. Are you aiming to go up, or are you wanting to?  We have to know where we are going ahead of time. Words For The Day I think about issues or things in life, then I Tweet. There are many ways to support this magazine. Advertise Advertiser Advertisement ivysmemoymakers.com@gmail.com Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email AddThis Did you miss something with the bling of the eye? REMEMBER AVON,  It's has  great products, at a great price.  It is about putting on our best even with little money. What can you do to help others? Want to help others to make the Memories happen? Other Related Topics : Content Page Life As Time Goes Change Future Social Crew Giving Love Home Contact me:   ivysmemorymakers.com@gmail.com Or instant share on Tweeter J ​ oin the Challenge, Subscribe. We want to do better in life. ​ If you struggle with life's issues or know someone who is, pass this site on: www.ivysmemorymakers.com. This Magazine, provides short stories that can get better.  This magazine sole purpose is to motivate personal change, and in no way can replace the help you will get from an professional. ​ Copyright @ Ivy's Memory Makers. All rights reserved. 2014 View Desktop Version 