Nathaniel Kwok - Computational Researcher - Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center | LinkedIn Forward-thinking technologist who has recently discovered a passion for clinical medicine, and for tackling its many problems. Acting on it before it's too late. www.futureofcare.nyc Liked by  Nathaniel Kwok Liked by  Nathaniel Kwok Liked by  Nathaniel Kwok Jun 2017   –  Present 2 years 7 months Greater New York City Area Alex Kentsis Lab Developing and investigating a novel, integrated proteogenomic approach to therapeutic target discovery in childhood cancer. Alex Kentsis Lab Developing and investigating a novel, integrated proteogenomic approach to therapeutic target discovery in childhood cancer. Oct 2015   –   Jun 2016 9 months Cambridge, MA Interface with clients to understand their genomic analytic and personalized medicine requirements and uses. Translate those needs into actionable software items for the engineering team to implement. Interface with clients to understand their genomic analytic and personalized medicine requirements and uses. Translate those needs into actionable software items for the engineering team to implement. Nov 2014   –   Dec 2015 1 year 2 months Daniel Geschwind Lab of Neurogenetics Built a database and software pipeline used in the largest study of the genetic etiology of autism-spectrum disorder in African-Americans. Built a database and software pipeline used in the largest study of the genetic etiology of autism-spectrum disorder in African-Americans. Jun 2014   –   Dec 2015 1 year 7 months Professor Bosco Tjan Lab of Neuroscience Building a software pipeline for efficiently visualizing fMRI activation volumes on 3D reconstructions of anatomical surfaces, to be used in functional analysis. The idea is to be able to take time-spliced brain images, sampled as a subject is exposed to a changing visual stimulus, and map the activated regions onto a 3D model of the subject's brain, in an easily usable manner. Conducting a behavioral psychophysics research study involving the peripheral vision phenomenon of crowding, with implications about attention deployment and potential utility to those with foveal impairment. Building a software pipeline for efficiently visualizing fMRI activation volumes on 3D reconstructions of anatomical surfaces, to be used in functional analysis. The idea is to be able to take time-spliced brain images, sampled as a subject is exposed to a changing visual stimulus, and map the activated regions onto a 3D model of the subject's brain, in an easily usable manner. Conducting a behavioral psychophysics research study involving the peripheral vision phenomenon of crowding,... Building a software pipeline for efficiently visualizing fMRI activation volumes on 3D reconstructions of anatomical surfaces, to be used in functional analysis. The idea is to be able to take time-spliced brain images, sampled as a subject is exposed to a changing visual stimulus, and map the activated regions onto a 3D model of the subject's brain, in an easily usable manner. Conducting a behavioral psychophysics research study involving the peripheral vision phenomenon of crowding, with implications about attention deployment and potential utility to those with foveal impairment. Jun 2013   –   Aug 2013 3 months San Francisco, CA •Worked on an enterprise-grade, cloud-oriented identity management (single sign-on) platform for web applications •Delivered a heuristic-based sign-on mode for the application that analyzes login pages and automatically populates them with the pertinent user credentials, eliminating the need for individual site flows •Worked intimately with all layers of the software stack, from database/schema (Hibernate, SQL) to the core server architecture (Java, Scala) to front-end/UI design (JavaScript) •Became proficient with the Hibernate, Spring, and Backbone.js frameworks as a result of working throughout the stack •Worked on an enterprise-grade, cloud-oriented identity management (single sign-on) platform for web applications •Delivered a heuristic-based sign-on mode for the application that analyzes login pages and automatically populates them with the pertinent user credentials, eliminating the need for individual site flows •Worked intimately with all layers of the software stack, from database/schema (Hibernate, SQL) to the core server architecture (Java, Scala) to front-end/UI design... •Worked on an enterprise-grade, cloud-oriented identity management (single sign-on) platform for web applications •Delivered a heuristic-based sign-on mode for the application that analyzes login pages and automatically populates them with the pertinent user credentials, eliminating the need for individual site flows •Worked intimately with all layers of the software stack, from database/schema (Hibernate, SQL) to the core server architecture (Java, Scala) to front-end/UI design (JavaScript) •Became proficient with the Hibernate, Spring, and Backbone.js frameworks as a result of working throughout the stack 2016   –   2020 2013   –   2014 2009   –   2013 Activities and Societies: Lab of Ornithology - Software  &  Embedded Systems Development, Alpha Sigma Phi - Philanthropy  &  Sustainability Chair Dec 2014   –   Jan 2015 2 months Health Spent 3 weeks in Trujillo, Peru helping out in local clinics and shadowing doctors. Set up a mobile clinic in a severely impoverished suburban outskirt, providing service, medicine, and supplies to ~100 patients. Teamed up with the Social Work branch to educate local children about maintaining good health and hygiene. Spent 3 weeks in Trujillo, Peru helping out in local clinics and shadowing doctors. Set up a mobile clinic in a severely impoverished suburban outskirt, providing service, medicine, and supplies to ~100 patients. Teamed up with the Social Work branch to educate local children about maintaining good health and hygiene. Developed the software infrastructure for a proposed multi-touch device, which involved programming an ARM microcontroller to process sensory data and an application to visualize the response (OpenGL). Developed the software infrastructure for a proposed multi-touch device, which involved programming an ARM microcontroller to process sensory data and an application to visualize the response (OpenGL). Along with a team of 10, designed and built an RFID tag to track geese migration patterns across the Atlantic Ocean. Along with a team of 10, designed and built an RFID tag to track geese migration patterns across the Atlantic Ocean. Join to view Nathaniel’s full profile Hong Kong Hong Kong 2 others named Nathaniel Kwok are on LinkedIn 