Lost to the Ages | Elder Scrolls | Fandom Lost to the Ages  is a  quest  in  The Elder Scrolls V: Dawnguard . The quest details the investigation of a lost ancient  Dwemer  secret and the search for four pieces of solid  Aetherium . It can be started by locating and reading a copy of the book  The Aetherium Wars . It can also be started by entering  Arkngthamz  and talking to  Katria , skipping directly to the second part of the quest.  After finding a copy of  The Aetherium Wars  and reading it, a miscellaneous task of traveling to  Arkngthamz  in  The Reach  will appear in the Quest Log.  Upon arriving at Arkngthamz, the earth will quiver, followed by a disembodied voice that can be heard warning the  Dragonborn  to turn back. When continuing through the ruin, the disembodied voice will be given a name — a female Nord named Katria who will reveal that she is on the quest to find the mythical  Aetherium Forge . She reveals that she died during an earthquake in the  Dwemer ruin .  Katria's Journal  can be found on her body. In it, she expresses her displeasure that her former colleague,  Taron Dreth  (the author of  The Aetherium Wars ) stole her research to publish the book, but she insists that she alone has the leads for the locations of Aetherium and possibly where the Forge may be located.  The ethereal Katria aids the Dragonborn in retrieving the first of the four  aetherium shards  needed to unlock the Forge, and thus the quest "Lost to the Ages" begins, with the task of finding the Aetherium shards.  Reading "The Aetherium Wars" will create a mapmarker at the Dwemer ruins of  Arkngthamz  located in  The Reach  near  Dushnikh Yal  and  Valthume . There the Dragonborn encounters the corpse of a female Nord named Katria and finds a journal on her body that illustrates her findings regarding the Aetherium Forge and the ruins of Arkngthamz.  After reading the journal, the ghost of Katria appears and explains that she wishes to complete her research and find the Forge. She attempts to discourage anyone from venturing further into the ruin and insists on accompanying them through the ruin to the Summit. In the same room, she will ask the Dragonborn to retrieve the journal from her body on the small middle island they cross. If they look up from her body, they will see a log jutting out over the chasm, which is where they later find Katria's bow,  Zephyr .  Traverse up several levels of shattered earth and Dwemer steam pipelines, fighting through  spiders ,  spheres , and  falmer . Along the way, Katria will comment on various enemies and possibly warn you of upcoming ambushes. Shortly past a falmer camp containing chaurus, she will comment on the spot where she fell through the ground. In dialogue, she reveals that had she fallen two feet more to the left she would have landed in the water and survived. Upon reaching the log where the bow lies, she will comment on it.  Retrieving the bow, either physically or using  Telekinesis , reveals that it is a  Dwarven bow  with an inherent  enchantment  allowing it to fire 30% faster than normal bows.  Deep in the ruin—just past Zephyr—is a large antechamber with several falmer corpses, skeletons, and destroyed Dwemer spheres and spiders that lay strewn about with Dwarven arrows. Katria warns that this is an extremely effective—and lethal—security mechanism. The kinetic resonators have to be hit in a specific order to unlock the door, and that when she hit them in the wrong order it caused the earthquake. Katria has the first two successfully numbered in her book. A note found on a  nearby dead adventurer  reveals the third. Katria advises that they all have a certain pattern.  The pattern in this room is to shoot the first on the bottom left, then the one on the bottom right, then shoot the one on the top left, then the top right, then the bottom center, and the door will unlock. Shooting in the wrong order will trigger this series of traps.  If the player did not bring a bow, then Zephyr will need to be used; alternatively, one can cast projectile-type spells at the tonal locks.  Retrieve the aetherium shard in the unlocked room. Katria will say that she will go out into the world searching for the remaining three and advises the reading of her journal to see where the others are located. She will appear at each subsequent location once they are found.  Note that the map arrows pointing to the shard locations are selected at random, so the order in which each Shard is located can change from what appears below.  The description for the location numbered "2",  Deep Folk Crossing , in  Katria's Journal , mentions a Bthar-zel, which is northeast of  Bthardamz , northwest of  Druadach Redoubt , and southwest of  Mor Khazgur ; it is located far to the north of the  Reach Imperial Camp .  Deep Folk Crossing is a Dwemer bridge going over a river. Venture across it to the north side and up a slope to retrieve the next Shard atop a plinth (along with a Dwarven helmet, Dwarven sword, and a Dwemer Convector).  The location numbered "3" in  Katria's Journal  is located in  Raldbthar . Should the quest " Mourning Never Comes " for the  Dark Brotherhood  be started, then the ruin should be at least partly cleared. If not, the ruin is on a summit located east of the  dragon lair   Shearpoint , northwest of  Gallows Rock , and southwest of  Anga's Mill .  After fighting through the ruin, the second main area reached is called Raldbthar Deep Market. A room with four buttons will be reached; press the button that is second from the right to remove the metal bars. A little deeper in, there is a room filled with Dwemer gears, Falmer, and chaurus. The area needs to be cleared by removing the blockages (skull, leg bone, human spine, and Dwemer scrap metal) from the different gears. The hardest to find is the Dwemer scrap metal embedded in a submerged gear under the water. When all blockages are cleared, the power should return to the button that lowers the bridge, and the bridge can be crossed to fight a leveled  Dwarven Centurion . The Centurion can be bypassed by raising the bridge when it is on it, then shooting it. It will march forward into the water, and slowly die.  After the Centurion is defeated, continue into a series of rooms where Katria will join in fighting some leveled Spiders and Spheres to locate the next shard. Take the lift across from the room back up to Skyrim to continue the quest.  The location numbered "4" in  Katria's Journal  is where the next Shard is located, in the  Dwarven Storeroom  right before the entrance into  Mzulft . It is found along the eastern side of the mountains of  Eastmarch , southeast of  Windhelm , and directly north of  Cragslane Cavern . It is also directly east of  Steamcrag Camp .  If the chamber has not already been cleared, it is just a room with two apprentice level locks and one expert level lock filled with Dwemer metals, scraps, cogs, gyros,  Dwarven metal ingots  and a Dwemer convector. Only two out of three doors are needed to be opened in order to retrieve this Shard and the rest of the loot.  Regardless of what order the shards are found in, upon finding the fourth shard Katria will state that all that is left to do is find the Forge.  Upon consulting Katria's Journal, the fifth point shows the Forge to be west of the Lake Honrich. In reality, it is slightly southwest and much farther. It is the  Ruins of Bthalft , which is located southeast of  Ivarstead  and east of the  Rift Imperial Camp .  Upon arriving at the Forge location, bandits will attack. After dispatching them, place the aetherium shards on a Dwemer Globe that Katria points out. The ground starts shaking violently, and Katria advises standing back on a wooden platform. The globe will shoot up into the sky and reveal a lift underneath.  (Note: at this point, Katria may become delayed on the site. Wait for her; do not revert to another save, just sprint into her to move her.)  Take the lift down into the abandoned Dwemer ruin and find the way through, where Katria will remark that no-one has set foot there in over four thousand years. Torches and beacons automatically light the way.  At the main antechamber before the Forge, a massive locked door will be in the way. Above the door are two Kinetic Resonators. Shoot them both, and the Forge Room will be opened.  Upon entering, steam will be rising from a grate in the center; use the valves to shut off the steam and approach the forge. Upon the approach, a new objective becomes evident: defeat the Forge's Guardians, who will appear and immediately attack. Fight off Dwemer spiders, Dwemer spider guardians, and warped Dwemer spiders.  After defeating the spiders, Dwarven spheres, sphere guardians, and warped spheres will join the fray, and the steam will turn back on. Using the valves, turn it off again and return to the fight.  It is recommended to fight on the top decks near the valves and use the steps as a funnel. Katria will either dual wield daggers or use Zephyr. A good tactic is to make use of the  Unrelenting Force ,  Fire Breath  or  Frost Breath , and area of effect Destruction magic to whittle down the animunculi's strength.  After defeating these,  the Forgemaster  will appear out of the lava behind the Forge. It is the most powerful Dwarven Centurion Master known, and can breathe fire (instead of steam, like other centurions) and is resistant to fire damage. Katria, being a spirit, can prove her worth against it, and if you have multiple companions, they too will be a formidable match, as will essential followers.  After defeating the Forgemaster, Katria says to get some supplies from the chest near the Forge (unless some were brought along) and the aetherium Forge can be used to craft one item from the Aetherium Shards.  There are two gates that seem to just lead into the lava on either side of the forge. If  Become Ethereal  is used, one can swim in it. If by any chance  Ahzidal's Boots of Waterwalking  from  Dragonborn  are possessed, the lava can be traversed, but fire damage will still be taken. If the player is a  Vampire Lord , they can traverse the pool, or  Whirlwind Sprint  can also be used to explore the area.  Using the Become Ethereal shout, take the left path up to a small chest and another on the right. These paths lead to an overlook position of the forge, making it easier to shoot enemies from a distance.  Straight back from the forge is a large chest. To get to it, use the Become Ethereal shout to swim from the right side of the forge to the small island in the middle of the lava, then turn slightly left and the small alcove with the chest in can be seen. It is also a good idea to have resist fire potions because it is a long swim, and the islands are small. Full magic resistance will work as well. Also using a resist fire potion of 60% or higher and  Whirlwind Sprint  to reach the middle island is advised. Stop and restore health and allow the Shout capability to rebuild, then drink another Resist Fire potion and Whirlwind Sprint to the chest. Another resist fire potion and Whirlwind Sprint will allow access to the left ramp back to the forge.  The Dragonborn can choose from three pieces of equipment. However, only one can be chosen.  After forging the selected item, Katria comments on whichever item which was chosen to be forged, and mentions that there most likely is not any more aetherium in Skyrim. With a sigh of relief, she thanks the Dragonborn and expresses that she is finally at rest, and after a few final departing words, she fades away, to take her place among the honored in  Sovngarde . This completes the quest, and awards the Achievement (Xbox360) or Trophy (PS3) "Lost to the Ages."  When the quest is complete, Katria says,  She then disappears (with a bow of gratitude), bound for Sovngarde.  After completion of "Lost to the Ages," Taron Dreth can appear as a  random encounter  along the roads with three mercenaries in tow. If the Dragonborn has one of the items forged out of Aetherium (the  Aetherial crown ,  shield  or  staff ) in their possession, Dreth will ask the Dragonborn how they acquired this item. He will initiate combat with the Dragonborn no matter which dialogue option is chosen.  