Petition · PES University: Freedom of attendance. · Change.org Don &# x27;t have an account? Sign up By joining, or logging in via Facebook, you accept Change.org’s  Terms of Service  and  Privacy Policy . This petition had 290 supporters Compelling students to attend class by allotting marks to attendance, and stating a minimum attendance required for students to sit for the Semester examination has pushed students to gain attendance by any means necessary, and blurs the concept of a University. College should be about learning how to learn and developing a culture among students that encourages freedom of thought, action and expression, a culture of innovation and creativity.Forcing students to follow rules that are presumptuous will not achieve the above. Students must realise why they want to go to college and what they expect to achieve there.  Often, students come across topics, or classes that can be covered on their own, or they might have a prior knowledge about the said topics. In such cases, it would be counterproductive, for the students to be forced to attend said classes, as they could put use the time for better purposes, including but not limited to working on projects, learning new skills, attending seminars/workshops, interning. Students who genuinely lack motivation to attend class, if forced to sit in class have been observed to behave frivolously and disturb students genuinely interested in attending the classes. Also, the former mentioned students tend to miss classes and have friends answer their attendance calls. What good does the system do if this is what comes out of it. The governing institution might as well allow students to miss classes, and realise themselves what they are missing out on( if they are), thus intrinsically motivating students to attend said classes.This would in fact train the students better than treating them like children who need an incentive to do something they need not necessarily have to do. If the system is intended to help students achieve better grades and gain a few marks easily, it is not really pushing students to perform better. It rather makes them complacent , since just being in the class may be the difference between passing and failing.  This petition therefore requests that the Management of the Institution either abolish or suitably amend the 'Attendance for marks' system and renew what the University stands for.   This petition had 290 supporters Students United needs your help with “ PES University: Freedom of attendance. ”. Join Students United and 289 supporters today. Students United needs your help with “ PES University: Freedom of attendance. ”. Join Students United and 289 supporters today. 