Castano Viejo Destination Guide (San Juan, Argentina) - Trip-Suggest Some popular Argentine places. Castano Viejo in the region of San Juan is a town located in Argentina - some 701 mi (or 1,128 km) West of Buenos Aires, the country's capital. Local time in Castano Viejo is now  10:08 PM (Thursday) . The local timezone is named "America / Argentina / San Juan" with an UTC offset of -3 hours. Depending on your flexibility, these larger cities might be interesting for you:  Villa Nueva ,  San Luis ,  San Juan ,  San Fernando del Valle de Catamarca ,  Mendoza  or  La Serena .  When in this area, you might want to check out  and Castano Viejo as well.  We also found some pictures.  The photo " Mina Castaño Viejo " was uploaded by user  DAVIDIDESE The photo " Mina Castaño Viejo " was uploaded by user  DAVIDIDESE The photo " Mina Castaño Viejo " was uploaded by user  DAVIDIDESE The photo " Mina Castaño Viejo " was uploaded by user  DAVIDIDESE The photo " Río Castaño, Retamales, Calingasta " was uploaded by user  barct The photo " Se La Aguanta La Viejita " was uploaded by user  AlejandroM The photo " Río Castaño " was uploaded by user  Ronald Edg The photo " Retamal, río Castaño en invierno " was uploaded by user  Gustavo Co The photo " Junta Rio San Fransisco y Atutia " was uploaded by user  barct The photo " Segundo Cruce del Castaño mas arriba " was uploaded by user  AlejandroM The photo " Mateando en Las Timirimbas " was uploaded by user  delosfa The photo " Rio Castaño desde Arriba, (Retamales) " was uploaded by user  barct The photo " San Juan, Argentina. Como te Quiero!!! " was uploaded by user  AlejandroM The photo " Tercer Cruce del Rio Blanco " was uploaded by user  AlejandroM The photo " Retamar Los Vehiculos quedaron con la Temperatura al maximo " was uploaded by user  AlejandroM The photo " Vieja Mina de Oro  -Castaño Nuevo - Calingasta San Juan - " was uploaded by user  delosfa Photos provided by Panoramio are under the copyright of their owners. Videos provided by Youtube are under the copyright of their owners. The Castaño Viejo River is a river of Argentina. {{#invoke:Coordinates|coord}}{{#coordinates:30|59|0|S|69|34|0|W| |primary |name= }} Information of geographic nature is based on public data provided by geonames.org, CIA world facts book, Unesco, DBpedia and wikipedia. When you travel, remember that a foreign country is not designed to make you comfortable. It is designed to make its own people comfortable. Clifton Fadiman © Copyright 2013-2019 - Trip-Suggest 