Teach Factories with Contraption Maker Copyright  & copy; 2018 TeacherGaming. All rights reserved. Lesson Preview This is a printable preview of one of our lessons. Subscribe to gain access to this and 180+ other lessons using 35+ games, and track your students' progression in real time!  Learn More This is a printable preview of one of our lessons.  Subscribe for more great content!  Learn More This lesson takes a look at  factories  and teaches the students how to create their own  puzzles  in  Contraption Maker . This lesson introduces your students to creating their own contraptions. The students’ task will be to create their own factories, hence this introduction. READ: Image Source:  Armand Kohl: Workshops of Schaeffer Lalance , Wikimedia Commons. Play  Contraption Maker!  You now get to use the game’s  Maker Lab  to build your own factory (remember to  save  often!). Follow the instructions below: Go through this slide together to make sure the students know what the lesson goal is. The next slide includes additional hints for the students, if they are having problems. To start playing, click on  Puzzles . Next, select the puzzle pack you'd like to play. It's a good idea to begin with the first one,  Tutorial Puzzles . Finally, select the puzzle you would like to play. IMPORTANT NOTE:  If you’ve accidentally selected the wrong layer, you will not be able to add parts to the contraption. Make sure you have the “Part Layer” selected in the bottom right of the screen to be able to place parts. The main benefit of factories were originally to drive down costs and radically increase the efficiency at which goods were produced. In modern times, with modern automation and robotics, many complex products (such as modern cars and computers) would be completely impossible to create solely by hand. Products before the industrial revolution were made almost exclusively by hand, and meant that many products that are bought today, such as clothing and tools, were made at home. Even if many products were not made by the ones who used them, home maintenance and repair was ubiquitous. The revolution was sparked by new technologies, including the steam engine, and by growing populations and demands. Cities began to provide so much demand that large-scale factories became profitable. 