Brachialis Muscle Origin, Function  &  Anatomy | Body Maps The  brachialis muscle  is located in the upper arm. It lies underneath the biceps muscle. It acts as a structural bridge between the humerus, which is the bone of the upper arm, and the ulna, which is one of the forearm bones. The muscle is innervated by both the musculoskeletal nerve and the radial nerve. In some people, the muscle may appear doubled. Also called the brachialis anticus, its primary action is to flex the forearm muscles at the elbow. Due to its high contractile strength, the branchialis makes many arm and elbow movements possible. Such movements are important for the activities of daily life. Because movements involving the arms and elbows are almost always continuous, injuries to the brachialis muscle are quite common. They can be as subtle as muscle aches or as serious as muscle rupture and hematoma. The muscle can tear, lacerate or rupture with overextension of the elbow or when extreme force is exerted against surrounding structures. Deep muscles of the elbow facilitate and perform many functions, such as twisting the wrist and moving the fingers. The larger exterior muscles of the… Whereas the larger exterior muscles of the arm provide the most profound movements, such as the bending of the elbow and wrist, the smaller deep… Collagen is an essential building block for the entire body, from skin to gut, and more. Here &# x27;s five changes you may see or feel just by taking more… You can do a lot of prep work to make the perfect sleep environment. But if that doesn &# x27;t work, here are six other hacks to try. Identifying your triggers can take some time and self-reflection. In the meantime, there are things you can try to help calm or quiet your anxiety… If your take on meditation is that it &# x27;s boring or too  " new age, "  then read this. One man shares how - and why - he learned to meditate even though he… Cholesterol is a fatty substance that &# x27;s needed to build cells. Low-density lipoproteins (LDL) and very low-density lipoproteins (VLDL) are two types… Fluctuations in mood from time to time are normal. But when a person is unnaturally moody, aggressive, euphoric, or mild-tempered it may be a sign of… Botox is often joked about and criticized as complicit in the perpetuation of damaging, unrealistic beauty standards. But for me, getting Botox is the… Musculoskeletal pain refers to pain in the muscles, bones, ligaments, tendons, and nerves. You can feel this pain in just one area of the body, such… 