My Back Went Out. Do I Use Heat or Ice to Relieve Low Back Pain? The feeling is all-too-familiar to the estimated 31 million Americans who live with  back pain : Your back is out. Again. But what exactly does that mean? The feeling is hard to describe: For you, it may be a twinge that causes tenderness and discomfort. Or, the pain might be so intense that it hurts to make even the slightest movement. It can be concentrated in a specific area or spread out. You might feel achiness, numbness and tingling in your butt and legs. You can lower your chances of throwing your back out by maintaining a healthy lifestyle. That means getting regular  exercise ,  losing weight , and reducing stress. And if you smoke, you should quit. You can also protect your back by not lifting heavy objects. If you can’t avoid it, be sure lift the right way: Bend your  knees  and keep your back straight. It will keep you from pulling something or hurting your back. It’s hard to know if or when your back will go out. It could happen while you’re moving furniture or shoveling snow. But even something as simple as  sneezing  or bending over to tie your shoe could trigger back spasms. When it happens, there are some simple things you can do to relieve your pain. When it hurts to move, rest might seem like the right thing to do. But sitting still for too long might make the problem worse. To keep your back muscles from losing tone: Put an ice pack on your back for 10 to 20 minutes to reduce nerve activity, pain, and swelling. And be sure to wrap the ice pack in a towel to protect your  skin . Studies show that it can provide short-term pain relief. A hot shower, bath or heating pad can help relax tense muscles and reduce  inflammation . But if you use a heating pad, be careful. Don’t set it on “high” or fall asleep with it on your skin. It could cause serious burns. Over-the-counter  medications  like  aspirin  and  acetaminophen  will relieve the pain.  Ibuprofen  and  naproxen  relieve pain and swelling. Your doctor may also prescribe  steroids  to relieve  inflammation . It helps build muscle strength and can speed up recovery.  Stretching  and strengthening exercises, like  yoga , can ease chronic low  back pain . Your doctor may also suggest physical therapy to make your back and abdominal muscles (your “core”) stronger. Studies show that exercises to strengthen the muscles that support  the spine  can reduce pain a lot. When your back goes out, make an appointment with a  massage  therapist. A 2011 study found that this is an effective treatment for chronic low back pain.  With these treatments, your pain should go away on its own. Call your doctor if you have any of these symptoms, because they could be signs of a bigger problem: SOURCES: American Chiropractic Association: “Back Pain Facts and Statistics.” National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases: “What Is Back Pain?” American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons: “Low Back Pain.” Harvard Medical School: “Bed Rest for Back Pain? A Little Bit Will Do You.” National Institute of Neurologic Disorders and Stroke: “Low Back Pain Fact Sheet.” Johns Hopkins Medicine: “Cryotherapy (Cold Therapy) for Pain Management.” University of Michigan Health System: “Low Back Pain.” Cochrane Library: “Motor Control Exercise for Chronic Non-specific Low Back Pain.” Annals of Internal Medicine : “A comparison of the effects of 2 types of massage and usual care on chronic low back pain: a randomized, controlled trial.” U.S. National Library of Medicine: “Back Pain.” American Association of Neurological Surgeons: “Low Back Strain and Sprain,” “Spinal Infections,” “Spinal Tumors.” Pagination Or is it another form of back pain? See the myths vs. the facts. Good and bad exercises. Use it to manage your pain. You will receive your first newsletter with our next scheduled circulation! {text} {button}  2005 - 2019 WebMD LLC. All rights reserved. WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information. 