Charles Knox Robinson - WikiVisually search Charles Knox Robinson III  (April 13, 1932 — July 22, 2006) was an American actor who appeared in over 80 films and television series over his career. From 1958 through 1971 he was credited as Charles Robinson and, from 1972 onward, his full birth name, Charles Knox Robinson, also became his stage name, his credits have been occasionally commingled with those of younger actor  Charlie Robinson  who, during an eight-year (1984–92) stint as court clerk Mac Robinson on  Night Court  had been credited as Charles Robinson. Robinson's first on-screen billing in a feature film was as one of the title characters in 1962's  The Interns , he established the Torchlight Project together with his wife, Joan, which aided, empowered and enriched the lives of impoverished children in foreign countries. He was also a member of many organizations including: the  Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences ,  Screen Actors Guild ,  American Federation of Television and Radio Artists ,  Actors' Equity Association , Playwrights/Dramatists Guild and the  Academy of Magical Arts . Born in the  New Jersey  township of  Orange , he was the son of playwright Charles Knox Robinson II and painter Geraldine O'Loughlin. Siblings include Judith Kirby Robinson, actress, and Toni Stuart Robinson Thalenberg, former actress/academic,  he was the maternal cousin of actor  Gerald S. O'Loughlin . His theatrical family opened his acting career at age three on Broadway. Receiving his high school diploma from the private  Lawrenceville School , he graduated  Phi Beta Kappa  and  magna cum laude  from  Princeton University  in 1954, he was an English major and had many campus activities, including serving as president of  Triangle Club . After graduation, he served in the Army from 1958 to 1962 as an  aide-de-camp  to a general in  the Pentagon , translator and speech writer, attaining the rank of  first lieutenant , he also served as a French and Russian language interpreter for the  1984 Olympics . He married Joan (who wrote under her birth name, Giovanna) [ 1 ]  Calistri on May 7, 1960, in New York City. Robinson had co-starring and supporting roles in more than 80 films and episodes of TV series during his career; his first film was  Splendor in the Grass  in the small uncredited role of Johnny Masterson; some of Robinson's other film appearances include  Take Her, She's Mine ,  Dear Brigitte ,  Shenandoah , and  The Singing Nun . His many TV credits include  77 Sunset Strip ,  Alfred Hitchcock Presents ,  Stoney Burke ,  The Alfred Hitchcock Hour ,  Bachelor Father ,  Ripcord ,  Laramie , [ 2 ] Wagon Train ,  Gunsmoke ,  The Virginian ,  The High Chaparral ,  Ben Casey ,  The Munsters ,  My Three Sons ,  Cade's County ,  The Sixth Sense ,  Mannix ,  Ironside ,  Banacek ,  The F.B.I. ,  Barnaby Jones ,  Griff ,  O'Hara, U.S. Treasury ,  The Manhunter ,  The Six Million Dollar Man ,  Adam-12 ,  Emergency! ,  Mobile One ,  The Paper Chase ,  Ellery Queen ,  Cannon ,  Flying High ,  The Hardy Boys/Nancy Drew Mysteries ,  Airwolf , [ 3 ] Switch ,  Quincy, M.E. ,  Simon  &  Simon ,  Finder of Lost Loves ,  Scarecrow  &  Mrs. King  and  The Equalizer . [ 4 ]  On Broadway he performed in  Tall Story ,  The Pleasure of His Company  and  The Good Soup ; the first two plays would later become motion pictures with other actors playing the roles he originated. He was part of the great ensemble cast in  Robert Wise 's 1966 film  The Sand Pebbles . Robinson played  Richard Crenna 's second in command Ensign Bordelles aboard the fictional Navy gunboat, USS San Pablo, stationed in China. Robinson had a standout scene in which he had to lead his troops under guard of  Chinese Nationalist  soldiers back to the ship; as the sailors march, they are pummeled by vegetables thrown by the throngs of Chinese citizens. It was one of nine theatrical features in which he appeared during the 1960s, in addition to 23 guest starring roles in TV series episodes. The 1970s proved to be an even busier decade, with 5 theatrical features as well as 34 television films and episodes of TV series, including four additional installments of  The F.B.I. , a series which had already featured him in two 1960s episodes. Fifty years old in 1982, Robinson had eleven screen credits in the 1980s, ten of which were in  television films  as well as episodes of TV series, with the last two airing in 1986 (February 5 episode of  CBS '  The Equalizer  and June 6 episode of  ABC 's  Comedy Factory , June 6); the eleventh role was in his sole theatrical feature of the decade, 1987's  Death Wish 4: The Crackdown  in which he played the small part of an unnamed newspaper editor. After a passage of nine years performing in local theater and other activity, he returned to the screen in 1996, at age 64, for one small final role, that of an unnamed lawyer for  Matthew Broderick 's character in the black comedy  The Cable Guy , where he was billed 44th in the end credits as Charles Knox Robinson, III. He appeared in the 2001  Palm Canyon Theatre  Productions  Arsenic and Old Lace  and  The Man Who Came to Dinner , his lifelong entertainment career included his talents as an award-winning playwright, [ 1 ]  singer, songwriter, musician, linguist and magician. He and his wife, Joan, established the Torchlight Project, which had as its purpose aiding, empowering, and enriching the lives of impoverished and abandoned children in many foreign countries, he was a member of the  Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences ,  Screen Actors Guild ,  American Federation of Television and Radio Artists ,  Actors' Equity Association ,  Playwrights/Dramatists Guild  and the  Academy of Magical Arts . [ 5 ] Robinson died of  Parkinson's disease  at his  Palm Springs  home at the age of 74, [ 6 ]  he was interred at Ocean View Cemetery in  Staten Island . His wife, Joan Calistri Robinson (1928–2001), had died five years earlier. Bachelor Father (U.S. TV series)  For the 1970s British television series, see  Bachelor Father  Bachelor Father is an American  sitcom  starring  John Forsythe ,  Noreen Corcoran  and  Sammee Tong . The series first premiered on CBS in September 1957 before moving to NBC for the third season in 1959; the series &# x27; fifth and final season aired on ABC for the rest of the show &# x27;s run. A total of 157 episodes were aired; the series was based on  &# x22;A  New Girl  in His Life, &# x22; which aired on  General Electric Theater  on May 26, 1957. Bachelor Father is the only primetime series to run in consecutive years on the three major television networks. Bachelor Father follows the adventures of Bentley Gregg, a wealthy bachelor attorney living in  Beverly Hills  who assumes the responsibility of raising his niece, after her parents died in an automobile accident. Other members of the cast included  houseboy  Peter Tong, teenage neighbor and Kelly &# x27;s on and off boyfriend, Howard Meechum, Kelly &# x27;s best friend,  Ginger  Farrell and Jasper, the dog.  Withers  appeared in 51 episodes from 1957-1962.   Plots center on Bentley &# x27;s adjustments to his new role as an adoptive parent, his search for the right woman to share his life, Kelly facing the usual problems of adolescence and young adulthood and her ritual of passage from high school to college and Peter &# x27;s misadventures with his family, love life and financial schemes. The program &# x27;s final season  storylines  led to Kelly &# x27;s impending marriage to Bentley &# x27;s junior partner Warren Dawson; the two met, became engaged, interacted with other couples and met Dawson &# x27;s parents, all in a span of three episodes. Without mention or explanation, Kincaid &# x27;s character was dropped after four episodes and by the series finale, Kelly is seeing a different man with no marriage plans. Meechum appears in several Season 5 episodes, but he is never developed as a serious romantic interest for Kelly; as the series was canceled after 157 episodes, Bachelor Father did not have a formal series finale. According to John Forsythe, the Bentley Gregg character was based on two well-known Beverly Hills bachelors at the time.   He used it for the character &# x27;s in the program. Because of the implication in the program of Gregg &# x27;s aversion to marriage, no serious thoughts were given to casting a &# x27;regular &# x27; or steady woman for him. Instead, Gregg is forever dating different women with only a handful getting a &# x27;second &# x27; date with him. Forsythe noted. Actor  Ronald Reagan , who hosted General Electric Theater from 1954-1962, suggested Corcoran for the role, believing her to be a &# x27;typical teenager &# x27; and closer to what a normal 13-year-old was like, which Forsythe agreed. Corcoran was an experienced actress with movie and television roles to her credit, she was 18 years old when the program left the air and had virtually &# x27;grown up &# x27; into a young woman during the show &# x27;s run. Casting Bentley Gregg &# x27;s houseboy was difficult as well. Sammee Tong was cast based on his experience as a stand-up comedian. Forsythe believed much of the program &# x27;s success resulted from the interaction between Tong and himself and that Tong had great comic timing, he stated that Tong &# x27;s character was unique for the time and that he was not the  &# x22;typical &# x22;  Asian  house servant.   Forsythe insisted on Tong being a major character on the program. Several of the program plots center around Tong, many dealing with his attempts to improve his position in life. Although none pan out he does develop as a character through the life of the program. Among the series guest stars were  Edgar Bergen ,  Bill Bixby ,  Billy Gray ,  Ryan O &# x27;Neal ,  Frankie Laine ,  Mary Tyler Moore  and singer  Patti Page .  Eddie Anderson , who portrayed  &# x22; Rochester &# x22; on  The Jack Benny Show , reprised his role in the Season 5 episode,  &# x22;Pinch That Penny. &# x22; Besides the &# x27;Benny &# x27; link, the series had connections to The  George Burns and Gracie Allen  Show as  Harry Von Zell  appeared in five season three episodes as Bentley Gregg &# x27;s friend and next-door neighbor. The Burns &# x27; son,  Ronnie Burns , appeared on two episodes, as well. Fifteen-year-old  Linda Evans  appeared in a guest spot on the series as one of Kelly &# x27;s friends. Evans and Forsythe starred in the primetime soap opera Dynasty together. Other guest stars include: The series &# x27; pilot episode,  &# x22;A  New Girl  in His Life &# x22; aired on  General Electric Theater  on May 26, 1957.   The series was first telecast on CBS on September 15, 1957. It aired on Sunday evenings on alternating weeks with The Jack Benny Program opposite NBC &# x27;s Sally and ABC &# x27;s  Maverick ; the show moved to NBC as a weekly series on Thursday nights in June 1959 and concluded its run on that network in September 1961. The series moved on to ABC on Tuesday nights in 1961 for its final season; the last  &# x22;first run &# x22; episode aired on June 1962, with the remainder of the summer being reruns.  Bachelor Father  is the only series to run in consecutive seasons on all three major TV networks of the time. * Because of the  Hollywood Blacklist ,  Alfred Lewis Levitt  was credited at  &# x22;Tom August. &# x22; Bachelor Father was filmed at  Revue Studios . It was sponsored by  American Tobacco  and  American Home Products  Corporation throughout its original run; the series was produced by Forsythe &# x27;s  &# x22;Bachelor Productions &# x22; in association with MCA &# x27;s Revue Studios. Bachelor Father pilot and broadcast season were produced by  Harry Ackerman 1984 Summer Olympics  The 1984 Summer Olympics known as the  Games of the XXIII Olympiad , was an international  multi-sport event , held from July 28 to August 12, 1984, in  Los Angeles, United States . This was the second time that Los Angeles had hosted the Games, the first being in 1932.  California  was the home state of the  incumbent U. S. President Ronald Reagan , who opened the Games; the logo for the 1984 Games, branded  &# x22;Stars in Motion &# x22;, featured red and blue stars arranged horizontally and struck through with alternating streaks. The official mascot of the Games was  Sam the Olympic Eagle ; these were the first  Summer Olympic Games  under the IOC presidency of  Juan Antonio Samaranch . The 1984 Games were boycotted by a total of fourteen  Eastern Bloc  countries, including the  Soviet Union  and  East Germany , in response to the American-led boycott of the previous 1980  Summer Olympics in Moscow  in protest of the  Soviet invasion of Afghanistan .  Iran  and  Libya  chose to boycott the Games for unrelated reasons. Despite the field being depleted in certain sports due to the boycott, 140  National Olympic Committees  took part, a record at the time.   The 1984 Summer Olympics are considered to be the most financially successful modern Olympics and serve as an example of how to run the model  Olympic Games . As a result of low construction costs, coupled with a reliance on private corporate funding, the 1984 Olympic Games generated a profit of more than $250 million. On July 18, 2009, a 25th anniversary celebration was held in the main  Olympic Stadium ; the celebration included a speech by the former president of the Los Angeles Olympic Organizing Committee,  Peter Ueberroth , a re-creation of the lighting of the cauldron. Los Angeles will host the Summer Olympics for the third time in 2028. After the  murder of Israeli athletes  by Palestinian terrorists in  Munich  and the significant financial debts of  Montreal , few cities by the late 1970s were willing to bid for the Summer Olympics. Only two cities made serious bids for the 1984 Summer Games, but before the final selection of a  &# x22;winning &# x22; city in 1978, the bid from  Tehran  was withdrawn as a result of Iran &# x27;s policy changes following the  Iranian Revolution  and a change in the country &# x27;s ruling system.   Hence, the selection process for the 1984 Summer Olympics consisted of a single finalized bid from Los Angeles, which the  International Olympic Committee  accepted. The selection was made at the 80th  IOC Session  in  Athens  on 18 May 1978. Los Angeles had unsuccessfully bid for the two previous Summer Olympics, for 1976 and 1980; the  United States Olympic Committee  had submitted at least one bid for every Olympics since 1944, but had not succeeded since the Los Angeles Olympics in 1932, the previous time only a single bid had been issued for the Summer Olympics. The 1984  Olympic Torch Relay  began in  New York City  and ended in Los Angeles, traversing 33 states and the  District of Columbia . Unlike torch relays, the torch was continuously carried by runners on foot; the route involved 3,636 runners. Noted athlete  O. J. Simpson  was among the runners. Gina Hemphill, granddaughter of  Jesse Owens , carried the torch into the Coliseum, completed a lap around the track handed it off to the final runner,  Rafer Johnson , winner of the  decathlon  at the 1960 Summer Olympics.   With the torch, he touched off the flame which passed through a specially designed  flammable  Olympic logo, igniting all five rings. The flame passed up to cauldron atop the  peristyle  and remained aflame for the duration of the Games.  John Williams  composed the theme for the Olympiad,  &# x22; Olympic Fanfare and Theme &# x22;; this piece won a Grammy for Williams and became one of the most well-known musical themes of the Olympic Games, along with Leo  Arnaud &# x27;s &# x22; Bugler &# x27;s Dream &# x22;. Composer  Bill Conti  wrote a song to inspire the weightlifters called  &# x22;Power &# x22;. An album, The Official Music of the XXIII Olympiad &# x2014;Los Angeles 1984, featured three of those tracks along with sports themes written for the occasion by popular musical artists including  Foreigner ,  Loverboy ,  Herbie Hancock ,  Quincy Jones ,  Christopher Cross ,  Philip Glass  and  Giorgio Moroder ; the Brazilian composer  S &# xE9;rgio Mendes  produced a special song for the  1984 Olympic Games ,  &# x22; Olympia , &# x22; from his 1984 album  Confetti . A choir of one thousand voices was assembled of singers in the region.   All were volunteers from nearby churches and universities.  Etta James  performed  &# x60; &# x60;. Vicki McClure along with the International Children &# x27;s Choir of  Long Beach  sang  &# x22;Reach Out and Touch &# x22;.  Lionel Richie  performed a 9-minute version of his hit single  &# x22; All Night Long &# x22; at the closing ceremonies; the 1984 Summer Olympics was preceded by the 10-week-long adjunct  Los Angeles Olympic Arts Festival , which opened on June 2 and ended on August 12. It provided more than 400 performances by 146 theater and music companies, representing every continent and 18 countries, it was organized by then-CalArts President  Robert Fitzpatrick . The opening ceremony featured the arrival of Bill Suitor by means of the  Bell Aerosystems  rocket pack; the  United States Army Band  formed the Olympic rings to start the opening ceremony. The  United States  topped the medal count for the first time since 1968, winning a record 83 gold medals and surpassing the Soviet Union &# x2019;s total of 80 golds at the 1980 Summer Olympics; as a result of an IOC agreement designating the  Republic of China  in the name of  Chinese Taipei , the Peo  Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences  The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences is a professional honorary organization with the stated goal of advancing the arts and sciences of motion pictures. The Academy &# x27;s corporate management and general policies are overseen by a Board of Governors, which includes representatives from each of the craft branches; the roster of the Academy &# x27;s 6,000 motion picture professionals is a  &# x22;closely guarded secret &# x22;. While the great majority of its members are based in the  United States , membership is open to qualified filmmakers around the world; the Academy is known around the world for its annual  Academy Awards  and popularly known as  &# x22;The Oscars &# x22;. In addition, the Academy holds the  Governors Awards  annually for lifetime achievement in film; the Academy plans to open  the Academy Museum of Motion Pictures  in  Los Angeles  in 2019. The notion of the Academy of  Motion Pictures  Arts and Sciences began with  Louis B. Mayer , head of  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer , he said he wanted to create an organization that would mediate labor disputes without unions and improve the industry &# x27;s image.   He met with actor  Conrad Nagel , director  Fred Niblo , the head of the  Association of Motion Picture Producers , Fred Beetson to discuss these matters. The idea of this elite club having an annual banquet was discussed, but no mention of awards at that time, they established that membership into the organization would only be open to people involved in one of the five branches of the industry: actors, writers and producers. After their brief meeting, Mayer gathered up a group of thirty-six people involved in the film industry and invited them to a formal banquet at the  Ambassador Hotel  in Los Angeles on January 11, 1927; that evening Mayer presented to those guests what he called the International Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. Everyone in the room that evening became a founder of the Academy. Between that evening and when the official  Articles of Incorporation  for the organization were filed on May 4, 1927, the  &# x22;International &# x22; was dropped from the name, becoming the  &# x22;Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences &# x22;.   Several organizational meetings were held prior to the first official meeting held on May 6, 1927. Their first organizational meeting was held on May 11. At that meeting  Douglas Fairbanks, Sr . was elected as the first president of the Academy, while Fred Niblo was the first vice-president, their first roster, composed of 230 members, was printed. That night, the Academy bestowed its first honorary membership, to  Thomas Edison ; the Academy was broken down into five main groups, or branches, although this number of branches has grown over the years. The original five were: Producers, Directors and Technicians; the initial concerns of the group had to do with labor. &# x22; However, as time went on, the organization moved  &# x22;further away from involvement in labor-management arbitrations and negotiations. &# x22; One of several committees formed in those initial days was for  &# x22;Awards of Merit, &# x22; but it was not until May 1928 that the committee began to have serious discussions about the structure of the awards and the presentation ceremony.   By July 1928 the board of directors had approved a list of 12 awards to be presented. During July the voting system for the Awards was established, the nomination and selection process began; this  &# x22;award of merit for distinctive achievement &# x22; is. The initial location of the organization was 6912  Hollywood Boulevard . In November 1927, the Academy moved to the  Roosevelt Hotel  at 7010 Hollywood Boulevard, the month the Academy &# x27;s library began compiling a complete collection of books and periodicals dealing with the industry from around the world. In May 1928, the Academy authorized the construction of a state of the art screening room, to be located in the Club lounge of the hotel; the screening room was not completed until April 1929. With the publication of Report on Incandescent Illumination in 1928, the Academy began a long history of publishing books to assist its members. Another early initiative concerned training  Army Signal Corps  officers. In 1929, Academy members in a joint venture with the  University of Southern California  created America &# x27;s first film school to further the art and science of moving pictures.   The school &# x27;s founding faculty included  Fairbanks ,  D. W. Griffith ,  William C. deMille ,  Ernst Lubitsch ,  Irving Thalberg , Darryl F. Zanuck.1930 saw another move, to 7046 Hollywood Boulevard, in order to accommodate the enlarging staff, by December of that year the library was acknowledged as  &# x22;having one of the most complete collections of information on the motion picture industry anywhere in existence. &# x22; They would remain at that location until 1935, when further growth would cause them to move once again. This time, the administrative offices would move to one location, to the  Taft Building  at the corner of  Hollywood and Vine , while the library would move to 1455 North Gordon Street. In 1934, the Academy began publication of the Screen Achievement Records Bulletin, which today is known as the Motion Picture Credits Database; this is a list of film credits up for an  Academy Award , as well as other films released in  Los Angeles County , using research materials from the Academy &# x27;s Margaret Her  Screen Actors Guild  The  Screen Actors Guild  was an  American labor union  which represented over 100,000 film and television principal and background performers worldwide. On March 30, 2012, the union leadership announced that the SAG membership voted to merge with the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists to create  SAG-AFTRA . According to SAG &# x27;s  Mission Statement , the Guild sought to: negotiate and enforce collective bargaining agreements that establish equitable levels of compensation and working conditions for its performers; the Guild was founded in 1933 in an effort to eliminate what were described as exploitation of Hollywood actors who were being forced into oppressive multi-year contracts with the major movie studios. Opposition to these contracts included that they did not include restrictions on work hours or minimum rest periods, had clauses that automatically renewed at the studios &# x27; discretion; these contracts were notorious for allowing the studios to dictate the public and private lives of the performers who signed them, most did not have provisions to allow the performer to end the deal.   The Screen Actors Guild was associated with the  Associated Actors and Artistes of America , the primary association of performer &# x27;s unions in the  United States . AAAA is affiliated with the  AFL &# x2013;CIO . SAG claimed exclusive jurisdiction over motion picture performances, shared jurisdiction of radio, television and other new media with its sister union  AFTRA , with which it shared 44,000 dual members. Internationally, the SAG was affiliated with the  International Federation of Actors . In addition to its main offices in Hollywood, SAG maintained local branches in several major US cities, including  Atlanta ,  Chicago ,  Denver ,  Honolulu ,  Las Vegas ,  Nashville ,  New York City ,  New Orleans , Phoenix,  Salt Lake City ,  San Diego ,  San Francisco  and Washington, D. C. Since 1995, the guild annually awarded the  Screen Actors Guild Awards , which are considered an indicator of success at the  Academy Awards ; this award is continued by SAG-AFTRA. In 1925, the  Masquers Club  was formed by actors discontented with the grueling work hours at the Hollywood studios.   This was one of the major concerns which led to the creation of the Screen Actors Guild in 1933. Another was that the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, which at that time arbitrated between the producers and actors on contract disputes, had a membership policy, by invitation only. A meeting in March 1933 of six actors led to the guild &# x27;s foundation. Three months three of the six and eighteen others became the guild &# x27;s first officers and board of directors:  Ralph Morgan , Alden Gay,  Kenneth Thomson ,  Alan Mowbray ,  Leon Ames ,  Tyler Brooke ,  Clay Clement ,  James Gleason ,  Lucile Webster Gleason ,  Boris Karloff ,  Claude King ,  Noel Madison ,  Reginald Mason ,  Bradley Page ,  Willard Robertson ,  Ivan Simpson ,  C. Aubrey Smith ,  Charles Starrett ,  Richard Tucker ,  Arthur Vinton ,  Morgan Wallace  and  Lyle Talbot . Many high-profile actors refused to join SAG initially; this changed when the producers made an agreement amongst themselves not to bid competitively for talent. A pivotal meeting, at the home of  Frank Morgan , was.   Prompted by Eddie Cantor &# x27;s insistence, at that meeting, that any response to that producer &# x27;s agreement help all actors, not just the established ones, it took only three weeks for SAG membership to go from around 80 members to more than 4,000. Cantor &# x27;s participation was critical because of his friendship with the elected  President Franklin D. Roosevelt . After several years and the passage of the  National Labor Relations Act , the producers agreed to negotiate with SAG in 1937. Actors known for their early support of SAG include  Edward Arnold ,  Humphrey Bogart ,  James Cagney ,  Dudley Digges ,  Porter Hall ,  Paul Harvey ,  Jean Hersholt ,  Russell Hicks ,  Murray Kinnell ,  Gene Lockhart ,  Bela Lugosi ,  David Manners ,  Fredric March ,  Adolphe Menjou ,  Chester Morris ,  Jean Muir ,  George Murphy ,  Erin O &# x27;Brien-Moore ,  Irving Pichel ,  Dick Powell ,  Edward G. Robinson ,  Edwin Stanley ,  Gloria Stuart , Lyle Talbot,  Franchot Tone ,  Warren William ,  Robert Young . In October 1947, the members of a list of suspected communists working in the Hollywood film industry were summoned to appear before the  House Committee on Un-American Activities , investigating Communist influence in the Hollywood labor unions.   Ten of those summoned, dubbed the  &# x22; Hollywood Ten &# x22;, refused to cooperate, were charged with  contempt of Congress  and sentenced to prison. Several liberal members of SAG, led by Humphrey Bogart,  Lauren Bacall ,  Danny Kaye ,  Gene Kelly , formed the  Committee for the First Amendment  and flew to  Washington, DC , in late October 1947 to show support for the Hollywood Ten; the president of SAG  &# x2013; future United States  President Ronald Reagan &# x2013; known to the FBI as  Confidential Informant &# x22; T-10 &# x22;, testified before the committee but never publicly named names. Instead, according to an FBI memorandum in 1947:  &# x22;T-10 advised  Special Agent  that he has been made a member of a committee headed by Mayer, the purpose of, is to &# x27;purge &# x27; the motion-picture industry of Communist party members, which committee was an outgrowth of the Thomas committee hearings in Washington  Cannon (TV series)  Cannon is an American detective television series produced by  Quinn Martin  which aired from 1971 to 1976. The primary  protagonist  is the title character, private detective  Frank Cannon , played by  William Conrad . Cannon is the first Quinn Martin series to be aired on a network other than ABC. A  &# x22;revival &# x22; television film, The Return of Frank Cannon, was aired on November 1, 1980. In total, there were 122 episodes plus the series two-hour pilot and the television film, The Return of Frank Cannon; the plots in the episodes revolved around Cannon solving a crime. Cannon &# x27;s clients in the series varied and the variation in clients led to considerable variation in the formats of the episodes. In a number of early episodes Cannon is hired by an insurance company who wants him to investigate a loss. Other episodes involved Cannon being hired by a police detective, a former lover, by a parent concerned about a child, or by a child concerned about a parent. In some episodes Cannon is hired by someone being threatened.   There are episodes in which Cannon is forced to get involved in order to exonerate himself. Series star William Conrad was nominated for an  Emmy Award  in both 1973 and 1974, but  Richard Thomas  won for  The Waltons  and in 1974  Telly Savalas  won for  Kojak . In the first season,  Martin Sheen  appeared twice as ex-policeman Jerry  Warton , but the character did not extend beyond the first year &# x2014;in fact, in the third season, Sheen guest starred as a  lawyer  who murdered Cannon &# x27;s client. Other guest stars included:  Willie Aames ,  Sharon Acker ,  Lou Antonio ,  Anne Baxter ,  Alan Bergmann ,  Whitney Blake ,  Whit Bissell ,  Lloyd Bochner ,  Sorrell Booke ,  Antoinette Bower ,  Brooke Bundy ,  Ahna Capri ,  Cathy Lee Crosby ,  William Daniels ,  Burr DeBenning ,  Severn Darden ,  Micky Dolenz ,  Dennis Dugan ,  Andrew Duggan ,  Shelley Duvall ,  Dana Elcar ,  Jason Evers ,  Mike Farrell ,  Joan Fontaine ,  Bert Freed ,  Leif Garrett ,  Paul Michael Glaser ,  David Soul ,  Dabbs Greer ,  Clu Gulager ,  Peter Haskell ,  Mark Hamill ,  Robert Hays ,  David Hedison , Rodolfo Hoyos Jr.  Kim Hunter ,  David Janssen ,  Claudia Jennings , L. Q.   Jones, Kate Keenan,  Dan Kemp ,  Tom Kennedy ,  Sondra Locke ,  Robert Loggia ,  Tina Louise ,  Barbara Luna ,  George Maharis ,  Robert Mandan ,  Nora Marlowe ,  Ralph Meeker ,  Vera Miles ,  Donna Mills ,  Leslie Nielsen ,  Nick Nolte ,  Sheree North ,  Lee Paul ,  Steve Pendleton ,  John M. Pickard ,  Stefanie Powers ,  Judson Pratt ,  Denver Pyle ,  Eldon Quick ,  Dack Rambo ,  Wayne Rogers ,  John Rubinstein ,  Roy Scheider ,  Tom Skerritt ,  Peter Strauss ,  Vic Tayback ,  Malachi Throne ,  Ronne Troup ,  Joan Van Ark ,  Vincent Van Patten ,  John Vernon ,  Jessica Walter ,  Jess Walton ,  Cindy Williams ,  William Windom ,  Dana Wynter ,  Anthony Zerbe . In an era before cell phone use, Cannon was using a  &# x22;mobile phone &# x22; in his car, rare at the time. Cannon would begin by asking the mobile operator to dial a call for him. Phones of this type were precursors to modern cell phones; the phone prop itself, in his car, was a  Motorola  brand MTS mobile phone.  Paul Drake  had a car phone beginning in the 1959 season of  &# x22; Perry Mason &# x22;. Amazingly enough, Perry Mason never had a car phone.   Frank Cannon met  Barnaby Jones , an aging veteran private investigator who had retired and turned over his agency to his son, when Hal is killed. With the aid of Cannon and Hal &# x27;s widow, Betty Jones, he hunts down Hal &# x27;s killer. Afterwards, Jones decides to come out of retirement; the premiere episode of Barnaby Jones,  &# x22;Requiem for a Son &# x22; was planned as a second-season Cannon episode, but when Barnaby Jones was sold as a separate series the script was reworked into the premiere of that series. William Conrad appeared as a special guest star. There was a second  &# x22; crossover &# x22; between the series; the first part of the two-part episode,  &# x22;The Deadly Conspiracy &# x22;, was aired as the second episode of the fifth season of Cannon on September 17, 1975. Notably, in its final season, Cannon featured  LGBT  characters in two episodes,  &# x22;Point after Death &# x22; and  &# x22;Bloodlines &# x22;.  CBS DVD  has released the first two seasons of Cannon on DVD in Region 1. Season 3 was released on January 2013, via Amazon.com &# x27;s CreateSpace program.   This is a manufacture-on-demand release, available through  Amazon.com . On May 4, 2015, it was announced that  Visual Entertainment  had acquired the rights to the series in Region 1, they subsequently released Cannon - The Complete Collection on September 2, 2015. On March 18, 2016, VEI re-released the first season on DVD and on April 1, 2016, they re-released the second season. In Region 4,  Shock Entertainment  has released the first two seasons on DVD in  Australia . Cannon received three Emmy Award nominations, for  Outstanding Drama Series  in 1973 and for  William Conrad  as  Lead Actor in a Drama Series  in 1973 and 1974; the  Hollywood Foreign Press Association  nominated Cannon for three  Golden Globe Awards , for  Best Television Series - Drama  in 1974 and for William Conrad in 1972 and 1973 as Best Actor in a Drama Television Series. A series of nine  tie-in  novels were published in the 1970s by Lancer/Magnum in the  United States  and Triphammer/Corgi in the  United Kingdom . Murder by Gemini by Richard Gallagher The  Stewardess  Strangler by Richard Gallagher  The Golden Bullet  by Paul  Denver  The Deadly Chance by Paul Denver I &# x27;ve Got You Covered by Paul Denver The Falling Blonde by Paul Denver It &# x27;s Lonely on the Sidewalk by Paul Denver Farewell,  Little Sister  by Douglas Enefer Shoot-Out! by Douglas Enefer In an episode of his  Thames Television  series, British comedian  Benny Hill  parodied 1970s American detective series.   In the skit, Hill played several staple char  The F.B.I. (TV series)  The F. B. I. is an American television series broadcast on ABC from 1965 to 1974. It was sponsored by the  Ford  Motor Company, the characters drove Ford vehicles in the series.  Alcoa  and  American Tobacco Company  were sponsors during the first season. Produced by  Quinn Martin  and based in part on concepts from the 1959 Warner Bros. theatrical film  The FBI Story , the series was based on actual FBI cases, with fictitious main characters carrying the stories.  Efrem Zimbalist , Jr. played  Inspector Lewis  Erskine, a widower whose wife had been killed in an ambush meant for him.  Philip Abbott  played assistant director to  FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover . Although Hoover served as series consultant until his death in 1972, he was never seen in the series.  Stephen Brooks  played Inspector Erskine &# x27;s assistant,  Special Agent Jim Rhodes , for the first two seasons.  Lynn Loring  played Inspector Erskine &# x27;s daughter and Rhodes &# x27; love interest, Barbara, in the first few episodes of the show. Although the couple was soon engaged on the show, that romantic angle was soon dropped.   In 1967, Brooks was replaced by veteran actor  William Reynolds , who played Special Agent Tom Colby until 1973. The series would enjoy its highest ratings during this time, peaking at No. 10 in the 1970 &# x2013;1971 season. For the final season,  Shelly Novack  played Special Agent  Chris Daniels ; some episodes ended with a  &# x22;most wanted &# x22; segment hosted by Zimbalist, noting the FBI &# x27;s most wanted criminals of the day, decades before the  Fox Network  aired  America &# x27;s Most Wanted . The most famous instance was in the April 21, 1968 episode, when Zimbalist asked for information about fugitive  James Earl Ray , being hunted for the assassination of Dr.  Martin Luther  King, Jr; the series aired on ABC at 8 p.m. Sunday from 1965 to 1973, when it was moved up to 7:30 p.m. for the final season. The series was a co-production of Quinn Martin Productions and  Warner Bros. Television , as Warner Bros. held the television and theatrical rights to any project based on The FBI Story. It was the longest-running of all of Quinn Martin &# x27;s television series, airing nine seasons.   Season 1: Not in Top 30 Season 2: #29, 20.2 Season 3: #22, 21.2 Season 4: #18, 21.7 Season 5: #24, 20.6 Season 6: #10, 23.0 Season 7: #17, 22.4 Season 8: #29, 19.2 Season 9: Not in Top 30 An updated and revamped version of the series,  Today &# x27;s FBI , executive produced by  David Gerber  for  Columbia Pictures Television , aired on ABC from October 1981 through April 1982 in the same Sunday 8 p.m. time slot as its predecessor. A remake of the original series, produced by Ron Howard &# x27;s  Imagine Entertainment  for Fox, was set for air in Fall 2008. Warner Bros. has released all nine seasons of The F. B. I. on DVD in region 1 via their  Warner Archive Collection . These are Manufacture-on-Demand releases and are available through Warner &# x27;s online store and  Amazon.com . The  ninth and final season  was released on September 23, 2014; the F. B. I. on IMDb The F. B. I. at  TV.com  Today &# x27;s F. B. I. on IMDb Today &# x27;s F. B. I. at TV.com  Laramie (TV series) Laramie  is an American Western television series that aired on NBC from 1959 to 1963. A  Revue Studios  production, the program starred  John Smith  as Slim Sherman. Actress  Spring Byington  was added to the cast. STARZ! &# x27;s  Westerns  Channel and the  Grit  network began airing the series in July 2015. The two Sherman brothers and a drifter, Jess Harper, come together to run a  stagecoach  stop for the Great Central  Overland Mail  Company after the Shermans &# x27; father, was murdered by a greedy land seeker; the Sherman parents are buried on the ranch. Not until near the end of the series was it revealed that  Matt Sherman  had been falsely accused during the  American Civil War  of having aided the Confederates. After Jess Harper finds on Sherman ranch land the wreckage of a  Union Army  gold wagon stolen by Confederate raiders, Slim sets forth with the officer accused of helping the Confederates, portrayed by  Frank Overton , an Army major, the real culprit played by  John Hoyt , to clear Matt Sherman &# x27;s name; the gold dust in question had long ago been scattered by the wind.   Hoagy Carmichael &# x27;s contract was not renewed after the first season, his character was eliminated with the explanation that he had accompanied Andy to boarding school in  St. Louis, Missouri . Andy, returned to appear in three episodes in the first half of the second season. To restore the chemistry of the original cast, as the third season began in 1961, Spring Byington of the  sitcom December Bride ,  Dennis Holmes  joined the series in the roles of  Daisy Cooper , a matronly widow,  Mike Williams , a young orphan permitted to live at the Sherman Ranch pending location of any next of kin, which never happened. At the beginning of its third season, Laramie was one of the first television programs that made the transition from  black-and-white  to color. On January 2, 1962, a new version of the NBC peacock  &# x22;living color &# x22; logo was introduced before the Laramie broadcast that evening; this symbol, the  &# x22; Laramie Peacock &# x22;, was used before every color program on the network until 1975. Because of declining ratings in its last season, Laramie was canceled.   The series premiere  &# x22;Stage Stop &# x22;, filmed in color, explains how Slim Sherman and Jess Harper become partners in the Sherman Ranch and Relay Station. Jess arrives in  Wyoming  from Texas in search of an erstwhile  &# x22;friend &# x22;,  Pete Morgan , played by  John Mitchum , who had robbed Jess. Morgan is part of the gang of Bud  Carlin ; the gang captures Judge Thomas J. Wilkens. Though Jess and Slim are at odds with each other in their first encounters, friendship seems out of the question, Andy Sherman takes an instant liking to Jess. Andy asks Jess to take him away from the ranch, where he lives with his older brother Slim, their first housekeeper is the role filled by Carmichael. Slim and Jess must fight together when Carlin shows up at the relay station, proceeds to humiliate the judge. In  &# x22;The General Must Die &# x22;,  Brian Keith  appears as Whit Malone, an old friend of Slim Sherman &# x27;s from the Union Army. Malone and a mentally troubled  Colonel Brandon , played by John Hoyt in another appearance on the series, arrive at the relay station with a daring but foiled plan to assassinate  General William Tecumseh Sherman , scheduled to pass through the station on a stagecoach.  Gilman Rankin  makes a  cameo  appearance as  General Sherman . This episode reveals that Slim Sherman entered the Army as a private and advanced to second lieutenant and fought under General Sherman in the  March to the Sea  in  Georgia . Subsequent episodes focus on the close friendship that develops between Slim and Jess, as they become like brothers with strong differences of opinion but always finding reconciliation and common ground. Slim, taller than Jess and two years older, is depicted as the more level-headed and thoughtful, with Jess as more emotional, with righteous indignation and difficulty controlling his temper. In the episode  &# x22; Cactus  Lady &# x22;, it is revealed that Jess Harper had been nearly hanged by mistake in the border city of  Laredo , because of the McCanles gang, played by  Arthur Hunnicutt ,  L. Q. Jones ,  Harry Dean Stanton ,  Anita Sands ; the gang arrives in  Laramie . The German title of Laramie is Am Fu &# xDF; der blauen Berge.  John Smith  as Slim Sherman  Robert Fuller  as Jess Harper Robert L. Crawford, Jr. as Andy Sherman  Hoagy Carmichael  as Jonesy  Spring Byington  as Daisy Cooper Dennis Holmes as Mike Williams  Stuart Randall  as Sheriff Mort Corey  Eddy Waller  as Mose Shell, a  stagecoach  driver in 19 episodes between 1959 and 1962 In  &# x22;Dark Verdict &# x22;, L. Q. Jones portrays John MacLane, falsely accused of murdering a doctor.   MacLane, a friend of Jess Harper &# x27;s, is apprehended by a lynch mob led by James Hedrick. Hedrick is the son of eccentric Judge Matthew Hedrick, portrayed by  Thomas Mitchell , who stacks the trial against MacLane, convicted and hanged. Judge Hedrick serves as defense attorney for the lynch mob in a collective trial before the circuit judge; the mob is released on grounds that the  homicide  was without criminal intent, leniency is recommended by the jury, the suspects must be retried under individual indictments, a technicality that outrages Jess Harper. Slim Sherman, who had tried to defend MacLane at the trial, cautions Jess against precipitous action, the two come to temporary blows. Jess and Slim find that Hedrick, grieved by his own corruption, has committed suici  