Indrasur Consulting Services Reviews | Glassdoor.co.in Indrasur Consulting Services Updated 18 Jul 2019 Your trust is our top concern, so companies can &# x27;t alter or remove reviews. I have been working at Indrasur Consulting Services full-time for less than a year Pros It is a new startup, hence ample of opportunities to grow with the company. Highly supportive higher management and team. Good Compensation, Good amount of paid leaves, flexible management and supportive staff. Great learning opportunities, Client is supportive and ready to share knowledge and experience with the team on different process and standards the follow. Cons Faces problems i.e. undocumented HR policies, hiring process etc as most startups do. No well- structured management process, Still needs more improvement with many areas and HR policies as currently nothing is documented. Advice to Management Process need to be more streamlined and well structured. I have been working at Indrasur Consulting Services full-time for more than a year Pros Great experience up till now, optimistic to get things in similar fashion in future as well.People who work hard gets everything in time. Cons Things can be more better from employee perspective. I firmly believe everything will be delivered in right time frame to every employee working here. Advice to Management With time I believe management will add some extra benefits for employees to keep them up and motivated.No serious advise to management as they r doing good.  Your response will be removed from the review – this cannot be undone. This will replace the current featured review for targeted profile. Are you sure you want to replace it? Are you sure you want to remove this review from being featured for targeted profile? Glassdoor has 2 Indrasur Consulting Services reviews submitted anonymously by Indrasur Consulting Services employees. Read employee reviews and ratings on Glassdoor to decide if Indrasur Consulting Services is right for you. Glassdoor Android Glassdoor Facebook Twitter Youtube Instagram Copyright © 2008-2019, Glassdoor, Inc.  " Glassdoor "  and logo are proprietary trademarks of Glassdoor, Inc. 