Holiday Time Pre-Lit 6.5 '  LED Color-Changing Artificial Christmas Tree, White and Multi-Color Lights - Walmart.com Update your location to get accurate prices and availability. Add-on services Discover Christmas trees  &  be inspired by holiday decorating ideas. I got this tree delivered today, put it up and it ' s great. I looked at a similar tree at another store and it was $300. It ' s very well lit, has alot of lights options. It fills out nice with a little time rearranging branches, and it ' s a nice size. It has the c6 size lights, and it is very bright when lit up. Luv it This tree is just wonderful. VERY easy to put togather just put the stand down, then put the 3 sections togather then connect the cables and plug in. 240 white led ' s and 240 multi color led ' s 11 functions. It is very bright and VERY low power. My wife and I both think it is the best one we have ever had in our 35 years. Looked everywhere locally and could not find a tree with similar features anywhere, even at WalMart. Decided to buy this tree from WalMart.com and it was just what I was looking for.480 LED lights. Over 1500 tips and all the other features that I wanted. Excellent tree for the cost. Took about 10 days to have shipped to my local WalMart store. This is a great tree! It is nice and full. Just take your time to open and arrange all of the branches. It goes together very easily. It is just three sections to put together. The lights are nice and bright and have so many settings to choose from! Love the LED lights! Love to be able to choose different light settings for different looks! It is a really nice looking tree. The stand is nice and sturdy too. You just have to twist the screw when the tree is inserted. Much easier than trying to put the stand together too! Really a lovely tree for your home! My son wanted this tree because of the lights! At the store I didnt like it but, once I got it home! I fell in love with it.It does take 2 ppl to carry into the house.!I LOVE LOVE it!! I absolutely love this tree. I love how it changes between all the colors and has white lights too.The only issue I found with this tree is how hard it is to find replacement bulbs. They are c5 and they are not carried in the stores or on Walmart.com. I had to google them.Otherwise I would recommend this tree to everyone. Love this tree! The lights are large and very bright. Love the light variations. Easy set up, looks full when branches are arranged. Very satisfied. When I first put up the tree the multi color lights in the middle section did not work. I had to pull out all the colored lights and test them to find which light was not working. The light bulbs are very large it is a bit over-powering. There is no on off switch so you must unplug the tree each time and the power box does not remember which setting you had it on so you have to find the light function you like each time.The price was average for a pre-lit art. tree, but if I find a better tree next year I may toss this one. I was so excited to get this tree home and put it up. Once I got it up, the middle and top section of white lights did not work. I tried everything and even called the customer service line. They were going to send me a new middle section but it would take 7 business days. I am just going to take it back to walmart and see if I can return it. Also, the lights are very large. I am not sure I would have liked it completely anyway. They are more like old fashioned bulbs. I prefer to have the lights buried in the tree and not seen. Would rate 0 if I could. Didn ' t last one season. Says on box inly one light will go out at time, not true. No customer service number to call and complain. Only got one season out of it, stored indoors and right at the beginning of this season Half the lights are out, and by Christmas even more went out. Customer Q & A Get specific details about this product from customers who own it. 6 Answers 6 Answers 5 Answers 5 Answers 5 Answers 5 Answers Get years of protection for just pennies a day. Plan covers: Plan includes: Protect it today. Enjoy it for years. Simply add a Walmart Protection Plan to your order and checkout as usual. There is no need to register your plan for it to be active. We’ll send plan details to your email address after purchase. Award-winning protection backed by Allstate Allstate has been protecting people and the things they love most for over 85 years. So you know your purchase is in good hands. Get years of protection for just pennies a day. Plan covers: Plan includes: Protect it today. Enjoy it for years. Simply add a Walmart Protection Plan to your order and checkout as usual. There is no need to register your plan for it to be active. We’ll send plan details to your email address after purchase. Award-winning protection backed by Allstate Allstate has been protecting people and the things they love most for over 85 years. So you know your purchase is in good hands. You will receive an email shortly at:  Here at Walmart.com, we are committed to protecting your privacy. Your email address will never be sold or distributed to a third party for any reason. Please take a minute to review our  Privacy Policy Due to the high volume of feedback, we are unable to respond to individual comments. >If you need immediate assistance, please contact <a class="i_a i_b" href="https: /help.walmart.com">Customer Care . Sorry, but we can ' t respond to individual comments. >If you need immediate assistance, please contact <a class="i_a i_b" id="vf-feedback-modal-help" href="https: /help.walmart.com">Customer Care . Your feedback helps us make Walmart shopping better for millions of customers. 