Typhoon Bopha - The Atlantic Latest Issue Past Issues Last week, the southern Philippines was struck by Typhoon Bopha, the strongest tropical cyclone to ever hit the island of Mindanao. Bopha made landfall as a Category 5 super typhoon with winds of 160 mph (260 km/h), flattening coastal villages, wiping out banana plantations, and causing mudslides and flooding. At the moment, the number of deaths has reached nearly 650, the number of missing is still near 800, and another 400,000 have been displaced by the storm. Collected here are images from the affected islands, as rescue and recovery workers continue to search through debris in fields choked with trees, boulders, and mud. A typhoon victim holds a bag of relief goods as she walks among debris swept by floodwaters at the height of Typhoon Bopha, while returning to an evacuation center in New Bataan town in Compostela Valley, southern Philippines, on December 7, 2012. Residents in the southern Philippines buried their dead over the weekend, even as rescue workers continued scouring remote areas for survivors of Typhoon Bopha, the nation's strongest storm this year, which killed nearly 650 people and left nearly 800 missing. # Thousands of typhoon-toppled banana trees on a plantation in New Bataan, Compostela Valley province, on December 7, 2012. President Benigno Aquino vowed action on the Philippines' typhoon disasters as bruised and grieving survivors tried to recover. # This photo made from the International Space Station on December 2, 2012, shows Typhoon Bopha moving toward the Philippines. # Residents cross a damaged road destroyed at the height of Typhoon Bopha in the village of Andap, New Bataan town, on December 5, 2012. # Damaged houses, among toppled trees in the aftermath of Typhoon Bopha in Compostela Valley, southern Philippines, on December 7, 2012. # Damaged houses among toppled trees and landslide areas in the aftermath of Typhoon Bopha in Compostela Valley, southern Philippines, on December 7, 2012. # Coconut trees knocked down by Typhoon Bopha in the coastal town of Boston, Davao Oriental in southern Philippines, on December 10, 2012. # A rare cloud formation above a destroyed banana plantation, four days after typhoon Bopha left hundreds of people dead and rendered extensive damage to agriculture at Montevista township, Compostela Valley, on December 8, 2012. # A resident crosses a surging river on a zip line in the town of New Bataan, Compostela province, on December 6, 2012. # A rescue worker carries the child of Lenlen Medrino across a surging river in the town of New Bataan, Compostela province on December 6, 2012. # Residents rest on tree trunks toppled by Typhoon Bopha in the coastal town of Boston, Davao Oriental in southern Philippines, on December 10, 2012. # Typhoon victims stand outside their destroyed house and toppled banana trees, in New Bataan town in Compostela Valley, on December 7, 2012. # An aerial view of damaged houses caused by flash floods in Compostela Valley province, on December 6, 2012. # People stand atop debris made up mostly of toppled trees and crops in the aftermath of Typhoon Bopha in the southern Philippines, on December 7, 2012. # Destroyed crops, after flash floods caused by a powerful typhoon hit Compostela Valley, on December 7, 2012. # Smoke rises from a village devastated by Typhoon Bopha as residents burn coconut leaves and other debris left at the height of last Tuesday's typhoon, in the coastal town of Boston, on December 10, 2012. # A resident walks past the remains of a flash flood victim amid the debris from Tuesday's Typhoon Bopha at New Bataan township, on December 7, 2012. # Rescuers retrieve flash flood victims from the Typhoon debris at New Bataan township, on December 7, 2012. # Relatives cross a river to bury a loved one who died in a flash flood caused by Typhoon Bopha, on December 6, 2012, in New Bataan township. # A girl is comforted upon seeing the sealed coffin of her relative at a damaged public market which now serves as a makeshift mortuary for typhoon Bopha's victims at New Bataan township, on December 8, 2012. # Damaged buildings, in the aftermath of Typhoon Bopha in Compostela Valley, on December 7, 2012. # A stuffed toy hangs to dry from a damaged house in New Bataan township, on December 8, 2012. # Children wait for free porridge distributed outside an evacuation center for residents who were rendered homeless after their houses were swept by floodwaters at the height of Typhoon Bopha, in New Bataan Town, on December 8, 2012. # Residents impacted by the Typhoon line up for relief supplies at an evacuation center on December 6, 2012, in the Compostela Valley. # Residents affected by typhoon Bopha reach for relief goods distributed at New Bataan township, on December 9, 2012. # An elderly woman, a victim of the devastating Typhoon, begs for alms next to a sign displayed along the roadside in the town of Nabunturan Town, on December 9, 2012. Desperate families begged for food days after the typhoon brought death and destruction to parts of a southern Philippine island. # A view of the devastation caused by Typhoon Bopha in the coastal town of Boston, on December 10, 2012. # A man stands near makeshift tents surrounded by a destroyed banana plantation in New Bataan Town, on December 6, 2012. Typhoon Bopha caused crop damage worth 8.5 billion pesos ($210 million). The most intense storm to hit the Philippines this year wiped out about 90 percent of three coastal towns in Davao Oriental province and buried an entire town under mud. # We want to hear what you think about this article.  Submit a letter  to the editor or write to letters@theatlantic.com. Thank you for reading The Atlantic. Enjoy unlimited access for less than $1 per week. The past 10 years, seen in 55 powerful images A collection of holiday cheer and light wrapped up in 28 photographs. A collection of photographs that are just  so  2019 A caged Nativity scene in California, the new prime minister of Finland, “big air” in Beijing, a volcanic eruption in New Zealand, Christmas lights in Philadelphia, and much more Make your inbox more interesting. Each weekday evening, get an overview of the day’s biggest news, along with fascinating ideas, images, and people.  See more newsletters Thanks for signing up! Ideas that matter. Since 1857. Subscribe and support 162 years of independent journalism. For less than $1 a week. Subscribe TheAtlantic.com Copyright (c) 2019 by The Atlantic Monthly Group. All Rights Reserved. 