Awakened Radiance Retreat - Sarah Entrup Stepping out of the current landscape of your life is so important to establish a new perspective and to see the new possibilities of your life. I cannot stress enough how important retreat is in this time of dismantling the patriarchy.  Life can be confusing, and it is so important to separate from the old so that we can, with utmost clarity, ground into what is emerging within us! Join me at my home in Sonoma county, for the  Awakened Radiance Retreat . We will spend 4 days in a sacred temple of sisterhood, drinking in the grace, power, and beauty of being women together. The patriarchy is no longer valid, so we must create a new story to live into and become. We will work with art and symbols, our dream space, and the subconscious mind to dream a new reality of life as a woman.  We will celebrate being women and harness the power of our birthright to change our lives and change the world! During the retreat we will spend a lot of time slowing way down and rewiring the nervous system to be able to hold our true capacity with ease and grace. The Flow of the Retreat After leading retreats for more than 2 decades, there is a pattern or flow that happens to ensure our greatest awakening. We can call this our heroine s journey, or Inanna s descent. We will start on Thursday evening by crossing the threshold. We will leave our everyday life behind, and step into sacred ceremonial space together. This is a time to purify and reconnect with your sacredness as a woman. Friday will be the descent into what needs to release and heal. This is the ordeal, where you are faced with what truly needs to die in your life so you can be who you came here to be. After death comes rebirth. Saturday we will build new creative energy and life force. We will play, create, and celebrate in sisterhood. Sunday we will receive the blessings, the grace, and the gifts that we need to take back to our lives.   Details of the Retreat For the woman on the brink of finding herself in a new way. You know that if you had the right space and enough time you could find that missing part of yourself. You could step more fully into who you are longing to be. You are ready to shed, strengthen, and create a new template for who you are and what your life is about.  The Free the She Annual Residential Retreat. Four days of deep dive into your capacity as a woman, sisterhood, ritual, and healing.  We will do fire ceremony, meditation, dance, kundalini yoga, and much more! We will start at 7pm on Thursday, October 25th and end at noon on Sunday, the 28th. Doors open at 4pm on Thursday. Dinner will be served at 6pm. We will begin promptly at 7pm.  My home in Sonoma County, California which is 1.5 hours north of SFO airport or Oakland airport. Because you need the space to step away from your normal day-to-day life, to release, heal, upgrade, strengthen, and reboot a new program of who you are and why you are here. Because you need a break, and to connect with amazing women in sisterhood. Because you need to go deep to search for the lost part of you that you have been missing!  The cost of the retreat is $700, or 3 payments of $250. This includes the 4 day retreat and all your meals from Thursday dinner through Sunday breakfast. All food will be gluten-free and vegetarian with protein options- eggs, cheese, hummus, beans. Please feel free to bring anything special that you may need for your diet. This price does not include airfare and accommodations. There are a few spots available in Sarah s house, and camping on the property. Please email Chany at  info@freetheshe.com  for details about accommodations.  The temple is the sacred container, beyond time and space, that you will be stepping into for this journey. It begins once you sign up.  The temple keepers are the women that will be support you on this journey, and maintaining the flow of energy throughout the weekend. Each woman has been steeped in her own personal journey of awakening for years. She deeply knows that changing the world starts from within her own being. In our support and service to you, we will awaken with you.  We are awakening together! Sarah Entrup  is a clairvoyant. She teaches women’s spirituality and empowerment. Sarah is extremely passionate about the untapped power of the feminine.  It is her mission to help awaken millions of women around the world to their power and ability to transform this planet!  Sarah chose to create this retreat in her home because she knows how important it is for women to feel deeply connected and intimate with each other. To melt all the divides between us and share space that is heart centered, sacred, and deeply transformational.  Elaine Daly Ceremony is one of the most powerful pathways to heal. As we sit deep into the night while in relationship with the elements, ourselves and spirit, something magical happens; grief spontaneously releases, Divine messages can be heard, songs flow, connection to Spirit and our place on this Earth feels natural. Each of our prayers and healing experiences are not uniquely ours, they are shared and felt in the Ceremonial circle. We wake up. We wake up together.  We have the blessing of being led in fire ceremony by Elaine.  For more information on how Elaine walks through the world  go here .  Sam Satchell Hi, I’m  Alia Beeton  and I’m a Cancer. I’ll nurture the shit out of you if you want, and leave you the hell alone if you need. I intuit…I just do it. I’m some parts Complex Empress, some parts Simple Shepherdess. I’m a performer and a word nerd and a home and wardrobe Sourcer-ess. I sometimes keep it kooky when it calls for classy, and I mostly get off on silly and sassy. I loathe meanness, I seek meaning. I value understanding over standing over. I’m a lover not a fighter. Bios are boring! I’m me, but also not that. Goodnight.   Chany Singh  is a lover of sisterhood, connection, random facts, and inspired work. She is passionate about improving this planet in every way that we possibly can and believes that reconnecting with ourselves and our fellow human is the way. She loves self-care, self-honesty, and anything with cheese on it. What if we women will change the world by the way we breathe, move, and radiate our essence and love?  This is not new-age bullshit, this is the LOST ART OF LIVING AS THE MOST POWERFUL CREATIVE AXIS IN THE WORLD  WOMAN!!!  Themes we will work with at the retreat: ✥   Dismantling our Internal Patriarchy ✥   Intimacy in Sisterhood ✥   Womb Space ✥   Capacity, Power, and Impact  ✥   Rewriting the Story of Sleeping Beauty ✥   Awakening the Goddess These are the cards I pulled for the retreat! How perfect! There will be an opportunity for you to partake in a medicine journey called Kambo. This is an optional part of the retreat. Check out more information on kambo  here . If would like to have a conversation with Sarah about this medicine just let us know. A very special medicine woman will be coming in to provide this healing to whoever would like it. The cost for kambo is $100, and is separate from the retreat tuition. Payment is given directly to Uma, the medicine woman at the retreat. I want to offer this special medicine as an additional part of your experience because I have found it to be so very powerful, and healing on every level. Everyone has their own journey with it, but it is totally safe, legal, and such a powerful healing. Come play.  Come connect.  Come awaken together!  Let the part of your Soul that is waiting for you, whisper in your ear, dance in your dreams, and guide you home to yourself! There is maybe nothing more nourishing that sisters coming together with deep intention, in a sacred way, to step into our full expression as women.  Let s make this life sacred, and meaningful, and important because it is! With deep love and courage,  Sarah Elizabeth Entrup~SEE Testimonials from Previous Retreats It was literally one of the most amazing experiences I have ever had! It was the first time I really felt seen and heard and welcome to be just me. I would be happy to literally stay in that space with so many women forever! I had a space where I was able to really just let goooo, and lean into my sisters and feel supported. It gave me a much more solid foundation for letting go on my own. I have been encouraged to take the community, love, and unity experienced so immediately there and implement it in my own life and community. The queen is emerging, I becoming more and more who I came here to be and more clear on what I came here to do. I ve held a lot of animosity toward my mother for not meeting my expectations. After Sarah s clearing ancestral lines meditation, I pulled a card that allowed me to see that her behaviors are not a fault of her own and that her brokenness was inherited by generations and lifetimes of pain. I was able to forgive her and transform my anger into empathy. My understanding and expectations of her will forever be changed. Sarah is leading the world in a big way and it inspires me to ripple my own gifts. Thank you for your powerful leadership. Your openness, honesty, self-expression, bravery, and trust in your own gifts is a marvel. I was super aware of my edges. My own internal self critical dialogue, I was super aware of my own discomfort and awkwardnesses.  But then sometimes within the same 60 seconds I would experience a crack an opening, that would surge through my body like I was hitting my own unique soul tuning fork. Sarah is the genuine goods. She is her practice and her practice is her. More testimonials  Copyright  2019 Sarah Entrup | Photos by  Paige Green Community Login 