Photo Feature : Lonar Lake - Le Monde The Poetic Travels Read here  how to reach Lonar lake, where to stay  &  best time to visit . Read here for  hiking tips to Lonar lake . Pure bliss. Nothing can be more beautiful than this. The lake. Another view from top. Can you see that lone hut ? That s the only one out there. From ground level. Soon thereafter black clouds started hovering  and the lake water started dancing with joy. And then it poured and we had to take a shelter in an old temple. It was heavy downpour and within minutes only thing visible was this tree trunk admiring the dance of  those white waves. Coming up shortly :  A succinct information on  visiting Lonar lake.  Please go to  Facebook  for viewing photos in higher resolution. For regular personal updates, subscribe to this website  by e-mail  or on  your reader . For those small stories and tit-bits that don’t always make it to this place check out my  Twitter  or  Facebook  page. The place looks really beautiful. The place looks like a crater. Is it one? Arun, Yes, it is the one and it’s really really beautiful.  How did you find my hut? Gosh, what paradise Fida, Ha ha.. Because I wanted to be in that hut but then I picked up my binoculars  &  saw a familiar face.. you happily lazing around.  Gosh ! I envy you.:P The framing of the first picture with the tree is perfect! You are right, perfect bliss  lovely place Don t be shy ;o) Stop in next itme   you are always welcome grin! So serene and so well captured!!Congrats looks very beautiful Zhu, Sudhir Thank you.  Samaresh, Vijayraj yes, it is. Fida, Ha Ha Ha…  Pingback: Le Monde   A Poetic Travail   Blog Archive   Feedback time Pingback: Le Monde   A Poetic Travail   Blog Archive   Visiting Lonar lake Pingback: Le Monde – A Poetic Travail   Blog Archive   Hiking to Lonar lake Amazing! When we went we didn’t have a good camera.  Bindhu, Camera didn’t play a role in this. That was indeed green everywhere.  And after half a circle I had to pack my camera since it had started pouring heavily. Pingback: Le Monde   A Poetic Travail   Blog Archive   Year 2010 in travel Pingback: Le Monde   A Poetic Travail   Blog Archive   Colors of my travel Stunning Landscapes ; Amazing Lake ; Pouring Rains what else you need in Life !! Those Clicks just prove that right   Loved the Pics. Pingback: 15 Best Small Towns In Asia  &  Australia You’ve Never Heard Of (But Should) Your email address will not be published.  Required fields are marked  * Comment Yes please, notify me of followup comments to my comment on this post via e-mail. Name  * Email  * Website This site uses Akismet to reduce spam.  Learn how your comment data is processed . Pictures Finland Winter. If you Sharjah is the third largest Ilocos happened by chance. I Search this site  About Us Nisha  &  Vasu Indian Travel bloggers, travelling the world. No, they did NOT quit their jobs to travel, they were traveling anyway even before quitting. Their idea of travelling is counting no. of memories, and not places and bring to you their travel stories and experiences from around the world. A few things to Nisha's credit includes her being the only Indian Travel blogger,  Yahoo  has made an exclusive video on. She wrote for Fox Traveler, was interviewed on a live  Travel Talk Radio show of USA . They have been featured in  EuroNews  channel and Spanish TV as well. This Indian travel blog has been featured in  Asian Traveller ,  Via.com ; has business deal with Ford and so on... To know more about this amazing blogger couple,  continue reading here... Hey Eurailers! Yahoo made a video on me! Published in Instagram Siberia to Singapore Palestine to Philippines Untold Stories I Travel | Food  Mail- > lemonicks.com@gmail.com #travelblogger #lemonicks More on the blog Some Cool Links! Featured Video Archives Amazon Amazon India Amazon Link for USA  (Rest of the World) Most Commented Recent Posts Most Viewed ©Lemonicks.com  | Powered by  WordPress 