How to Prepare to Buy a Home - Citi.com There's a lot to consider before you apply for a mortgage from evaluating your savings to deciding what you can afford every month. We'll help you start planning by answering your mortgage questions. Buying a home means more than just a mortgage payment. Let Citi take you through the process, starting with the very first step   figuring out how much you can afford. Buying a home means more than just a mortgage payment. Let Citi take you through the process, starting with the very first step - figuring out how much you can afford. A down payment is a large initial payment toward the cost of the home. Most lenders require one. Down payments can vary based on the type of mortgage but they typically range from 3.5 to 20% of the purchase price. The larger the down payment, the less you'll need to borrow. How much of a down payment do you need? The standard down payment amount is 20% of the home's purchase price. For example, if you buy a house for $100,000 a 20% down payment would require you to put down $20,000 and obtain a loan for $80,000. Your down payment does not include closing costs. Mortgage insurance: Your lender will likely require you to pay mortgage insurance if your down payment is less than 20%. Mortgage insurance protects lenders against nonpayment or default and would be included in your monthly payment. Other mortgage options: Even if you've saved less than 20% for a down payment, you could qualify for other mortgage options, including FHA loans, VA home loans or HomeRun mortgages. Learn about additional mortgage options With low down payment options, affordable monthly payments and flexible credit guidelines, a HomeRun mortgage may help you fulfill your homeownership dreams. Whether you're planning on buying a home right now or further down the road, it's never too late to start saving. It's a good idea to set up a separate savings account for your down payment. You'll be less tempted to spend it if it's away from your other funds. Here are some tips to help you save money each month towards your down payment. If you have any questions or would like us to walk you through the various mortgage options, call 1-800-248-4638 to talk to one of our experienced mortgage representatives. Down payments can vary, but they typically range from 3.5 to 20 % . When you're thinking about how much home you can afford, remember that a monthly mortgage payment won't be your only new expense. Your new home will add other costs to your budget, such as: Our affordability calculator can help you set a budget based on your down payment, income and expenses so you can feel confident about how much you're spending. How much can you afford? As you're thinking about how much you can comfortably afford every month, it helps to understand monthly mortgage payments. See what makes up a payment, how you could lower yours or even raise it to pay off your loan faster. How do payments work? What affects your rates? Closing costs usually make up around 1-4% of the total cost of your home. They aren't included in the down payment, so you should be sure to have some funds to cover those as well. After submitting your loan application you'll receive a Loan Estimate itemizing your closing costs so you can plan and save accordingly. What types of costs should you expect? Closing costs usually make up around 1-4% of the total cost of your home. Be sure to have some funds to cover those as well. In a competitive market, getting a SureStart® Pre-approval from Citi lets sellers know you're serious about buying so you can act fast. Ready to apply for a SureStart Pre-approval? Terms, conditions and fees for accounts, programs, products and services are subject to change. This is not a commitment to lend. All loans are subject to credit and property approval. Certain restrictions may apply on all programs. SureStart® Pre-approval is a registered service mark of Citigroup Inc. Final commitment is subject to verification of information, receipt of a satisfactory sales contract on the home you wish to purchase, appraisal and title report, and meeting our customary closing conditions. There is no charge to receive a SureStart® Pre-approval. However, standard application and commitment fees will apply for the mortgage loan application. Find a Home Lending Officer 1-800-248-4638 Mon-Fri: 8:00 AM to 10:00 PM ET Sat: 9:00 AM to 7:00 PM ET Have us call you To provide you with extra security, we may need to ask for more information before you can use the feature you selected. Just a moment, please... This page of citi.com contains information about U.S. domestic financial services provided by the Citigroup family of companies and is intended for use domestically in the U.S. Terms, conditions and fees for accounts, products, programs and services are subject to change. This is not a commitment to lend. All loans are subject to credit and property approval. Certain restrictions may apply on all programs. Citibank, N.A. Member FDIC. NMLS ID: 412915 This page of citi.com contains information about U.S. domestic financial services provided by the Citigroup family of companies and is intended for use domestically in the U.S. Terms, conditions and fees for accounts, products, programs and services are subject to change. This is not a commitment to lend. All loans are subject to credit and property approval. Certain restrictions may apply on all programs. Citibank, N.A. Member FDIC. NMLS ID: 412915 This page of citi.com contains information about U.S. domestic financial services provided by the Citigroup family of companies and is intended for use domestically in the U.S. Terms, conditions and fees for accounts, products, programs and services are subject to change. This is not a commitment to lend. All loans are subject to credit and property approval. Certain restrictions may apply on all programs. The products, account packages, promotional offers and services described in this website may not apply to customers of  Citigold Private Client ,  Citigold International ,  International Personal Banking  or  Global Executive Banking . Please click on the appropriate link to obtain such information. Citibank, N.A. Member FDIC. NMLS ID: 412915 Por favor, tenga en cuenta que es posible que las comunicaciones futuras del banco, ya sean verbales o escritas, sean  nicamente en ingl s. Estas comunicaciones podr an incluir, entre otras, contratos de cuentas, estados de cuenta y divulgaciones, as  como cambios en t rminos o cargos o cualquier tipo de servicio para su cuenta. Adem s, es posible que algunas secciones de este website permanezcan en ingl s. Please be advised that future verbal and written communications from the bank may be in English only. These communications may include, but are not limited to, account agreements, statements and disclosures, changes in terms or fees; or any servicing of your account. Additionally, some sections of this site may remain in English. You are leaving a Citi Website and going to a third party site. That site may have a privacy policy different from Citi and may provide less security than this Citi site. Citi and its affiliates are not responsible for the products, services, and content on the third party website. Do you want to go to the third party site? Citi is not responsible for the products, services or facilities provided and/or owned by other companies. Get Citibank information on the countries  &  jurisdictions we serve During your call, you may be asked to share your screen for a faster, more efficient experience. If you agree, the phone representative you're speaking with will give you a Service Code to enter below. If you need assistance from a Citi representative,  contact us  via chat or phone During your call, you may be asked to share your screen for a faster, more efficient experience. If you agree, the phone representative you're speaking with will give you a Service Code to enter below. If you need assistance from a Citi representative,  contact us  via chat or phone 