Key Points from Book: Who Moved My Cheese | Journeyman He envisioned himself in realistic detail finding something better, much better He reflected on the mistakes he had made in the past and used them to plan for his future. He knew that you could learn ro deal with change You could be more aware of the need to keep things simple, be flexible, and move quickly You did not need to overcomplicate matters or confuse yourself with fearful beliefs You could notice when the little changes began so that you would be better prepared for the big change that might be coming He knew he needed to adapt faster, for if you do not adapt in time, you might as well not adapt at all He had to admit that the biggest inhibitor to change lies within yourself, and that nothing gets better until you change He realized that there is always ne  cheese  out there whether you recognize it at the time or not You are rewarded with it when you go past your fear and enjoy the adventure He knew some fear should be respected, as it can keep you out of real danger. But he realized most of his fears were irrational and had kept himfrom changing when he needed to Knew that change had turned out to be a blessig in disguise as it led him to better  cheese Change happens, they keep moving the cheese Anticipate change, get ready for the cheese to move Monitor change, smell the cheese often so you kniw when it is getting old Adapt to change quickly, the quicker you let go of old cheese, the sooner you can enjoy new cheese Change, move with the cheese Enjoy change! Savor the adventure and enjoy the taste of ne cheese Be ready to change quickly and enjoy it again and again, they keep moving the cheese Exercise boosts brain power Old people with routine exercise could help their health Exercise increase cognitive performance and prevents alzheimer Gold standar of exercise is 30 minutes, 2-3 times a week You can love for 30 days without food,a. Week without drinking water, but not 5 minutes without oxygen After… In  " Review and Ideas " If you are not the person you would like to be or if you adr not living the kind of life you want to be living, it ' s likely that your life has been reduced to a network of conditioned responses, encased in a cocoon of ideals, habits, fears, and beliefs… In  " Review and Ideas " To know if your friend is lying, introduce him a fact about the suspicious behavior and see if he react uncomfortably If you are trying to see if your friend know mr. X, introduce to him 3 names and see if he take longer look about mr. X If you… In  " Review and Ideas " Your email address will not be published.  Required fields are marked  * Comment Name  * Email  * Website Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email. Pingback:  Key Points from Book: Who Moved My Cheese | penylee56 View Full Site Blog at WordPress.com. 