Consulting | RaceNext An emerging technology, like a powerful deluge, with unambiguous intent and unbound potential for disruption, demands powerful channelization in order for you to manage it’s ‘descent’ into your organization. In addition to passionate torch-bearers eager to tame the unknown, you also want, by your side, professional expertise and proven capability to manage your costs, schedule and risks. RaceNext provides quality hand-holding for you to acquire technical and managerial competence in the process of adoption, to build internal competencies to operate the new technology and also suggests a systematic approach for transitioning from the existing to the emerging keeping your context in mind. Connect with us to take advantage of our proven and time-tested skills in the following areas of managing technology projects and operations.  ‘Descent of Ganga’ painting by the great  Raja Ravi Varma  1848-1906. See also  The Hindu Mythology Most of the heartburns of projects that have overrun the schedule and costs arise due to gaps in requirements or enormity of change requests. RaceNext has industry standards based tools and techniques to perform and to train in-house personnel to capture, document and track requirements and CRs effectively. Our documentation skills will emphasise on bi-directional traceability between the various project work artefacts. The emerging technologies are certainly new, but the core principles of software and systems design still hold good. Call us to get an healthy refresher on concepts, tools and processes for Enterprise Architecture and Design. We understand Zachmann, TOGAF, Especially call us when there is a case for interfacing between two heterogenous IT systems. So you think your software is good enough to be a ‘product’? Our checklist of over 100 simple and common sense questions will expose the gaps that would have otherwise put your launch to risk. We also help you fill the observed gaps. We are passionate about getting ambitious products to the market. We are continuously associating with the best of the breeds who have platforms that manage adoption and development of emerging technologies. We have probably gathered tens of thousands of hours of diverse and enriching experience in this area. Engage us to tell you how to organise your projects, get your project managers to  collaborate  and comply, get  visibility  into what is happening. We are comfortable with all the leading and popular tools and platforms for Enterprise Project Management. We are continuously associating with the best of the breeds who have platforms that manage adoption and development of emerging technologies. At RaceNext, we believe Quality is a time-independent sphere of competence where newcomers can carve out bright careers We conduct standards based audits. Our checklists are simple, compliant, complete and effective to help you go to the next cycle of PDCA. Functional testing for large systems requires genius and a deep understanding of where defects can typically arise. Fortunately we possess both. Our testing methods and documents are guaranteed to impress you. We detect defects before they leak to the customer, and track them to closure. We fully understand the subtle nuances of testing banking systems with multiple interfaces versus say a refinery SCADA system versus say an HRMS system. We are masters of designing tests that will identify the breakpoints and the weak links in the chain. We can tell you whether it is the VMs or the application or the database that is playing truant when you badly need the system to scale up. Watch out for our next announcement of Master Software Testing Skills program. Not only do we take up assignments for testing, we also conduct hands-on training programs for individuals on Software and Systems Testing. We have a proprietary assessment program that rates QC professionals on a 5 point capability maturity scale. A penny saved is a penny earned. Efficient operations translates to happy customers and amusingly happy employees. Safety, Security and in short, peace of mind are outcomes of continuously tightening and shining these capabilities. Weed out the junk. Stay lithe to maximum opportunity gains. Minimize operations costs and huge AMC bills. Do not wait for systems to reach end of life or end of support. Remove the bottlenecks. Keep current with external changes like regulatory or environmental laws. Do it BEFORE your competitor does. Every spreadsheet and paper form in your organisation, every legacy system is a harsh reminder to re-look at your IT stack and see what should go to make way for the new. We have tools, techniques and templates to expedite the otherwise time-consuming and cumbersome exercise of cataloguing business processes and their related systems for effective decision making. We have the tricks and the charm to work with your technology team leads and extract the most accurate on-the-ground information. We understand how organizational teams need to take shape. We know how to hire the perfect candidate. Any mistakes in this area will have a strong backlash at the least unexpected moment in the project or operations. Enquire about how large companies manage their HIPO program, their ALP initiatives. We can help you with activities leading to certification in the following areas ISO 9001, ISO 27001, CMMi, PRINCE2, CoBiT and ITIL. Supplier Management: It is almost a science. A happy and a healthy supplier is a hygiene requirement for your projects and operations.  Equity Funding, Debt funding, Syndication Fee, NCDs, Collateral free, Valuation… Save time and commissions in your journey to the capital markets. Do not let the jargon of incompetent advisors dampen your entrepreneurial fire. Experience the convenience of a single window service of investment, accounting, finance, legal, compliance and IP competencies. RaceNext provides a zero-to-hundred approach from Idea to IPO and then leads you step by step to get it right the first time. Being new ourselves, we fully realize how critical it is to ‘do it now’.  We have a trustworthy network of performing professionals to understand you, your idea, your company and then chart a suitable path towards valuation, documentation of business plans, cross-verification, represent you in investor meetings if you require. We understand your context and suggest approaches and sources. Our unflinching support is guaranteed to take the bumps of this otherwise not so easy journey from the entrepreneurial plane to the capital markets plane. We will always be transparent with our approach. Your trust and eventual success is all that matters in the long run. While you are here, you don’t want to miss this interesting infographic on funding:  From Idea to IPO – Anna Vital 