What country offered Albert Einstein... | Trivia Answers | QuizzClub Albert Einstein (14 March 1879 – 18 April 1955) was a German-born theoretical physicist. Einstein developed the theory of relativity, one of the two pillars of modern physics (alongside quantum mechanics). He received the 1921 Nobel Prize in Physics "for his services to theoretical physics, and especially for his discovery of the law of the photoelectric effect", a pivotal step in the evolution of quantum theory Einstein published more than 300 scientific papers along with over 150 non-scientific works. Einstein's intellectual achievements and originality have made the word "Einstein" synonymous with "genius". Upon the death of Chaim Weizmann  (the first President of Israel)  while in office in November 1952 and at the urging of Ezriel Carlebach, Prime Minister David Ben-Gurion offered Einstein the position of President of Israel.This was a mostly ceremonial post. The offer was presented by Israel's ambassador in Washington, Abba Eban, who explained that the offer "embodies the deepest respect which the Jewish people can repose in any of its sons". Einstein declined, and wrote in his response that he was "deeply moved", and "at once saddened and ashamed" that he could not accept it. On 17 April 1955, Einstein experienced internal bleeding caused by the rupture of an abdominal aortic aneurysm, which had previously been reinforced surgically by Rudolph Nissen in 1948.  He died in Princeton Hospital early the next morning at the age of 76. More Info: en.m.wikipedia.org Test your knowledge By continuing, you agree to Quizzclub's  Terms of Service ,  Privacy Policy ,  Cookie use  and receive daily trivia quizzes from QuizzClub via email Copyright © 2019 quizzclub.com. All rights reserved   This site is not a part of the Facebook website or Facebook Inc. Additionally, this site is NOT endorsed by Facebook in any way.  FACEBOOK is a trademark of FACEBOOK, Inc.  Disclaimer: All content is provided for entertainment purposes only By continuing, you agree to Quizzclub's  Terms of Service ,  Privacy Policy ,  Cookie use  and receive daily trivia quizzes from QuizzClub via email We use cookies and collect some information about you to enhance your experience of our site; we use third-party services to provide social media features, to personalize content and ads, and to ensure the website works properly. Learn more  about your data on Quizzclub or  change your preferences  right away. 132,751  players are online By continuing, you agree to Quizzclub ' s  Terms of Service ,  Privacy Policy ,  Cookie use  and receive daily trivia quizzes from QuizzClub via email 