Betty Crocker™ Green Sugar Decorating Decors - BettyCrocker.com 2019 General Mills, Inc. All Rights Reserved. This information will only be used to send an email to your friend(s) and will not be saved. Please read our  Privacy Policy . Loading... Get kitchen tested recipes, meal ideas and more – straight to your inbox Get kitchen tested recipes, meal ideas and more – straight to your inbox You are not eligible to join the Betty Crocker community. But guess what, you don't need to be a member to get thousands of great recipes and how-to videos. So stick around and enjoy! By clicking \"Join\", I agree to BettyCrocker.com's  Privacy Policy , Legal Terms and  Community Rules  and that General Mills may freely use ideas or materials that I provide, with or without attribution to me. I also won't upload anything owned by anyone else nor upload images of (or personal information about) anyone else without permission. By clicking \"Join\", I agree to BettyCrocker.com's  Privacy Policy , Legal Terms and  Community Rules  and that General Mills may freely use ideas or materials that I provide, with or without attribution to me. I also won't upload anything owned by anyone else nor upload images of (or personal information about) anyone else without permission. Log in to submit your question Other perks: Log in to access your favorite recipes from any device, anywhere. Log in to print new coupons every week. Save up to $250/year! Plus... Log in to save your favorite recipes on BettyCrocker.com Plus... Log in for all the perks at BettyCrocker.com Just log in/register to begin. Other perks: Log in to rate, review and share your recipe twists Plus... You’re on our email list, just a few more steps! Login for all the perks at BettyCrocker.com We found your email in our system. \r\nPlease provide your site password to link to your existing account: ©2019 General Mills, Inc. All Rights Reserved. This information will only be used to send an email to your friend(s) and will not be saved. Please read our  Privacy Policy . 