Low profile motorised van roof vent for buses, ambulances and commercial vehicles, with inner valve with light Home > Van Ventilation Delivery:  FREE UK Delivery Availability: Brand: ICC Vents Vent Type:  Motorised Motorised van vent with inner valve with light, plus 3-way switch. Ultra  low profile motorised van ventilator  with an external height of just 64mm, low enough to fit under most roof mounted carrying racks. This  motorised vent for vans  features a reversible motor with suction / blowing action and is suitable for applications such as a  van, bus, ambulance, caravan  etc. It is also suitable for use with  animals and some light gases . This  low profile motorised ventilator for vans  is available in a choice of 12v and 24v. The  motorised vent  is non-corrosive and is constructed with a robust design. The perfect solution to  ventilating your vehicle. This particular version of the  motorised van vent  is supplied with an inner valve with centre light as pictured below. This valve can be used to close the vent. This version of the motorised vent with inner valve with light is particularly suited to ambulances.  Please note:  The inner portion of this vent is designed for van roofs that have a roof lining, and therefore a 1-2 inch gap to bridge. If your vehicle does not have a roof lining, or just a shallow lining it will be necessary to build a small 'infill' with plywood or similar and seal with silicone, in order to provide the space required by the inner. Other versions of the inner valve are available, please see below. It is also  possible to spray paint  this roof vent in order to match the colour of your vehicle. Please see this example which shows the  van vent spray painted blue and the steps required in installing the vent (click here). This roof vent is also available in black. If you require the black version please select from the drop-down above. Fitting:  This vent is suitable for flat roofs but it is also possible to fit to ribbed roofs by filling in the gaps with a suitable material plus sealant. Please ensure your installer is capable of this. At In Car Connections we strive to provide the best possible service to all of our customers. Here are just a few reason why you should feel confident in purchasing from us. All of our items are dispatched within 24 hours, often on the same day. Larger items are sent  FREE via secure courier . This is a 2-3 day service. It is also possible to select a faster service for an additional payment. Free delivery applies to UK Mainland only and excludes Scottish Highlands and Islands plus Northern Ireland, Isle of Man, Isles of Scilly and Channel Islands. Delivery costs for these areas will be displayed at the checkout, or contact us for details. Delivery of Sortimo van racking is between 5 days (pre-built modules) and 20 days for all other units. We are pleased to be able to offer worldwide delivery. Delivery costs are based on weight and will be displayed once you have added the item to your basket and selected your country. International Delivery estimates: In the event that you are not satisfied with your purchased items you are welcome to return them to us for an exchange or refund. You must inform us within 7 days of receiving your items and then return them to us within 14 days from date of purchase. Please contact us before returning any item. If for any reason you are not totally satisfied with your purchase, you can cancel your order within 14 days from the date of delivery for a full refund of the returned item(s). Please contact us for return instructions. If you feel that the item you have purchased is not suitable for your vehicle please contact us and we'll be happy to help you to determine the correct item and arrange an exchange if necessary. If you feel you have received a faulty item please contact us for assistance. Customers who bought this item also bought: Low profile motorised vehicle roof vent for vans, buses and other commercial vehicles. Supplied with grey inner valve. Low profile motorised vehicle roof vent for vans, buses and other commercial vehicles. Supplied with white inner valve. Low profile motorised vehicle roof vent for vans, buses and other commercial vehicles. Supplied with inner grille for use in dog vans, horse boxes etc. This is the WHITE version. Speed control unit for motorised vents. Plain inner grille for use with vents such as the low profile motorised vehicle roof vent for vans, buses and other commercial vehicles. 3 Way Switch for motorised van vent for vans, buses and other commercial vehicles. Provides choice of air intake, air extract and OFF. Contact us Delivery and Returns International Delivery Secure Payment About us Terms and Conditions Privacy and Cookies Customer Reviews 