Bill Simmons Has A Mustache And A Hint Of A Flavor Saver Awful Announcing search close Link to Twitter Link to Facebook Link to Instagram Link to RSS So whose hair lip does Simmons  most closely resemble?  Ned Flanders , with the voice, would be a good call. Poor man s Kurt Rambis ?  Old school Rick Adelman ? I actually think it looks a lot like a mustached Carl Pavano . What do you think? pics via  Bubbaprog  and  PTI Comments are closed. Spanfeller recently held the company's first all-hands meeting since the mass resignations at Deadspin, but the union said the meeting was "full of empty platitudes." Haney also alleges the PGA Tour is still out to get him over his tell-all book on Tiger Woods, The Big Miss. Friday, December 20 2 PM- Bahamas Bowl: Buffalo vs. Charlotte ESPN: Steve Levy, Greg McElroy, Dianna Russini Bowlday... The law has already led to Vox cutting California positions. "I've been thinking of this and said 'You know, if I had me working for me, I would have fired me a long time ago.' And there's a lot of truth to that. But it points to one of the great blessings of my career; people who didn't fire me. Really, these folks deserve their own Hall of Fame." The 10 Mountain West schools other than Hawaii and Boise State made $1.1 million per year per school under the current deals with CBSSN and ESPN. They could hit $3 million or more under these new deals. Spanfeller recently held the company's first all-hands meeting since the mass resignations at Deadspin, but the union said the meeting was "full of empty platitudes." Haney also alleges the PGA Tour is still out to get him over his tell-all book on Tiger Woods, The Big Miss. Friday, December 20 2 PM- Bahamas Bowl: Buffalo vs. Charlotte ESPN: Steve Levy, Greg McElroy, Dianna Russini Bowlday... The law has already led to Vox cutting California positions. "I've been thinking of this and said 'You know, if I had me working for me, I would have fired me a long time ago.' And there's a lot of truth to that. But it points to one of the great blessings of my career; people who didn't fire me. Really, these folks deserve their own Hall of Fame." The 10 Mountain West schools other than Hawaii and Boise State made $1.1 million per year per school under the current deals with CBSSN and ESPN. They could hit $3 million or more under these new deals. Link to Twitter Link to Facebook Link to Instagram Link to RSS AwfulAnnouncing.com is a Sports fan web site and is in no way affiliated with any media organization, any professional sports league, team, organization, or its Properties. This site is for informational and entertainment purposes only. AwfulAnnouncing.com is not an official web site for any media organization, professional sports league, team, or organization.  Copyright © 2017 www.AwfulAnnouncing.com - All Rights Reserved - Trademarks used herein are property of their respective owners.  AwfulAnnouncing.com is part of the NESN digital network. arrow 