Milkshake Commissions Second Series of ‘Toby’s Travelling Circus’ | Animation World Network Visit AWN on Twitter Visit AWN on Instagram Visit AWN on Google Plus Visit AWN on FlipBoard Subscribe to AWN Channel 5’s Milkshake taps U.K. and U.S.-based family and entertainment production company Komixx Media Group for a second season of the popular CG-animated preschool series. The second series will continue to follow the charismatic Toby, a 7-year-old boy and Ringmaster of a travelling circus and fairground. With his mischievous toy monkey Momo by his side, Toby has to make sure he and his friends put on a spectacular show for the audience everywhere they go. Joining Toby in the new season is his American cousin Dani. Clair Robinson, Acting Head of Children’s at Channel 5, commented, “ Toby’s Travelling Circus  is hugely popular with our Milkshake audience and we’re delighted at the prospect of sharing brand new adventures with Toby and his friends.” The commission of the second series of  Toby’s Travelling Circus  is the most recent Channel 5 commission for Milkshake following the new series  Winnie and Wilbur  from Winduna Enterprises and the third season of  Milkshake Monkey  from Match Cut Ltd. which is set to premiere on the pre-school block this September. “ Toby’s Travelling Circus  is one of our most popular pre-school properties. Its success in the UK and globally is a testament to Toby’s loving character and engaging qualities. We are delighted this commission from Channel 5 enables us to further explore Toby’s adventures,” added Andrew Cole-Bulgin, joint CEO and Head of Film  &  TV, Komixx Media Group. The second series of  Toby’s Traveling Circus  is set to premiere on Milkshake in autumn 2017. Source: Cartoon Network AWN Staff Editor I wouldn ' t be too sure about the DC owned shows like Justice League, Batman the Animated Series, Batman Beyond, and maybe even the original Teen Titans due to DC having its own streaming service,... Christina Miller Steps Down as Cartoon Network President  ·  1 day ago WE WANT INVADER ZIM BACK !! THIS SHOW WAS CANCELLED TOO EARLY FUCK MAN I WAS ONE OF THOSE KIDS THAT LOVED THIS SHOW ! HOW DARE YOU LET THIS GET CANCELLED AND NOT CONTINUE IT ELSEWHERE LIKE ON... Invader Zim Cancelled  ·  1 day ago This brings hope that Good shows may return. Shows with good plot lines and are actually entertaining to all, like Ed Edd  ' n '  Eddy, Courage the Cowardly Dog, the original Teen Titans, Samurai Jack,... Christina Miller Steps Down as Cartoon Network President  ·  2 days ago Bullshit. You did too. Which is fine. I have no problem being insulted. I don ' t like it but it ' s your opinion and I ' ll be damned if anyone tries to get you fired over it. However, I will tell you... Dr. Toon: When Reagan Met Optimus Prime  ·  2 days ago This article couldn ' t be any more full of shit. Transformers was one of the best written cartoons of any era. This is just more liberal bullshit bitching about Reagan and the 80 ' s. Or maybe your... Dr. Toon: When Reagan Met Optimus Prime  ·  2 days ago Legacy Effects, used to be Stan Winston Studios, now it ' s Legacy Effects, and they ' ve provided many costumes and makeup for many Marvel movies. Cuteness Levels Over 9,000 with New ‘The Mandalorian’ Character  ·  4 days ago 2 comments · 1 day ago 2 comments · 4 days ago 1 comment · 5 days ago 1 comment · 1 week ago 2 comments · 3 weeks ago 1 comment · 1 week ago Contact Us  |  About Us  |  Terms Of Service  |  Privacy Policy  |  Media Kit AWNtv.com: AWN Television  |  Videos  |  Channels  |  Categories  |  Playlists  |  Submit Your Films AIDB.com: Animation Industry Database  |  Production Companies  |  VFX Houses  |  Schools © 2017 AWN, Inc. AWN.com - Part of the Animation World Network - 13300 Victory Blvd. Suite 365 Van Nuys, CA 91401 