Virgil van Dijk makes surprising Manchester City title admission | Football | Sport | Express.co.uk Don ' t have an account?  Register Register with email Already have an account?  Sign in By registering I understand and agree to the  Terms of use & Privacy policy By registering I understand and agree to the  Terms of use & Privacy policy Please provide your site password to link to your existing account or  click here  to create a new account Please enter your email address to reset your password Sign in with a different account The email should arrive straight away, it may be in your spam. The link will expire after 24 hours.  We value your privacy   We and our partners use technologies, such as cookies, and process personal data, such as IP addresses and cookie identifiers, to personalise ads and content based on your interests, measure the performance of ads and content, and derive insights about the audiences who saw ads and content. Click below to consent to the use of this technology and the processing of your personal data for these purposes. You can change your mind and change your consent choices at any time by returning to this site.   Powered by  Liverpool have barely put a foot wrong this season, sitting two points behind  City  after 12 games. The Reds - like their rivals - remain unbeaten this season, conceding only five goals. Pivotal to their improved defensive record is Van Dijk, who was purchased for  75million from Southampton in January. At this stage last season, Liverpool had already conceded 17 strikes, outlining Van Dijk s importance to the backline.  [Manchester City] are the champions and the best team in the league Virgil van Dijk The Dutchman has also maintained his domineering presence off the pitch and was voted by his peers to be the club s third captain after Jordan Henderson and James Milner. The 27-year-old was at the heart of Liverpool s seventh league clean sheet of the season on Sunday against Fulham, which put them atop the table until City defeated Manchester United 3-1 later on. Speaking of their title rivals, Van Dijk said: "They are the champions and the best team in the league. But we will try everything to be as good as we can. "We don't have to look at others, we want to look at the games we have and the next challenge we have at Liverpool is Watford away, which is going to be tough. The season is very long. They [City] are not going to win every game 5-0 and are going to have tough games like everyone else. "We need to look at what we have ahead of us and that is more important than looking at someone else. It is the only way forward." One revelation for  Jurgen Klopp s side has been the signing of Xherdan Shaqiri, who joined for only  13.5m. The Swiss winger scored a well-taken volley on the weekend and has impressed Van Dijk. "He's been playing well," the Liverpool defender added. "He is working hard like everyone else and when he gets his chance he is doing well. "He scored but he's been pretty important the last couple of games he's been involved, which is good for all of us. "Shaqiri is a guy with different qualities and - with his left foot - he is always dangerous." Wednesday, 11th December 2019  See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper,order back issues and use the historic Daily Expressnewspaper archive. 