Honest Review - Review of Sandy Villas, Perissa, Greece - TripAdvisor We stayed here for a week. Firstly the greeting, on arrival to the airport met by Olympic rep who as soon as we mentioned trip advisor launched into a defensive very unprofessional outburst of her hate for trip advisor, threw us off a bit and was a bit off putting. on arrival a brief talk given by the owner  &  then showed to your room. Most of the guests have seen trip advisor and it ' s a shame that it ' s all everyone can talk about in the pool / around the pool. Must be honest despite the very very basic room we were allocated (18) am pleasantly surprised as the previous reviews left me worried my whole journey. The room smelt of bleach  &  was clean. The bathroom is very basic with a shower hose that hooks into the wall, there was some electrical wiring hanging out of the wall, after discussing with the Olympic rep three times it was finally repaired the day before we left! as per previous reviews yes the drains do smell and the water is cold in the evenings but that ' s due to everyone showering at the same time. The kitchenette area was extremely disappointing, we ended up spending a lot more than we hoped eating out due to a lack of catering facilities. Firstly no kettle, I strongly feel that the owners / tour operators need to work on this issue. What little cutlery and... We stayed here for a week. Firstly the greeting, on arrival to the airport met by Olympic rep who as soon as we mentioned trip advisor launched into a defensive very unprofessional outburst of her hate for trip advisor, threw us off a bit and was a bit off putting. on arrival a brief talk given by the owner  &  then showed to your room. Most of the guests have seen trip advisor and it's a shame that it's all everyone can talk about in the pool / around the pool. Must be honest despite the very very basic room we were allocated (18) am pleasantly surprised as the previous reviews left me worried my whole journey. The room smelt of bleach  &  was clean. The bathroom is very basic with a shower hose that hooks into the wall, there was some electrical wiring hanging out of the wall, after discussing with the Olympic rep three times it was finally repaired the day before we left! as per previous reviews yes the drains do smell and the water is cold in the evenings but that's due to everyone showering at the same time. The kitchenette area was extremely disappointing, we ended up spending a lot more than we hoped eating out due to a lack of catering facilities. Firstly no kettle, I strongly feel that the owners / tour operators need to work on this issue. What little cutlery and plates etc provided were of mismatched design and were actually dirty. We had no hob when we arrived again had to ask for this and we had a piece of ply wood covering a huge burn underneath. We had to battle with the owner for two wine glasses to enjoy some wine and simply resigned ourself to not self catering. I would say the owner is nice until >You have a complaint or issue and then beware!! The rep simply says I can't do much I have to work here for the next few weekday, very unprofessional and random!! The owner of this hotel owns another establishment at the beach, this resort is apparently room only and I think that the owner if not prepared to equip the room with adequate self catering items should change it from a self catering room. The reps answer to the above  as that the owner is safety conscious what a load of rubbish! You either self cater or you don't advertise it. Our fridge was playing up from arrival felt extremely warm on the outside, checked the inside and it appeared to be on a normal setting for the UK ( between 3-4) down the road is a fantastic supermarket which would provide you with everything you need to self cater at hardly any cost ( local wine on tap   a deli counter / a 24 hour bakery  &  so on ) ALL our food was frozen and we had to throw it all out, discusses with the owner who was extremely rude  &  actually asked a returning guest to deal with the issue, we refused this and discussed with the Olympic rep who again wasn't very helpful, initially said she was going to get the fridge changed and also discuss getting our money back ( approx 20 euros ) despite seeing the rep several times nothing ever transpired with this, I would say that if you plan eating in your room every day this is NOT the place for you. If you plan using it as a base its clean and very basic but you can live in it. The rooms are very noisy you can hear any noise from upstairs or the adjoining rooms, again people just enjoying their holidays but because not all rooms have air con then it seems people get so hot they attempt to re arrange their rooms for some air! There have been previous reviews of a hard sell, sandy sells you the safe key 15 euros for 1 week  &  the air con in our case 6 euros per night, and also yes you can get water down the road for half the price but we took the 6 bottles for 4 euros she offered to save us the first walk. The pool area is brilliant, immaculately clean. The pool signs says they are open 8am - 8pm this is apparently not the case and the owner actually practically pulls you out at 7.30. Also they aren't too keen on kids playing / jumping in... You are WATCHED!!. The pool bar is very overpriced which is a shame as with some good marketing and some lowering of price it could be a real money maker. The owners lack person skills I feel, the main topic of conversation is about how hard they work and how hard their life is... They own two hotels in santorini and work for half the year and I don't really want to listen to you moan I'm on holiday! The wifi gets turned off in the night. The owner tends to sit watching what everyone is doing and not work too hard anyway, we went to one of the pools you can rent by the beach for a relaxed day one day which was amazing. there are 3 Bangladeshi men who work extremely hard all day cleaning the rooms and cleaning the pool area. Aside of this the pool area is lovely and clean really can't fault that part. The towels and bedding NEED updating. Yes we all paid budget prices for our holidays but you don't expect holes in your bedding and holes in your towels it makes for shabby living. Perissa is lovely and so accessible, you can catch the bus around the whole island so I would definitely recommend if you want to see the island. We booked a boat trip, I would say DONT book with Olympic overpriced and lots of sad faces on the trips when they discovered what we paid down the road from the tour operators rather than via the agent for exactly the same trip. 23 euros for a sunset boat tour climbing volcano, visiting hot springs onto another island and then to Oia for the amazing sunset, absolute bargain and the most popular boat trip. The buses all go to the capital Thera and then branch from there, your looking at 2.40 euros for the bus and they are so regular. The island is tiny and so beautiful. There's lots of negative reviews about the cost of food and eating out, I think you can pretty much eat to your budget a meal including wine and a side is possible for 12 euros we did this most days and also you can have seafood platter for 2 for 25 euros, the seafront for cocktails is a little more expensive but we found our favourite bar that also does amazing food from next door. Cocktails are 4 euros and served with a smile and a snack every time, the service goes a long way to make up for the attitude of the owners and the rep. Dorian's pub is the above place and we would all highly recommend. Would I come back YES definitely and I think with some changes sandy villas could be an amazing place but for this to happen both the owners and the rep need to care a little more about what's happening and improve the service it just seems no one does care except when your outside of Olympic or the villas. I thought long and hard about whether to write an honest review and decided that yes I would. If your looking for cheap and cheerful ( it is what you make of it) then this could be the place for you. Our flight in and out were delayed, making me miss my connection and the reps did a poor job of explaining things, thank god for flight tracker to discovering exactly what was going on ! All in all I had an amazing holiday, met some lovely people and would definitely recommend santorini and if some improvements are made to sandy villas which I seriously doubt it could be so amazing too.  More Not what we expected,  the owner 'sandy' just wants your money... had to pay for air con.. £6 per day or pay for a fan ... basement room tiny and shower was always cold or didn't work ...  one person described the pool as swimming in soup ... Loved perissa and Santorini is amazing but would never stay at sandy villas again... she had the same worn dress on for the whole week we were their and was always scratching her crotch. .. horrible to see. We have just returned from this place and had a really good week relaxing. Family of four, two adults and our two teenagers. We had two studios opposite each other rooms 16 and 18. I shared 18 with our daughter and it was, as previously stated, very basic and you would certainly struggle to self cater as there wasn't even a hob, oven or microwave!!! Also, hardly any crockery and what there was was rather gross! To be honest, I think it is really odd not even to have a kettle!!!!! My husband and son shared room 16 which did have a two ring hob but not much else! Again, same story as previous reviewers, we were expecting to be bombarded with extras from the owner as soon as we arrived and we were! It cost us about another 96 euros for the safe, fan and air con of and expensive water, but then that was it as we only had a couple of drinks by the pool and one dreadful meal after we arrived, as we were tired! We then just used the pool, which is lovely and under the stunning scenery behind the apartments and bought our own snacks/drinks from nearby supermarket and had them on our balconies. We ate out all the time down by the seafront, lots of choice and a variety of prices too, but all within walking distance and on the flat! The 24 hr bakery next to the supermarket does amazing stuff and you can get takeaway teas and coffees too, all lovely staff and so helpful. We went away for a complete rest and that is what we did, so although the Sandy Villas was basic, it was clean and bedlinen and towels changed regularly, I could go on and on about little things but it wasn't that bad and after all the reviews we read, we were expecting much worse. I don't think we would go back to Sandy Villas but would go to Perissa beach again. I think Olympic holidays need to be more precise about exactly what you get (or not!) with this place. Incidentally, we have stayed all over the Greek islands over many years and to be honest, this is the standard of most basic villas etc, so don't be put off from visiting, just do your own thing, as we do and just use as a base, at least it is clean, with a great pool and in a great location to get to everything! From the moment I stepped into this hotel, I was horrified by the cleanliness of rooms, attitude of staff and lack of basic essentials. The hotel was basic as expected, but having specified that I needed a room with wheelchair access when booking, we were allocated a room with 7 steps down to the balcony, two steps into the room and a further step in to the bedroom which was a serious struggle/hazard for my disabled grandmother. On entering the room it was severely claustrophobic and filthy.The room had one small window, allowing no light into the room what so ever. The room was no where near suitable for three grown women to share for a week. On entering the room, there were dirty marks on the linen, as if they had not been changed from the last people and the matress on the double bed was covered in stains. The bathroom was diabolical with a door that did not shut, let alone lock. The shower taps were very grimey and the toilet seat was broken. The mirror was rusted and the lighting was so poor that it was difficult to see. The shower was situated virtualy on the toilet. Furthermore, for 3 people to cater for themselves, we had 1 plastic bowl, 2 plastic plates and 2 glasses. My cousin and I were not at all happy with the room and approached the rep ,Lorraine, who had at first been very kind. Although she helped to have us moved to another room, She listened to our issue and told us she would leave it with Sandy, the hotel manager. Sandy kept beating around the bush and we had to wait from 1pm to 6pm to even see if the second room was suitable for us. On being moved to the new room, Lorraine was very abrubt and it felt as if she was avoiding the situation by avoiding answering questions and giving the key to us to find the room ourselves. Even though the new room was much more open, a suitable size for three women and accessible for my disabled grandmother, again there were two cups, a plastic bowl, and a two ring electric cooker.  No where near enough equiptment to self cater. The overall cleanliness of the room was still poor. Over the week I was shocked at the behaviour of the manager, Sandy. every night, kids were turfed out of the ppool at 7;30, having been told it was open 8- late, and the bar was closed, wifi switched off and lights off around the pool around 8 every night. The was no holiday atmosphere about the hotel at all. Behind the bar looked just as filthy as the rooms, the food and drinks were over priced, as were the bottles of water sandy offered,( 6 Large bottles for 4 euros) and claimed we wouldn't get a better deal any where else. A four minuite walk down the road lead you to 6 large bottles of water for less than 2 euros. Half of the food on the menu I ever asked for, she didn't have. my cousin was told that the aircon was 60 euros for the week, however after paying the 60, we found a price list that said 6 euros a night. There were two men doing all of the up keep and cleaning of the hotel who I admit were working extremely hard, but more staff is really needed, The only nice thing I can say about the hotel was that the pool was nice and it was in close proximity of the supermarket, beach and resteraunts, So luckily we could spend most of our time out of the hotel. I made several new friends with other people and one particular family, with a child, invited me into their room, I was shocked at the sight of a penis engraved across their whole mirror. why it had not been removed or replaced I do not know but someone must have known it was their and it was just unacceptable to have not removed it. Back to the rep Lorraine, who was hardly ever around, was not accepting to any further issues we had due to the rough start on our holiday. On our return home we were spoken to rudely after having misunderstood that we were supposed to be on the coach rather than a minibus that was taking a few other parties. on arriving at the airport 2  families who required special assistance, including mine,were told to wait in a different que. The were a youbg couple with a 7 month old child who were also told to, by Lorraine, to wait in this separate que. The poor family were then sent to the back of a que of 100 people to wait to get into the airport in 30 degree heat even though they were first off the coach and told to wait aside. Lorraine shared no compassion for the family and seemed this way to many otgers throughout the week when she was around. Santorini was beautiful but I will never book a holiday with Olympic or to sandy Villas ever again! Arrived to be met by 'sandy' and after brief introduction  had to wait for half hour outside to be shown to room, had a butlins feel about it.  Room was spacious but stunk of drains, badly equipped and throughout the week stunk of urine  too plus 2 nights no hot water and most mornings again only cold smelly shower. I understand basic but this was uninhabitable a lot of the time.   Poor self catering facilities and €5 a day to hire kettle! (Large pan took 20 mins). Bed mattress fell through through twice - on investigation we found all slats loose.not screwed to frame and all make do offcuts- disgraceful! Nice clean balcony area so considered sleeping here. Noise travels and 3 hours sleep was the most important managed during the night.  You hear every voice, every footstep, every safe banging and every case wheel being dragged along. Have come home shattered all due to no sleep and no basic room comforts.  On arrival 'sandy' came to room to hardshell AC  (€40 week), fan hire (€5), kettle hire  (€5 day) and safe  (€15) and water  (€4) which was €2.90 2 min walk away.  Is not happy when you say no and you feel that the entire stay.  Her food at the pool bar is expensive and awful and her drinks....well €3 for a can and €5 for a cold tutti fruti drink are ridiculous.  You feel the evil stares is you dare to bring your own water and God help you of you bring a snack such as crisps, biscuits or fruit to pool area.  She will tell you off! My partner got told off for jumping not diving into an empty pool at 6pm. He was playing ball with a teenage boy of some friends we met.  The woman  is a bully! At times its similar to laughingly being in a boarding school. WiFi is only available in the immediate pool bar area and if you annoy her she switches it off! Her Greek Nights on a Thursday are cancelled as surprise surprise no guests want to come, eat rubbish food, be her 'friend' (one big happy family) and pay €20. That all said, the pool is lovely - clean, large and with plenty of sunbeds. The location with the beautiful ancient thira mountain behind is stunning and daytimes here (if you ignore 'sandy's' glances are peaceful.  However this is where the compliments end.  Towels are starch like and full of holes, toilet paper is rationed (we hid ours in the safe) and the Olympic rep 'lorraine' is the poorest excuse for a rep I've ever seen.  She abused several customers and then tries to blame her rudeness on her Geordie accent - she's just ignorant and nasty.  We stayed out of her way.   >Perissa is god location from which to explore.  Book tours locally on main road as much cheaper than rip off olympic ones and visit the amazingly run Italian 24 hr bakery and Apollon, a restaurant on  the beach with fantastic staff, food and drink views.  <br >Sandy villas? Avoid them and the woman  herself. Also be aware they're known as Sunday perissa village too! She doesn't even know what she's doing with the name let alone how to run  what could be an amazing property. 2 Bangladesh cleaners are amazing and live under the pool is  a laundry area. Overworked and no doubt paid peanuts.   They do a fantastic job with their rubbish tools. To be honest I'm really shocked reading the reviews on all sites online about this place - it shows a real lack of research into where people stay when they go on holiday. Do people really only read the travel agent blurb ??  >Before I comment on Sandy's and Santorini, a bit about Greek Islands :<br >If you're booking an inexpensive holiday to Greece, and staying in a  " villa "  or  " apartment "  some things are pretty standard and haven't changed much in the 25 years since I started island hopping as a teenager.  Your self catering accommodation will generally consist of pine single beds (probably quite hard), a sheet to cover you and a pillow.  Your kitchen will have a fridge, a two ring plug in hob, a saucepan, and a variety of plates, cutlery and glasses.  Your bathroom will be an accidental wet-room with a shower that floods the place.  You will probably be able to pay for air-con, or rent a fan and rent a key for a small safe. The Wifi will be pretty poor and you may have to practically be sat on the router to get it to work.  Your towels  &  sheets get changed daily except Sunday.  This is across the board in Greece, and if you are looking for kettles/ toasters/ hairdryers/ power showers/ microwaves/ Corby trouser presses or a butler you may want to rethink your budget or go to Benidorm.   >As above,  this is what Sandy Villas is like.  It's perfect for what we require as we only sleep &amp; shower in our villa on holiday - we are always out and about !! My review is based on our needs - we don't go on holiday to sit in the room ! <br >Our room at Sandy's was spotlessly clean, spacious, with a nice outside seating area.  We asked to pay for the air con and safe, and for someone to get us some bottled water to get us going and this was all done with a smile and at no point was anything pushed to sell to us. The pool area is beautiful and spotless with more than enough loungers to go around. The bar sells a wide variety of of Greek food as well as toasties / baguettes etc and the food was perfect for when you just want a quick bite round the pool.  We found  " Sandy "  wonderful - she works from 6am to 2am 7 days a week in the summer season, mostly alone as her sons  &  husband all have seasonal jobs on the Island too.  She was warm, funny and she couldn't have been more helpful and kind. I'm guessing if you moan at her constantly, complain there's no toaster, demand to move rooms 3 times and make her cry you might get treated differently to us. We all loved her.  >The main road in Perissa is a 5 minute walk away and the buses go from there regularly to and from Fira &amp; Oia day and night. Definitely worth exploring.  5 minutes further you have the seafront with shops and tavernas, and the volcanic black sandy beach, kept lovely  clean by the restaurateurs.  10 minutes from the Villa down the other fork in the road is the best 24 hour bakery in the world - perfect for breakfasts !! <br >Santorini itself is a beautiful Island and worth exploring - Fira  &  Oia, although more expensive to eat  &  shop at, boast one of the best sunsets in the world, overlooking the dormant volcano. Boat trips are available from short ones to full days - shop around but it's worth noting that when you take one over to the volcano to climb it you really do need to wear sensible shoes and take a hat and a lot of water as you will be walking for an hour over rocks in relentless 32' heat with no shade or medics if you get in trouble.  The part of the trip to the hot springs is great but again be aware it's a jump off the boat 5 minute swim in deep water to the Spring, the same back with 10 minutes treading water to get everyone back up the ladder onto the boat. They do gloss over the fact you need to be a reasonable swimmer. ><br >We wouldn't hesitate to stay at Sandy Villas again - we are a family of 4 (with a 10  &  13 year old) and it catered perfectly for all of us. The poor reviews are clearly from people who did no research into where they were staying and Greek Islands in general. Do not be put off by ignorance, it's brilliant there !  