Days Inn and Suites Palestine 1101 E Palestine Ave, Palestine, TX 75801 - YP.com What are you looking for? In mybook : Travel  Collection (edit) We took this business out of your travel collection. (903) 723-7300 This listing has been   added to mybook. This listing has been   removed from mybook. Property Location   Days Inn and Suites Palestine is located in Palestine.  Rooms   Make yourself at home in one of the 83 air-conditioned rooms featuring refrigerators and microwaves. Complimentary wireless Internet access keeps you connected, and cable programming is available for your entertainment. Conveniences include coffee/tea makers and clock radios, as well as phones with free local calls.  Rec, Spa, Premium Amenities   Enjoy the recreation opportunities such as a seasonal outdoor pool or make use of other amenities including complimentary wireless Internet access.  Dining   Enjoy a satisfying meal at a restaurant serving guests of Days Inn and Suites Palestine.  Business, Other Amenities   Featured amenities include business services and laundry facilities. Free parking is available onsite.  Wyndham Hotels Like this review? Share it on your social network to get the word out! 05/22/2014 Edit I will not stay at this hotel ever again!!! I stayed at this hotel a couple of years ago for about 6 months (it was Executive Inn then) and had no problem whatsoever, so quite naturally when I was scheduled to work in this area again, this is where I came back to. But this stay was totally different!!! I checked in on Thursday night of 5/15/14. I was tired and fell asleep in the chair and maybe slept in the bed about an hour. Worked Friday night, got off Saturday morning and went to the room and slept until Saturday afternoon. Got up ,was getting ready for work and started itching. Looked and I had red/bruised bites all around both elbows, both hands, right shoulder, both cheeks, chin, behind one ear, and a couple on both legs, and two on my lower back. Bed bugs had a feast on me!!! Went to the front desk and told the clerk and showed her my bites. She was very friendly, along with the maintenance man. They checked the bed in room #139 and found bed bugs. They offered and helped move me to another room #153 before I went to work. All was well with this room until Wednesday night, the 21st, when I got to work and started itching on my left leg. Looked and they had gotten me again!!! On both legs this time!!! Got off work, came home and talked to the same sweet young clerk.and showed her my new battlescars. I told her I wanted my money back because I had not had a pleasant stay here. She called the manager. He called her back with an offer to refund me one night since I had stayed the whole week. Really!!??!! He could have at the least had the decency to refund me two nights since that's how many nights I was bitten!!! I wouldn't have stayed the whole week if I had known your hotel was infested with bed bugs. I called corporate office and started a complaint in which I was told someone would contact me by the 29th. Unfortunately for me, I used my debit card and was unable to stop payment or reverse the charges. Other than the manager, all of the staff was very courteous and helpful. And they have a good, hot continental breakfast. As for me, I have lived and learned yet another lesson in life. So don't sleep tight because the bed bugs will bite at the Days Inn in Palestine, TX!!!! I had to give it a star in order to publish the review. Plus the staff deserves a star. 04/13/2013 Dirty, rooms in horrible condition. Ceiling in bathroom was falling down, cold water didn't work, bugs like crazy, sticky floor, staff speaks little to no English and very hard to find, maids frequently skipped our room, repulsive odor, stains on walls, beds, and linen. There are cheaper, cleaner, accommodations close by. Staff had complete disregard to address any issues.  Weekly rate seemed reasonable until all these issues became apparent, not willing to issue any refunds. 04/13/2013 Serving the Palestine area. Serving the Palestine area. Serving the Palestine area. Serving the Palestine area. 1520 E Palestine Ave, Palestine, TX 1101 E Palestine Ave, Palestine, TX 2300 W Oak St, Palestine, TX 805 E Palestine Ave, Palestine, TX 1030 E Palestine Ave, Palestine, TX  2019 Thryv, Inc. All rights reserved. YP, the YP logo and all other YP marks contained herein are trademarks of YP LLC and/or YP affiliated companies. All other marks contained herein are the property of their respective owners. 