Volkswagen Jetta Side View Mirror Assembly Replacement (Driver  &  Passenger) » Go-Parts PLEASE SELECT  Your  Volkswagen Jetta  Year PLEASE SELECT  Your  Volkswagen Jetta  Submodel PLEASE SELECT  Your  Volkswagen Jetta  Body Type PLEASE SELECT  The Side of the Part PLEASE SELECT  Your  Volkswagen Jetta  Year PLEASE SELECT  Your  Volkswagen Jetta  Submodel PLEASE SELECT  Your  Volkswagen Jetta  Body Type PLEASE SELECT  The Side of the Part In Stock In Stock In Stock In Stock In Stock In Stock In Stock In Stock In Stock In Stock In Stock In Stock In Stock In Stock In Stock In Stock Every part comes with a limited lifetime warranty. We carry only the highest-quality brands in the industry, including TYC, KOYO, DEPO, and Modine, just to name a few. All parts meet OEM quality standards, and in most cases exceed the quality of the original product. We offer a no-questions 100% money back guarantee on all items returned within 60 days of delivery. If you receive an incorrect item from us, we will immediately pay for return shipment and send you the correct item. (For items over $100 we will ship the new item after receiving the original, which we will pay for). If the part we ship to you arrives in damaged or non-working condition, we will ship another item out to you immediately. (For items over $100 we will ship the new item after receiving the original, which we will pay for.) Most orders are shipped out the same day as they're received. Our prices are hands-down some of the lowest you'll find on the net. If you find a product sold for a lower price by another vendor, we will beat or match their price. DOT/SAE Compliance - FMVSS - 111 Federal regulations are in place for ALL auto parts in use on public roads. Side view mirrors are covered specifically under regulatory code FMVSS - 111. In an effort to ensure on-road safety for every driver in the country, the code outlines the various requirements for manufacturers in order to sell these parts for use within U.S. borders. FMVSS - 111 applies to OEM and Aftermarket parts collectively, and includes: All of the side mirrors available at Go-Parts.com are delivered from manufacturers that meet EVERY specification outlined in FMVSS - 111. The durable construction, visibility specifications, and mounting studs meet or exceed government regulations, ensuring on-road safety and helping to provide the vehicle's driver with the range of sight necessary to prevent collisions. Thank You Go-Parts for a quality item and fast shipping. I purchased a radiator fan for my wife's car and after price shopping I saved a lot of money using Go-Parts for the same exact fan motor that was made for the car. I will defiantly be a returning customer. Go-Parts - Email Us - cs@go-parts.com We know how important it is for you to be back on the road, so we strive to make your buying experience as easy and fast as possible.  2019 GO-PARTS. All Rights Reserved. 