A Place for Trenchers to Share Their Trenching News Hot Hot Talk about the tour here. The good, the bad, the excitement, the post show sadness.... anything goes as long as it’s tour related! Hello! My friend has been a diehard Marianas Trench fan since we were in middle school (6-7 years ago), and over the years I &# x27;ve gotten her CD albums and some accessories. She has collected a lot of official merch with autographs from attending their fan events and tours, which is really awesome but I &# x27;m having trouble coming up with a unique gift idea for this Christmas. I could always find something non-MT related but nothing really compares to her love for this band. Something that can be personalized could be nice? She has a great group photo with them if that helps. Hoping to get some insider tips from the fandom!! Thanks :)) You know the way people always say they ran into band members on the way to the concert?? I always thought it had to be fake or a one in a million chance until it happened to me. I was on the way to the O2 Institute about two or three hours before the show to queue up and we actually ran into Josh on the way, it was completely insane and I’m not sure I would’ve stopped him to say hi if two other girls ahead of us hadn’t done it first. I’m still kinda shocked by it to be honest but I got a picture with him and everything and it made my whole week basically. He had to bend down so far to get in the frame with me, he’s so damn tall. When I checked later it turns out the camera guy with him actually filmed us meeting him and I’m briefly in a video on the Marianas Trench IG page. It was honestly so amazing and I’m so glad I got to meet him in person even if it was just for a few seconds. I don’t know how to link to pics on reddit but if you see a girl in a red jacket with purple hair looking completely star struck on their Insta page, that’s me. My friend that was going with me to tour tonight in Glasgow cancelled last minute, is anyone looking for a ticket/someone to go with? Hey! Does anyone know if there is a merch stall with the UK tour? And any idea on the prices? Going to see them tomorrow and really want to get myself some merch after being a fan for almost a decade 😂 1.2k Members 4 Online Nov 14, 2011 Cake Day 