American Indian Wars - Wikipedia American Indians (1609–1924) First Nations  (1609–1924) Inuit  (1609–1924)  Aleut  (1743–1924)  Yupik  (1784–1924)  State of Muskogee  (1799–1803) Spanish Empire  (1609-1821) Kingdom of France  (1609–1763) Kingdom of England  (1610–1707) Kingdom of Scotland  (1621–1707) British Empire  (1707–1867) Dutch Empire  (1614–1664) Swedish Empire  (1638–1655) Hudson's Bay Company  (1670–1924) Russian Empire  (1743–1867) United States  (1776–1924) Vermont Republic  (1777–1791) North West Company  (1779–1821) West Florida  (1810) East Florida  (1812) Denmark  (1814–1924) Mexico  (1821–1867) Republic of Indian Stream  (1832–1835) Republic of Texas  (1836–1846) California Republic  (1846) Confederate States  (1861–1865) WikiProject First Nations Inuit Métis The  American Indian Wars  (also known as the  Indian Wars  or the  First Nations Wars ;  French :  Guerres des Premières Nations ) is the collective name for the various armed conflicts that were fought by European governments and colonists, and later by the governments and settlers, against various American Indian and First Nation tribes. These conflicts occurred in North America from the time of the earliest colonial settlements in the 17th century until the early 20th century. The various wars resulted from a wide variety of factors, including cultural clashes, land disputes, and criminal acts committed by both sides. The European powers and their colonies also enlisted Indian tribes to help them conduct warfare against each other's colonial settlements. After the  American Revolution , many conflicts were local to specific states or regions and frequently involved disputes over land use; some entailed cycles of violent reprisal. In Canada, 11  Numbered Treaties  covering most of the First Nations lands limited the number of such conflicts. As settlers spread westward across America and Canada after 1780, armed conflicts increased in size, duration, and intensity between settlers and various Indian and First Nation tribes. The climax came in the  War of 1812 , when major Indian coalitions in the Midwest and the South fought against the United States and lost. Conflict with settlers became much less common and was usually resolved by treaty, often through sale or exchange of territory between the federal government and specific tribes. The  Indian Removal Act  of 1830 authorized the American government to enforce the Indian removal from east of the Mississippi River to the west on the  American frontier , especially Oklahoma. The federal policy of removal was eventually refined in the West, as American settlers kept expanding their territories, to relocate Indian tribes to specially designated and federally protected and subsidized reservations. The colonization of America by the English, French, Spanish, Dutch, and Swedish was resisted by some Indian tribes and assisted by other tribes. Wars and other armed conflicts in the 17th and 18th centuries included: In several instances, the conflicts were a reflection of European rivalries, with Indian tribes splitting their alliances among the powers, generally siding with their trading partners. Various tribes fought on each side in  King William's War ,  Queen Anne's War ,  Dummer's War ,  King George's War , and the  French and Indian War , allying with British or French colonists according to their own self interests. [ 2 ] British merchants and government agents began supplying weapons to Indians living in the United States following the Revolution (1783-1812) in the hope that, if a war broke out, they would fight on the British side. The British further planned to set up an Indian nation in the Ohio-Wisconsin area to block further American expansion. [ 3 ]  The US protested and declared war in  1812 . Most Indian tribes supported the British, especially those allied with  Tecumseh , but they were ultimately defeated by General  William Henry Harrison . The War of 1812 spread to Indian rivalries, as well. Many refugees from defeated tribes went over the border to Canada; those in the South went to Florida while it was under Spanish control. During the early 19th century, the federal government was under pressure by settlers in many regions to expel Indians from their areas. The  Indian Removal Act  of 1830 offered Indians the choices of assimilating and giving up tribal membership,  relocation  to an Indian reservation with an exchange or payment for lands, or moving west. Some resisted fiercely, most notably the Seminoles in a  series of wars in Florida . They were never defeated, although some Seminoles did remove to Indian Territory. The United States gave up on the remainder, by then living defensively deep in the swamps and Everglades. Others were moved to reservations west of the Mississippi River, most famously the Cherokee whose relocation was called the " Trail of Tears ." The  American Revolutionary War  was essentially two parallel wars for the American Patriots. The war in the east was a struggle against British rule, while the war in the west was an "Indian War". The newly proclaimed United States competed with the British for control of the territory east of the  Mississippi River . Some Indians sided with the British, as they hoped to reduce American settlement and expansion. In one writer's opinion, the Revolutionary War was "the most extensive and destructive" Indian war in United States history. [ 4 ] Some Indian tribes were divided over which side to support in the war, such as the  Iroquois  Confederacy based in New York and Pennsylvania who split: the  Oneida  and  Tuscarora  sided with the American Patriots, and the  Mohawk ,  Seneca ,  Cayuga , and  Onondaga  sided with the British. The Iroquois tried to avoid fighting directly against one another, but the Revolution eventually forced intra-Iroquois combat, and both sides lost territory following the war. The Crown aided the landless Iroquois by rewarding them with a  reservation at Grand River  in  Ontario  and some other lands. In the Southeast, the  Cherokee  split into a pro-patriot faction versus a pro-British faction that the Americans referred to as the  Chickamauga Cherokee ; they were led by  Dragging Canoe . Many other tribes were similarly divided. When the British made peace with the Americans in the  Treaty of Paris (1783) , they ceded a vast amount of Indian territory to the United States. Indian tribes who had sided with the British and had fought against the Americans were enemy combatants, as far as the United States was concerned; they were a conquered people who had lost their land. The frontier conflicts were almost non-stop, beginning with Cherokee involvement in the American Revolutionary War and continuing through late 1794. The so-called "Chickamauga Cherokee", later called "Lower Cherokee," were from the  Overhill Towns  and later from the Lower Towns, Valley Towns, and Middle Towns. They followed war leader  Dragging Canoe  southwest, first to the  Chickamauga Creek  area near  Chattanooga, Tennessee , then to the Five Lower Towns where they were joined by groups of  Muskogee , white  Tories , runaway slaves, and renegade  Chickasaw , as well as by more than a hundred  Shawnee . The primary targets of attack were the  Washington District  colonies along the  Watauga ,  Holston , and  Nolichucky Rivers , and in Carter's Valley in upper eastern Tennessee, as well as the settlements along the  Cumberland River  beginning with  Fort Nashborough  in 1780, even into Kentucky, plus against the  Franklin settlements , and later states of Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia. The scope of attacks by the Chickamauga and their allies ranged from quick raids by small war parties to large campaigns by four or five hundred warriors, and once more than a thousand. The Upper Muskogee under Dragging Canoe's close ally  Alexander McGillivray  frequently joined their campaigns and also operated separately, and the settlements on the Cumberland came under attack from the Chickasaw, Shawnee from the north, and Delaware. Campaigns by Dragging Canoe and his successor  John Watts  were frequently conducted in conjunction with campaigns in the  Northwest Territory . The colonists generally responded with attacks in which Cherokee settlements were completely destroyed, though usually without great loss of life on either side. The wars continued until the Treaty of  Tellico Blockhouse  in November 1794. [ 5 ] In 1787, the  Northwest Ordinance  officially organized the  Northwest Territory  for settlement, and American settlers began pouring into the region. Violence erupted as Indian tribes resisted, and so the administration of President  George Washington  sent armed expeditions into the area. However, in the  Northwest Indian War , a pan-tribal confederacy led by  Blue Jacket  (Shawnee),  Little Turtle  (Miami), [ 6 ] Buckongahelas  (Lenape), and  Egushawa  (Ottawa) defeated armies led by Generals  Josiah Harmar  and  Arthur St. Clair . General St. Clair's defeat was the most severe loss ever inflicted upon an American army by Indians. The Americans attempted to negotiate a settlement, but Blue Jacket and the Shawnee-led confederacy insisted on a boundary line that the Americans found unacceptable, and so a new expedition was dispatched led by General  Anthony Wayne . Wayne's army defeated the Indian confederacy at the  Battle of Fallen Timbers  in 1794. The Indians had hoped for British assistance; when that was not forthcoming, they were compelled to sign the  Treaty of Greenville  in 1795, which ceded Ohio and part of Indiana to the United States. [ 7 ] By 1800, the Indian population was approximately 600,000 in the continental United States. By 1890, their population had declined to about 250,000. [ 8 ]  In 1800,  William Henry Harrison  became governor of the  Indiana Territory , under the direction of President  Thomas Jefferson , and he pursued an aggressive policy of obtaining titles to Indian lands. Shawnee brothers  Tecumseh  and  Tenskwatawa  organized  Tecumseh's War , another pan-tribal resistance to westward settlement. Tecumseh was in the South attempting to recruit allies among the  Creeks ,  Cherokees , and  Choctaws  when Harrison marched against the Indian confederacy, defeating Tenskwatawa and his followers at the  Battle of Tippecanoe  in 1811. The Americans hoped that the victory would end the militant resistance, but Tecumseh instead chose to ally openly with the British, who were soon at war with the Americans in the  War of 1812 . The  Creek War  (1813–14) began as a tribal conflict within the Creek tribe, but it became part of the larger struggle against American expansion. Tecumseh was killed by Harrison's army at the  Battle of the Thames , ending the resistance in the Old Northwest. The  First Seminole War  in 1818 resulted in the transfer of Florida from Spain to the United States in 1819. American settlers began to push into Florida, which was now an American territory and had some of the most fertile lands in the nation. Paul Hoffman claims that covetousness, racism, and "self-defense" against Indian raids played a major part in the settlers' determination to "rid Florida of Indians once and for all". [ 9 ]  To compound the tension, runaway black slaves sometimes found refuge in Seminole camps, and the result was clashes between white settlers and the Indians residing there.  Andrew Jackson  sought to alleviate this problem by signing the  Indian Removal Act , which stipulated the relocation of Indians out of Florida—by force if necessary. The  Seminoles  were relatively new arrivals in Florida, led by such powerful leaders as  Aripeka  (Sam Jones),  Micanopy , and  Osceola , and they had no intention of leaving their new lands. They retaliated against the settlers, and this led to the  Second Seminole War , the longest and most costly war that the Army ever waged against Indians. In May 1830, the Indian Removal Act was passed by Congress which stipulated forced removal of Indians to Oklahoma. The  Treaty of Paynes Landing  was signed in May 1832 by a few Seminole chiefs who later recanted, claiming that they were tricked or forced to sign and making it clear that they would not consent to relocating to a reservation out west. The Seminoles' continued resistance to relocation led Florida to prepare for war. The St. Augustine Militia asked the US War Department for the loan of 500 muskets, and 500 volunteers were mobilized under Brig. Gen.  Richard K. Call . Indian war parties raided farms and settlements, and families fled to forts or large towns, or out of the territory altogether. A war party led by Osceola captured a Florida militia supply train, killing eight of its guards and wounding six others; most of the goods taken were recovered by the militia in another fight a few days later. Sugar plantations were destroyed along the Atlantic coast south of  St. Augustine, Florida , with many of the slaves on the plantations joining the Seminoles. The US Army had 11 companies (about 550 soldiers) stationed in Florida.  Fort King  (Ocala) had only one company of soldiers, and it was feared that they might be overrun by the Seminoles. Three companies were stationed at  Fort Brooke  (Tampa), with another two expected imminently, so the army decided to send two companies to Fort King. On December 23, 1835, the two companies totaling 110 men left Fort Brooke under the command of Major  Francis L. Dade . Seminoles shadowed the marching soldiers for five days, and they ambushed them and  wiped out the command  on December 28. Only three men survived, and one was hunted down and killed by a Seminole the next day. Survivors Ransome Clarke and Joseph Sprague returned to Fort Brooke. Clarke died of his wounds later, and he provided the only account of the battle from the army's perspective. The Seminoles lost three men and five wounded. On the same day as the massacre, Osceola and his followers shot and killed Agent Wiley Thompson and six others during an ambush outside of Fort King. On December 29, General Clinch left Fort Drane with 750 soldiers, including 500 volunteers on an enlistment due to end January 1, 1836. The group was traveling to a Seminole stronghold called the  Cove of the Withlacoochee , an area of many lakes on the southwest side of the  Withlacoochee River . When they reached the river, the soldiers could not find the ford, so Clinch ferried his regular troops across the river in a single canoe. Once they were across and had relaxed, the Seminoles attacked. The troops fixed bayonets and charged them, at the cost of four dead and 59 wounded. The militia provided cover as the army troops then withdrew across the river. In the  Battle of Lake Okeechobee , Colonel  Zachary Taylor  saw the first major action of the campaign. He left  Fort Gardiner  on the upper  Kissimmee River  with 1,000 men on December 19 and headed towards  Lake Okeechobee . In the first two days, 90 Seminoles surrendered. On the third day, Taylor stopped to build  Fort Basinger  where he left his sick and enough men to guard the Seminoles who had surrendered. Taylor's column caught up with the main body of the Seminoles on the north shore of Lake Okeechobee on December 25. The Seminoles were led by "Alligator", Sam Jones, and the recently escaped  Coacoochee , and they were positioned in a hammock surrounded by sawgrass. The ground was thick mud, and sawgrass easily cuts and burns the skin. Taylor had about 800 men, while the Seminoles numbered fewer than 400. Taylor sent in the Missouri volunteers first, moving his troops squarely into the center of the swamp. His plan was to make a direct attack rather than encircle the Indians. All his men were on foot. As soon as they came within range, the Indians opened with heavy fire. The volunteers broke and their commander Colonel Gentry was fatally wounded, so they retreated back across the swamp. The fighting in the sawgrass was deadliest for five companies of the Sixth Infantry; every officer but one was killed or wounded, along with most of their non-commissioned officers. The soldiers suffered 26 killed and 112 wounded, compared to 11 Seminoles killed and 14 wounded. No Seminoles were captured, although Taylor did capture 100 ponies and 600 head of cattle. By 1842, the war was winding down and most Seminoles had left Florida for Oklahoma. The US Army officially recorded 1,466 deaths in the Second Seminole War, mostly from disease. The number killed in action is less clear. Mahon reports [ citation needed ]  328 regular army killed in action, while Missall reports [ citation needed ]  that Seminoles killed 269 officers and men. Almost half of those deaths occurred in the Dade Massacre, Battle of Lake Okeechobee, and Harney Massacre. Similarly, Mahon reports [ citation needed ]  69 deaths for the Navy, while Missal reports [ citation needed ]  41 for the Navy and Marine Corps. Mahon and the Florida Board of State Institutions agree [ citation needed ]  that 55 volunteer officers and men were killed by the Seminoles, while Missall says [ citation needed ]  that the number is unknown. A northern newspaper carried a report [ citation needed ]  that more than 80 civilians were killed by Indians in Florida in 1839. By the end of 1843, 3,824 Indians had been shipped from Florida to the Indian Territory. The series of conflicts in the western United States between Indians, American settlers, and the United States Army are generally known as the Indian Wars. Many of these conflicts occurred during and after the Civil War until the closing of the frontier in about 1890.  However, regions of the West that were settled before the Civil War saw significant conflicts prior to 1860, such as Texas, New Mexico, Utah, Oregon, California, and Washington state. Various statistics have been developed concerning the devastation of these wars on the peoples involved. Gregory Michno used records dealing with figures "as a direct result of" engagements and concluded that "of the 21,586 total casualties tabulated in this survey, military personnel and civilians accounted for 6,596 (31%), while Indian casualties totaled about 14,990 (69%)" for the period of 1850–90. However, Michno says that he "used the army's estimates in almost every case" and "the number of casualties in this study are inherently biased toward army estimations". His work includes almost nothing on "Indian war parties", and he states that "army records are often incomplete". [ 10 ] According to Michno, more conflicts with Indians occurred in the states bordering Mexico than in the interior states. Arizona ranked highest, with 310 known battles fought within the state's boundaries between Americans and Indians. Also, Arizona ranked highest of the states in deaths from the wars. At least 4,340 people were killed, including both the settlers and the Indians, over twice as many as occurred in Texas, the second highest-ranking state. Most of the deaths in Arizona were caused by the  Apaches . Michno also says that 51 percent of the battles took place in Arizona, Texas, and New Mexico between 1850 and 1890, as well as 37 percent of the casualties in the country west of the Mississippi River. [ 11 ] American settlers and fur trappers had spread into the western United States territories and had established the  Santa Fe Trail  and the  Oregon Trail . Relations were generally peaceful between American settlers and Indians. The Bents of  Bent's Fort  on the Santa Fe Trail had friendly relations with the Cheyenne and Arapaho, and peace was established on the Oregon Trail by the  Treaty of Fort Laramie  signed in 1851 between the United States and the Plains Indians and the Indians of the northern Rocky Mountains. The treaty allowed passage by settlers, building roads, and stationing troops along the Oregon Trail. The  Pike's Peak Gold Rush  of 1859 introduced a substantial white population into the Front Range of the Rockies, supported by a trading lifeline that crossed the central Great Plains. Advancing settlement following the passage of the  Homestead Act  and the growing  transcontinental railways  following the Civil War further destabilized the situation, placing white settlers into direct competition for the land and resources of the Great Plains and the Rocky Mountain West. [ 12 ] [ 13 ]  Further factors included discovery of gold in the  Black Hills  resulting in the gold rush of 1875–1878, and in Montana during the  Montana Gold Rush  of 1862–1863 and the opening of the  Bozeman Trail , which led to  Red Cloud's War  and later the  Great Sioux War of 1876–77 . [ 14 ] Miners, ranchers, and settlers expanded into the plain, and this led to increasing conflicts with the Indian populations of the West. Many tribes fought American settlers at one time or another, from the  Utes  of the  Great Basin  to the  Nez Perce tribe  of  Idaho . But the  Sioux  of the  Northern Plains  and the  Apaches  of the Southwest waged the most aggressive warfare, led by resolute, militant leaders such as  Red Cloud  and  Crazy Horse . The Sioux were relatively new arrivals on the Plains, as they had been sedentary farmers in the  Great Lakes region  previously. They moved west, displacing other Indian tribes and becoming feared warriors. The Apaches supplemented their economy by raiding other tribes, and they practiced warfare to avenge the death of a kinsman. During the  American Civil War , Army units were withdrawn to fight the war in the east. They were replaced by the volunteer infantry and cavalry raised by the states of California and Oregon, by the western territorial governments, or by the local militias. These units fought the Indians and kept open communications with the east, holding the west for the Union and defeating the Confederate attempt to capture the New Mexico Territory. After 1865, national policy called for all Indians either to  assimilate into the American population  as citizens, or to live peacefully on reservations. Raids and wars between tribes were not allowed, and armed Indian bands off a reservation were the responsibility of the Army to round up and return. In the 18th century,  Spanish settlers in Texas  came into conflict with the Apaches, Comanches, and Karankawas, among other tribes. Large numbers of American settlers reached Texas in the 1830s, and a series of armed confrontations broke out until the 1870s, mostly between Texans and Comanches. During the same period, the Comanches and their allies raided hundreds of miles deep into Mexico (see  Comanche–Mexico Wars ). The first notable battle was the  Fort Parker massacre  in 1836, in which a huge war party of Comanches, Kiowas, Wichitas, and Delawares attacked the Texan outpost at Fort Parker. A small number of settlers were killed during the raid, and the abduction of  Cynthia Ann Parker  and two other children caused widespread outrage among Texans. The  Republic of Texas  was declared and secured some sovereignty in their war with Mexico, and the Texas government under President  Sam Houston  pursued a policy of engagement with the Comanches and Kiowas. Houston had lived with the Cherokees, but the Cherokees joined with Mexican forces to fight against Texas. Houston resolved the conflict without resorting to arms, refusing to believe that the Cherokees would take up arms against his government. [ 15 ]  The administration of  Mirabeau B. Lamar  followed Houston's and took a very different policy towards the Indians. Lamar removed the Cherokees to the west and then sought to deport the Comanches and Kiowas. This led to a series of battles, including the  Council House Fight , in which the Texas militia killed 33 Comanche chiefs at a peace parley. The Comanches retaliated with the  Great Raid of 1840 , and the  Battle of Plum Creek  followed several days later. The Lamar Administration was known for its failed and expensive Indian policy; the cost of the war with the Indians exceeded the annual revenue of the government throughout his four-year term. It was followed by a second Houston administration, which resumed the previous policy of diplomacy. Texas signed treaties with all of the tribes, including the Comanches. In the 1840s and 1850s, the Comanches and their allies shifted most of their raiding activities to Mexico, using Texas as a safe haven from Mexican retaliation. Texas joined the Union in 1846, and the Federal government and Texas took up the struggle between the Plains Indians and the settlers. The conflicts were particularly vicious and bloody on the Texas frontier in 1856 through 1858, as settlers continued to expand their settlements into the  Comancheria . The first Texan incursion into the heart of the Comancheria was in 1858, the so-called  Antelope Hills Expedition  marked by the  Battle of Little Robe Creek . The battles between settlers and Indians continued in 1860, and Texas militia destroyed an Indian camp at the  Battle of Pease River . In the aftermath of the battle, the Texans learned that they had recaptured Cynthia Ann Parker, the little girl captured by the Comanches in 1836. She returned to live with her family, but she missed her children, including her son  Quanah Parker . He was the son of Parker and Comanche Chief  Peta Nocona , and he became a Comanche war chief at the  Second Battle of Adobe Walls . He ultimately surrendered to the overwhelming force of the federal government and moved to a reservation in southwestern Oklahoma in 1875. A number of wars occurred in the wake of the  Oregon Treaty  of 1846 and the creation of  Oregon Territory  and  Washington Territory . Among the causes of conflict were a sudden immigration to the region and a series of gold rushes throughout the  Pacific Northwest . The  Whitman massacre  of 1847 triggered the  Cayuse War , which led to fighting from the  Cascade Range  to the Rocky Mountains. The Cayuse were defeated in 1855, but the conflict had expanded and continued in what became known as the  Yakima War  (1855–1858). Washington Territory Governor  Isaac Stevens  tried to compel Indian tribes to sign treaties ceding land and establishing reservations. The  Yakama  signed one of the treaties negotiated during the  Walla Walla Council  of 1855, establishing the  Yakama Indian Reservation , but Stevens' attempts served mainly to intensify hostilities. Gold discoveries near  Fort Colville  resulted in many miners crossing Yakama lands via  Naches Pass , and conflicts rapidly escalated into violence. It took several years for the Army to defeat the Yakama, during which time war spread to the  Puget Sound region  west of the Cascades. The  Puget Sound War  of 1855–1856 was triggered in part by the Yakima War and in part by the use of intimidation to compel tribes to sign land cession treaties. The  Treaty of Medicine Creek  of 1855 established an unrealistically small reservation on poor land for the  Nisqually  and  Puyallup tribes . Violence broke out in the  White River  valley, along the route to Naches Pass and connecting Nisqually and Yakama lands. The Puget Sound War is often remembered in connection with the  Battle of Seattle (1856)  and the execution of Nisqually  Chief Leschi , a central figure of the war. [ 16 ] In 1858, the fighting spread on the east side of the Cascades. This second phase of the Yakima War is known as the  Coeur d'Alene War . The Yakama,  Palouse ,  Spokane , and  Coeur d'Alene  tribes were defeated at the  Battle of Four Lakes  in late 1858. [ 16 ] In southwest Oregon, tensions and skirmishes escalated between American settlers and the  Rogue River peoples  into the  Rogue River Wars  of 1855–1856. The  California Gold Rush  helped fuel a large increase in the number of people traveling south through the  Rogue River Valley . Gold discoveries continued to trigger violent conflict between prospectors and Indians. Beginning in 1858, the  Fraser Canyon Gold Rush  in British Columbia drew large numbers of miners, many from Washington, Oregon, and California, culminating in the  Fraser Canyon War . This conflict occurred in Canada, but the militias involved were formed mostly of Americans. The discovery of gold in Idaho and Oregon in the 1860s led to similar conflicts which culminated in the  Bear River Massacre  in 1863 and  Snake War  from 1864 to 1868. In the late 1870s, another series of armed conflicts occurred in Oregon and Idaho, spreading east into Wyoming and Montana. The  Nez Perce War  of 1877 is known particularly for  Chief Joseph  and the four-month, 1,200-mile fighting retreat of a band of about 800 Nez Perce, including women and children. The Nez Perce War was caused by a large influx of settlers, the appropriation of Indian lands, and a gold rush—this time in Idaho. The Nez Perce engaged 2,000 American soldiers of different military units, as well as their Indian auxiliaries. They fought "eighteen engagements, including four major battles and at least four fiercely contested skirmishes", according to Alvin Josephy. [ 17 ]  Chief Joseph and the Nez Perce were much admired for their conduct in the war and their fighting ability. [ 18 ] The  Bannock War  broke out the following year for similar reasons. The  Sheepeater Indian War  in 1879 was the last conflict in the area. Conflicts arose in the southwestern United States following the acquisition of  Alta California  and  Santa Fe de Nuevo México  from Mexico at the end of the  Mexican–American War  in 1848, and the  Gadsden Purchase  in 1853. These spanned from 1846 to at least 1895. The first conflicts were in the  New Mexico Territory , and later in California and the  Utah Territory  during and after the  California Gold Rush . [ citation needed ] Indian tribes in the southwest had been engaged in cycles of trading and fighting with one another and with settlers for centuries prior to the United States gaining control of the region. These conflicts with the United States involved every non-pueblo tribe in the region and often were a continuation of Mexican–Spanish conflicts. The  Navajo Wars  and  Apache Wars  are perhaps the best known. The last major campaign of the military against Indians in the Southwest involved 5,000 troops in the field, and resulted in the surrender of  Chiricahua  Apache  Geronimo  and his band of 24 warriors, women, and children in 1886. [ citation needed ] The U.S. Army kept a small garrison west of the Rockies, but the  California Gold Rush  brought a great influx of miners and settlers into the area. The result was that most of the early conflicts with the California Indians involved local parties of miners or settlers. During the  American Civil War , California volunteers replaced Federal troops and won the ongoing  Bald Hills War  and the  Owens Valley Indian War  and engaged in minor actions in northern California. California and Oregon volunteer garrisons in  Nevada , Oregon, Idaho, Utah, New Mexico, and the  Arizona  Territories also engaged in conflicts with the Apache, Cheyenne, Goshute, Navajo, Paiute, Shoshone, Sioux, and Ute Indians from 1862 to 1866. Following the Civil War, California was mostly pacified, but federal troops replaced the volunteers and again took up the struggle against Indians in the remote regions of the  Mojave Desert , and in the northeast against the  Snakes  (1864–1868) and  Modocs  (1872–1873). The tribes of the  Great Basin  were mostly  Shoshone , and they were greatly affected by the  Oregon  and  California Trails  and by  Mormon pioneers  to Utah. The Shoshone had friendly relations with American and British fur traders and trappers, beginning with their encounter with  Lewis and Clark . The traditional way of life of the Indians was disrupted, and they began raiding travelers along the trails and aggression toward Mormon settlers. The California militia stationed in Utah responded to complaints, which resulted in the  Bear River Massacre . [ 19 ]  Following the massacre, various Shoshone tribes signed a series of treaties exchanging promises of peace for small annuities and reservations. One of these was the  Box Elder Treaty  which identified a land claim made by the  Northwestern Shoshone . The Supreme Court declared this claim to be non-binding in a 1945 ruling, [ 20 ] [ 21 ]  but the  Indian Claims Commission  recognized it as binding in 1968. Descendants of the original group were compensated collectively at a rate of less than $0.50 per acre, minus legal fees. [ 22 ] Most of the local groups were decimated by the war and faced continuing loss of hunting and fishing land caused by the steadily growing population. Some moved to the  Fort Hall Indian Reservation  when it was created in 1868. Some of the Shoshone populated the Mormon-sanctioned community of  Washakie, Utah . [ 23 ] Initially relations between participants in the Pike's Peak gold rush and the Native American tribes of the Front Range and the Platte valley were friendly. [ 24 ] [ 25 ]  An attempt was made to resolve conflicts by negotiation of the  Treaty of Fort Wise , which established a reservation in southeastern Colorado, but the settlement was not agreed to by all of the roving warriors, particularly the  Dog Soldiers . During the early 1860s tensions increased and culminated in the  Colorado War  and the  Sand Creek Massacre , where Colorado volunteers fell on a peaceful Cheyenne village killing women and children, [ 26 ]  which set the stage for further conflict. The peaceful relationship between settlers and the Indians of the Colorado and Kansas plains was maintained faithfully by the tribes, but sentiment grew among the Colorado settlers for Indian removal. The savagery of the attacks on civilians during the  Dakota War of 1862  contributed to these sentiments, as did the few minor incidents which occurred in the Platte Valley and in areas east of Denver. Regular army troops had been withdrawn for service in the Civil War and were replaced with the  Colorado Volunteers , rough men who often favored extermination of the Indians. They were commanded by  John Chivington  and  George L. Shoup , who followed the lead of  John Evans , territorial governor of Colorado. They adopted a policy of shooting on sight all Indians encountered, a policy which in short time ignited a general war on the Colorado and Kansas plains, the  Colorado War . [ 27 ] Raids by bands of plains Indians on isolated homesteads to the east of Denver, on the advancing settlements in Kansas, and on stage line stations along the South Platte, such as at  Julesburg , [ 28 ] [ 29 ]  and along the  Smoky Hill Trail , resulted in settlers in both Colorado and Kansas adopting a murderous attitude towards Native Americans, with calls for extermination. [ 30 ]  Likewise, the savagery shown by the Colorado Volunteers during the  Sand Creek massacre  resulted in Native Americans, particularly the Dog Soldiers, a band of the  Cheyenne , engaging in savage retribution. The Dakota War of 1862 (more commonly called the Sioux Uprising of 1862 in older authorities and popular texts) was the first major armed engagement between the U.S. and the  Sioux  (Dakota).  After six weeks of fighting in Minnesota, led mostly by Chief  Taoyateduta  (aka, Little Crow), records conclusively show that more than 500 U.S. soldiers and settlers died in the conflict, though many more may have died in small raids or after being captured. The number of Sioux dead in the uprising is mostly undocumented. After the war, 303 Sioux warriors were convicted of murder and rape by U.S. military tribunals and sentenced to death.  Most of the death sentences were commuted by President Lincoln, but on December 26, 1862, in  Mankato, Minnesota , 38 Dakota Sioux men were  hanged  in what is still today the largest penal mass  execution  in U.S. history. [ 31 ] After the expulsion of the Dakota, some refugees and warriors made their way to  Lakota  lands in what is now  North Dakota . Battles continued between Minnesota regiments and combined Lakota and Dakota forces through 1864, as Colonel  Henry Sibley  pursued the Sioux into Dakota Territory. Sibley's army defeated the Lakota and Dakota in three major battles in 1863: the  Battle of Dead Buffalo Lake  on July 26, 1863, the  Battle of Stony Lake  on July 28, 1863, and the  Battle of Whitestone Hill  on September 3, 1863. The Sioux retreated further, but again faced an American army in 1864; this time, Gen.  Alfred Sully  led a force from near  Fort Pierre, South Dakota , and decisively defeated the Sioux at the  Battle of Killdeer Mountain  on July 28, 1864. On November 29, 1864, the Colorado territory militia responded to a series of Indian attacks on white settlements by attacking a Cheyenne and Arapaho encampment on Sand Creek in southeastern Colorado, under orders to take no prisoners. The militia killed about 200 of the Indians, two-thirds of whom were women and children, [ 32 ]  taking scalps and other grisly trophies of battle. [ 33 ] Following the massacre, the survivors joined the camps of the Cheyenne on the Smokey Hill and Republican Rivers. They smoked the war pipe and passed it from camp to camp among the Sioux, Cheyenne, and Arapaho camped in the area, and they planned an attack on the stage station and fort at  Julesburg  which they carried out in the January 1865  Battle of Julesburg . This attack was followed up by numerous raids along the South Platte both east and west of Julesburg, and by a second raid on Julesburg in early February. The bulk of the Indians then moved north into Nebraska on their way to the Black Hills and the Powder River. [ 34 ] [ 35 ]  In the spring of 1865, raids continued along the Oregon trail in Nebraska. Indians raided the Oregon Trail along the North Platte River and attacked the troops stationed at the bridge across the North Platte at  Casper, Wyoming  in the  Battle of Platte Bridge . [ 36 ] [ 37 ] After the Civil War, all of the Indians were assigned to reservations, and the reservations were under the control of the Interior Department. Control of the Great Plains fell under the Army's  Department of the Missouri , an administrative area of over 1,000,000 mi 2  encompassing all land between the Mississippi River and the Rocky Mountains. Maj. Gen.  Winfield S. Hancock  had led the department in 1866 but had mishandled his campaign, resulting in  Sioux  and  Cheyenne  raids that attacked mail stagecoaches, burned the stations, and killed the employees. They also raped, killed, and kidnapped many settlers on the frontier. [ 38 ] Philip Sheridan  was the military governor of Louisiana and Texas in 1866, but President Johnson removed him from that post, claiming that he was ruling over the area with absolute tyranny and insubordination. Shortly after, Hancock was removed as head of the Department of the Missouri and Sheridan replaced him in August 1867. [ 39 ]  He was ordered to pacify the plains and take control of the Indians there, and he immediately called  General Custer  back to command of the  7th Cavalry ; Hancock had suspended him. [ 40 ] The Department of Missouri was in poor shape upon Sheridan's arrival. Commissioners from the government had signed a peace treaty in October 1867 with the  Comanche ,  Kiowa , Kiowa Apache,  Cheyenne , and  Arapaho  which offered them reservation land to live on along with food and supplies, [ 39 ]  but Congress failed to pass it. The promised supplies from the government were not reaching the Indians and they were beginning to starve, numbering an estimated 6,000. Sheridan had only 2,600 men at the time to control them and to defend against any raids or attacks, and only 1,200 of his men were mounted. [ 41 ]  These men were also under-supplied and stationed at forts that were in poor condition. They were also mostly unproven units that replaced retired veterans from the Civil War. Sheridan attempted to improve the conditions of the military outpost and the Indians on the plains through a peace-oriented strategy. Toward the beginning of his command, members of the Cheyenne and Arapaho followed him on his travels from  Fort Larned  to  Fort Dodge  where he spoke to them. They brought their problems to him and explained how the promised supplies were not being delivered. In response, Sheridan gave them a generous supply of rations. Shortly after, the Saline Valley settlements were attacked, [ by whom? ]  and that was followed by other violent raids and kidnappings in the region. [ by whom? ]  Sheridan wanted to respond in force but was constrained by the government's peace policy and the lack of well-supplied mounted troops. [ 39 ]  He could not deploy official military units, so he commissioned a group of 47 frontiersmen and sharpshooters called  Solomon's Avengers . They investigated the raids near Arickaree Creek and were attacked by Indians on September 17, 1868. The Avengers were under siege for eight days by some 700 Indian warriors, but they were able to keep them at bay until military units arrived to help. The Avengers lost six men and another 15 were wounded. Sherman finally gave Sheridan authority to respond in force to these threats. [ 41 ] Sheridan believed that his soldiers would be unable to chase the horses of the Indians during the summer months, so he used them as a defensive force the remainder of September and October. His forces were better fed and clothed than the Indians and they could launch a campaign in the winter months. His winter campaign of 1868 started with the  19th Kansas Volunteers  from Custer's 7th Cavalry, along with five battalions of infantry under Major John H. Page setting out from Fort Dodge on November 5. A few days later, a force moved from  Fort Bascom  to  Fort Cobb  consisting of units of the  5th Cavalry Regiment  and two companies of infantry, where they met up with units from the  3rd Cavalry  leaving from Fort Lyon. Sheridan directed the opening month of the campaign from  Camp Supply . The Units from the 5th and 3rd Cavalry met at Fort Cobb without any sign of the 19th Kansas, but they had a lead on a band of Indians nearby and Custer led a force after them. [ 42 ] Custer's force attacked the Cheyenne Indians and  Black Kettle  in the  Battle of Washita River , and an estimated 100 Indians were killed and 50 taken prisoner. Custer lost 21 men killed and 13 men wounded, and a unit went missing under Major Elliott's command. Custer shot 675 ponies that were vital for the Indians' survival on the plains. [ 42 ]  Immediately following the battle, Sheridan received backlash from Washington politicians who defended Black Kettle as a peace-loving Indian. This began the controversy as to whether the event was best described as a military victory or as a massacre, a discussion which endures among historians to this day. Following Washita, Sheridan oversaw the refitting of the 19th Kansas and personally led them down the Washita River toward the Wichita Mountains. He met with Custer along the Washita River and they searched for Major Elliott's missing unit. They found the bodies of the missing unit and the bodies of Mrs. Blynn and her child who had been taken by Indians the previous summer near Fort Lyon. [ 42 ]  The defeat at Washita had scared many of the tribes and Sheridan was able to round up the majority of the Kiowa and Comanche people at Fort Cobb in December and get them to reservations. He began negotiations with Chief Little Robe of the Cheyennes and with  Yellow Bear  about living on the reservations. [ 43 ]  Sheridan then began the construction of Camp Sill, later called  Fort Sill , named after General Sill who died at  Stone River . Sheridan was called back to Washington following the election of  President Grant . He was informed of his promotion to lieutenant general of the army and reassigned from the department. Sheridan protested and was allowed to stay in Missouri with the rank of lieutenant general. The last remnants of Indian resistance came from Tall Bull Dog soldiers and elements of the  Sioux  and Northern Cheyenne tribes. The 5th Cavalry from  Fort McPherson  were sent to handle the situation on the Platte River in Nebraska. In May, the two forces collided at Summit Springs and the Indians were pursued out of the region. This brought an end to Sheridan's campaign, as the Indians had successfully been removed from the Platte and Arkansas and the majority of those in Kansas had been settled onto reservations. Sheridan left in 1869 to take command of the Army and was replaced by Major General Schofield. [ 43 ] In 1875, the  Great Sioux War of 1876–77  erupted when the Dakota gold rush penetrated the  Black Hills . The government decided to stop evicting trespassers from the Black Hills and offered to buy the land from the Sioux. When they refused, the government decided instead to take the land and gave the Lakota until January 31, 1876 to return to reservations. The tribes did not return to the reservations by the deadline, and Lt. Colonel  George Custer  found the main encampment of the Lakota and their allies at the  Battle of the Little Bighorn . Custer and his men were separated from their main body of troops, and they were all killed by the far more numerous Indians led by  Crazy Horse  and inspired by  Sitting Bull 's earlier vision of victory. The  Anheuser-Busch  brewing company made prints of a dramatic painting that depicted "Custer's Last Fight" and had them framed and hung in many American saloons as an advertising campaign, helping to create a popular image of this battle. [ 44 ] [ 45 ] The Lakotas conducted a  Ghost Dance  ritual on the reservation at Wounded Knee,  South Dakota  in 1890, and the Army attempted to subdue them. Gunfire erupted on December 29 during this attempt, and soldiers killed up to 300 Indians, mostly old men, women, and children in the  Wounded Knee Massacre . [ 46 ]  Following the massacre, author  L. Frank Baum  wrote: "The  Pioneer  has before declared that our only safety depends upon the total extermination of the Indians. Having wronged them for centuries, we had better, in order to protect our civilization, follow it up by one more wrong and wipe these untamed and untamable creatures from the face of the earth." [ 47 ] Both the  Renegade period  and the  Apache Wars  ended in 1924 and brought the American Indian Wars to a close. The 2010 United States Census found 2,932,248 Americans who identified themselves as being American Indian or Alaskan Native, about 0.9% of the US population. [ 50 ]  The Canada 2011 Census found 1,836,035 Canadians who identified themselves as being First Nations (or Inuit or Métis), about 4.3% of the Canadian population. [ 51 ]  No consensus exists on how many people lived in the Americas before the arrival of Europeans, but extensive research continues to be conducted. [ 52 ] [ 53 ]  Contemporary estimates range from 2.1 million to 18 million people living on the North American continent prior to European colonization [ 54 ]  with the bulk living south of the  Rio Grande , [ verification needed ]  but the US Census Bureau stated in 1894 that North America was an almost empty continent in 1492 and that Indian populations "could not have exceeded much over 500,000." [ 55 ] [ 56 ] The number of Indians dropped to below half a million in the 19th century because of infectious diseases, conflict with Europeans, wars between tribes, assimilation, migration to Canada and Mexico, and declining birth rates. The main cause was infectious diseases carried by European explorers and traders. [ 57 ] [ 58 ] The United States Census Bureau (1894) provided their estimate of deaths due specifically to war during the 102 years between 1789 and 1891, including 8,500 Indians and 5,000 whites killed in "individual affairs": The Indian wars under the government of the United States have been more than 40 in number. They have cost the lives of about 19,000 white men, women and children, including those killed in individual combats, and the lives of about 30,000 Indians. The actual number of killed and wounded Indians must be very much higher than the number given ... Fifty percent additional would be a safe estimate. [ 59 ] According to historian David Rich Lewis, American popular histories, film, and fiction have given enormous emphasis to the Indian wars. [ 60 ]  New ethno-historical approaches became popular in the 1970s which mixed anthropology with historical research in hopes of gaining a deeper understanding of the Indian perspective. During the 1980s, human rights abuses by the US government were increasingly studied by historians exploring the impact of the wars on Indian cultures. Prior to this, popular history was heavily influenced by  Dee Brown 's non-academic treatment of historical events in  Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee  (1970). In more academic history,  Francis Jennings 's  The Invasion of America: Indians, Colonialism, and the Cant of Conquest  (New York: Norton, 1975) was notable for making strong attacks against the Puritans and rejecting the traditional portrayal of the wars between the Indians and colonists. [ 61 ] 