SO my boyfriend doesn &# x27;t like PDA and I do. : AskMenAdvice I (22F) have been dating this guy (23M) for about 9 months now. its was intense from day one. I just fell in love with him head over heels very quickly and so did he, to an extent that we actually discuss marriage and he brings its up so this was to establish that its very serious, BUT. for him PDA is a big NO. He wouldn &# x27;t kiss me, He wouldn &# x27;t even hold my hand in public because he just doesn &# x27;t like it.  He is very loving and all cuddly when we are indoors but oh NEVER in public.  Holding hands, playful kisses are important for me. in public or in front of his/my friends or anywhere, I don &# x27;t care who &# x27;s watching or not. I need some advise on whether I am overreacting or something can be done to remedy this situation. Dude, imagine this was the other way around. Imagine you were saying you were going out with someone who kisses and touches you when you don &# x27;t want them to. Be respectful of his boundaries, just like you &# x27;d expect him to be respectful of yours. It doesn &# x27;t mean he doesn &# x27;t love you. Okay, fair enough. Thanks a lot :) I &# x27;ve been with my girlfriend for 8 years (I &# x27;m 30) and PDA has never been apart of our relationship and it honestly is better that way. Love is about accepting him for who he is. He doesn &# x27;t like PDA (I honestly feel like most guys don &# x27;t) so you should just accept that and move along with your relatioship without it. Thanks :) We are your way but it &# x27;s reversed. I &# x27;ll hug my wife or put an arm around her in public. She doesn &# x27;t pull away but didn &# x27;t show any affection publicly unless it &# x27;s just holding hands. Would I love it if she did, absolutely I would. Does it mean she doesn &# x27;t love me, absolutely not. People are different and you have to accept that. If it &# x27;s that big if an issue for you then you need to all yourself if you should find someone who is ok with it. Just realize that no one is going to tick all the boxes for you. If you &# x27;re together long enough, eventually you will need to compromise on something that is important to you. That &# x27;s a really good answer. Thanks for sharing :) He does care who &# x27;s watching. Respect his limits. I don &# x27;t do PDA with my wife. She knows I love her, there &# x27;s no reason to be all cuddly kissy in front of other people. Some people just prefer showcasing their affection privately. It doesn &# x27;t matter who &# x27;s watching, and that &# x27;s likely not even a factor in his logic. My wife isn &# x27;t into PDA at all, either. She &# x27;s also a teacher and is constantly worried that students might be around when we &# x27;re in public, but I &# x27;ve just come to accept that that &# x27;s how she is. Get over it and move on. There will be more important things for you two to get upset about. Haha, Thanks :) His body, his choice. Looking for some perspective. My elementary aged daughter used to be very sweet and inclusive to my girlfriend. This thanksgiving I didn &# x27;t go to my ex-wifes house like I have in the past and instead I went to my girlfriends. had my own special thanksgiving with my child the next day. My ex-wife was not pleased that I didn &# x27;t do thanksgiving with them. My girlfriend thinks it is strange my ex invites me to do things with our daughter alone and thinks that if it is my weekend with my daughter, I should be spending one on one time with my child or that my girlfriend should be invited if my ex-wife wants to go out and do something for the holiday season. My girlfriend is willing to attend any events even if my ex wife is there but my ex wife gets very upset about this. Lately my daughter has completely turned around and now says she doesn &# x27;t want me to have a girlfriend and has become defiant to a point that my girlfriend thought it was best to move out of our home for some time. I don &# x27;t want my girlfriend unhappy or feeling excluded and I don’t want my ex wife upset and most importantly I just want to see my daughter happy. Hey guys. I was looking to get some opinions on something. I (27F) was dating this guy (28M) for nine months. I know it doesn’t sound like a long time but it was one of those relationships where we both knew pretty early on that this was going to be it for us. We both got close with each others families and friends. It even got to the point over the summer where we were talking about marriage and were making plans to move in together. It was just such a pure love we had for one another. In the beginning of September my boyfriend suddenly passed away. It was a complete shock to everyone and we’re still waiting on results to find out what happened. It was easily the hardest thing I’ve had to deal with and I’m still going through the grieving process. Here’s where I need some opinions. I’ve been trying to think of a way to keep his memory alive. One of his last texts to me was “I love you to the moon and back” so I’ve been thinking about getting a very small tattoo of a moon somewhere on me. Now I know that eventually I will start dating again and get into new relationships but I’m wondering how a guy would feel knowing his girlfriend has a tattoo that had to do with a previous relationship. Thanks for any advice/opinions guys! I &# x27;ve been dating this guy since Aug but nothing serious.  We see each other 1x a week, we don &# x27;t talk daily or anything but I do like hanging out with him  &  he likes hanging out with me. This past week he has had 2 deaths in his family, his uncle  &  his really good family friend.  So I &# x27;ve bought a sympathy card, wrote a sweet note letting him know I &# x27;m here for him  &  a single white rose. I was going to bring it to his work but now I &# x27;m nervous about just stopping by.  So then I thought I could just leave it on his front porch. I suck at this stuff,  not good with emotions.  Men of Reddit, how should I give this stuff to him? I &# x27;m extremely confused. He has broken up twice before because he feels broken and like a burden, and the many break ups has taken it &# x27;s toll on me. But at the same time I feel bad for moving on now and not being there for him. I still love him and I &# x27;m afraid if I let go I lose him. But I &# x27;m also afraid to be hurt even more by holding on. Staying friends seems soooooo hard. Especially if one of us starts to date again. And I have a feeling he soon will - he is the kinda person that would try and distract himself from the pain like that and he gets lonely easily. I don &# x27;t think he &# x27;d find a replacement for me, but even if it doesn &# x27;t mean anything, I would have a hard time being there for him and not wonder if he saw someone else ... What &# x27;s the right and kind thing to do? Btw, there &# x27;s no doubt that he has a depression. He is on medication (just a fyi to those thinking it &# x27;s a scam to break up easily) Sending love and energy to all going through a tough time. I started talking to this woman on a dating website this morning. I got her number, we talked for little bit, and set up a date. Should I keep texting her or stop texting her? Im not talking about getting upset if things dont work out with a girl i went out on a few dates with. and i dont do it everytime, but when i do , i feel horrible about it for a while after and i know im fucking up alot but im talking about, women ive dated for 3+ months. >< p> For example, >< p> Dated a girl who was all over the place in terms of how invested she was in our relationshp of 4 months.  And would do coke on saturday nights and honeslty didnt handle it well. like she &# x27;d either get super depressed or be completely unreasonable towards me.  She did it one too many times and followed it up with  proactively reaching out to me to be cold / passive aggressive.  I more or less just had enough and ended things by rage texting her what a bad person she is and listed out all the times she just acted like shit towards me. and completely burnt this bridge I dated a woman for 3 months.  It was a full blown situationship where she wanted to hang out like 3 times a week, but didnt want to be exclusive. and would get desperately clingy when i had previously tried to end things.  Honestly, after i ended things maturely. for the final time. she kept texting me the same bullshit about not wanting us to end, but was pretty passive aggressive in saying why she swould wait to be in a relationship by calling me superficial, etc and i need to change first..  so i more or less tore into her and called her names back >< p> anyone else ever go thru a phase where you had issues ending things maturely? relate? advice on getting over feeling bad about burning these bridges lol? I need some advice and help here… Since September I have been in a secret relationship with this Latina girl from work. The reason why it &# x27;s in a secret relationship is we don’t want anyone from work to know what is happening, and mainly because she is married on paper. In April she found out her husband cheated on her. In August she left him and moved in a shared house - a really crappy house that she should not be in. When she told me this in late august we started hanging out more. She is in her mid-thirties, I’m in my mid-twenties. Everyone likes her as soon as you meet her in person. she is honest, she’s got the best smile in the world. she is fun to be with and she has great charisma. The way how her husband treated her makes me sick. But I was happy to be with her, to let her have fun again, to have drinks and go for dinner - it was great. We will message constantly, talk in the evenings on the phone, and I will stay at hers every weekend. about two/ three months in she started to act differently at me. She wasn’t the same as she used to be. I found it difficult to talk to her. It felt like she was having second thoughts about everything. I tried to keep up the 100% of myself for us two but she wasn’t showing it back to me. When I look through the texts I just wonder to myself what went wrong? She would snap at me if I repeated something or if I didn’t listen to her properly. Sometimes I struggle to fully understand what she means because English isn’t her first language. The last phone call we had was Monday was terrible. She called me because her WhatsApp wasn’t working. She was sending messages to her friend to meet in town. When she was in town she didn’t know where to meet her. So she called me, explained the situation to me and I gave her some advice on what she can do to solve the WhatsApp messaging problem. I don’t know why but I do this to keep the convo going sometimes but when I don’t know what to say I go back to the start in the convo (if that makes sense)… I said so where are you going for food (she told me from the start she doesn’t know where she is going for food just to meet in town first then decide) she started saying to me “WOW!…REALLY…OMG,” I apologised on the phone and sent another text apologising and wishing her a good night out. we haven’t messaged since. We also went out the next day with friends and she just blanked me. kept her distance from me, wouldn’t look me in the eye and just behaving so weird to me… it really did hurt that she was like this to me. Now at work she just won’t talk to me as much. I want to text her or call her but I feel like this is some sort of game she is playing and perhaps I should wait for her to message me. She is going to Mexico next week for the Xmas hols with her fam. I sort of want to say something to her before she leaves but then again not sure if its the right thing to do. For example, tonight I offered her a lift back home from work because we roughly finish the same time together. she would always say yes to this, but this time it was a no. she said I’m gonna work a little longer tonight - this to me was an excuse for her to get out of the free lift. Now I’m in two minds. Should I behave like she is behaving to me or should I apologise to her for this? Everyone knows me from work as  " the nice guy "  and a few close friends have told me she is using me because I’m nice. she is using me because she is not thinking straight after her bad break up with her husband. I don’t think this is true. I do feel like I did went over the line of being nice by helping her a lot, perhaps to nice that might have freaked her out. I mean at the start when we were seeing together she kept saying to me if I ever worked and lived somewhere in Latin America, the girls there will be after me because how nice I am… I am not sure about that. But this is what is annoying me when she started telling me how rough her life is, how lonely she is, how to depress she is, I was there to help her, to support her, to listen to her and to give her some advice if I can. Now it just upsets me how she avoids looking at me. like if she has thrown dirt at me. I want to fix this but don’t know if this is the right thing to do. Wednesday is her last day of work before she leaves. she has had a really stressful weeks because of work, not sure if she can travel and leave the country (UK) because she didn &# x27;t have her travel card (she has got it now), and the fact she has to go home to tell her fam about what has happened to her this year as they don’t know yet. I really just want a hug from her before she leaves. And I have got her xmas presents that will help her a lot for next year. I want to give it to her but just don’t know will she take it from me. I want her to have it. And now I am thinking to put a long written letter in one of the Xmas presents to maybe apologies for everything - such as if I have annoyed her, offended her, upset her. or how I never listened to her properly. how I never think before I say something. or just instead remind her (and being truthful about this) how the last three months with her has been brilliant - stories going out together, the trips, the dates, etc. just leave it... I’m trying to give her time and space to think. and I don’t want to be pushy or needy, but I feel upset that she just ignores me now. so much stuff has been said and now I feel like she is in full regrets about what she has said to me. I really don’t want to lose her as a friend. I have done so much for her and now I feel like shit. If I wait for her to talk properly to me it’ll be a long time… I reckon when she does call me it is because she has realised how much I have done for her and she would want to talk about it all but I don’t know if I can wait that long… what will you do? what advice can you give me? Longtime  &# x27;friends &# x27; with a strong, beautiful, independent, successful woman. I qualify it that way because we &# x27;ve never been a couple, but we &# x27;ve had a decades long connection. We had an intense affair long ago, and then went years without communication when I told her I wanted to focus on my family. We &# x27;re now both free from any other romantic relationships, are each doing our own thing, having our own busy lives, and get together from time to time to enjoy each other &# x27;s company. Sex is a lot less common than I &# x27;d like, but I &# x27;m also old enough to be ok with it. In general, I &# x27;m ok with it like it is. This isn &# x27;t the usual  &# x27;I don &# x27;t know what to call it &# x27; sort of posts. My confusion comes from this: she NEVER initiates contact. Getting her engagement is sometimes like pulling teeth. Questions go unanswered. I feel like if I stop contacting her, that we &# x27;d probably never speak again. However, once we negotiate the date, we have a great time. It seems like it anyway. I &# x27;m not ghosted, just kept at extreme arms length. I don &# x27;t get it. Is this just me expecting more than she &# x27;s willing to give? Is this experience common? So my colleague (we will call her Stacey) mentioned to me that she was bullied non-stop on her appearance, especially from men. Since this happened, she has been afraid to go out and seek a relationship, let alone a date. Over the past few years, she has noticed that men would flirt with her and make passes at her. She would not register that until after it happened because it was something she was not used to. HOWEVER, she also mentioned getting unwanted attention from creepy men twice her age (appearance wise — think Harvey Weinstein). She feels self conscious about this because she thinks that her attracting the creepy men is a reflection of her (I told her it was not and I personally think she is a pretty girl (and I am not sure how she was back in school), but I am also a woman, so...). TL; DR — friend was bullied mercilessly in school for appearance; started to get more positive attention after high school when bullying stopped. A good amount of this attention are from creepy old men, however. Would this increased male attention (whether it’s from creepy or attractive men) be a good indication of her “glowing up” in a sense? Hi guys, how are u doing I am new at this and i am a little bit paranoid I figured you could help me . I just want to ask u i had an adventure with a lady who i don t know her status we just kissed briefly, then she gave me to kisses without using saliva on on my testicule and one on my shaft. She had no visible sores me neither am i at risk of having any stds or stis? Thanks in advanced. My dad worked so hard over his life to provide for me (23F), my two little brothers, and my mom, and is finally retiring this week! I am so appreciative of him and have a card but wanted to pick up something for him. My only idea was  a celebratory cigar because I saw him enjoying a cigar bar at a wedding we went to the other weekend. He is such a fun guy and know he would love anything, but would appreciate any and all suggestions ! Lemme start by saying i don ' t know wether i should post this here or on  r/AskWomenAdvice so everytime things start to get serious i get very attached, and if she doesn ' t reply for a while i get nervous and get hit with a feeling of loneliness and sadness, and when she does answer all that instantly goes away... I know she ' s interested cz we flirt a lot, we talk on the phone a lot, we video chat sometimes (haven ' t met her in person yet), but today she didnt reply on my text i sent last night until 20 mins ago, now previous me would bombard her with stupid messages, im working on it now, haven ' t sent anything until she replied, so thats a start, but im pretty sure my problem is mental, i prioritize her too much for 2 ppl who met like 3 weeks ago, waiting on her replies, she ' s generally good at replying pretty fast. any advice on how to control that ? and not feel like yhe world is gonna end if she doesn ' t text back instantly ? any tips are appreciated! 7.8k Members 30 Online Oct 11, 2014 Cake Day 