Celebrating the Advantages of Women in Business   McBride for Business Come celebrate with us the Advantages of Women in Business, as we hear from professionals dedicated to the success of women and their take on the influence of women in business. Mark your calendar now for this exciting day! We have assembled a group of thought leaders to present on most pressing topics related to women in business! Build new relationships and have amazing take-aways. Posted In:  R. Shawn McBride R. Shawn McBride, Attorney, CPA, Speaker, and author, speaks about the woman’s advantages in business partnerships. We are all different. Are genders are different and handle things differently. Sometimes, a difference can highlight an advantage. For some – an advantage is not crucial, but for business owners, an advantage can be the difference between going out of business or thriving. Today, women business owners represent a fast-growing segment of the US economy. The woman’s advantage in business partnerships is something that can be capitalized on. Learn about the 3 C’s and the woman’s advantage in business. Susan Hamilton According to the 2016 WBENC Report released by American Express OPEN: Susan Hamilton, OffBeat Business Media CEO, walks us through why these figures matter, and how we can improve our circumstance when we explore our powerful networking skills and uniquely feminine communication. Tina O Banion Tina O’Banion has a unique story to tell.  Tina success in life is due to the support from her family, hard work, making mistakes and perseverance.  It took Tina twelve years to graduate with a Bachelors Degree in Accounting from the University of Texas at Dallas at the age of 30.  Tina then was accepted to Southern Methodist University where she obtained her Executive MBA while taking care of two daughters.  Tina enjoys to give back to the community and has had a great career of 25 years in the accounting profession.  As many of us have hit a brick wall at some point in their career, Tina recently found true happiness in her career. Cheryl Moody Sometimes taking a step back can be a leap forward …. And sometimes not Cheryl started her independent IT consulting services firm 5 years ago.  She is now offering Interim and Fractional CIO services for small to medium size businesses.  Her journey included many tough career choices which she will share with you and discuss the good, the bad and the ugly of each decision. Claire Billingsley Join Claire Billingsley, author, speaker, and host of WBTVN, TV’s highest-rated show, “Coffee with Claire” as she incorporates foundational skills of improvisational comedy into a fast paced session that focuses on easy tips to remember in developing strong business communication. Lin O Neill Lin O’Neill is an accomplished Speaker and Consultant with expertise in the development and implementation of strategic plans for businesses of all sizes and revenue levels. A former Vice President and Corporate Officer for Continental Airlines and a former HR Director for TRW. Lin founded Futures Consulting, Entrepreneurs Dallas, and Entrepreneurs Fort Worth. Lin published her first book in The Simple Series,  Managing High-Maintenance Employees . Her second and third books ( Leaders in Drag, all the news about fake leadership  and Status Quo is Not a Happy Place )  are scheduled for publication. Posted In:  The Bill J. Priest Center                            1402 Corinth Street, Suite 202 Dallas, TX 75215   *Free parking is available in the parking garage located in the rear of the building at The Bill J. Priest Center. Suite 202 can be reached by going up the stairs to the second floor, turn right through the wooden double doors and then take the ramp down and it is the first left. Posted In:  Schedule: Networking/Welcome Landing and Getting to Where She Wanted  Tina O Banon Making hard choices on career path  Cheryl Moody  How Powerful Women Make Connections  Susan Hamilton Building Business Empires as Women  Erin Smith The Advantages of Women in Business Partnerships  R. Shawn McBride TEDx Replay and Live discussion Group Discussion of The Advantages of Women in Business  Lead by R. Shawn McBride and Lin O Neill How to Have Conversations to Succeed in Business  Claire Billingsley Posted In:  You may attend for Free, but you must sign-up in advance. You may tell your friends about this event. However, they must sign-up and get their own tickets:  https://www.eventbrite.com/e/celebrating-the-advantages-of-women-in-business-tickets-32604823906 Can t make this event?  Want more events like this?  See our upcoming speaker events here: http://www.mcbrideforbusiness.com/events/MonthlySpeaker. Questions about https://www.eventbrite.com/e/celebrating-the-advantages-of-women-in-business-tickets-32604823906 https://www.eventbrite.com/e/celebrating-the-advantages-of-women-in-business-tickets-32604823906 Posted In:  By signing up you will be added to our mailing list.  You can unsubscribe at any time. Posted In:  Dallas Office  1111 S. Arkard St., #100  Dallas, Texas 75215  (214) 418-0258 