33 Best 60th Birthday Gift Ideas: The Ultimate List (2019) | Heavy.com If you have a parent, grandparent, or friend who is about to turn 60, we want to help you find a thoughtful gift for their milestone birthday. Read on to get inspired. These 60th birthday gift ideas are worthy of celebrating and honoring a life well lived. Our Review The lucky recipient of this gift can use fruit from the farmer s market, grocery store, or fruit grown on their own property to make one-of-a-kind wine. The process takes about an hour of active work, plus fermentation time. The kit includes enough supplies to make 15 one-gallon batches of harvest fruit wine. Inside each box, you ll find a recipe book, two gallon plastic fermentor with lid, one gallon jug, tubing, airlock, screw cap and straining bag, sanitizer and campden tablets, pectic enzyme, acid blend, grape tannin, yeast nutrient, stabilizer, all-purpose dry yeast, racking cane and tubing, and a hydrometer. A  corker ,  corks , and  empty bottles  would be a nice addition to this kit, since they are the only materials not included in the box. Practically everyone likes coffee, which makes a new coffee maker a safe gift. But not everyone wants a fiddly machine with extra features and complicated controls. If you re looking for a simple, no-nonsense coffee machine, this one-touch model from Mr. Coffee is a stellar option. It makes 10 cups   enough for a crowd, or for a couple to have multiple cups over the course of the morning. A  pause and pour  feature lets the caffeine-deprived pour their first cup without having to wait for the entire pot to filter. We also love the fact that it has a self-regulating cleaning cycle that shows you when to clean this pot, keeping things tasty and fresh. While it doesn t have the prestigious brand name of some, this writer has used this coffee maker for three years now, and every morning it s brewed when I wake up, thanks to the delay brew function. The stainless thermal carafe keeps coffee warm for hours without ever getting bitter. Bonus. Looking for more 60th birthday gift ideas like this? You may also want to check out our guides to the best  space-saving coffee makers  and the  best pour over coffee makers . Taking wine on a camping trip or summertime picnic is a right of passage for adults of a certain age, and this cute stainless steel double wall insulated wine tumbler is one of our favorite 60th birthday gift ideas for women who love to keep their whites or reds at the perfect temp. Naturally, your giftee will appreciate the inscription which reads  not a day over fabulous.  Truth, right? If she s not likely to take her glass of wine out in public, you can always get her  these stemless wine glasses  for indoor or patio use. They feature the same awesome sentiment. We also think she ll get a good laugh over  these  bring me some wine  funny socks. After a lifetime of costume jewelry, one of our favorite 60th birthday gift ideas for the lady on your list has to be a genuine gemstone cocktail ring, and this one s a beaut! It features a three stone setting with gorgeous natural topaz gemstones. With a whopping 7.19 carats emerald cut sky blue topaz center stone, flanked on each side by .83 carats of princess cut London blue topaz, the shoulders of this ring add three round white topaz stones on each side for extra sparkle. Another ring features a single emerald cut London blue topaz center stone , and shimmers with trilliant cut white topaz side stones, all set in 14k yellow gold. It s even more affordable. But, if you re shopping on a budget for a natural gemstone ring, consider a sterling silver setting which means more of your investment will go towards larger stones versus the price of a gold setting. This elegant sterling silver cocktail ring  features a 5.3 carat Swiss blue topaz, with tiny accents of 14k yellow gold, but this London Blue Topaz Halo Ring from Peora  comes in at less than $50. One of the benefits of getting older is that people tend to have more discerning palates, and they re more willing to experiment with flavors. This fun olive oil and vinegar infusion kit is one of those fun 60th birthday gifts that encourages creativity in the kitchen. It includes all the tools, instructions, and more than 40 recipes to create deliciously flavored olive oils and vinegars. Because these two ingredients are key elements of the Mediterranean Diet, which is lauded for health and longevity, you might want to get them  a cookbook  that encourages them to prepare meals that will taste great and keep them healthier in the long run. Because 60 is the new 50, a gift that enhances opportunities to entertain is a great idea for celebrating such a momentous birthday. This lovely bamboo cheese board comes complete with a pull-out drawer with four cheese knives. The board features a top that s large enough for an assortment of cheeses, fruit or charcuterie, and a grooved edge that s perfect for displaying crackers and more. Add  a set of slate cheese markers  for quick identification, and if you really want to amp it up, grab them  a wine gift pack  as well. This beautifully presented tea gift set makes a great gift for your tea loving wife.  This Global Tea Championship award winner comes in a pretty gift box that contains black, green, and chai loose leaf teas. Both elegant and tasty, it s no wonder it has hit the favorites list of Oprah Winfrey and others. If you d like to consider other tea assortments in both bagged and loose leaf varieties, check out  our guide to the best tea gift sets and baskets. For gardening enthusiasts who are suffering from arthritis, an indoor garden can be a wonderful way to keep up with gardening, without having to bend over to pick weeds. This indoor gardening kit claims to help plants grow up to five times faster than in traditional soil. An interactive touch screen control panel reminds the user when to add more water or plant food. The lights are automatic, so this is a really great option for those with a green thumb who have limited mobility or limited space at home. The included herb pods will grow edible plants like basil, Thai basil, thyme, chives, dill, mint, and two types of parsley. If this unit is too large for their space, or too pricey for your budget, there are lots of different sizes of AeroGardens.  Browse for more of them here. Nobody should have to vacuum floors, because we have robots for that now. This is especially true for seniors, who deserve to take it easy after a lifetime of hard work. This robotic vacuum cleaner is a great gift for any 60 year old who is tired of hauling a heavy vacuum cleaner around the house every week. This model automatically detects floor type (tile, carpet, etc) and adjusts to offer the best possible clean. The company s special cleaning system agitates, brushes and suctions floors to make them as clean as possible. If money is no object, we also heartily recommend the more expensive  iRobot Roomba 980 , which is the top-of-the-line model from the company, and offers great premium features like extended run time on a single charge, stronger suction, smartphone app compatibility, and tangle-free debris extractors. Turning 60 might mean that your giftee has more time on their hands and needs a hobby to keep those hands busy. This is an inexpensive gift for anyone who loves to whittle, or would love to learn. This pocket knife has two stainless steel blades: a two-inch pen blade, and a 1.75-inch clip blade. A unique redwood handle gives this knife added coolness. To make this gift more thoughtful, consider including a  book of easy whittling projects , or  a pair of cut-resistant gloves  for safety. Saunas have a lot of physical and mental health benefits. And once you reach a certain age, you deserve a part of your home that s all about relaxation. This sauna is designed for two people, and is designed to assemble quickly. This sauna features a stereo sound system with built-in speakers including radio, CD player and AUX mp3 connection. It is backed by a seven-year warranty, which is great for their peace of mind. Expert assembly is available for this product for an extra $200 or so, depending on your area. If a sauna isn t ideal for their space, perhaps the convenience of an inflatable hot tub would be a nice substitute. We like  this well-reviewed model,  which has a built-in Salu-massage system. If you want even more great gift ideas, make sure to check out our guide to the best  gifts for seniors , as well as our guide to the  Best Birthday Gifts for Her , to get even more inspiration. By the time someone turns 60, a few ideals reign as the most important   love, friendship and loyalty among them. This sterling silver Claddagh ring is a great 60 birthday gift to cement those very feelings for someone you care about. The Claddagh has been around for centuries, and this sterling silver band is a great reminder to your birthday guy that he ll absolutely love. If you re shopping on a budget, this  Tungsten Carbide Etched Claddagh ring  is a cool one. And if you re shopping for a woman, you ll find  oodles of gorgeous Claddagh rings here. Need a gift for a 60th birthday party? This cute vertical garden is ideal for those who plan to do more gardening in their golden years. It s an artful way to display small plants and succulents, and it maximizes visual impact in the most limited space. If they don t currently have many indoor plants, give them some  easy care succulents  to go with this clever planter. As a budget-friendly 60th birthday gift idea, the planter and plants come in at less than $30 for both. Want to get them something special for the kitchen, this blender from Vitamix has serious brand cachet. If turning 60 means your favorite person is going to start eating right, this powerful blender can help them make delicious, healthy smoothies and soups. With the Vitamix Perfect Blend App, they can unlock the power of this indispensable kitchen tool, with 17 programs and more than 500 recipes. Still want to get them a Vitamix, but have a limited budget? The  certified refurbished model  looks like new, is guaranteed to operate perfectly, and costs a whole lot less. If your family pooled their resources to buy a new electric car as a 60th birthday gift for someone you love, you should also make sure that you ve purchased and installed an electric charging station at their home. This respected home charging station is Energy Star certified, and can be installed outdoors or inside. In the coldest months of the year, everyone could use a little extra warmth. But, as we age, everyone gets a little uptick in their sensitivity to cold. While an electric blanket or electric heating pad might come off as an  old person gift , this heated wrap is a chic way to keep warm that s more upscale than an old-fashioned electric blanket. Great to toss in their favorite chair or drape over the back of the couch, this wrap will keep them cozy and it s even machine washable. If you re looking for a larger or different style of heated throw,  check out the choices here. This beautiful sterling silver 60th birthday necklace features six interlocking rings, one for each decade of life. Similar to the Olympic rings, (and let s face it, making it to 60 is a little like an endurance sport) the rings hang from a dainty but strong chain, attached with two silver rope loops. The box itself features a sweet happy birthday message to commemorate the momentous day. If you re looking for a handmade jewelry piece,  this 60th birthday necklace  also features six interlocking rings in a completely different design, and features her birthstone as a centerpiece. Keep in mind, you ll want to plan ahead for this one, as it takes a few days to custom create. If you re looking for the kind of birthday present that gives the man or woman on your list a pastime that s fun, challenging and contemplative, this fly fishing setup is the perfect option. Fly fishing requires patience, technique and just a bit of luck, but most 60 year olds aren t in a hurry and they ve long since given up that instant gratification thing. Made by one of America s premier outfitters, this Orvis fly rod and reel are the perfect fly fishing combo. The 5-weight rod is state of the art, giving them crisp and reliable performance with a light touch that makes it easy to cast (and catch!) It comes with a matching arbor fly reel, floating line, and a carrying bag to keep their gear pristine. If they re not new to fly fishing, consider  this higher end fly setup from Orvis. Future birthday gifts get easier as you can always get them added fly fishing gear, from  vests  to  fishing kayaks . Give them the gift of clean air. This is a thoughtful gift for any person who suffers from allergies, lives with pets, or is a bit of a germaphobe. At 22 inches tall, this small unit can easily be tucked next to furniture, on a shelf, or placed on a nightstand or desk. This system is rated for medium-sized rooms. It offers a charcoal filter to kill the unpleasant smells associated with pets, cigarette smoke, or fishy cooking odors. A combination of UV-C light technology and titanium dioxide are used to kill airborne bacteria, viruses, germs, and mold spores. Want to see more models like this? Browse our guide to the  best air purifiers  to see additional models at both higher and lower price points. This custom sign features the latitude and longitude coordinates of your choice. While it is actually marketed as a wedding gift, we think it also makes a cool custom 60th birthday gift for this milestone birthday. For the coordinates, enter the 60 year old s place of birth, and for the  Est.  date, give their birth year. The artist will make a custom sign to your exact specifications, giving your gift an incredibly personal touch. This attractive speaker is a great option for those who want a single, omnidirectional speaker now, but want the flexibility to expand their connected speaker ecosystem in the future. This speaker can be connected to  Bang  &  Olufsen s Beoplay A9 wireless speakers  to create a more impressive sound. One of the best selling points of this AirPlay speaker is the Beoplay companion app. The app lets you customize a  sound profile  to ensure your music is playing at the perfect settings to maximize sound quality for whatever activity you re doing while the music plays. On the other hand, seriously great sound doesn t have to be seriously spendy. The Sonos Original Play:1  gets ridiculously great reviews for its righteous sound quality and it comes in at less than $150, or just $298 for a  two room set. We love thinking that your birthday man or woman is about to have more time to lounge around and read a great book outside. There s nothing like the mental break of diving into a great novel or just watching the world go by. This cedar log lounge chair is a really awesome way to encourage that. Handmade from insect and weather resistant white cedar, it s guilt free because the wood is actually a by product of the log home building industry. This chair has a comfy curved seat and wide arms, and it would look perfect at your birthday person s rustric retreat or on a large covered front porch. If you think it s a bit too rustic for their design style, consider some  classic Adirondack chairs , either in natural wood or  weather resistant simulated wood  that will last a lifetime without a ton of care. Do you have a friend or family member who is feeling a little down about turning 60? Perhaps it s because they re not sure whether there are still fun days ahead, or maybe they ve never developed any hobbies to keep their mind and hands active when they have more free time at this age. This cool book features 60 thoughtful essays reflecting on life at 60, and all the wonderful things there are left yet to do. Judith Viorst s Suddenly Sixty And Other Shocks Of Later Life delivers a perfectly humorous look at the subject of aging, and for those with tons of free time, and those without, their 60 birthday is a great time to read The Mindful Life Journal: Seven Minutes a Day for a Better, More Meaningful Life. Turning 60 means your birthday guy finally has more time to focus on some personal pursuits, like golf. If he s been playing with a rag tag set of clubs for years, and refusing to buy a nice set of gear because he just  doesn t golf that much,  now s the time to switch it up with this well-priced and highly rated 12 piece set from Callaway. It includes irons, wedges, woods, a putter and an awesome stand-up bag, because he s still a little young to need a golf cart or caddy, and the walk will be great for his body and soul. These clubs come in right-handed sets, or can be ordered  for lefties  as well. Are you shopping for a soon-to-be-60 woman golfer instead? Callaway makes a popular  women s Strada club set  as well. People of a certain age (60 in this instance) like to enjoy their occasional glass of high end liquor. What they don t enjoy is losing the flavor experience to watery, melting ice. Whether they look forward to the occasional single malt scotch, a true Kentucky bourbon, or any other drink best served on the rocks, whiskey stones can be the answer to pure boozy indulgence. This set features two classic rocks glasses, and eight natural granite whiskey stones, which can be easily refrigerated inside their included pouch. They ll stay cold until your giftee s glass is empty. Stainless steel whiskey stones are another popular choice, and  this set includes two glasses as well as tongs . Another great way to sip whiskey or scotch on the rocks is the  Corkcicle Whiskey Wedge  that creates a large slow melting cube on one side of a classic rocks glass for drinking at just the perfect temperature. The older one gets, the more focused they are on meaningful conversations. Nothing elicits those kinds of talks like a cozy fire. Since you re looking for the right 60th birthday gift ideas, this patio fire pit is a way to ensure lots of deep and insightful conversations with the person on your list, and they ll enjoy this present more than you might imagine. Perfect for any patio area, this fire pit is surrounded with natural stone and features black legs and a black fire bowl with copper accents. And there s no need to worry about sparks because it includes a log grate, fire tool, and a protective fire screen. If your special person has a large outdoor patio area and you re shopping with a bigger budget, the Crawford Outdoor Square Propane Fire Pit with Lava Rocks  alleviates the need for wood and features a beautiful stone finish. For someone with a particularly small space, the Fire Sense 22-Inch Folding Fire Pit  is easy to stow away in a garden shed or garage when it s not in use. Make it a special 60th birthday with a thoughtful gift that s smart, convenient and fun. The Amazon Echo Spot is the perfect way to let your giftee ditch their alarm clock, morning TV and simply enjoy the early (or late hours) with this clever device that can deliver their favorite news programs, play music, answer questions, get the weather forecast and so much more. Enabled with Alexa, their own personal assistant, this smart speaker and video screen can control their other smart home devices from cameras to their robot vacuum, all with a simple ask. They can use it for hands-free calling or to Skype with friends, pair it with their other Bluetooth devices and even get a silly joke when they need it. Another superb 60th birthday gift idea is the  Fire HD 10 , Amazon s super-affordable tablet that delivers the functionality of a much more expensive iPad, at less than a quarter of the price. There s a point at which the older woman on your gift list would really appreciate the kind of gift that makes her look as young and sassy as she feels. If you re shopping for someone like that, a trendy red leather moto jacket ought to do the trick. Made from 100 percent genuine lambskin leather, this cutie has style and flare, plus its comfortable to wear and comes in a ton of sizes from X-Small to XXX-Large. It features a front zip, slash pockets and a collar she can stand up to keep out the wind. Princess seaming keeps it looking flattering, versus bulky. There s no getting around the fact that as we get older, we get a few more aches and pains all the time. This shiatsu neck and back massager makes a great gift for anyone who suffers from muscle tension, arthritis or even the aches from that casual pick up game of basketball. Designed to be placed on a comfortable chair, this little dandy does a yeoman s job of working out their kinks with a combination of massaging shiatsu nodules, vibration, and heat. With a 15 minute auto-shutoff feature, they ll never need to worry about overheating the unit, and the easy handheld remote control lets them choose from three different massage areas   the neck, upper and lower back, or even the buttocks. If you re looking for a more affordable shiatsu massager, consider  one that s just for the neck  or  specifically for the feet . You can almost hear their sighs of relief already. The older people get, the more it seems they obsess about the weather. Perhaps it s because they have more time to do things and want to know the forecast ahead. Or maybe, like me, they re just total weather nerds who love to see if they can beat their local forecaster as to who most accurately predicts the weather. Whatever the reason, a weather station is always a super popular present, and this one from La Crosse Technology has some features that make it a step up from the others. We love the colorful lighted display that shows the time, day and date, as well as interior and exterior temperatures, and humidity, but also shows the wind speeds and what that makes the temperature feel like, thanks to the anemometer that can be mounted on their house or a fence post. The other thing that we love about this digital weather station is the atomic clock, which automatically resets when the time changes, so they ll never have to mess with that feature as it is always accurate. For the ultra weather nerdy crowd, the Ambient Weather WS-2902A Smart WiFi Weather Station  features remote monitoring and weather alerts.(It s the one I have.) With it, they can become an official weather reporting station. If they really just care about the indoor and outdoor temperature and humidity, you can get them  this weather station for less than $20 . If you ve got someone who at 60 just loves to entertain, this tabletop raclette grill is the coolest. With dual sides, each featuring reversible grilling plates, they can impress a ton of guests while grilling appetizers or even smaller main dishes, tableside. Each of the dual sides of this raclette feature four side pans to hold melty cheese, hot dips or other food goodness of their choice. This gift makes for tasty and savory fresh grilled foods, but even think about using it for dessert as well. Instead of dips staying warm in the little side pans, how about switch it up and use them for melted chocolate, while your giftee grills fresh fruit on top? Yum. At 60, a new signature scent can be the perfect birthday gift, especially if that scent is this delicious perfume from Jimmy Choo. With fruity, spicy and floral notes, this popular perfume comes in a gorgeously sculpted bottle that she ll love having on her dresser. Another popular fragrance that might be a possibility is Vince Camuto Bella Eau de Parfum Spray . It s described as a light and juicy floral scent with notes of amber, citrus and nectarine blossom. For a more woodsy fragrance,  Elizabeth Arden White Tea Eau De Toilette Spray  is an affordable option reminiscent of a sea breeze. We promise, none of these fragrances will be confused with  old lady perfume. Is your birthday guy a silver fox on his face, if not on his head? This popular beard grooming kit from Rapid Beard makes a great birthday gift for him. It includes everything he ll need to keep his facial fur in peak condition, with conditioning beard oil and leave in beard balm as well as a natural boar bristle brush, sandalwood comb and sharp as a razor barber shears to trim his whiskers to perfection. If he loves unscented products, this kit is the perfect option. For an all natural kit that includes a trimming template for beard perfection every time, the  Cain Cavalli beard care kit  also features moisturizing products enriched with shea butter and jojoba oils to eliminate beard dandruff and underlying skin irritation. Turning 60 is a big deal. It's a great moment to take stock of all we've accomplished, and look back on all the people we've've loved along the way. But despite the perks of getting older, many people facing 60 are stressed out about hitting this milestone birthday. That's why a great birthday party (and any of these awesome gifts) is a must for celebrating not just their 60th, but all the fabulous years they still have ahead. See Also: Disclaimer: Heavy Inc. is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program and other affiliate advertising programs and may receive a commission if you purchase a product via a link on this page.  Stay Connected 