Archtoolbox Bluebeam Tools and Templates - archtoolbox.com Bluebeam Revu  has become the premier PDF editor for the AEC industry. Unfortunately, most of the Bluebeam Tool Sets that come with the program were designed with contractors in mind. We are changing that. This package includes a series of tool sets, line styles, hatch patterns, and templates that can be added to an installed version of Bluebeam Revu.  These are add-ons and require a working copy of Bluebeam Revu. These tools are used by design professionals all around the world, including at some major firms like Leo A. Daly, Parsons, Gray Construction, and HDR. The tools in this set were  developed by architects  to meet our needs while redlining documents and reviewing construction submittals. Now you can have them without having to develop them yourself. When you purchase using the link to the right, you will be able to instantly download the tools and you'll be using them in minutes! We developed these tools over the course of a few years while using Bluebeam Revu during the design phases and in the field during Construction Administration. We have spent  many, many  hours perfecting these tools so that  you don't have to waste your time . You will use these every day. This set includes 15 common tools and symbols to make redlining drawings or marking up specifications a breeze. More than 40 symbols in both red and black so you can redline drawings or create sketches quickly. Includes scaled figures, ceiling symbols, and various outlets (auto scale feature only works in Bluebeam 2015 or later). Line styles for wall ratings, property lines, center-lines, and more. These are perfect for marking up wall ratings on your floor plans. Hatch patterns for concrete, wood, steel, and more. The International Symbol for Access (ISA) as well as the active version of the Symbol for Access are included and can be scaled to any size. Approved, Approved as Noted, Revise and Resubmit, and Rejected stamps, which include general language pointing to the definitions in the specification front end. These can be customized easily. Letter Portrait, Letter Landscape, Tabloid Portrait, and Tabloid Landscape titleblocks so you can create official sketches quickly. Two profiles are included, each of which moves all of these tools to the top of their respective lists. One profile is for Bluebeam Revu versions before 2018 and second profile is for Bluebeam Revu 2018. Please note that this video is from an earlier version of our tools so it doesn't have all the symbols that are available in this new version, but you will get a sense of how easy the tools are to use. archtoolbox Subscribe Archtoolbox Bluebeam Tools Overview Info Shopping Tap to unmute If playback doesn ' t begin shortly, try restarting your device. Your browser does not currently recognize any of the video formats available.  Click here to visit our frequently asked questions about HTML5 video. More videos on YouTube More videos Share Include playlist An error occurred while retrieving sharing information. Please try again later. Watch later Share Copy link An error occurred. Try watching this video on www.youtube.com , or enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser. We are confident you will save many hours testing and refining your own custom tools even if you only use a couple of ours. However, we will send you a refund if you have trouble installing them or can't get them to work for you. Just  send us an email  or reply to your order confirmation email within 30 days and we'll promptly refund your money. Am I downloading a PDF editor?  No. You are downloading a set of add-ons that can be installed only with a full working copy of Bluebeam Revu. You can purchase a copy of the Bluebeam Revu PDF editor from  bluebeam.com . What are the System Requirements?  You need a working copy of Bluebeam Revu, which can be installed on a Windows PC or an iPad. You can purchase a copy of the Bluebeam Revu PDF editor from  bluebeam.com . Do the tools work on the Mac version of Bluebeam?  Unfortunately, only part of the tools work on the Macintosh version of Bluebeam due to limitations of the Bluebeam software. The markup, symbols, templates, and stamps work on a Mac. However, the linetypes, hatches, and scaleable tools don't work since Bluebeam for Mac doesn't allow custom linetypes or hatches and doesn't have the scaleable tools feature. When will I receive the Bluebeam Tools Add-Ons?  As soon as you're payment is approved you will get a download link and we'll also send you a download link via email. You get instant access! What version of Bluebeam Revu do these tools work with?  We have tested the tools on Bluebeam Revu for the iPad, Bluebeam Revu 2018, Bluebeam Revu 2017, Bluebeam Revu 2016, Bluebeam Revu 2015, and Bluebeam Review 12. However, to make use of the auto-scaling features you will need Bluebeam Revu 2015 or later. Our tools add-ons work on the Standard Edition, CAD Edition, and the Extreme Edition. What if I can't get the tools to work?  No problem. We'll try to help you get them working via email support. However, if you can't make it work then let us know within 30 days and we'll issue a prompt and full refund. Do these tools work with Adobe Acrobat?  No. These tools are only for versions of Bluebeam Revu. ** The license allows you to install the tools on the number of devices selected during checkout. The devices can be any combination of tablets, phones, and desktop computers. This website uses cookies. Display and/or use of the information contained within this site constitutes acceptance of the  Terms of Service and Privacy Policy . It is important that all local codes and standards are adhered to. Please consult a professional architect, engineer, consultant, or agency for advice about specific projects, buildings, conditions, codes, and/or regulations. Archtoolbox makes a small commission when you purchase items from companies with whom we have an affiliate relationship (Amazon, GBES) after having followed our affiliate links. These commissions allow us to continue providing free information to our readers. Copyright   Archtoolbox.com 