JFK to ADD 2019: New York to Addis Ababa Flights | Flights.com Flight deals found on Expedia within the last 12 hours There was that one time when you tried to use grocery store coupons at your local diner and were asked to leave, or when you attempted to get free admission for your teenage kids at a theme park by dressing them like babies, just to be publicly shamed by a man in a mouse suit. We applaud your bargain-hunting ways, but there ' s no need for any tricks with us. We always offer you our Best Price Guarantee, which means you can get back to figuring out how to score extra bags of pretzels on your flight. With Flights.com, you don ' t have to pay booking fees on single-carrier flights! Whew, glad we got that out in the open. We know you ' re working hard to save toward your kid ' s college fund, or budgeting for those collector ' s edition gold thimbles you ' ve been wanting so badly, so don ' t worry about paying for booking fees. Reserve the flight that ' s right for you, and we promise you won ' t get slammed by any concealed costs. Climb the mountain of pop-up ads to get to your hotel reservation, scale the stone firewall to book your flight, and swim through a stream of search engines to find the mythical car rental. Ditch the complex and be the hero of your own story by booking everything in one place, right here on  Flights.com . Flights, hotels, cars … we’ve got it all. And yep, they’re really cheap, especially when you bundle them together. Consider us to be the hip younger brother of Expedia, the online travel agency that has a great reputation for being, well … great. Sure we want to keep up with all the big kids, but we already have the approval of our favorite sibling, so we know that we ' re doing some good things. You can trust that we ' ll get you the amazing services and rewards Expedia is known for, as well as put up a scrappy fight in your honor for the best deals around. Younger siblings are good at that. Best airfare and ticket deals for  JFK  to  ADD  flights are based on recent deals found by Expedia.com customers. Distance and aircraft type by airline for flights from John F. Kennedy International Airport to Addis Ababa Bole International Airport. (Source: FAA  &  BTS 2009 Databases) Scan through flights from John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK) to Addis Ababa Bole International Airport (ADD) for the upcoming week. Sort the list by any column, and click on a dollar sign to see the latest prices available for each flight. Flights.com only offers pricing for airlines that display a  check fare  on the days of the week each flight is available. A dot ( ) indicates a flight is scheduled, but online booking is not currently available. Whether it’s for an obligation or the sake of your sanity, sometimes you need to get away. Maybe you need flights from New York to Addis Ababa to attend your cousin’s wedding, to pitch a business idea to your boss, or perhaps simply to treat yourself to a mini vacation. Regardless of the reasons behind packing your bags and needing to find the cheapest flights from JFK to ADD, we’ve got you covered here at Flights.com. We present you with some of the hottest deals on airfare so stop that Google flights search. We want you to spend less on your flight from New York to Addis Ababa, so you can spend more during your getaway. With Flights.com, you’ll find it simple to land airline tickets with itineraries matching your travel schedule. What’s more, we provide you with all the information you need to confidently make reservations on your family, business, or personal trip. Lowest round trip prices customers recently found on Expedia Current prices may differ due to duration or market changes Check out popular flights departing from New York (JFK), and lock down the best airfare for your upcoming travel plans. Flights.com has researched and catalogued flights departing from New York across many airlines, so quit waiting and book your trip with us! Check out the best flights leaving from Addis Ababa airport and secure the lowest fares for your upcoming travel plans. Flights.com makes it easy to find flights departing from Addis Ababa (ADD) across many airlines, so stop waiting and book your trip with us! Check out popular airlines servicing New York (JFK), and lock down the best fare for your upcoming travel plans. Flights.com makes it simple to find flights departing from John F. Kennedy International Airport across many airlines, so quit waiting and book your trip with us! Connect to your favorite places with custom deals from Flights.com Save time and money by packing a carry-on for your next trip – whether it’s a few days or weeks, we’ve got you covered. Is flying through a storm really safe? We answer your questions about flying in bad weather and whether you should be concerned. {{description}} Flights Now transferring you to our partner site, Expedia.com, for your flight pricing and availability. 