Matt Sakac - Manager, PTVA - Wyndham Destinations | LinkedIn Conceptual and analytical thought leader in Corporate Real Estate, Property Tax and Valuation services.  Process flow minded professional with a Florida State Certified Real Estate Appraiser's license and Manager of a highly proficient property tax team overseeing a portfolio in excess of $5.7B in real estate. Liked by  Matt Sakac Shared by  Matt Sakac Liked by  Matt Sakac Jun 2018   –  Present 1 year 7 months Orlando, Florida Area 12 years 11 months Oct 2011   –  Present 8 years 3 months Orlando, Florida Area Feb 2007   –   Oct 2011 4 years 9 months Orlando, Florida Area Perform all functions of the property tax appeal process, manage and train associates, create and maintain client relationships, identify and implement process improvements,  budget property tax expenses and perform accounting procedures. Perform all functions of the property tax appeal process, manage and train associates, create and maintain client relationships, identify and implement process improvements,  budget property tax expenses and perform accounting procedures. Apr 2000   –   Dec 2007 7 years 9 months Train and manage new and existing residential field appraisers, perform appraisal reviews, manage the operations of the corporation and appraise residential real estate. Train and manage new and existing residential field appraisers, perform appraisal reviews, manage the operations of the corporation and appraise residential real estate. 1992   –   1996 Activities and Societies: Finance Association, Blue Key National Honor Fraternity, ROTC Blue Key National Honor Fraternity Selected as one of fifteen students inducted out of 160 applicants.  Elected Chapter President for fall of 1996.  Revamped board member tracking procedures through computer integration. Finance Association Offices held:  President, President-Elect, VP of Public Relations, and Director of Special Events. Blue Key National Honor Fraternity Selected as one of fifteen students inducted out of 160 applicants.  Elected Chapter President for fall of 1996.  Revamped board member tracking procedures through computer integration. Finance Association Offices held:  President, President-Elect, VP of Public Relations, and Director of Special Events. 1988   –   1992 Join to view Matt’s full profile 