Sleeping pad for side sleeper : Ultralight Hey guys, I &# x27;m looking for a sleeping pad that will be comfortable for a side sleeper, while also being as light as possible. I &# x27;m a 3 season camper, so cold weather insulation isn &# x27;t top priority. I &# x27;m eyeing the klymit static v lightweight, and the thermorest Z lite SOL mainly. Does anyone have any definite opinions for one or the other? Or perhaps another option that I haven &# x27;t found? Edit: thanks for all the helpful replies! I really appreciate the help! I &# x27;m a side sleeper and I use a Neo Air Xlite and I &# x27;ve been very happy with it. It &# x27;s not the lightest, but at 12 oz it &# x27;s still good. It packs up very small too. I don &# x27;t inflate it fully so that my hip can sink down a little and it &# x27;s great. Can second the NeoAir XLite, 12oz is super light and packs up about the size of a nalgene. Not a very wide pad the way they have it measured but I found that if I keep it inflated at the right level it &# x27;s very comfortable laying on my side. i think neo Air Xlite so good, but how long version of this product. I &# x27;m a side sleeper too and use the NeoAir All Season, very comfortable. Good news - the trick to sleeping comfortably on your side with a sleeping pad is to dig out a shallow basin for your hips - then you can use any lightweight pad.  (Former long distance backpacking field instructor) side sleeper here: I started with just the zlite sol. It worked but my hips were in pain by the morning every time. I upgraded to a exped synmat ul 7. The exped is a fucking dream. I love it. I sleep 100x better. I find myself using both the zlite and the exped on shorter trips to protect the exped from punctures. it &# x27;s nice to read that. I recently bought an exped ul 7 and i am a side sleeper. awesome. I &# x27;ll second this- I &# x27;m a side sleeper and have this pad. It is the bomb. I spent all weekend on it and feel great. Not to mention I was camping in very cold (10 degrees F) and it is warm. I had gotten one for my daughter too, and she was using it for the first time. This morning when we were breaking camp she slid off the pad onto the tent floor and just froze and looked at me and said  " oh my god!!! I had no idea it was so cold!! "   We slept like babies on these pads. I &# x27;m a side sleeper as well. I use  this  for car camping and  this  for backpacking. I have found that it &# x27;s not so much which pad I use, but if my pillow/s is/are stacked high enough. If I don &# x27;t have enough pillow support, it doesn &# x27;t matter how comfortable the pad is. Which pillow do you use for backpacking? The Klymit Ozone is great for me as a side sleeper, and packs pretty tiny. I &# x27;d definitely recommend it. And I love the pillow. I sleep in all orientations and it &# x27;s surprisingly good in all. I think I may just go with this one.. I am a side sleeper and use the Big Agnes Air Core Insulated. It is decently light, packs up reasonably small, and is perfectly fine for side-sleeping. They also sell a non-insulated version, but the insulation helps in chilly weather. The reviews for the first edition of them are bad, but they fixed the problems later on. Now the ones that places sell work perfectly fine. I love this pad too! I use the  Therm-A-Rest Z-Lite SOL  + something cushy between my knees. Can also help to put a small pillow between your knees. My dad does this and swears by it. Neo air xlite absolutely changed my side sleeping misery. Maybe it adds a tiny bit of weight, but waking up happy is way better than shaving a oz or two. I was in doubt wether or not to make a post about this but I think it might come in handy for future reference. I started my channel for this sub and am not very comfortable with it being out there in the world so decided to hide the video &# x27;s on my channel and only make them visible if you have the link, to only serve its original audience. Here are the links to the playlists: Ultralight cooking Gear reviews Hiking video &# x27;s Gear lists West Highland Way preparation Tips and tricks Taste tests Hello everyone, I have some news to share that I am very excited about.  Several years ago I hiked the entire Swedish part of E1 (European long distance path 1), and documented this on my blog.  While it was a great experience, the trail system had some problems, such as neglected or even non-existent trails and connections, and also hiking on a fair amount of asphalt roads.  Then around 2015 I began to plan and research an alternate Swedish E1 trail system, and in 2016 started to hike various connection routes between existing trails to see my idea was not just possible but a better hike/route.  Happy with my connection trips, I set out to document my alternate E1 trail on my blog, which is still a work in progress, but you can check out here:  http://cesarandthewoods.blogspot.com/2017/10/cesars-guide-to-troll-trailtrollleden.html Please note that my blog has no ads and is not monetized, nor am I sponsored.  This is just my little labor of love.  Over the years while I was section hiking the Swedish E1, and also while I &# x27;ve been hiking and documenting my alternate E1, I have emailed various tourist organizations, outdoor clubs, people in charge (or supposed to be in charge) of trail maintenance/development, etc.  I got little or no response.  However a few weeks ago I decided to give it another shot, this time emailing higher up on the food chain to larger organizations in charge of nature, tourism, etc., to help me with this project.  This time I actually got a substantive reply, getting me in touch with the people in charge of trails in one of the areas this route goes through here in south-west Sweden (Västra Götaland).  After a few emails, we &# x27;ve booked a meeting next month to discuss this project and trails here in general! So what I would like to show during this meeting is that there is a significant interest in an alternate E1 trail.  Sure, I &# x27;ve talked to lots of backpackers in person, like say out on the trail, and have had lots of positive feedback.  But I &# x27;d like to try and have something more concrete to point to.  So if you could be so kind as to answer a few questions for me and give me feedback here, that would be great! Please let me know where you are from, if you &# x27;ve hiked in Sweden before, and if you would be interested in hiking my alternate trail system.  I am especially interested in anyone that has hiked the E1 here in Sweden before, of course!  And for those of you that don &# x27;t have any immediate plans to come hike in Sweden, now that you know about my project, would you consider coming here and hiking my route now that you know it exists?  I think it &# x27;s an awesome route, and has a lot to offer from woods to mountains, to good spots to resupply, to a lot of lovely off-the-beaten-path sections--but hey, I &# x27;m biased! Thanks for showing support and giving feedback!  This is how you can help me to establish this new hiking trail that I &# x27;ve been working hard on for the past 5 years on.  I would really appreciate it and hope that I can show that there are other avid hikers out there that are interested in this project!  Peace! EDIT: Wow, thanks for all the support everyone!  I really appreciate it!  A few things I could have been a clearer about in my OP if you want to help out, aside from posting your interest/feedback here, are as follows: Go out and hike The Troll Trail/alternate E1 trail!  Spread the word about it with other hikers!  The more people hike it and raise awareness of it, the more momentum it will have to be established.  Thanks again! Spoiler: we give them 0 Nylofume bags out of 5 Nylofume bags October 10, 2017 to December 12, 2019 has been a wild ride. For the better part of the year Team ULJ has taken what was once just dumb memes to share with your friends to being able to work side by side with people who inspire us in the Outdoors and also do good by raising money and giving back to the trails we all use and love, which, we will continue to do. This new avenue is something that I have been wanting to bring to life for a long time and we are finally able to share it. I hope you enjoy the new laughs. www.ultralightjerk.com Topical share: Zpacks Hires the Blind, Quality Remains Unchanged Hey everyone! My name is Gary Benninger and I would like to introduce you to Gryphon Gear, an outdoor company located near Detroit, Michigan. Gryphon Gear designs and manufactures premium ultralight quilts and sleeping bags in the USA. The foundation for Gryphon Gear was laid years ago when I was a research scientist at NASA. It so happened that I was also a backpacker and mountaineer too. After seeing the gear that I made for myself everyone in my mountaineering club wanted me to make gear for them, and so I did. I even started a small company called Arete Mountaineering. I have revived that company from those early days and renamed it Gryphon Gear. At Gryphon Gear we bring together what we feel to be the best materials, designs, and technology and combine these things with years of four season trail and mountain experience to bring you the best products we know how to make. Currently Gryphon Gear offer three different types of products. Traditional mummy style sleeping bags (Gemini), hoodless side zip sleeping bags (Taurus), and ultralight backpacking quilts (Aries.) You may ask what makes Gryphon Gear different from all the other guys in the quilt and sleeping bag market? Everyone uses similar light-weight materials, 800-950 fill power down, pad-strap systems, and light-weight hardware. At the end of the day it is what you create when you put those materials together that matters. Our designs and use of technology as demonstrated by our VRB DCF lined sleeping bags makes us different. Another key difference is that we know that more down means more loft and more loft means more warmth. We over-stuff our quilts and bags by 80%. This ensures a couple of different things.  1 - Our products exceed our stated temperature ratings and 2 - Cold spots as a result of shifting down are much less likely in a Gryphon Gear quilt or sleeping bag than it is with other makers. So as we prepare for the 2020 thru-hiking season, we would like to extend an offer to our reddit ultralight community: until January 31st 2020, receive 10% off your order at  www.gryphongear.com  using code: “ MOREWARMTH ” If anyone has any questions I’d be happy to answer them in the comments. This post was approved by the moderators. Website:  www.gryphongear.com Instagram: @ gryphongear Facebook:  https://www.facebook.com/gryphongear/ >< p> -Gary Benninger, Gryphon Gear Hey guys, >< p> Yesterday I saw the post  about using solar power or a powerbank in Kyrgyzstan  and some people said I should write up a trip report about my trekking vacation so here it is! Do note English is not my native language, so I might have made some grammar mistakes here and there. Also, it &# x27;s not really of an  r/Ultralight  specific post, but my goal is to encourage you all to try out some unknown countries. There &# x27;s so much to explore! Note: this post is only about southern Kyrgyzstan and not about northern Kyrgyzstan. Northern Kyrgyzstan is a tad more hiker friendly and it has a bit more of a developed tourism (and hiking) scene. If you would like to try out northern Kyrgyzstan, fly to Bishkek and head over to  Karakol . Karakol is hiker-oriented, and you can get all the necessary gear (including gas canisters) at a place like  EcoTrek . There &# x27;s plenty of trails to choose from! Now for southern  Kyrgyzstan. Southern Kyrgyzstan ( Osh region ) gives you the opportunity to hike in the mighty Pamir mountain range (with views on summits over 23,000ft, like  Peak Lenin . We chose to hike in the Alay mountain range, specifically the  Heights of Alay trek.   Due to circumstances below we were forced to do a different hike instead, the  Truly Nomadic Land trek . Both treks were designed by  CBT Osh (Visit Alay) . They have gas canisters for sale too for $5-10. We used the Wikiloc app as our route finding app. Itinerary July 15th: Flying from Amsterdam to Moscow, and from Moscow to Osh. July 16th: arrival in Osh at 6AM. Went to the CBT Osh office to sleep for a few hours, pick up a map of the Heights of Alay trek and some gas canisters. They were very helpful and provided us with enough information. 12PM we took a van with some volunteers from the US to  Sary Mogul , a 4hour drive. Costs $15 for each person. Unfortunately, once arriving at the trailhead, there was an unplanned military operation ongoing due to some insurgents being spotted around the border with Tajikistan. There was still some uncertainty whether we could continue doing our planned Heights of Alay trek so we camped one night around the trailhead at 10,000 feet (great way to acclimatize)! This night it was incredibly windy and we were thankful we had chosen to take the Hilleberg Anjan tent with us. July 17th: after almost a full day of waiting and doing some small hikes in the area we received word that we could not start with the Heights of Alay trek. We had to decide there and now to do a completely different trek that we did not have information about, the Truly Nomadic land trek. We arranged a driver with help from CBT Osh and he drove us all the way through rough 4x4 dirtroads to what usually is the end point of this trek which was originally designed as a horse riding trek. Thankfully I was able to download the Wikiloc route on my phone whilst I still had some internet reception. We arrived at the trailhead at 7PM. July 18th, day 1: Elevation gained: 3000ft / distance travelled: 5 miles. We started early but the terrain was incredibly steep and rough with alot of the trail being a bit overgrown. We also had to make a detour due to an agressive shepherd dog. It was an indredibly beautiful section tho. Made camp next to a small glacier just before the first major (and highest) pass at 10,500 feet. July 19th, day 2: Elevation gained 3000ft /  lost 2600ft / distance travelled: 4 miles. Woke up after a night of bad sleep. Started hiking up this steep section of loose rock. After 2 hours we found out we went over the wrong pass (the right one was just 200 meters to the side but impossible to reach) at 13,100 feet. Had to go back to the right pass and crossed it. First sight was absolutely incredible! We had to stop early at 3PM due to my friend not feeling well. Wasn &# x27;t bad tho, the camp site was stunning and the amount of biodiversity and natural beauty we saw in this valley was something I &# x27;ve never seen before. July 20th, day 3: Elevation gained 2000ft / lost 2700ft /  distance travelled: 8 miles. Good section with multiple sketchy small river crossings. Passed a yurt camp with a small family (first people we saw). The most annoying of this day (and the next two days) were those damn marmots making paths all along a mountain ridge line. This made navigating and staying on the correct path difficult at times. I &# x27;m sure we hiked atleast an extra 2000ft up and down due to this. July 21st, day 4: Elevation gained 2000ft / lost 3200ft  / distance travelled: 10 miles. Amazing section with alot of elevation gains and losses. You could really feel the temperature go up the lower you went. Passed a yurt camp and stopped there for a while because my friend had a nosebleed that went on for some time. Even ate some traditional bread and fermented milk balls (which is incredibly sour). Made camp a few hundred feet below the next pass. July 22nd, day 5: Elevation gained 3000ft / lost 2950ft / distance travelled: 10 miles: A good day, no nosebleed, no more headaches due to the altitude. Reached the lowest point of the hike at 7000ft. Except what we didn &# x27;t know is that at this point was quite a wide, fast flowing river that you could not cross. Luckily there was a small yurt camp next to it and the boy offered us a horseride over it!  We climbed a bit more to be ready to cross the next pass. Crossed a field with literally thousands of butterflies. It was amazing to see. Oh yeah, at the top of the pass we encountered a shepherd with his son. They gave us some black treats which looked like bunny poop. We ate it. Would not recommend. Threw up big time with the shepherd and his son laughing his ass off. Due to the language barrier he couldn &# x27;t warn me about swallowing it. Or he did it on purpose ofcourse. July 23rd, day 6: Elevation gained 2950 ft / lost 3100ft  distance travelled: 10.5 miles: Crossed the last few passes this day. There was quite a territorial bull there which was acting aggressive to us. We made as much noise as possible (using our whistles) and thankfully it moved away after some time. This day was quite strenous as there were 2 mountain passes to pass. July 24th, day 7: Elevation gain 0ft / lost 4000ft / distance travelled: 15 miles: Had the last night on the trail. We got woken up at 2AM in the night due to a herd of cattle (horses and cows) passing our camping ground. Literally more than 200! Most of them stayed clear from us but a few curious ones we had to shoo away. It was all downhill from here. It was odd, because between 4000 and 7000 feet the landscape changed dramatically. Instead of lush greenery it now was more like Crete, Greece during the dry season. At the end of the trailhead we still did not have any cellphone reach (never had any since july 17th) so we were forced to walk upon this desolate asphalt road up north. After 1,5 hours of hiking and just running out of our water we got a ride back to Osh where we went straight to  Hotel Shanghai City  in Osh. July 25 and 26: we strolled around Osh the entire day, going to the local bazaar, eating so much food. It was hot as Osh is one of the lowest points of Kyrgyzstan at 2000ft with temperatures around 35-40 degrees C. July 27th: plane back home from Osh to Moscow to Amsterdam. >< p> Tips Base pack weight: My BPW was around 24lbs excluding gas canisters and food. We started our hike both carrying roughly 44lbs! I &# x27;ve hiked multiple days before but never an 8 day hike with this much elevation gains and losses. This hike is what made me interested in  r/Ultralight . Get a russian translation book, it really helps out. Greet people with  &# x27;Salam Aleikum &# x27; (Peace be with you in Arab) and respond with  &# x27;Aleikum Salam &# x27;. After reading my trip report you might think that Kyrgyzstan can be dangerous, but actually it is not. The people are incredibly friendly and I &# x27;ve never felt unsafe. They were always willing to help you out. Costs: plane ticket $400, food (almost everything bought before flying): $100 for two, money spent in Kyrgyzstan: $300. Only hike with a tent that can withstand moderate to rough winds. Our Hilleberg Anjan held up great. Use a sawyer squeeze filter and bring some Chlorine tablets to be sure. There &# x27;s alot of (wild) cattle roaming free which pollutes some water streams. Water is a non issue (atleast on this trek). Only place where there isn &# x27;t any water is on mountain passes for a max of 2-3 hours. Practice the LNT principle the best you can. Kyrgyzstan is just so stunning nature wise. Can &# x27;t stop talking about it. It &# x27;s the purest of pure where nature actually reigns for hundreds of miles in every direction. Kyrgyzstan is one of the most vulnerable countries in Central Asia (and in the whole world) to suffer the  effects of climate change . Offset your carbon footprint from your vacation at a reputable carbon offset program (for Dutchies,  Trees for All  is a really good program). We had no way to recharge our powerbank for 9 days. There was no cellphone reach. We carried a 30,000MAh powerbank for the two of us which was plenty for just taking snapshots, music and GPS. We had around 40% battery left. During summer months temperature varies wildly due to elevation. Coldest temp was -2 degrees C at 11,500ft in the night. I hiked with Type B/C- mountaineering boots due to the rough terrain, but trailrunners with very good grip will be good enough too. Having non GTX trailrunners and perhaps some waterproof socks for river crossings will help for fast travel. Bring enough stuff. Sometimes help can literally be 2 days away. Make sure you &# x27;re prepared for that. If you still have any questions about this trip feel free to ask! Actually considering going to Kyrgyzstan? you can alway PM me and I can help you out a bit. Pictures can be seen here. Mac &# x27;s surveys are awesome. This is  u/halfwayanywhere &# x27;s seventh year publishing the PCT version. Individual deep-dive articles on gear, resupply, demographics, etc, are scheduled for the coming weeks. https://www.halfwayanywhere.com/trails/pacific-crest-trail/pct-thru-hiker-survey-2019/ Disclaimer: I &# x27;m not affiliated with HalfwayAnywhere in any way, just a fan sharing what I think is a great information resource for the community. I recently picked up a Duplex during the Zpacks holiday sale. My wife and I got around to setting it up today to make sure we had enough room since we &# x27;re coming from a spacious Tiger Wall UL3. While I was sitting inside the tent, I noticed what appear to be two giant (8-10 inch) patches of DCF tape; one at the foot and one at the head. I know that DCF tape is considered a permanent repair, but this is supposed to be a brand new tent (i.e. not from bargain bin). With that said, is this normal or should I be contacting Zpacks for an exchange? Here are a few pics:  https://imgur.com/a/LULaUcQ Whether you were cash-strapped, thinking about the environmental impact of new gear, unable to find something in your size, or simply couldn &# x27;t decide, what &# x27;s the best gear you didn &# x27;t buy in 2019 and why? Here are my top 3: TL;DR: Sometimes the best gear is the gear you already have. Sometimes it’s a shiny new custom pack. 1. Tarptent Aeon Li Currently out of stock Why I wanted it : Tarptent’s unmatched quality and customer service meets ultralight fabric in the form of a fully enclosed bomber one-pound shelter. Why I didn’t buy it : The silnylon Tarptent Notch I bought used in 2014 is still going strong, nearing two hundred (!) nights, with no more than a single refresh of seam sealant in 2016. Plus, my longest trip of the year was a mere 2 weeks this summer (toddler parent here). Better to invest in a new tent when I have something more epic planned and who knows what will come out between now and then? What I did instead : Packed just the notch fly for a November  Big Bend OML trip  as it’s also only a pound (and in the end I cowboy camped the whole trip anyway). Sucked up the extra weight for a few hundred PCT miles in peak bug season and reveled in the multitude of memories well-worn gear can trigger. 2. Kuiu Peloton 97 Women &# x27;s search results Why I wanted it:  This appears to be THE lightest option for shoulder season/winter hiking. I’m always freezing in the winter and with an upcoming January Eagle Rock Loop hike, I wanted a light fleece to hike in or to layer under my puffy at camp. Why I didn’t buy it : Not available in women’s/small sizes. The current offerings begin at a men’s medium which is about three sizes too big for my small frame and bound to have extra space in all the wrong places. And when your brand’s meager women’s fleece offerings (see ‘gifts for her’) don’t have basic tech specs listed (ie. weight) like the men’s do, I’m not super inclined to buy from your company. Finally, shedding micro fibers: as someone with a career studying plastic pollution, I try to avoid synthetic clothing in general and fleece in particular. What I did instead : sucked up a few extra ounces and will bring the full zip Arc’teryx fleece in my closest (and maybe not wash it?). Drooled over fancy merino hoodies as alternatives, but deiced this was an excessive purchase for a 2 day trip. 3. A frameless pack a la Pa’lante V2 Why I wanted it : my base weight is often down to 9 pounds or less these days and I was ready to have an alternative to my trusty but now usually under-filled ULA circuit. Why I didn’t buy it : Despite having tiny pack envy, I’ve (mostly) come to terms with just not being built to carry all the weight on my shoulders. Even 15lbs feels terrible to me and my trips this year all involved 6 day food and/or 4L water carries. Why suffer to look hardcore? If that’s not enough, a random shoulder injury sealed the deal. What I did instead : Buy nothing fail! Used the ULA for a week and then bought a  custom Atom+  (no regrets, review coming eventually). 📷 Trip Report Video:  https://youtu.be/FB_OURffzsk Many believe that the Roan Highlands are the most scenic stretch of the entire Appalachian Trail - this collection of 5000+ foot balds is certainly tough to beat! Incredible views and not-too-difficult hiking make this a must-visit for any backpacker in the southeast. On this trip back in the summer I had rain, thunder, sun, fog and everything in between; the weather in Roan is always a toss-up. Location: Pisgah / Cherokee National Forests, North Carolina  &  Tennessee Mileage: ~23 miles Gear List:  https://lighterpack.com/r/5os5w2 Short Highlight Reel for anyone who wants to see the scenery without the trip details:  https://youtu.be/bqx3U6qXQJk Lightweight gear that worked well on this trip: X-Mid 1P - My first time using this tent, most trips I am in a hammock, and I really enjoyed it. Quick to set up and not fickle but make sure to put any velcro (like the vent poles) outside the fly when packing up so it doesn ' t snag the bugnet. Customer service through Massdrop was good, the cord on the stuff sack tore the sack lip after only the second trip and they shipped a whole new tent in replacement. Polycro - Also first time using polycro, Dan Durston advises the X-Mid doesn ' t need a groundcloth in most situations but it makes me feel more comfortable to protect the bottom. Found it easiest to lay the polycro sheet down haphazardly first, set tent up over it, then adjust sheet to the bottom of the tent inner. Sea 2 Summit Aeros Ultralight Pillow - At 1.8 oz this is the kind of luxury that is worth it! More comfortable than a rain jacket to help get that all-important recovery sleep. Not difficult to blow up. Nemo Switchback - CCF pads have always been my preference, this pad got the job done (although this trip certainly wasn ' t a cold test for it). I spend most of my nights as a side sleeper. Enjoy! Layne What kind of shelter do you use in the winter months? I usually switch to hammocking in the winter (not very UL though) because all freestanding tents I’ve tried are too short to be comfortable. My foot box always ends up hitting the condensation/frost on the tent wall and soaking my bag.  I love my flat tarp or LHG Duo for three season use but would like to get a more “bombproof” shelter I can trust in the deep backcountry. Thanks for your input!! Currently planning a series of hikes in Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan in 2020. Many of the walks involve resupplying in small villages which will probably not have any outlets I can use to charge a powerbank. My longest planned walk is 14 days. I am uncertain whether there will be any opportunity to recharge my powerbank during most of the hikes. I will be carrying an Inreach and Cellphone that I will need charged for safety and navigation purposes. I have done some reading on this site about ultralight solar panels and it seems the consensus is they are too heavy and lack the functionality for anyone to be interested in them. In this instance do you think I should get a solar panel or opt for a larger (20100+) powerbank and just charge every three or so weeks when I return to a larger town/small city? If you would recommend the solar power bank option, are there any good, lightweight dependable models any of you have experience with? 158k UL Backpackers 778 People not hiking... Dec 5, 2010 Cake Day 