35 Best Halloween Movies for Kids - Family-Friendly Scary Films Artboard 1 We may earn money from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. Why trust us? Your family will want to watch them again and again. One of the greatest things about  Halloween  is introducing your children to the spine-tingling thrills of watching Halloween movies for kids. But mileage certainly varies on how scary is  too  scary. Whether you have little ones at home who just want to watch some gentle Halloween fun, or a tween who is working her way up to more terrifying fare, we have some perfect kids' Halloween movies on our list. Gather the children,  carve the family pumpkin ,  whip up some treats , and settle in for one of these family-friendly  Halloween flicks ! This one's for the in-betweeners: Kids who have aged out of the most family-friendly scary movies, but aren't yet old enough for  Nightmare on Elm Street . Based on the series of books that used to terrify you as a child, this movie follows a group of kids who have to investigate a bunch of local legends   before the legends wind up getting the better of them. Ages: 14+ WATCH NOW Based on  the excellent YA novel  by John Bellairs, this movie follows the story of a young orphan sent to live with his eccentric uncle   only to be pulled into a world of witches, warlocks, and ancient rivalries. Jack Black and Cate Blanchett ham it up as the boy's two magical guardians. Ages: 11+ WATCH NOW Just when you thought you'd seen every movie about a magic school for new witches, another pops up to add to your list. This one, about a girl who picks a special flower that brings her to the enchanted Endor College, does have some suspenseful scenes where characters are in peril, but it also has a theme of learning to be brave.  Ages: 8+ WATCH NOW For the littlest Halloween fans, Netflix offers this  Super Monsters half-hour special, which actively shows preschoolers how the holiday's scares are mostly make-believe. The characters explain the tricks behind haunted houses and spooky decorations so they don't seem quite so horrifying anymore. A follow-up,  Super Monsters: Vida's First Halloween , is scheduled for October 4. Ages: 4+ WATCH NOW Jack Black returns again, this time as R.L. Stine for a movie based on Stine's beloved  scary-book series . The plot weaves in lots of details that parents remember from the books and turns them into a whole new story. Ages: 9+ WATCH NOW When Mr. Potato Head goes missing at a roadside motel, Andy and the rest of the toys go on a spooky and mysterious adventure to find their friend. This movie features all the warmth, humor, funny references, and gags you expect from the best Pixar films. Ages: 6+ WATCH NOW RELATED: 40+ Pixar Easter Eggs That Probably Went Straight Over Your Head This short film, an adaptation of the  book by Julia Donaldson , stars a witch, but she's by no means scary: She's quick with a smile and a laugh, and kind to the animals who all ask her for a ride. This one's so good, it was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Animated Short Film. Ages: 3+ WATCH NOW Everyone's favorite cartoon monkey heads to a Halloween festival in this movie, where he tries to find a rumored hat-stealing scarecrow, attempts to make the perfect costume, and tries to find a  pumpkin to bring home   pretty gentle all-around. Ages: 3+  WATCH NOW One thing we know for sure: stop-motion animation goes hand-in-hand with spooky scares This movie, from the makers of  Coraline , follows the story of a boy who can communicate with the dead, and he uses the power to unravel a town-wide mystery. Ages: 10+ WATCH NOW Drama and hilarity ensues when a human discovers Dracula's faraway resort for monsters and other mythical creatures. The movie is from the POV of the monsters (drawn by beloved animator Genndy Tartakovsky), so they come across as the good guys. And, if your kids love this one, there are  two sequels  that follow it. Ages: 7+ WATCH NOW This black-and-white, stop-motion movie from director Tim Burton is a clever twist on the classic Frankenstein story.  Instead of a human subject, the young scientist in this movie animates a dog. Ages: 9+ WATCH NOW Dracula comes to a young monster fan's street, but he's played for laughs, not scares. Dracula thinks he's lost his touch, and he needs his new friend to help him get his mojo back   and, in the process, he teaches his fan to come out of his shell. It's more of a heartwarming buddy story than a Halloween haunt. The 45-minute short film is based on a  graphic novel  by Joshua Williamson. Ages: 6+ WATCH NOW This sinister movie adapted from the  2002 children's book  shows kids that they should be careful what they wish for. The stop-motion animated film is about a young girl named Coraline who discovers an eerie secret about a parallel universe where an alternate version of her family tempts her with big promises. Of course, this seemingly better reality turns out to be more dangerous than expected. Ages: 9+ WATCH NOW RELATED:  20 Animated Movies You Need to Watch With Your Kids Before They Grow Up This charming movie is about three friends  who discover that their neighbor's house is a living, breathing monster   and they have to figure out how to stop it before the neighborhood goes to hell. Ages: 10+ WATCH NOW This Oscar-nominated stop-motion movie follows a young man who accidentally married a ghost. If you couldn't already guess, the movie is directed by Tim Burton (again), and it's done in his trademark macabre style. Ages: 10+ WATCH NOW Tag along with Pooh's pal Lumpy, who's trick-or-treating for the first time. Just beware of the scary Gobloon, who turns anyone he catches into a Jaggedy Lantern. Ages: 3+ WATCH NOW This scary-but-not-too-scary movie follows the deligthfully British Wallace and Gromit as they try to figure out what's been destroying a town's vegetable gardens. It turns out to be a monster, but not one that you'd expect   it's a were-rabbit, transforming from a bunny to beast. Ages: 7+ WATCH NOW As all '90s kids will attest, Disney Channel Original Movies do it best when it comes to Halloween   and this one starring the late, great Debbie Reynolds is the ultimate. Ages: 7+ WATCH NOW Based on the popular Disneyland attraction, Eddie Murphy stars in this film as a real-estate agent who finds himself in a world of grim, grinning ghosts. Ages: 10+ WATCH NOW RELATED:  The 40 Best Disney Songs of All Time Throwback to the days when the Olsen twins were direct-to-video superstars with this cutesy Halloween flick. The plot: The family business is losing money and they're at risk of losing their home, until the twins use a little magic to save it! Ages: 5+ WATCH NOW In this Disney Channel Original, a young girl is framed for the Boogeyman's pranks. Can she clear her name? Ages: 8+ WATCH NOW When three 12-year-olds accidentally revive an ancient mummy, chaos and adventure ensues   until they discover he needs to be back in his resting place by midnight on Halloween to find his long-lost love . Ages: 7+ WATCH NOW Christina Ricci   who was basically the It Girl of vintage ghoul movies as a kid   stars as Kathleen Harvey, the daughter of ghost therapist Dr. James Harvey. She's recruited by the friendliest ghost of all time to help him handle some unfinished business. Ages: 8+ WATCH NOW Debate always rages about whether or not Tim Burton's groundbreaking stop-motion animated movie is a Halloween movie or a Christmas flick. The answer: Watch it every year from October through December.  Ages: 7+ WATCH NOW It's easy to see why this family flick has withstood the test of time   the central trio of witches is irresistibly charming. And, if your kids love it, you can get them the  sequel novel , which follows Max and Allison's 17-year-old daughter, Poppy. Ages: 10+ WATCH NOW RELATED:  See How the Original 'Hocus Pocus' Cast Has Changed Over the Past 26 Years Featuring an all-star cast  that includes Anjelica Huston, Raul Julia, Christopher Lloyd,  and Christina Ricci, this film update of the iconic TV show exceeds all expectations. Your kids will probably love Cousin It just as much as we do. Once they get hooked, show them  The Addams Family Values  at Thanksgiving. Ages: 12+ WATCH NOW Before  Anne Hathaway comes to challenge her crown  in a remake of this movie, Angelica Houston gives a the most hair-raising performance as the Grand High Witch in this  Roald Dahl  adaptation. Some seriously spooky witch makeup makes for some delightfully gruesome scenes. Ages: 9+ WATCH NOW A movie that makes the living seem like villains and the recently deceased the heroes,  Beetlejuice  is about a pair of ghosts who want to scare away the family that moved into their house after their death. Another Tim Burton masterpiece, it has best-of-career performances from an A-list cast that includes Michael Keaton, Geena Davis, Alec Baldwin, and Winona Ryder. Ages: 12+ WATCH NOW RELATED:  Winona Ryder and Her Boyfriend, Scott Mackinlay Hahn, Are Low-Key Couple Goals When you want to watch a movie with your fam that's as heavy on the laughs as it is on the scares, who you gonna call?  Follow up a viewing of the classic with  the all-female reboot  that stars comedic powerhouses Kristen Wiig and Melissa McCarthy. Ages: 10+  WATCH NOW A sneaky way to turn your kids into David Bowie fans, Labyrinth tells the story of a girl who accidentally wishes her baby brother away. He gets sent to the realm of the Goblin King (Bowie), and she has to save him before time runs out and he becomes one of the king's minions forever. Jim Henson's company fills out the Goblin King's world with amazing puppet creatures. Ages: 8+ WATCH NOW Director Joe Dante pulls off a difficult feat in this movie: The creature he makes is so cute and cuddly   but it spins off into critters that are truly terrifying. Their hijinx mix suspense, action laughs, and scares in equal measure. ( The sequel  is definitely tips the scales more towards comedy.) Ages: 12+ WATCH NOW You may remember this movie as more sweet than scary, because of young Elliott's connection to the expressive alien. But there's lots of peril that comes for E.T., and if you're looking for thrills that don't necessarily have ghosts or ghouls, Steven Spielberg's classic could be a suspenseful pick for an intense family movie night. Ages: 7+ WATCH NOW Routinely named one of the funniest movies of all time, Mel Brooks' over-the-top comedy still stands up. Ages: 12+ WATCH NOW There's a reason this has stuck around since the '60s. No cartoon better captures the excitement   and possibly disappointment   better than the Peanuts gang. Ages: 6+ WATCH NOW If your kids don't already know Washington Irving's classic  The Legend of Sleepy Hollow , Disney provides the perfectly scary introduction. Bing Crosby and Basil Rathbone provide some of the voices. The movie also comes with a not-at-all-Halloween-related adaptation of  The Wind in the Willows , which can provide comic relief after you watch the scary Ichabod story. Ages: 6+ WATCH NOW Introduce your kids to the world of classic cinema with this groundbreaking movie. You'll have to talk to them about some of the ways this movie is dated (ahem, the portrayal of natives), but the special effects look ahead of their time, and the monster-on-monster action is still thrilling today. Ages: 10+ WATCH NOW 