Ready for Love: canceled by NBC by Trevor Kimball,  April 19, 2013 NBC has given  Ready for Love  the boot. The network has dumped the dating series and announced that they re moving  Grimm  to Tuesdays at 10pm, beginning April 30th. A two hour version of  The Voice  will fill the 8-10pm timeslots on that night (as previously planned). Grimm  will remain on Tuesday nights through May 21st.  Dateline  will take over  Grimm s  spot on Friday nights for the forseeable future. It s unknown if or when NBC will get around to airing the remaining episodes of  Ready for Love.  If the network still airs this Tuesday night s installment, they ll have five episodes leftover. The finale had been set for May 28th. What do you think?  Are you hoping to see the rest  Ready for Love?  Are you sorry to hear that NBC is pulling it? Get Free Alerts More about:  Grimm ,  Grimm: canceled or renewed? ,  Ready for Love ,  Ready for Love: canceled or renewed? ,  Ready for Love: ratings This site uses Akismet to reduce spam.  Learn how your comment data is processed . Brig ready for love back! It was an awesome show. Better than bachelor ! you cancel good clean entertainment, and put on stupid , silly, demonic or just plain horrible shows instead. Bring Ready for Love Back! great show I really enjoyed this show and hope nbc reconsiders and bring it back next season. To cancel after only three episodes was wrong and didn t give viewers a chance to connect. I couldn t wait to watch every Tuesday on demand. It was refreshing to have the matchmakers there to give advice and I was so looking forward to seeing a new and improved dating show. I feel NBC keeps canceling shows and not giving it a chance to succeed. Lots of my friends were watching this show then we all had to find other ways to finish it. SO DISAPPOINTED Read more » i miss it! please bring it back or at leas show us the final, the concept is better than the bachelor. thanks. Bring it back! Bring it back! It reminds me of  today s version of the Dating game it s so Fun to watch! Been looking for it ever since u took it off the air, shame on u for Getting us hooked on the show and abruptly canceling it! What are you thinking???? This was a great show!!! I loved it and was so disappointed to see it is cancelled. It had more class than the Bachorette or Bachelor! I hope you at least air it at a later date. I am very disappointed with NBC. Where is my favourite Tuesday night Ready for Love!!!!!  I have been faithfully looking for this show each and every week!  Bring it back!  How can NBC leave us fans hanging this way!  Please, please, please NBC bring back the remaining episodes of this fun and classy dating show the best on TV so far! BRING IT BACK!!! This is so very unfair to the viewers who LOVED, Ready for Love!! NBC should at least put it online or something for those of us who fell in love with the show!! I love the Bachelor/Bachelorette on ABC, and was very excited to see something similar and maybe even better. I don t believe NBC gave the show enough time to get new viewers long enough time to even notice the show was on air. If they had then viewers who loved the show could get caught up by watching previous episodes online. Someone at NBC made Read more » Would you please let , if nothing else, et the last five episodes of READY FOR LOVE  back on NBC-TV I realy  enjoyed  watching it please  Iam  sorry it went off  at 10,clock Ilook for it I DON,T LIKE GRIMM  OR VOICE . I have been looking for the show constantly ..please bring it back so we can see how the 3 men ended up!!! I loved the show! give the show back, it was fun and i looked forward to it. now, I leave tv again for netflix. sorry. tv sucks after the voice is over. Bring it back!  I loved it and I loved the bachelors!!! It was like the Bachelor times 3  I want to see the remaining episodes!!!! No infringement of previously copyrighted material is intended on this site.  DMCA . Copyright  TV Series Finale . All rights reserved.  Privacy Policy . 