WageWorks® by WageWorks, Inc. | ADP Marketplace Awesome HR apps. Your ADP Solution. Better together. As your Consumer-Directed Benefits provider, we can help you see around the corner—how regulations will change, how tools and technology will advance, how you can get ready for what’s next.  We’ll show you how and why your benefits work, so you can put the best plan in place. And we’ll manage all your Consumer-Directed Benefits on one, secure platform—easing administrative hassles and giving your employees the latest, most intuitive apps.  This keeps employees engaged and loyal. That keeps you ahead. And everyone benefits. I understand that the services are provided by an independent third party and not provided by ADP, LLC, that the service provider has no affiliation with ADP, LLC and that I am entering into a relationship directly with such third party to receive services. HSA – Flexibility without extra fees, giving users options to save and spend how they wish.  HRA – An adaptable fit for your specific requirements, offering multiple ways for users to pay and get reimbursed.  FSA – Convenient payment choices and a $500 carryover to drive up adoption.  Commuter – Direct connection to hundreds of transit authorities and parking locations nationwide, plus effortless ways to pay.  COBRA – Easy-to-use, self-service tools for employees and simple administration for you.  Employee-Sponsored Programs – Customized reimbursement for anything from fitness to travel to smoking cessation. Show less HSA – Flexibility without extra fees, giving users options to save and spend how they wish.  HRA – An adaptable fit for your specific requirements, offering multiple ways for users to pay and... Show more All of your Consumer-Directed Benefits programs are on one platform,and that platform sits on every user’s smartphone. • Get one site, one card, one number to call and one intuitive platform. • Manage everything from prescriptions to parking. • Drive up adoption and drive down administrative headaches. Show less All of your Consumer-Directed Benefits programs are on one platform,and that platform sits on every user’s smartphone. • Get one site, one card, one number to call and one intuitive platform... Show more Our single, secure, adaptive platform:  • Efficiently manages everything from spending to commuter and COBRA programs  • Safeguards your data with fewer handoffs  • Centralizes performance, metrics and contracts Show less Our single, secure, adaptive platform:  • Efficiently manages everything from spending to commuter and COBRA programs  • Safeguards your data with fewer handoffs  • Centralizes pe... Show more When you influence the legislation that drives and develops Consumer-Directed Benefits programs, you have a unique vantage point from which to interpret trends, data and market fluctuations.  You see them and shape them before anyone knows they’re coming.  Because Consumer-Directed Benefits are all we do, we’re able to giveyou insight into where things are headed, what options to consider andwhy it all matters. Show less When you influence the legislation that drives and develops Consumer-Directed Benefits programs, you have a unique vantage point from which to interpret trends, data and market fluctuations. ... Show more The ADP logo and ADP are registered trademarks of ADP, Inc. Copyright ©2018 ADP, LLC ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. 