Top 5 race boots for under £300 MCN SHOP Race boots represent the pinnacle of riding protection for your feet, ankles and shins. Solid cups should keep your heels and toes guarded against crushing, as should a solid shank in the sole that will also stop nasty flexing injuries. More advanced boots brace your ankle to guard against sideways rotation while giving the flexibility needed to change gear – and to walk! With toesliders stopping the boots wearing through in case of contact with the floor, very little else can offer the sort of protection of this collection… With replaceable shin plates and toesliders, the Sidi ST offers air ventilation and a nylon inner sole. There are also removable arch supports and a shock absorbing heel insert. The boot is unisex and comes in UK sizes 5 to 12. Also available in black and white and black designs. Padded at the front and rear for comfort, the R-S2 Evo is a CE-certified boot with sliders at the calf and rear of each ankle– as well as replaceable toesliders. Available in white, red or black, the boots are also breathable and come with mesh over the vents for added durability. The cheapest boots here come offer relatively good value and come in a choice of colours. They’re CE-certified with an anti-bacterial gel insole, and extra leather panels for greater abrasion resistance. The boot has a Velcro and zip closure-system and a mesh lining has been used for comfort. CE-certified and available in a range of colourschemes, the S-MX Plus are available in UK sizes 4.5 to 12.5. With self-moulding ankle protectors and replaceable toesliders, the boots also have an evenly textured sole for increased grip. There is also a countered shin plate for added protection. Available in UK sizes 4.5 to 11.5, these CE-certified boots come with a gear shift guard and a rubber sole for additional grip. A shock-absorbing heel adds extra protection, whilst flexible joints offer riders greater comfort when moving off the bike. The plastic sliders are also fully replaceable. By  MCN News Prices have been revealed for the 2020 Honda CBR1000RR-R Fireblade range, with the base model... Husqvarna have confirmed that the striking Norden 901 will be coming to a showroom near you soon by... Six-time Forumla 1 World Champion, Lewis Hamilton, has confirmed media claims that he crashed a... By far the biggest story on MCN this week was our feature on what it’s like riding BMW’s E-Power... Peter Hickman will bid to win the Lightweight TT in 2020 onboard a Smiths Racing-prepared Norton... Triumph have recorded increased profits in 2019, despite the uncertainty still surrounding... Ducati CEO, Claudio Domenicali, has revealed that a lower-capacity version of their Streetfighter V4... In your new edition of Motor Cycle News this week we've got the biggest stories in biking along with... Britain’s leading bike crime expert says that despite a reduction in UK thefts, it’s still a massive... This is Vredestein’s first big bike radial tyre. The Dutch firm, better known in the car world, have... If you’ve placed an order for a new Yamaha R1M, the company would like to invite you to one of two... The Austrian Grand Prix has been voted as the Best Grand Prix of 2019.It's the second time that the... Pricing and specifications have been announced for the 2020 Kawasaki Ninja 650, and it’s set to hit... Custom bikes are more fashionable than ever – and we don’t mean old school, V-twin cruisers. Today a... Introducing the Lexmoto LXR 380; a brand-new A2-compliant sportsbike costing £2399 less than the... Michelin have just rolled out a raft of new road and track tyre options for 2020, covering... One of the drawbacks of the Honda CBR650R was the factory’s choice of OE tyres. The Dunlop D214... It’s been an interesting year of riding; not my most enjoyable but that’s not the fault of the... BMW’s forthcoming R18 cruiser range is one of the biggest motorcycling moves that the German giant... A museum celebrating the racing achievements of 15-time world champion, Giacomo Agostini, has today... Facebook Twitter Email App Pinterest AddThis  1955-2019 Bauer Media Group Bauer Media Group consists of: Bauer Consumer Media Ltd, Company number: 01176085, Bauer Radio Ltd, Company Number: 1394141  Registered Office: Media House, Peterborough Business Park, Lynch Wood, Peterborough, PE2 6EA H Bauer Publishing,  Company Number: LP003328 Registered Office: Academic House, 24-28 Oval Road, London, NW1 7DT. All registered in England and Wales. VAT no 918 5617 01 Bauer Consumer Media Ltd are authorised and regulated by the FCA(Ref No. 710067) 